14-12-2020||Calcutta||Trafficking: boys as vulnerable as girls||Adolescent boys are as vulnerable to trafficking as girls, said activists and others trying to prevent human trafficking. Boys are trafficked to work as bonded labourers in jewellery units, zari workshops and massage parlours, and also to peddle drugs, the activists said. Most of the victims are tempted to take up the offers because of financial constraints at home. They are forced to work for 12 hours a day and are paid peanuts or nothing at all, said a senior official of International Justice Mission, an NGO involved in prevention of child trafficking and rescue of victims. Last year, the NGO with the help of Chennai police had rescued 61 boys from a jewellery factory there. Among the boys, 44 were minors and 33 from South 24-Parganas. Activists stressed the need to make boys more aware of the dangers and their vulnerability. Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre, a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, has decided to start a youth group that will track boys in Basirhat, North 24-Parganas, as a precautionary step against trafficking. The centre has been working with girls in Diamond Harbour and Canning since 2015. “When we were holding mass awareness programmes in schools, we found that boys were equally vulnerable. They drop out and are sent away to help the family tide over financial crisis,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of the Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre. At a recent webinar, the organisation announced that a youth group would be formed to track boys in Basirhat. “The boys are unsafe because there are people in their neighbourhoods, and sometimes in their extended families, who target them,” said Sister Suchiang. The one hurdle the centre faces is unavailability of hostels to keep the boys. “In order to prevent them from being trafficked, they have to be kept in hostels, but such facilities for boys are mostly not available,” the sister said. The head of the child rights commission in the state stressed the need for more awareness programmes targeting boys. “For a balanced society, one needs to sensitise boys as much as girls. The boys are vulnerable and they are also used for drug trafficking,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Saji Philip, the director of operations of International Justice Mission, said the Covid pandemic had increased the vulnerability of adolescent boys. “Trafficking of boys is prevalent and it is a trend that should concern us. They are mostly taken for forced labour in jewellery units because their fingers help in precision work. They are made to work for 12 to 14 hours with only half-a-day off on Sunday. In some places, they are not even paid… until they become experts in their respective fields,” Philip said. Social activist Rishi Kant, who is part of the NGO Shakti Vahini, said boys were made to work in diamond and zari units. “Keeping boys as labourers works for them because they can be made to work for longer hours than girls and also made to live in dingy places. Inter-state collaboration needs to be strengthened to control this,” said Kant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta students extend help to Piyali girls||Students of a city school travelled nearly 30km carrying with them exercise books and sanitary napkins for adolescent girls and teenagers of a school at Piyali in South 24-Parganas, many of whose parents’ livelihood has been hit by the pandemic. The idea is not just to give but also to expose urban students to the lives of teenagers of their age and initiate them into “philanthropy”, the seeds of which have to be sown while they are still young, said the head of an NGO that conducted the programme. The students of The BSS School, in association with Pukaar, an NGO that works in rural areas, primarily with women and girls, reached out to 70-odd girls between 10 and 20. While the students provided sanitary pads for six months, Pukaar provided exercise books, stationery and basic hygiene items like toothbrush and toothpaste. Three girls from The BSS School and a few of their teachers and the principal spent some hours at Piali Ashar Alo, a school at Piyali village that had started in 2008 to provide education to underprivileged children. Fathers of most of the girls in the school are masons, agricultural labourers or van-rickshaw pullers. Mothers are mostly homemakers or domestic workers. “The pandemic has detached some students of Piyali from education. Online classes are not that easy for them as it is for the children in urban areas,” said Samriddhi Guha Thakurta, a Class XI student of The BSS School. Swati Gautam, the managing trustee of Pukaar, said the Piyali girls had been given sanitary pads and exercise books because they needed them the most. “Parents would cut down on hygiene and school stationery during tough times. Students can still share text books but they need exercise books to continue studies. In many families girls’ education is considered dispensable,” said Gautam. Anup Gayen, the founder of Piali Ashar Alo, said the pandemic had made the situation more difficult for many families and it was tough to keep the girls engaged in studies at a time when classes were being held online. “Not all of them have smartphones. We try to conduct classes for those who have smartphones and provide photocopies of the chapters covered to others,” said Gayen. The journey and the experience will also teach the city girls to be grateful for what they have, said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. “Despite the pandemic and the problems, one can get a different perspective of life. One has to struggle to get basic things like sanitary pads and exercise books and they should be grateful for what they have,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta steps out to enjoy winter Sunday||⚫Children throwing frisbees on the lawns of Eco Park, in New Town. ⚫Families enjoying picnics at Alipore zoo, Nicco Park in Salt Lake and Eco Park. The mild winter sun made the weather pleasant on Sunday and people made a beeline for places such as Eco Park, Alipore zoo and Nicco Park. Although the crowds were nowhere close to what these places witnessed around this time last year, the count was significantly more than what it was a month ago. Most of last week saw a dense fog for the better part of the morning and the weather was gloomy. On Saturday and Sunday, the weather was perfect for spending time outdoors and people made most of it. The weather will remain pleasant over the next few days. Kashmir received a fresh bout of snowfall this weekend. The cold northwesterly winds from the Valley are set to reach Calcutta over the next couple of days. “The speed of northwesterly winds is gradually increasing. From December 16-17, the intensity of the winds will go further up and drag the mercury below 15 degrees,” said a Met official. Here is what The Telegraph saw in the city’s hotspots on Sunday. The 480-acre park in New Town with a 113-acre water body in the middle was abuzz since Sunday morning. The crowd peaked around 4pm. As the evening progressed, the stretch of Major Arterial Road leading to the park had quite a bit of traffic, reminiscent of the days when the road would have bumper-to-bumper vehicles in the evening, prompting police to deploy additional force in front of the park. On Sunday, more than 16,000 people had visited the park. Many settled down on the park's ground and around the waterbody and ate. Before the pandemic, the weekend footfall at the park would not be less than 20,000, said an official. Namrata Choudhury, a resident of Phoolbagan who came to the park with a group of friends, said they were tired of being cooped up at home and decided to have the season’s first picnic at Eco Park. “We decided to come here and have lunch. We also brought our badminton rackets,” Choudhury said. The zoo had a mix of people of all ages waiting in front of the ticket counters. The promenade outside the zoo resembled its old self with hawkers selling peanuts, soft drinks and toys, while fast food stalls had their usual share of crowds. Inside the zoo, people of all ages were spotted having a good time, heading out to see their favourite animals. The enclosure of the tiger and the enclosure of the chimpanzees were the top crowd pullers. An official of the zoo said they had a footfall of more than 15,000 on Sunday. Before the pandemic, on weekends, the footfall would be around 45,000, said an official. According to the official, the crowd has been growing since November, when the average weekend footfall was around 5,000. The Salt Lake amusement park had a steady stream of visitors on Sunday. An official of the park said the day’s footfall — nearly 2,000 — was quite encouraging for the employees. Pre-pandemic days, the footfall would be around 15,000 on weekends. The rides and the food court were among the top draws. “The crowd is going up steadily every weekend and we are quite excited as things are finally looking up,” said Abhijit Dutta, the MD and CEO of Nicco Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Tallah bridge rail nod hope brightens||The railways might this week give clearance for construction of a stretch of the Tallah bridge that will come up over train tracks, officials involved in the project said on Sunday. Metro had on December 6 reported that work on erecting six of the 18 piers of the new Tallah bridge, which will come up between train tracks, was yet to start because the railways had not provided the necessary approval for the use of its land. A joint inspection involving officials of the state public works department (PWD), railways and Larsen and Toubro, the private company hired to build the bridge, was held on Saturday. Sources said the matter of pending permission from the railways was discussed among the officials. “We have received the general arrangement drawing (GAD). It will be approved and sent to the PWD soon,” the spokesperson for Eastern Railway said on Sunday. “The permission from the railways is expected to come this week,” a PWD official said during the day. The old Tallah bridge, which was a crucial link between Calcutta and the northern fringes, was pulled down a few months ago because it had worn out so much that engineers feared the structure could collapse any moment. The 240-metre stretch of the 750-metre-long Tallah bridge will stand over railway tracks. An engineer of the PWD said work on building the foundation and piers had started, barring the stretch for which the railways’s permission is required. “Six piers and five spans will come up along the 240-metre-long tract owned by the railways. The piers will be built on the railway land, besides tracks,” said a senior PWD engineer. “There are a total of 18 piers and we have started work on building 12 piers. After the railways gives its approval to begin construction on its land, we can start work on building foundations and piers beside the railway tracks,” said the engineer. The new bridge will cost the state government Rs 350 crore. The government will have to make an additional payment to the railways for using its land. The state government had blamed the railways for the delay in completion of the Majerhat bridge. While inaugurating the Majerhat bridge earlier this month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said: “It is not that I am against the railways. I have been a railway minister and I know the rules. I am not blaming the officers or the department. I will blame the leaders who pull the strings from Delhi.” Construction of the Tallah bridge began in July and the deadline for completion of the project is February 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Students go online for fun||Birla High School Junior Section This year, teachers at Birla High School junior section tried to celebrate the Children’s Day in a different way to make the occasion special for the students and demonstrate the fact that they might not be in the same physical space but they were connected digitally. The programme commenced with a prayer song followed by a welcome address by headmistress Farida Singh. From dance preparations, ensemble performances to fashion shows, a plethora of events was live-streamed by teachers for students. Students were regaled with videos of teachers playing the mouthorgan, singing melodious tunes and presenting thoughtful messages. They celebrated with much enthusiasm and excitement from the comfort of their homes. “As students look forward to this day each year, we obviously did not want to disappoint them on this occasion. My teachers came together like always and planned a brilliant show for the students. The highlight of this special day was a video, where the teachers danced to the song, We’re all in this together, as it was shot in school and it gave the children a virtual tour of their beloved school that they were missing so much!” said headmistress Farida Singh. Asian International School Bollywood actor Jimmy Shergill interacted with students of Asian International School at a programme recently held online to mark the Children’s Day, in association with Young Metro. From doling out advice to mouthing a dialogue from his hit film Tanu Weds Manu, Shergill kept the children entertained. “We should not try to follow others, but carve out our own path and destiny. Fight your battles your way. It’s your life and your time zone. Don’t waste it by trying to be someone else,” said the actor to his virtual audience. According to him, who connected from a film set, his childhood memories especially the ones at school are his best. The students were also taken on a virtual tour of their school compund to relive the happier times. The teachers also put up a humorous play on online classes and its hurdles. “Stay happy and curious always. You teach us to be optimistic even in the most difficult situations,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Birla High School, Mukundapur Birla High School, Mukundapur, has decided to provide some “we time” to the students of Class III onwards. Owing to which, once a week for 40 minutes, students are meeting in Google classroom without any adult supervision, so that they can freely interact with their friends which they used to do during recess or in-between classes when online mode of education was not in practice. “We found that children were missing being with their friends. So, we wrote to parents about this venture and after their approval, we started it. We are happy to receive positive feedback both from parents and children about this,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Headmistress Hira Prasad said: “This enterprise would enable new students to bond with the class which helps them to adapt to the new surroundings.” Lakshmipat Singhania Academy Student achievers were awarded and a cultural programme was staged as part of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy’s 25th Founder’s Day celebrations recently held online. The chief guest for the occasion was Nakul Parashar, the director of Vigyan Prasar. The school choir began with a welcome song followed by the prize distribution. The Principal Award winners in different categories included Pranav Chowdhury, Shrishti Maheshwari, Pratham Gupta and Varun Choraria from Class XII, Ashlesha Bhagat, Priyanshi Saraogi and Kanishk Mehta from Class XI and Udayveer Agarwal from Class IX. Students of classes V to XI presented a drama, Wings of Change, that was a punch of four different stories on various aspects of life. It celebrated both the modern times as well as the bygone eras. Meena Kak, the director of the school, said: “Students need to build their RQ or resilience quotient, along with their intelligence quotient and emotional quotient for the future.” Nava Nalanda High School Nava Nalanda High School has not only been taking online classes since the start of the lockdown, they have also organised terminal examinations for all the classes. The system of taking the examinations has been very different from what it used to be. Question papers were uploaded in online groups beforehand and the students sat for the examinations under the online surveillance of the teachers. For the outgoing batch of the higher secondary, multiple choice questions were uploaded to help them prepare for the competitive examinations. The students gave the examinations online and the results got uploaded on the same day. However, principal Arijit Mitra feels: “This online teaching is just a stop-gap solution to the crisis. It can never be even a 50 per cent substitute of the normal classroom teaching.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Mechanics fall off balcony, three injured in Behala||Two mechanics were injured after they fell off a balcony on the top floor of a four-storey building in Behala while fitting an iron grille on Sunday afternoon, police said. A vegetable vendor was injured, too, as the two landed on his makeshift stall. Police said the accident happened around 1.30pm, when Bhola Shah, 45, and Dilip Das, 58, were fixing a grille on the balcony of a fourth-floor flat in Nilanjana Apartment on Diamond Harbour Road. “The flat was undergoing renovation. The mechanics who were fitting the grille on the balcony possibly slipped and fell,” said an officer of Behala police station. Residents of the area said the mechanics were lucky because their fall was broken by the bamboo roof of the vegetable stall. Or else they would have landed on the concrete and suffered far serious injuries. The greengrocer who was injured was Rashmoni Panja, 55, the police said. All three have been admitted to hospital. “The findings of a preliminary investigation suggests that the fall was accidental. We will find out whether they were wearing safety belts and helmets. No complaint has been lodged till now,” the officer said. A man riding a motorbike got injured after he lost control over the vehicle and hit a lamppost on Julpia Road in Haridevpur minutes past Saturday midnight, police said. Rajen Ghosh, 32, a  of Haridevpur, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Private tech colleges seek consent to admit non-JEE students||The association of private engineering colleges in Bengal has appealed to the state government for permission to admit students who did not write any common entrance exam, a move that sources said has been prompted by a staggering number of vacant seats. The Association of Professional Academic Institutions said a section of Plus-II board students could not write the JEE this year because the exam was held ahead of the usual schedule. As the JEE board wanted to start admissions early, the test this year was conducted in February instead of April. Of the 34,000-odd BTech seats in private colleges across Bengal, 22,000 remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the JEE board ended on October 31. Since no more centralised counselling will be held, the state higher education department has allowed the colleges to admit students directly to fill the vacant seats. The colleges have been told to factor in the candidates’ ranks in the JEE (conducted by the Bengal JEE board) and JEE-Main (conducted by the National Testing Agency primarily for admission to the NITs) before selecting them for admission. But the association of private engineering colleges wants even those students who did not write the JEE in February to be considered for admission, on the basis of their Plus-II board exam marks. “With such a dismal status amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, colleges are finding it difficult to sustain…. We appeal to you for immediate action this year, particularly in this pandemic, to allow us to admit students who have not appeared for WBJEE and are without a rank. We request you to ensure sustainability of the self-financed colleges across the state,” the association’s letter to the higher education secretary, Manish Jain, said. “We request you to consider 10+2 students of specific stream in 1st year, as per the AICTE approval process handbook (APH) 2020-21 rules, as eligible this year for admission,” the letter written by Taranjit Singh, the president of the association, said. Singh said if a large number of students whose names figured on the JEE merit list did not take part in the three-phase centralised counselling, there was no point expecting that they would have a change of heart now and be willing to enrol. “Let the non-JEE candidates be given a chance to address the vacancy crisis to some extent,” Singh told The Telegraph. A member of the association said a number of students who cracked the JEE did not appear in the counselling or enrol because shrinking job prospects amid the Covid pandemic made them wary of paying the “steep” tuition fees charged by private colleges. “Luring the non-JEE candidates could be the last ditch attempt,” the member said. A state government order on November 30, which allowed the private engineering colleges to admit students directly, said prospective candidates with a “valid merit rank” in the WBJEE-2020 or the JEE-Main 2020 would be considered for admission. However, those with a merit rank in the WBJEE “shall be given preference”. “Further vacant seats, if any, can be offered for admission to intending diploma holders in engineering and technology as well as BSc passed candidates following the AICTE-20 guideline in the matter,” the order states. An official in the higher education department said the AICTE approval process handbook, which is being cited by the association while pleading for permission to admit students who did not appear in the JEE, did not say anything on whether common admission tests could be bypassed during admission. “Securing a rank in the JEE or JEE-Main is an essential qualification for studying BTech in Bengal…. After deliberation, we will inform the association about our decision,” the official said. The Odisha Private Engineering Colleges' Association (Opeca) had in 2018 submitted a proposal to the state government to allow non-JEE candidates to be admitted in first-year BTech in the 2018-19 academic session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake’s Duttabad residents hear two explosions||Two explosions were heard in Salt Lake’s Duttabad early on Sunday, residents said. The explosions were apparently heard around 2.30am in the neighbourhood, off EM Bypass, where one or two-room houses, many of them shanties, stand cheek by jowl. Nirmal Dutta, a Trinamul leader and the civic coordinator of the ward, said they woke up to the sound of the explosions. “We rushed out of our homes and saw dense smoke rising from a playground and an adjoining street,” said Dutta. He alerted Bidhannagar South police station over the phone and a patrol team was sent to the area. The policemen and some residents went around the locality but failed to track down anyone responsible for the explosions. “We have started an investigation and are looking for traces of explosives,” said the officer. Ward coordinator Dutta alleged that some BJP workers were behind the explosions. BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta, who was earlier in the Trinamul Congress and had been a mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said no one from his party had hurled bombs in Duttabad. “It is not even clear whether the explosions really happened or were figments of imagination of the Trinamul ward coordinator and his followers. There is no reason why anybody would hurl bombs in Duttabad at night,” said Dutta, who led a rally in the area on Sunday demanding peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Blind violinist plays to lift mood at the end of gloomy year||Two patients at a Salt Lake hospital were treated to mini private concerts on Saturday. A visually impaired violinist played Rabindrasangeet tunes in their cabins. Indranil Kesh, who suffers from total visual impairment, arrived at ILS Hospitals, Salt Lake, a little before 3pm on Saturday. His first stop was the lobby, where he played the tune of Aamar mukti aaloye aaloye. The audience — a handful of relatives of patients admitted to the non-Covid hospital. Kesh, who represented the Society for the Welfare of the Blind, an NGO, then went to the two cabins. The patient in the first cabin, Pallabi Singha, was admitted earlier in the morning with abdominal pain. Kesh played Aalok er ei jharna dharaye in front of her. “I enjoyed the music. I was in a lot of pain and was stressed in the morning. The pain is much less now. The music lifted my mood,” said Singha, a resident of Khardah, on the northern fringes of the city. Kesh’s second stop was the cabin of Monolita Guha, a Chetla resident who was admitted on Friday evening for gallbladder removal. There, too, he played Aalok er ei jharna dharaye as Guha listened in rapt attention. The mini concerts were organised to mark the World Violin Day on December 13. Kesh has been taking violin lessons since his school days at the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur. He is now pursuing a bachelor’s in English literature from Rabindra Bharati University. The youth from Burdwan was part of the school band that performed at several auditoriums in and outside Calcutta. Though deprived of sight, the sense of touch and sound are integral to his music. The V.G. Jog admirer remembers “sweating in panic” the first day he took the stage for a concert at the Ramakrishna Mission centre in Rahara. His favourite raag is Shivranjani. “We are extremely delighted to be able to organise this uniquely conceptualised event for patients and visitors, so that they are able to find some happiness at the end of this rather cumbersome year,” said Debasish Dhar, the group vice-president, ILS Hospitals. Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the Society for the Welfare of the Blind, accompanied Kesh to the hospital. “Visually impaired people get help from society. This is a chance of giving something back. This year has been gloomy. Being able to bring some cheer and a smile on the faces of people means a lot to us,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients and kin still pariahs to neighbours||An 89-year-old man and his 74-year-old wife, residents of Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, had fever and arranged for a visit by a health worker to collect samples for the Covid test. Their help told them that she could not work for them because some neighbours asked her not to. A doctor at a private hospital, who lives in a complex near Garia, had fever for five days but was scared to get a Covid test done fearing ostracisation. She later suffered severe breathlessness and had to be admitted to hospital. Covid patients and their families across the city are still pariahs to a section of neighbours. State government officials, public health experts and social workers said that though the trend of ostracising Covid patients had ebbed, there were pockets in the city and its adjoining areas where neighbours were still creating troubles. The elderly woman at Ashoknagar had mild fever last Sunday. Her husband had sought help from the local Covid Care Network team to get their tests done. Their only daughter stays in Germany. However, last Monday, after a health worker visited their home to collect swab samples, some of the neighbours asked the couple’s domestic help to stop visiting their house, said Pradyut Karmakar, the secretary of the Ashoknagar unit of the Covid Care Network. “The elderly woman is bed-ridden for long. Their daughter called us from Germany seeking help. We arranged for a nurse to provide basic care to them but again, some of the neighbours objected,” said Karmakar. “However, we explained to them that the nurse would not be going to anyone else's house in the locality. After that they agreed.” On Tuesday, the tests came back positive and the couple were admitted to two private hospitals off EM Bypass. In the Garia housing complex, the doctor who had fever did not want to get tested fearing that her neighbours would immediately stop the domestic help and others from visiting her flat. When her condition worsened after five days, she was forced to get admitted to a private hospital off the Bypass, said one of her friends. The CEO of a private hospital said they were still getting Covid patients who were not getting tested fearing social boycott and were turning up at the hospital only after developing complications. “We are seeing a new type of untouchability during the Covid pandemic. Campaigns have been continuing for months against social boycott of Covid patients, but the practice still exists, though on a much reduced scale,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and mentor of Covid Care Network, a social organisation comprising doctors, government officials and Covid survivors. “Now, it has taken a new and muted form.” In the initial months of the pandemic, there were frequent reports of neighbours barricading houses of Covid patients with bamboo poles. Such inhuman behaviour, Chowdhury and several government officials said, has now reduced. “However, we are getting complaints that neighbours are stopping domestic help, vegetable vendors and newspaper vendors from visiting houses where residents have tested positive for Covid. By doing this the neighbours are harassing the patients and their families and subjecting them to mental torture,” said Chowdhury. “In many cases, no one is able to identify who is preventing visits to patients’ houses because by now everyone is aware that it’s a social crime…. A lack of scientific thinking is triggering such behaviour.” A state government official said the absence of councillors and MLAs in awareness campaigns was responsible for the problem still persisting. In the weeks soon after the Covid outbreak started in Bengal, many elected representatives were taking an active role in spreading awareness about Covid and urging people to cooperate with those suffering from the disease and their families. This newspaper had reported some months ago that a doctor staying in Narendrapur had to seek the help of the police and the local councillor to prevent some neighbours from setting up barricades around her house after news spread that she had tested positive for Covid. The neighbours were also allegedly stopping vegetable vendors from going near the doctor’s house. An official of an agency that provides home health care said the nurses assigned to take care of Covid patients at home were facing rude behaviour from neighbours. "It was mostly happening in residential complexes. The practice has now mostly stopped except in a few places,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Business||Sensex rises over 250 points to record peak in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Monday tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and L&T amid persistent foreign fund inflows and a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its record intra-day high of 46,373.34 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 235.41 points or 0.51 per cent higher at 46,334.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 69.70 points or 0.52 per cent to 13,583.55. It hit a high of 13,588.40 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Sun Pharma, M&M, ICICI Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 139.13 points or 0.30 per cent higher at 46,099.01, while Nifty rose 35.55 points or 0.26 per cent to 13,513.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,195.43 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment. Positive data flows along with persistent FPI flows have been quite supportive for the markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Further, better than expected IIP data for October 2020 along with a sharp jump in electricity suggests that industrial activities are back on growth track, which bodes well for equities," he added. On the global front, US equities ended lower last week as concerns over slow progress on fiscal stimulus despite favourable developments on the vaccination process weighed on investors' sentiments. "This week is likely to be quite crucial for US equities as Fed policy meeting outcomes along with the stance of Congress about fiscal stimulus are likely to determine the Santa rally for the markets. Additionally, clarity over Brexit is expected to emerge by weekend also," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.52 per cent higher at USD 50.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Outlook for banks turn positive as economy recovers||After going through a difficult phase during the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the outlook for banks is turning positive as the economy moves towards recovery and the asset quality looks unlikely to deteriorate sharply. The optimism, visible since September, has seen the Bank Nifty outperforming the Nifty 50 around 22 per cent from that month. The same index had underperformed around 19 per cent between March and September over  fears of NPAs rising significantly once the moratorium on loans ended in August. However, positive commentary from bank managements following the second quarter results on asset quality and collection has seen a change in the investor sentiment. Collection efficiency in the system has risen to around 90 per cent in September from around 50 per cent in March. “The second quarter performance and management commentary calmed the nerves of the banking sector on the back of a steady performance,” analysts at ICICI Securities said. They said the trend in collections has seen a considerable improvement while the the initial commentary from management and industry data suggests the restructuring would be lower than anticipated. “Outstanding contingency buffer seems to be adequate to take care of incremental stress, thereby safeguarding any adverse impact on earnings trajectory.” With a gradual revival in business and regulatory developments, the extent of one-time restructuring could be in lower single digits . The  unlocking of the economy and festive season are expected to lead to a pick-up in credit offtake, particularly in retail. Though corporate credit is unlikely to show any major growth, the ECLGS (emergency credit line guarantee scheme) would help push credit to the MSMEs , ICICI Securities said. A senior banker who did not wish to be identified said  the gross NPAs for the current fiscal is likely to be lower than 12.5 per cent in contrast with the Resere Bank’s projections of 14.7 per cent gross NPA by the end of the fiscal under a severely stressed scenario and 12.5 per cent in a baseline scenario. According to analysts at Emkay, the gross NPAs across both PSU banks and their private sector peers declined 40 basis points on a sequential basis during the second quarter. However, this could be because of the Supreme Court directing banks not to declare NPAs even if they were in default on August 31. The brokerage added that the restructuring guidance of 1-3 per cent for large banks and 3-5 per cent for small- and mid-sized banks post the second-quarter results has surprised positively against  expectations of around 5-8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||PF interest in one go by the end of December||Retirement fund body EPFO is likely to credit an 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2019-20 in the employees’ provident fund (EPF) accounts of around six crore subscribers in one go by the end of December. Earlier, in September this year, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation had decided to split 8.5 per cent interest into two instalments of 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent in its trustees meet headed by labour minister Santosh Gangwar. Sources said the labour ministry has sent a proposal to the finance ministry to give concurrence to credit 8.5 per cent rate of interest on EPF for 2019-20 earlier this month. “The finance ministry ratification is likely in a few days. Thus, the interest is likely to be credited by this month only.” The source further said that earlier the finance ministry had sought some clarifications on the rate of interest for the last fiscal, which were duly addressed. In a virtual CBT meeting in September, the EPFO had decided to honour its commitment to provide 8.5 per cent rate of interest for the last fiscal. But the CBT had also decided to split the rate of interest into two instalments “in view of the exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19”. “It (8.5 per cent interest) would comprise of 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs (exchange traded funds) subject to their redemption by 31st December, 2020,” it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||KRBL weighs payout to  appease shareholders||The promoters of India’s largest basmati exporter KRBL Ltd may consider rewarding its shareholders by way of buyback or issuance of bonus shares as they seek to mitigate the damage emerging out of a regulatory action. In an investor meet on December 10, a day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed prosecution complaint against Anoop Kumar Gupta, joint managing director of KRBL and one of the promoters, in an UPA-era defence deal, the company assured the shareholders to call a board meeting to discuss the proposals. During the early morning call, participants from mutual fund houses and brokerages blamed the management, represented by chairman Anil Kumar Mittal and joint MD Anoop K. Gupta, for not doing enough to mitigate the damage in investors’ perception, leading to the KRBL stock being clobbered on the bourses. “We will immediately call a board meeting and would like to pay cash to the shareholders, and the line could be buyback, dividend or other things,” the promoters told the irate shareholders. KRBL is the owner of popular basmati brand India Gate. The company also staunchly defended itself against any wrongdoing or any connection with the Embraer aircraft purchase case. The ED alleged that Brazilian company Embraer SA paid a kickback of $5.76 million to secure a $208-million aircraft purchase deal from the Indian government. It is alleged that an overseas subsidiary of KRBL based in the UAE was a conduit to route the bribe back to India. “At the outset we would like to state that the allegations levelled by the Enforcement Directorate are false, frivolous and baseless. KRBL Ltd has not entered into any sham agreement with any entity. We have been cooperating with the entire investigation for the last three years and have given all documents asked by the ED, none of which in any way cement the allegations,” KRBL stated in a statement that was reiterated by Mittal and Gupta during a morning conference call. In the past, KRBL’s name was dragged into the AugustaWestland chopper scam as its main distributor in Saudi Arabia, Balsharaf, got embroiled into it. The company said Gautam Khetan, who used to be an independent director on KRBL board, introduced Interdev Aviation to the company. Interdev was also chargesheeted on December 9 along with Gupta and a few others. During the call, Gupta and Mittal said the ED was making KRBL a scapegoat by association and no transaction of Embraer was routed through KRBL. After hitting a high of Rs 662 in November of 2017, the KRBL stock fell to Rs 91 in March amidst a broad market selloff triggered by the lockdown and the pandemic, KRBL shares have somewhat recovered to a high of Rs 339 in August. But it came off sharply again to close at Rs 251 on Friday as the stock wilted under the heat of the ED investigation. The company is sitting on an inventory of Rs 4,000 crore — rice procured for preparing basmati — and about Rs 500 crore worth of cash on the balance sheet. Shareholders pressed the management to liquidate inventory partly and reward shareholders by way of special dividend or buyback to prop up the stock price. However, the company defended its strategy to hold high inventory to expand business. It plans to touch a turnover of Rs 7,000-8,000 crore and building inventory would be key to achieving the topline. KRBL had total revenue of Rs 4,522 crore, up 9 per cent in 2019-20 and profit after tax of Rs 558 crore in the same fiscal, up 11 per cent. It claims to hold 25 per cent market share of branded basmati export and a 30 per cent share in the domestic market. The management said it would not hold any cash on the books by the end of the fiscal as it would be used to procure more rice. If stocks are liquidated and used for some other purpose, KRBL would have to depend on costly bank finance for procurement. To a suggestion that KRBL should demerge the renewable power business (solar and wind), the management said such a proposal has been found unviable. The power purchase agreements could not be transferred to a demerged entity, and if new PPAs are signed, the units will earn half of what they had been earning due to a fall in power purchase rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||JSW Steel's Dolvi expansion by March||The expansion of JSW Steel’s Dolvi Works plant from 5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) to 10mtpa is expected to be completed by the end of this fiscal year, a company official has said. Located on the west coast of India at Dolvi in Maharashtra, Dolvi Works is JSW Steel’s integrated steel plant having current capacity of 5mtpa. The company is in the process of doubling its capacity to 10mtpa with an investment of about Rs 15,000 crore. “We are aiming to complete the expansion of Dolvi Works by the second half of this fiscal (March 2021-end),” JSW Steel director-commercial marketing and corporate strategy Jayant Acharya said. According to the company, because of the outbreak of Covid-19, the expansion of Dolvi Works was affected. The work was suspended because of multiple reasons, including non-availability of workers and travel restrictions — both domestic and international. The company received the permission to restart activities towards the end of April 2020. JSW Steel further said the expansion of the plan includes installing a 4.5mtpa blast furnace with a supporting 5mtpa steel melt shop and a 5mtpa hot srip mill. The plant would also have an 8mtpa pellet plant and four kilns of 600 TPD (tonnes per day) lime calcination plants (LCPs), besides a captive power plant. “About 95 per cent work related to expansion of the plant is completed,” JSW Steel said. With the expansion of the Dolvi Works, Sajjan Jindal-owned JSW Steel’s total steel making capacity will reach to 23.1mtpa, from 18.1mtpa at present.         Besides 5 mtpa Dolvi Works, JSW Steel owns and operates a 12mtpa manufacturing facility at Vijayanagar in Karnataka, which is the largest single location steel-producing facility in India, and another 1mtpa plant in Salem, Tamil Nadu. The company, which is in the expansion mode, has also proposed to set up a 13.2mtpa greenfield steel plant in Odisha along with a 900MW power plant for captive usage with an investment amount of Rs 53,700 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Acma highlights need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics||The Automotive Component Manufacturers Association (Acma) of India has highlighted the need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics in the country in the wake of the crisis in the supply of semiconductors red-flagged by one of its members, Bosch. The German component supplier, in compliance under Regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), had stated that “imports of Bosch Ltd have been impacted with severe supply shortage for micro-processors (semiconductors), leading to reduced ability to deliver to the automotive market demand in India. Restoration of normalcy in global supply situation for imported components and impacts are being very closely assessed and addressed on top priority”. The OEMs currently impacted by this shortage of semiconductors include Mahindra and Mahindra and Ashok Leyland who have highlighted the shortage crisis, said Vinnie Mehta of the Acma. Mahindra & Mahindra said the global shortage of semiconductors supplied by Bosch is expected to lower production and sales in its automotive sector in the last quarter of the ongoing financial year. “The company is engaging closely with Bosch and assessing likely production loss for the last quarter of 2020-2021 on account of this supply disruption as also steps to be taken to minimise the impact of the same,” M&M said in an exchange filing. The semiconductors are components of the electronic component unit (ECU) of the engine and also the antilock braking system (ABS). Apart from Bosch, Continenta and other Japanese and Korean companies supplied semi-conductors to Indian OEMs which are manufactured in Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Germany and USA. Bosch in its regulatory filing had stated: “The demand in the consumer electronics industry has seen steep escalations driven by safety and hygiene sentiments as well as the rise of the 5G connectivity. This led to a global surge in the demand of semiconductors, a critical component in manufacturing of automotive electronics.” The automotive sector was going through a downturn in 2019-20 because of structural changes and this was further impacted with stringent lockdowns because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the second quarter of 2020-21, the automotive industry showed signs of recovery but remained impacted because of volatile forecasts and disruptions in global supply chain and planning. Reacting to the development ACMA President Deepak Jain said: “The electronic content in vehicles has been progressively increasing and incidents such as these only precipitate the need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki to bring back diesel cars next year||The country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) is looking to enter the diesel segment once again next year as the vertical continues to draw a lot of customers especially in the high selling SUV and multi-purpose vehicle segments, according to industry sources. The auto major had discontinued diesel models from its portfolio with the onset of stricter BS-VI emission norms from April this year. According to the sources, MSI has initiated the process to upgrade its Manesar-based powertrain plant so that it can start rolling out BS-VI diesel engines starting middle or festive season next year. Sources also confirmed that the company plans to utilise the BS-VI compliant diesel powertrain in the Ertiga and Vitara Brezza to start with in the domestic market. The auto major, however, did not specify any reasons for re-entering the diesel segment. An MSI spokesperson said in a statement: “We cannot give any guidance on future technologies.” Sources said the company is looking to upgrade the current set-up at the Manesar plant, which earlier used to churn out its in-house developed BS-IV compliant 1,500-cc diesel engine. MSI had used this powertrain briefly in its mid-sized sedan Ciaz and Ertiga before deciding to pull the plug on the diesel segment. The company’s other models such as Vitara Brezza, Dzire, Swift, S-Cross and Baleno at that time used to be powered by the Fiat-sourced 1,300 diesel unit. MSI’s entire model range is at present powered by BS-VI compliant 1 litre, 1.2 litre and 1.5 litre petrol engines. The company sells CNG versions of some of the models. On April 26, 2019, MSI chairman R.C. Bhargava had announced that the company will phase out all diesel cars with effect from April 1, 2020. He reasoned that small diesel cars would see the maximum impact in terms of pricing with the coming of BS-VI engines. He had, however, added that if there was a demand for diesel cars the company might cater to that demand. “Depending on how customers react to BS-VI diesel cars if we find there is a market of BS- VI diesel cars we will develop such a car within a reasonable period of time,” Bhargava had said. In July this year, MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava had hinted that the company may look at having a bigger BS-VI diesel engine at a later stage if there were enough customers for diesel-powered big SUVs and sedans. “Customers who do not care about economics for running the car may still be buying the diesel cars and for that the company has said it is watching the market very closely,” Srivastava had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Fortune Park Hotels in four more places||Fortune Park Hotels, member of ITC’s hotel group, on Sunday announced the signing of four individual operating agreements for a hotel each at Candolim in Goa, Deoghar in Jharkhand, Haldwani in Uttarakhand and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. With these agreements, Fortune Hotels has expanded its presence in the country, adding more depth to its business and leisure portfolio, the company said in a statement. While Fortune Select,Candolim, will have an inventory of over 100 rooms, Fortune Park, Deoghar, will have 100 rooms. Fortune Park, Tirupur will have 62 rooms, it added. The company, however, did not provide details about the exact number of rooms in Fortune Inn, Haldwani. “We are pleased to announce our entry into various growth markets of India. With these additions, we not only increase our appeal in the domestic market but also offer a very interesting destination mix to our business and leisure customers, thereby opening up new vistas for their travel,” Fortune Park Hotels Ltd managing director Samir MC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Benefit for Indian start-ups raising funds from overseas listing: SoftBank Group||Japanese multinational conglomerate SoftBank Group, that has financed several early stage companies in the country, sees a benefit for Indian start-ups raising funds from overseas listing. The Companies (Amendment) Act, 2020 empowers the central government to allow domestic companies to list on foreign stock exchanges, without having to undertake prior or simultaneous listing in India or alternatively through incorporating foreign holding companies, KPMG observed in its report on the amendments, which got presidential assent on September 28, 2020. To make this operational, it would require changes in other laws and regulations including those relating to taxation and Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. “Indian start-ups can go to Nasdaq or NYSE directly and raise a large amount of capital,” said Manoj Kohli, country head SoftBank India at a session organised by XLRI and Moneycontrol. He added that if the start-ups want to list in Bombay, that is fine. But if they want to enlist in international markets like London and New York, there is an option. Kohli gave the example of food delivery and takeout start--up DoorDash where shares jumped 86 per cent on the first day of listing with a market capitalisation of $60 billion. SoftBank has reportedly made a handsome gain of around $11.2 billion from the public offering. Kohli said that international listing will allow the discovery of real value and offer avenue to the Indian entrepreneurs to have access to a large amount of capital. Legal observers are also of a similar opinion. “Indian start-up or emerging growth companies will be able to access capital from investors overseas that may be more receptive to their securities than Indian investors, who have typically focussed on companies with proven track records of profitability and growth and have generally exhibited less appetite for start-up or emerging growth companies,” said Gerald Manoharan, partner J. Sagar and Associates in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Finance ministry to take call on residual capital infusion in Q4 of this fiscal||The finance ministry will take a call on the residual Rs 14,500-crore capital infusion in the public sector banks (PSBs) in the fourth quarter of this fiscal, sources said. Following the financial performance review after the first half, sources said it was found that Punjab & Sind Bank, out of the 12 PSBs, was in need of Rs 5,500 crore to meet the regulatory requirement. So, the government approved capital infusion through the preferential allotment of equity shares in Punjab & Sind Bank last month. The fund was approved from Rs 20,000 crore cleared by Parliament in September for capital infusion of PSBs as part of the first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21. With Rs 5,500 crore going to Punjab & Sind Bank, the government is left with Rs 14,500 crore. When the performance review post third-quarter numbers takes place, sources said, by that time banks would have a clear idea about the additional burden on them because of the one-time restructuring being undertaken to help the industry itself tide over the risks of default in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
14-12-2020||Business||Fixing your fixed deposit||Returns from fixed deposits have dipped sharply this year. A look at data from December 2019 shows that FD interest rates of large banks stood in the 6-6.75 per cent range. This includes both private and government banks. A year later, the same banks now provide returns in the range of 4.8-5.50 per cent. This dip, along with the spike in inflation, would hurt those who prefer assured returns from bank deposits — for example, senior citizens who prefer to not take market risks with their retirement corpus. Let’s look at ways to get better returns from fixed income instruments. For those above the age of 60, FD interest up to Rs 50,000 earned in a year is tax-free. But for those under 60, fixed deposits provide low returns and no tax efficiency. They are best suited for safe-keeping funds for short periods and, therefore, ill-equipped for long-term investing. For example, a 6 per cent FD returns only 4.2 per cent if you’re in the 30 per cent tax slab. Therefore, it’s important to separate savings from long-term investments in order to earn higher returns critical to wealth creation at an optimal rate. For instance, the current return on the Public Provident Fund is 7.1 per cent tax-free. Whether you’re over or under 60, you must separate savings from investments, and diversify your options to earn higher returns. Recently, the Reserve Bank of India put some banks under moratorium. In this scenario, the safety of capital is as much a concern as the return on capital. Therefore, first and foremost, you must ensure that your bank is not experiencing corporate governance issues, and it has acceptable levels of non-performing assets. The banks put under moratorium were struggling on both counts. If your bank is stable and compliant, it would be advisable to hold your deposits there for the short term without worrying that the interest rates are low. For example, you may need to pay for your child’s college fees in a year, and therefore it’s important that you get the money back safely even if you’re earning just 4 per cent a year on the deposit. Laddering is a technique with which you make deposits of diverse tenures, thus creating an investment loop wherein some FDs mature periodically and can be reinvested at higher interest rates prevalent at the time. For example, assume that you have Rs 10 lakh in a single deposit earning 5 per cent interest. You could break this up into five FDs maturing in one, two, three, four and five years. Therefore, each year, you’ll have one deposit maturing, which will help you with your liquidity needs at those points in time. Alternatively, you could reinvest the maturity proceeds in order to get higher returns. This will help you get better average returns from your deposits instead of being locked in a single deposit offering a flat rate of return. Corporate deposits are essentially debts to companies, both private and public. Cumulative or non-cumulative deposits can be availed with companies that invite them. As safety of capital is paramount, it would be advisable to entrust only those companies with high credit ratings. The highest credit rating is AAA, implying the highest degree of capital safety along with timely return of your principal and interest. Laddering and diversification remain key. Therefore, take limited exposure with AAA-rated companies to get higher returns on a part of your deposits. Corporate FDs normally offer a slightly higher rate of return compared with bank FDs of similar tenures. At present, a few AAA-rated FDs offer upwards of 6.50 per cent on select tenures — around 100 basis points higher than what many large banks offer today. Smaller banks attract new depositors with higher interest rates. For instance, some small finance banks are currently offering interest rates of up to 7.50 per cent on select FD tenures. You may consider them for better average returns on your deposits. However, the checks and balances still need to be applied. Do examine the bank’s financial health and understand any risk it may pose to your deposits. Limit your exposure in order to curb those risks. If your need is safety of capital and guaranteed returns, and you can put this money away for the long term, you must consider the various government-backed schemes available to you. The PPF, for example, gives you handsome tax-free returns along with tax deductions under Section 80C — assuming you can put the money away for 15 years. Similarly, the Senior Citizen Savings Scheme and Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme are good choices for eligible, risk-averse long-term investors. Availing yourselves these schemes would allow you to get higher returns on funds you don’t need for your immediate use. Diversification, laddering, and optimising risk for rewards are key to earning higher returns which will help your money grow faster and protect you against rising inflation. The writer is CEO of BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
14-12-2020||India||Supreme Court agrees to examine proclamation of 1975||Emergency is something which should not have happened, the Supreme Court on Monday said as it agreed to hear a plea of a 94-year-old woman seeking to declare as wholly unconstitutional the proclamation made in 1975 during the tenure of the then Indira Gandhi led Congress government. The top court, which issued notice to the Centre said that it would also examine whether it is feasible or desirable to make a simpliciter declaration of the proclamation after a lapse of 45 years. We are having difficulty. The emergency is something that should not have happened, a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed while pondering over what relief it can grant after the passage of such a long time. The bench also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said that the court would be disinclined to open all such aspects as there may be some wrongs done to persons, but with the passage of almost 45 years, it would not be appropriate to reopen all such issues. It asked the petitioner to amend her petition by December 18 concerning the prayer of the declaration of the Emergency as unconstitutional. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for petitioner Veera Sarin, said that the Emergency was a fraud and the greatest assault on the Constitution as rights were suspended for months. The Emergency was proclaimed minutes before midnight of June 25, 1975, by then President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed at the recommendation of the then government led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The proclamation was revoked in March 1977. Salve said that it's an important matter of considerable importance and if the principles of abuse of constitutional power can apply to the removal of state governments, presidential proclamations, then the principle should also cover the issues of rights of citizens. He said that they have relied on the Shah Commission report to prima facie say that the declaration of emergency was an abuse of power and if a situation like this ever arises, then a court can and will look into it. Centre had appointed a commission of inquiry headed by former Chief Justice of India J C Shah in 1977 to inquire into all the excesses committed during the emergency. Justice Kaul asked Salve can the court go into all the issues after the passage of so much time and will it be appropriate. Salve said the petitioner had suffered during the emergency and the court should see how she was treated during that period. In the world, war crimes are being punished, gender crimes are being punished and you can see people of 80-90 years being hauled up for their deeds. History cannot be allowed to repeat, he said, adding, for months, rights were suspended. It was a fraud on the Constitution. This was the greatest assault on our Constitution. This is a matter which people of our generation will have to look into. This needs to be decided by the Supreme Court. This is not a political debate. We all know what happened in jails. Maybe we are too late for relief but someone must be told that what was done was wrong, Salve told the bench. He said that certain things in history need to be revisited and see if correct things were done and this is one such issue. He said that the matter is of considerable importance as the country had seen sheer abuse of power during the emergency. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench asked, “Can the court look into the matter which has happened 45 years earlier. What relief can be granted?” We cannot keep digging into the matter. The persona is no more today, the bench observed. Salve said that after the SR Bommai judgment in 1994, which dealt with issues pertaining to Article 356 of the Constitution which relates to provisions in case of failure of constitutional machinery in the state, a principle has been developed which can be applied for government formation or in violation of rights. Court has passed the orders after 45 years. Abuse of power can be looked into and what relief can be granted is of another aspect, he said, adding the petitioner is seeking that the emergency be declared unconstitutional. The bench asked Salve whether he is confining himself to the prayer for declaration of the emergency as unconstitutional. The senior lawyer said that he feels very strongly on this issue and “if your lordships recall we were students at the time of the proclamation of emergency in 1975. This is why I am appearing in this matter.” He said the petitioner is 94-year-old and she is happy but she wants that proclamation to be declared unconstitutional. The plea has also sought compensation of Rs 25 crore from the authorities who had actively participated in the unconstitutional acts. The petitioner has claimed in her plea that she and her husband were victims of the atrocities inflicted by the then government authorities and others during the period of emergency. Sarin said that she and her husband, who had a flourishing business of Gold Arts in Delhi at that time, were compelled to leave the country during the emergency for fear of being thrown into jail for no justifiable reason, on the whims and wishes of the government authority, in a state where civil rights and liberties stood curbed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||2000 women to join farmers protest||Over 2,000 women from the families of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws at Singhu Border here will join the ongoing agitation in the coming days, as peasants are set to intensify their protest further to press their demands. Farmer leaders said they are making arrangements to host the women members coming from various parts of Punjab ‑ tents are being put up, a separate langar is being planned, and extra temporary toilets are being arranged. The aim is to give them a safe and comfortable environment to stay at the protest site, they said. Farmer leader Harendir Singh Lakhowal said that a Delhi-based organisation donated around 2,00 tents on Sunday which are now being put up at Singhu as well as Tikri borders, especially for women. Shiv Kumar Kakka, one of the 33 farmers who observed hunger strike at the Singhu border on Monday, said, “It is not an agitation of Punjab farmers alone, but of farmers from across the nation.” “Several women have already been a part of the agitation at the borders here, but more have expressed their willingness to join the cause,” he said. “We are expecting over 2,000 women from across various parts of Punjab to join the agitation. We have multiple langars open here for everyone, but we are also thinking to start a separate one for the women. “We are also making arrangements for water tankers to facilitate their drinking and bathing purposes,” said Kakka, who is associated with the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. “Our main purpose is to give women a safe and comfortable environment to stay. After all they are daughters of farmers, they can live anywhere here,” he said. Lakhowal said that with more farmers, especially women, planning to join in the agitation, they are looking for vacant or incomplete buildings as a temporary accommodation for the protesting women. Some good samaritans have also approached them, with the proposal of donating temporary toilets and have even offered their flats for temporary accommodation, the farmer leaders maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Google services restored after global outage||Gmail and a host of other Google services faced disruptions on Monday evening and the tech major is in the process of fully restoring the services. The company, which faced a similar outage in August this year, is yet to specify a reason for the outage. In an update on the Google Workspace Status Dashboard at 18:17 hours, Google said Gmail service has already been restored for some users, and "we expect a resolution for all users in the near future. Please note this time frame is an estimate and may change". At around 17:25 hours, Google had said it was "aware of a problem with Gmail affecting a majority of users" and that the affected users are unable to access Gmail. As per the dashboard, other Google services like Google Calendar, Google Drive, Google Docs and Google Meet have also been affected. Down Detector, which detects outages and interruptions on networks, also showed that services like YouTube (Google's video platform) and Gmail were facing disruption. Netizens turned to Twitter to express their emotions ranging from frustration to being amused, and '#Google' became a trending topic with over 1.29 million tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Samajwadi Party workers clash with police amid farmers' peaceful protest in UP||With farmers observing a day-long hunger strike on Monday amid their largely peaceful protests against the central farm laws, the Samajwadi Party workers held demonstrations backing their demands and clashed with police at various places in Uttar Pradesh. Following clashes with police, several Samajwadi Party leaders and workers were taken in custody in various districts of Uttar Pradesh. In Lucknow, the SP workers clashed with police in the Kaisarbagh area on being stopped from proceeding to the district collectorate. Several SP workers, including women, were also taken into custody. In Agra too, television footage showed police using mild force to disperse protesting Samajwadi Party workers. SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap claimed from Sandila in Hardoi district that he has been arrested and many other party leaders have been put under house arrest for siding with farmers. "Samajwadi Party supports farmers' demands. Its sympathy lies with farmers. The kisan yatra' was started by the SP on December 7. The party workers are holding dharna at all the district headquarters in the state today. I have been arrested in Sandila and many party leaders are under house arrest," Kashyap told PTI. In Gorakhpur too, police detained several SP leaders and workers including district president proceeding to participate in a sit-in at Nagar Nigam office campus. Police began detaining SP workers since morning and arrested party's Gorakhpur district president Ram Nagina Sahini and former president Ziaul Islam when he was undertaking morning exercise in a school campus. Some SP workers were arrested near the Townhall crossing and some were arrested from Zila Parishad road. "The police and government are snatching our constitutional right to demonstrate peacefully. They are registering fake cases against us and not letting us protest," Sahini said. Gorakhpur's Senior Superintendent of Police Jogendra Kumar justified arrests on grounds of Covid-19 restrictions. "Section 144 is already imposed in the district. It is not safe to gather at a place without social distancing during a pandemic. They should have first take taken permission for holding demonstrations from the district magistrate," SSP Kumar said. Senior Samajwadi Party Peader and former UP minister Arvind Singh Gope told PTI from Barabanki that houses of all local SP leaders have been turned into police fortresses. "When we wanted to move out, we were not allowed," Gope said. In a democracy, when people hit roads, dictators have to flee, he added, exuding confidence that protesting farmers would bring his party back to power in 2022 UP assembly elections and throw out the dictatorial regime". In Kanpur, hundreds of Samajwadi Party workers sat on a dharna on Bada Chauraha in support of farmers' agitation. "We were heading to the district collectorate to submit a memorandum addressed to the President on farmers' issue when we were stopped by a large police posse at Bada Chauraha," said party's city president, Dr Imran. On being stopped, party leaders, including MLAs Amitabh Bajpayee and Irfan Solanki, decided to sit on dharna at Bada Chauraha, he added. Kanpur's City Magistrate Himanshu Gupta said the protestors were stopped at Bada Chauraha where they sat on dharna. Samajwadi Party workers from Ballia claimed their party leaders along with those of the Congress and other opposition parties were kept under house arrest. In Muzaffarnagar too, several SP and RLD leaders were taken into custody ahead of their proposed protest in support of farmers. Reports of SP workers protests came in from Bahraich and Siddhartha Nagar also. Samajwadi Partry leader Amit Yadav told PTI from Mahoba that at least 30 party workers were taken into custody by the police. Hamirpur's Additional Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said 48 Samajwadi Party workers were detained in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Covid-19: over 100 test positive, campus under lockdown||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras here has been hit by the coronavirus outbreak with over 100 people, a majority of them students, testing positive for the contagion, a top health official said on Monday. A total of 104 students and others have contracted the disease and all were doing well in a hospital, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said, allaying fears of further spread. Of the 444 samples lifted till date, 104 have tested positive for Covid-19, he said, adding from December 1 to 12, samples from the institute turning positive steadily increased from a few to 33 specimens today. "All of them are being treated at the Kings Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research as per the directive of Chief Minister K Palaniswami and they are all doing well," he told reporters here. A spokesperson for the institute said all departments and labs have been shut and as of now only about 700 students, mostly research scholars were accommodated in nine hostels. "Classes are being held online," she said. Radhakrishnan said though the results showed a 20 per cent positivity rate, there was no need for concern as measures including aggressive contact testing are in place as per the protocol. Later, the top official told PTI he was now visiting the IIT-M campus for inspection and those being treated at the hospital. Health officials have also inspected the campus, he said. "As soon as we started getting cases, we went in for aggressive testing and contact tracing. A majority of them are students and some canteen workers." On the source of infection, he said, "It is said that it could be from the mess," but there was nothing to panic about further spread since all measures were in place to combat it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Discussions on with farmers to decide next date of meeting, says agriculture minister||The government is engaging with farmer leaders to decide on the next date of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, as unions intensified their agitation against the Centre's three farm laws and observed a day-long fast on Monday. "The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers," Tomar told PTI. The government is ready for discussion anytime. The farmer leaders have to "decide and convey" when they are ready for the next meeting, he added. Tomar is leading the negotiations with 40 farmer unions, along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Som Parkash. Previous five rounds of talks between the Centre and 40 farmer unions' leaders have remained inconclusive. The government has sent a draft proposal along with the written assurance of continuing the minimum support price (MSP) system to them for consideration, but farmer unions have rejected it and demanded the repeal of the laws. Earlier in the day, Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed the way forward to end the deadlock. Later, the agriculture minister also met a delegation of farmers led by the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) which extended support to the farm laws. This is the fourth group of farmers who have extended support to the laws in the last two weeks. Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Earlier on Monday, farmer leaders  said protests would be held at all district headquarters, as more people joined the ongoing agitation at Delhi border points. As part of the nationwide protest, dharnas were staged at all district headquarters across the country on Monday. In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police has enhanced security at city border points. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the protest site at the Singhu border. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of the Rapid Action Force along with paramilitary forces. Then crossing through the toll plaza, as one reaches the main barricades, heavy police presence is witnessed. The traffic police have issued an advisory to commuters to take alternative routes in view of the farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
14-12-2020||India||Sensex jumps 154 points to fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed 154 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Monday, tracking gains in ICICI Bank, L&T and Kotak Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows and a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its record intra-day peak of 46,373.34 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 154.45 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 46,253.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 44.30 points or 0.33 per cent to close at a record 13,558.15. It hit a lifetime high of 13,597.50 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by L&T, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech, Titan and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained firm and witnessed fresh record highs mainly supported by a continued rebound in PSU banks, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring auto, most of the sectoral indices traded in the positive range, he said, adding that volatility index shot up sharply, indicating unease about current valuations of the market. "PSU stocks remained in flavour as valuations comfort, favourable dividend yields and emerging clarity over efficient capital employment continued to attract investors," he stated. Further, positive data flow along with persistent foreign fund flows have been quite supportive for the markets. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,195.43 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1 per cent to USD 50.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Indian army's gallantry against PLA  lauded by Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India's armed forces stood up to aggression along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and fought the Chinese military with "utmost bravery", forcing it to go back. In an address at the annual general meeting of industry chamber FICCI, Singh said the "unprovoked aggression" on India's Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing and how existing agreements are being challenged. "They fought the PLA (Peoples Liberation Army) with utmost bravery and forced them to go back. The coming generations of this nation will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year," the defence minister said. Without elaborating, Singh said Indian armed forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude in dealing with the challenge. "The unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in the Himalayas but across the Indo-Pacific," Singh said. "And how uncertain the future of the region and world could be in this backdrop. As you are aware, there is a big build-up of armed forces at the LAC in Ladakh," he said. In an indirect reference to the farmers' agitation, Singh said, "There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever." "The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India's farmers in mind. We are, however, always willing to listen to our farmer brothers, allay their misgivings and provide them with assurances we can provide," Singh said. Calling agriculture the mother sector, he said the government is always open to discussion and dialogue to resolve issues. "Agriculture has been one sector which has been able to avoid the adverse effects of the pandemic and, in fact, come out the best. Our produce and procurement have been plentiful and our warehouses are full. There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Farmers start day-long fast, vows to intensify protest||Farmer leaders on Monday started their day-long hunger strike against the Centre's new farm laws and said protests will be held at all district headquarters later in the day, even as more people are expected to join the ongoing agitation at Delhi border points. Farmer leader Baldev Singh said, "Representatives of farmer unions have started their hunger strike at Singhu Border." Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to fast wherever they are in support of protesting farmers and asserted that farmers will win in the end. Kejriwal is observing day-long fast in support of the farmers' protest on Monday. The chief minister also urged his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers and supporters as well as the people of the country to join the farmers' agitation. "Fasting is sacred. Wherever you are, fast for our farmer brothers. Pray to God for the success of their struggle. In the end, farmers will definitely win," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said he is observing the fast at the party office with other party members. "The 'anndaata' farmer of the country is on hunger strike demanding the withdrawal of the three laws of the central government for the sake of saving his daily bread. In support of the demand of farmers, today I am also on a fast with all my colleagues in the Aam Aadmi Party office," Sisodia tweeted. Apart from Sisodia, AAP ministers and MLAs, including Gopal Rai, Satyendar Jain, Atishi and Raghav Chadha, also observed fast at the party office here in support of farmers. A large group of farmers on Sunday blocked the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway when it was stopped by police on Haryana-Rajasthan border. As part of the nationwide protest, dharnas will be staged at all district headquarters across the country on Monday. In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police has enhanced security at city border points. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the protest site at the Singhu border. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of the Rapid Action Force along with paramilitary forces. Then crossing through the toll plaza, as one reaches the main barricades, heavy police presence is witnessed. The traffic police have issued an advisory to commuters to take alternative routes in view of the farmers' protests. "Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road, NH-44. "Gazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara & Bhopra borders," Delhi traffic police said in a series of tweets. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Fast in support of protesting farmers, appeals Kejriwal ||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to fast wherever they are in support of protesting farmers, and asserted that farmers will win in the end. Kejriwal is holding a one-day fast in support of the farmers' protest on Monday. Farmer leaders are observing a day-long hunger strike as part of their protest against the three new farm laws. The chief minister also urged his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers, supporters, as well as the people of the country to join the farmers' agitation. "Fasting is sacred. Wherever you are, fast for our farmer brothers. Pray to God for the success of their struggle. In the end, farmers will definitely win," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said he is observing the fast at the party office with other party members. "The Anndaata farmer of the country is on hunger strike demanding the withdrawal of the three laws of the central government for the sake of saving his daily bread. In support of the demand of farmers, today I am also on a fast with all my colleagues in the Aam Aadmi Party office," Sisodia tweeted. Apart from Sisodia, AAP ministers and MLAs including Gopal Rai, Satyendar Jain, Atishi and Raghav Chadha also observed fast at the party office here in support of farmers. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Less than 30,000 Covid cases in a day for third time this month||The daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 30,000 for the third time this month taking India's virus caseload to 98.84 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93.88 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,84,100 with 27,071 infections being reported in a day. The death toll rose to 1,43,355 with 336 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93,88,159 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.98 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 3,52,586 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 15,45,66,990 samples have been tested up to December 12 with 8,55,157 samples being tested on Sunday. The 336 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 47 from West Bengal, 33 from Delhi, 29 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab. A total of 1,43,355 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,209 from Maharashtra followed by 11,944 from Karnataka, 11,895 from Tamil Nadu, 1,014 from Delhi, 9,057 from West Bengal, 8,072 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,057 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,077 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Farmers stare government down over its attempts to divide and rule||The government has stepped up efforts over the weekend to stop the farmers from approaching Delhi but the protesters are staying the course, undaunted by physical obstacles, verbal insinuations and the “conspiracy to project divisions in the movement”. The latest label added to the growing list of aspersions on the protesting farmers is that of the “tukde tukde gang”, this time by Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. Launching the BJP’s Kisan Chaupal Sammelan in Patna, Prasad said strong action would be taken against the “tukde tukde gang” for trying to take advantage of the farmers’ agitation against the three new farm laws. Over the past couple of days, Prasad’s cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal has alleged that Left-wing extremists have hijacked the movement. Government supporters have also raised the Khalistani bogey, routinely assailing the farmers by citing the participation of some pro-Khalistani people in demonstrations held abroad in support of Indian farmers’ right to protest. The farmers’ leaders have remained outwardly unfazed by the smear campaign, asserting they are only giving voice to the groundswell of opinion within the farming community. Likewise, they have been staring the government down over its attempts to divide and rule, describing the various shows of support for the new farm laws, held under the government’s aegis, as a conspiracy to project differences within the movement. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) was dismissive when asked about the BKU (Bhanu) ending its blockade of the Noida-Delhi link road via Chilla on Saturday evening. “Bhanu Pratap has never been a member of our committee and he never joined the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (the banner under which all the farmers’ collectives are agitating). He never had a big role in the movement. It was a conspiracy to weaken our movement,” Gurnam said. The BKU (Bhanu) had petitioned the Supreme Court last week against the new farm laws. After lifting its blockade on Saturday, its Uttar Pradesh unit began an indefinite hunger strike, demanding repeal of the three laws, at the Chilla border on Sunday but did not block the road. Rakesh Tikait, who heads his own BKU faction in western Uttar Pradesh, said it was clear from the developments that Bhanu Pratap had sat at the border as part of the government’s agenda. “Can a border be closed with 50 people? He was asked to sit there and when our movement was at its peak, he was told to end the siege. This was their agenda,” he said. Jasbir Singh Virk, leader of the farmers from Uttarakhand, was equally dismissive about a meeting some farmers from the hill state had had with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. “Two busloads of people were brought, of whom at least 90 had nothing to do with farming,” he said. Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakaji” of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh said: “No one has left the SKM (Sanyukta Kisan Morcha); we take decisions not by majority but unanimously.” He said the government was trying to stop the farmers from proceeding towards Delhi but insisted that there was no question of giving up the struggle in the face of the obstacles being raised. Farmers blocked certain stretches of the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Sunday. Some farmers from Rajasthan are moving with their cattle in front of them, apparently as a safety net against police action. In Haryana, the police are back to placing boulders on the highways to stop farmers from approaching Delhi, but this seems not to be deterring the protesters. On the farmers’ plans to close more borders in Delhi, Tikait said this was a work in progress and added that the farmers were not stopping the movement of milk and vegetables. “Those who produce milk and vegetables too are farmers. If we stop them, the companies will benefit. Nor do we want to inconvenience the consumer or make the consumer pay more. Our aim is not to trouble people,” he said. “We have nothing against the people, who are helping us. So we are just sitting at the borders peacefully. Other access routes are open; we are not sealing the borders.” On Monday, all the farmer union leaders will observe a day’s hunger strike while farmers will gherao district collectors’ offices and submit memorandums expressing their demands and addressed to the Prime Minister. The idea is to have representations from every district of the country reach the PMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||RSS wing echoes farmers on MSP but not on repeal ||The economic wing of the RSS on Sunday highlighted flaws in the three new farm laws and sought a legally guaranteed minimum support price, a demand at the core of the farmers’ agitation. However, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which agreed that the new laws would allow big companies to “exploit” farmers, refrained from seeking their repeal and advocated amendments. In a resolution, it said the “government’s intention” behind the new laws was “good” and that certain amendments would be enough to plug the “drawbacks” and allay the “fears and doubts”. The protesting farmers are insisting on repeal, rejecting amendments as mere cosmetic. “The Swadeshi Jagran Manch feels... big procurement companies may exploit the farmers,” said the resolution, passed at the organisation's national convention. It explained that the new laws would cause the agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) to lose significance, forcing the farmers to sell outside the old mandi system and making them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate bodies. The APMC Act ensures that farmers get a minimum support price (MSP) at the mandis (wholesale markets). The agitating farmers have expressed the same fears as the Manch about the new laws’ implication for the mandi system, and demanded a law that guarantees an MSP. “In such a situation, it would be appropriate that when laws are being made and purchases are being allowed outside the APMC markets, minimum support price is guaranteed to the farmers and purchase(s) below the MSP are declared illegal,” the Manch resolution said. After talks with farmers’ bodies, the government has agreed to give a written guarantee on the MSP but has not offered to make it legally binding by incorporating it in the law. The farmers fear that the big companies would be able to violate a mere executive guarantee with impunity. While praising the government’s intention of providing farmers with more selling options, the Manch resolution underlined that this could lead to their exploitation “in reality”. “Though it’s good for the farmers to have more options to sell their produce, however, in reality, if one large company or a few companies dominate, the bargaining power of the poor farmers will be badly affected,” the resolution said. More mandis The Manch stressed the need to establish more “mandis” as a shield against domination by big companies, indirectly underscoring the importance of the mandi system. “The government had earlier said that 22,000 agriculture mandis would be established. This task should be completed on fast-track basis,” the resolution said. Dodgy definition The Manch highlighted another flaw that it feared could be misused to exploit the farmers: “The definition of the farmer in the new law was such that companies will also be included in the definition of the farmer.” According to the resolution, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, defines a “farmer” as a person “who engages in the production of farmers’ produce by himself or by a hired labour”. “(This) will not be appropriate. Swadeshi Jagran Manch firmly believes that the definition of farmer should include only the farmer who engages himself in farming, not companies,” it said. Dispute settlement Another shortcoming that the resolution highlighted was that the new laws vested non-judicial government officials with the sole power to settle disputes arising out of these laws’ application, bypassing the civil courts. While legal experts have suggested the provision runs counter to several Supreme Court judgments and is liable to be deemed unconstitutional in a legal challenge, the Manch resolution said the clause made things “very complex for the farmers”. It said the sub-divisional magistrates, who have a key role in settling disputes, were already overburdened and therefore the farmers would find it difficult to secure justice. As an amendment, the Manch has demanded the establishment of “farmers’ courts on the lines of consumer courts”. The Manch had raised some of these issues, including the need for a legally guaranteed MSP, earlier too — soon after the farmers’ protest began. Now, when the protests have snowballed, the Manch has put its misgivings and demands down in writing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||‘Hindu Raj’ in the land of Swami Vivekananda ||The real intention is out in the open, if anyone needed any confirmation. Pragya Singh Thakur, who had described Nathuram Godse as a patriot and survived unscathed the purported inability of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to forgive her, has forecast a “Hinduon ka shasan (rule of Hindus)” in Bengal soon. The predicted character of the government strikes at the very root of the cosmopolitan culture of Bengal, the cradle to a legion of social reformers, educators and scientists. The description — nothing but a toxic and ill-concealed attempt at driving polarisation to a new low — also threatens to alienate over 3 crore Bengalis who belong to the minority communities and account for over 30 per cent of the state’s population. Pragya, the terror-accused MP representing Bhopal, added that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had “gone mad” on realising that the “people of India, the Hindus” had risen to safeguard the country. After participating in an event in Sehore, Madhya Pradesh, on Saturday, the MP was responding to a question on the attack on a few cars from BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy in Bengal on Thursday. Reached over the phone, the MP acknowledged she had spoken about Bengal in Sehore on Saturday but refused to comment any further. “Mukhyamantri Mamata Banerjee pagal ho gayi hai, tilmila gayi hai, baukhla gayi hai (Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has gone mad, got agitated and angry),” Pragya was heard saying in a video. “Useh ye samajh me aa gaya hai, ye Bharat hai Pakistan nahi jis par woh shasan kar rahi hai (She has understood that the region she rules over is India and not Pakistan),” the MP added. Pragya said: “Yeh Bharat hai aur Bharat ki raksha karne ke liye Bharat ke log taiyaar ho chuke hain, Hindu taiyaar ho chuka hai aur woh muhtod jawab dega (This is India and the people of India have readied themselves, Hindus have readied themselves to protect India and they will give a fitting reply).” Pragya added: “Bangal me Bhajpa ka shasan aayega, Hinduon ka shasan aayega (BJP rule will come in Bengal, Hindus’ rule will come).” She said: “Call a Kshatriya, a Kshatriya, he doesn’t feel bad. Call a Brahmin, a Brahmin, he doesn’t feel bad...Call a Shudra, a Shudra, he doesn't like it. Why? Because of ignorance, because he doesn't understand.” The BJP refrained from reacting to her comments. The party’s newly appointed minder for Madhya Pradesh, P. Murlidhar Rao, didn’t respond to calls and a text message. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results, Pragya had called Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse a “patriot”. Prime Minister Modi had then said he would “never forgive” her for the statement and Amit Shah had promised disciplinary action against her. No action, however, was taken. Party leaders claimed she had been let off after a written apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Tribal chief fights century-old legacy of eviction||When tribal leader V.K. Geetha saw a WhatsApp message a few weeks ago, her worst suspicions were aroused. It seemed that the family and tribe legacy she had inherited — getting displaced again and again in the name of development – had reared its head afresh. But what her forefathers could not do in the face of the might of the colonial rulers and later a democratic government, Kerala’s first woman tribal chieftain, now in her early 30s, is determined to. Resist. Geetha belongs to the forest-dwelling Kadar community that enjoyed an undisturbed existence till the beginning of the 20th century in the interiors of what is now the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve. It was in 1905 that her ancestors were forced to leave the area after the British Presidency of Madras began building a tramway linking the forest region to Chalakudy railway station in central Kerala. The objective was to transport teak and valuable timber artefacts to Kochi harbour to be shipped to Great Britain, where even the royal family had a weakness for furniture made out of Parambikulam timber. Geetha’s forefathers moved to a forested locality called Peringalkuthu, where they lived until the government began building a hydel project shortly after Independence. With their settlement demolished by authorities, the Kadars were forced to shift to the Sholayar region of the same stretch of forest. The 1970s brought another hydel power project — this time to Sholayar — and another eviction. Now, Geetha lives at a place called Vazhachal, a few kilometres from Sholayar and near the Anakkayam forest. Ninety per cent of Kerala’s 1,848 Kadars live in nine settlements in and around the Anakkayam region. Now, with a new hydel project looming, and threatening displacement and loss of livelihood, Geetha is categorical that the community would not take this any more. The WhatsApp message that caused her to smell a rat had been circulated by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). It had sought contractors to fell and remove trees from the Anakkayam forest. The message said the board wanted to cut down 2,000 trees across 20 acres of forestland for the construction of a small hydroelectric project. When Geetha contacted forest department officials at Vazhachal and nearby Athirapally, they initially feigned ignorance about such a project. They said no such project could be carried out without the consent of the nine Kadar settlements. These settlements had already won community forest rights (CFR) on the entire stretch of forest from Malakkappara on the Tamil Nadu border to Athirappally, near Chalakudy town, under the forest rights act. However, KSEB officials later told Geetha they planned to implement the project, based on a consent given by the state forest department eight years ago, and the work would begin soon. V. Ajitha, secretary of the community forest rights coordination committee of all the nine Kadar settlements, said the KSEB move had shocked all the tribal people in the  region. Ajitha has filed a case with Kerala High Court accusing the electricity board of violating CFR and the forest rights act. S.P. Ravi of the NGO Chalakudy River Protection Forum said the hydel project would have an installed capacity of 7.5MW at the Anakkayam falls in the Chalakudy river basin. The KSEB is planning to blast a 5km tunnel at Anakkayam through the rocky forest terrain to channel the tail-race discharge from the existing Sholayar power plant. The hydel project will have an underground power plant that will use the spill from the Sholayar dam and the seasonal rainfall. Eco threat The project site comes under the ecological buffer zone of the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve, and most of the trees to be axed are evergreen. Anakkayam and Vazhachal are major elephant habitats. With the Chalakudy — which flows through Anakkayam, Vazhachal and Athirapally —  already hosting half-a-dozen hydel projects, wildlife movement has already been affected on a large scale. The new project will further disturb the fauna, environmentalists say. Anakkayam suffered a big landslide during the 2018 Kerala floods. It destroyed the huts of the tribal people who lived close to the proposed project site, forcing them to move. The tribal communities and environmentalists say the tunnelling for the project, involving rock blasting, will increase the risk of landslides. The Chalakudy’s banks were the worst-hit during the 2018 floods, with one of the reasons cited being the half-dozen power projects on the river. Collecting minor forest produce in Anakkayam forms the livelihood of Kadars in all the nine settlements. The produce include honey, spices, tubers and mushrooms. Once the Kadars used to hunt animals but the enforcement of new laws has stopped all hunting, poaching and timber smuggling since the 1970s. Formerly, the Kadars had a nomadic lifestyle and practised shifting cultivation apart from growing rice and millets. Harish Vasudevan, environmentalist and Kerala High Court lawyer, said the Kadars help protect the forest ecology, safeguarding four varieties of hornbills in the Athirapally-Vazhachal region under a project piloted by the state forest department. The Kadars also face a threat from the proposed 163MW Athirapally hydel power project, which involves a huge dam blocking flow into the majestic Athirappilly waterfalls. The project, which was in the cold storage for a long time, was revived in June this year but the KSEB had to shelve it again in the face of stiff public opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Make-do infrastructure at Singhu border symbol of farmers’ resolve||The protest site at the Singhu border is a city on a road, extending more than 12km from Dakha Singhu in Delhi through Kundli in Haryana. In between the long lines of tractor trailers, the agitating farmers and their supporters have set up more than 200 large langars or community kitchens, makeshift bathing and toilet facilities, laundries, stages for events, even gyms. Devoid of frills, the make-do infrastructure set up on these stretches of highways has become a symbol of the farmers’ resolve and the solidarity they have won. Amid the bustle, a soldier from Ambala, Haryana, walks around with a bagful of pinnis — Punjabi laddoos made of wheat flour, ghee, jaggery and dry fruits. A pinni with a tumbler of warm milk a day is believed to keep the chill out of one’s body in winter. “I was coming here with some clothes for a cousin, who is protesting. Several families in our village made pinnis to be given to the protesters here. That is what the Guru (Nanak) has taught us,” the soldier told The Telegraph. The langars set up at the main protest sites in Singhu, Tikri Kalan and Ghazipur reflect the same fierce self-reliance that prompted the farmer leaders to refuse the food offered by the government during the talks at Vigyan Bhawan. Many peasants have brought to these community kitchens supplies that will last a few months. The vegetables and milk come from farmers in neighbouring Haryana villages. Several vendors at the wholesale vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, on the Haryana side of the Tikri border, have been giving the protesters free vegetables. Mukesh Kumar from Sonipat, Haryana, and his comrades from the Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Zindabad run langars at all the three sites along with medical camps. They have also set up portable toilets. “It’s hard to calculate the cost. Everyday people walk in and contribute vegetables for us,” Mukesh said. “People who eat do seva (service): they serve food, wash the dishes, clean the eating area and roll the aata dough into pedas, which we put on the roti machines (that run on a diesel generator).” Mukesh and his friends serve 2,500-3,000 plates each of lunch and dinner at Singhu. The menu is rice, rotis and two sabzis, with dessert on alternate days. “The langars are very cooperative. I can walk into any langar and say I have run out of this or that, and they’ll give it to me free. No questions asked,” Mukesh said. “On the days we don’t make dessert, other langars or individuals come and donate some dessert.” The group plans to open a fourth langar at the blockade that has begun in Shahjahanpur, Rajasthan, on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The vegetarian menus are not bereft of variety. The langar run by Muslim farmers from Malerkotla in Punjab serves zarda or sweetened rice. On Thursday morning, a man came to distribute macaroni from the back of his car, and by evening a group of young farmers had set up an oven on a road divider to serve pizzas. In for the long haul despite the falling mercury, the stoves at the langars are unlikely to cool soon. Khalsa Aid, an international charity, has set up a range of facilities, including bathrooms with hot water, and even a foot massage parlour to soothe the aching feet of the farmers who stand in protest all day. A library and several small gyms too have come up in Singhu. None of these charge any money. Prince Sandhu, a landlord from Ludhiana, runs one of several free laundry services. “I brought along the washing machine we use at home, and I also bought a new one for more than Rs 12,000,” he said. “With these two nine-litre machines, I wash almost 500 clothes a day. Those who come wait till the wash finishes and collect their clothes from the dryer. It seems like a big task, but when you do seva you don’t feel the burden.” Although water supply is a problem locally, Sandhu gets his water through a pipe from a home on the Haryana side of the border. “The gentleman who lives here has been giving water to a langar too,” he said. Initially after the protest began on November 27, garbage was piling up faster than the municipal bodies in Delhi and Haryana were able to collect, and the portable toilets had got choked. After Khalsa Aid and other professionals got involved, and local farmers began helping with garbage disposal, the conditions became more liveable. But a shortage of toilets means they are still becoming unusable soon after being cleaned. Navkiran Natt, an All India Students Association cadre, attends the protests at all the sites. Her parents, both of them CPIML Liberation activists from Mansa, Punjab, are camping at the Tikri border. “The public toilets are too few, but many petrol bunks near Singhu allow people to use their toilets free of charge,” Natt said. “In Tikri (where the protest is smaller), a property dealer near the blockade has opened bathrooms in his office for the women.” Many travel up to 10km to malls, hotels, the homes of well-wishers, even paid toilets. The situation becomes more challenging for the women protesters during periods. The medical camps here offer free sanitary napkins. At least 10 protesters are said to have died of heart attacks and one from the cold — the minimum temperatures at some of the protest sites have fallen below 7°C. Harjit Bhatti, a doctor who volunteers at the sites, said that most of the complaints he received were cold-related. “Most people come with common cold, body ache and sleep disorders. They are living on a highway, and the older people find it more difficult to cope,” Bhatti, who leads an activist group called Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, said. “People with chronic ailments like diabetes or hypertension too come to us for medicines if they have run out of them, or if their blood pressure or sugar levels  have gone up because they haven’t taken their medicines regularly.” Although many do not wear masks, or wear them below their nose at the crowded protest sites, Bhatti feels lucky that he has had to refer only one among the 5,000-odd people his team has examined for a Covid-19 test. The patient had difficulty breathing. “The two cases of fever I have examined in the tractor trailers were weather-related. There is stagnant water here and mosquitoes. When you talk to them about Covid-19, they tell you their livelihood is more important than their lives,” Bhatti said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-491
14-12-2020||India||Rs 1 lakh-cr investments amid pandemic: Naveen Patnaik||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday claimed that Odisha has been able to attract new investments of over Rs 1 lakh crore across multiple sectors despite the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing a special session on “Aspiring Odisha for Inspired India” at the 93rd annual general meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), he said, “Odisha is set to achieve its cherished goal of becoming a world-class industrial destination.” “Odisha has been recognised as an investment destination of choice over the years. Odisha was ranked no. 1 in terms of attracting investments during April-September 2019, and is poised to continue this leadership position,” he added. Projecting Odisha as the fast-emerging “manufacturing hub of eastern India”, Naveen said, “The state has also developed a dedicated land bank with over 1 lakh acres available on a GIS-based platform for easy site selection by industries.” Assuring that industrialists would be given all sorts of help, Naveen said, “We have developed end-to-end online systems for over 30 government-to-business services to reduce regulatory burden on industries. Timelines for the services have also been included under the state’s Right to Public Services Act for prompt service delivery.” “The state is currently working on value addition in major industrial regions such as Angul and Jharsuguda for aluminium and Kalinganagar for steel downstream industries. Further, Paradeep is being developed as the hub for chemicals and petrochemical industries,” Naveen said. Ficci president and managing director, Apollo Hospitals, Sangita Reddy, also spoke about the investor-friendly industrial climate of Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
14-12-2020||India||Odisha bars sealed for flouting Covid norms||The police commissionerate sealed four bars here on Saturday night for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Police said 10 bars were raided out of which four were found violating Covid norms by openly serving liquor. “They were found allowing gathering of customers in violation of the guidelines. We also collected fines from the bars,” police said. The police also fined 72 people and collected Rs 28,000 from them. Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 3,23,029 on Friday as 387 more people tested positive for the infection, while four fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,798, a health department official said, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-492
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Vijayvargiya provided with bullet-proof car after attack in Bengal||Days after he came under attack during his visit to Diamond Harbour in Bengal, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya has been provided with a bulletproof vehicle by the Centre. He arrived in the city on Monday afternoon to take part in a programme at Mathurapur in South 24 Parganas. "As per the order of the Union home ministry, I have been provided with a bulletproof vehicle," the BJP's Bengal minder told reporters at the airport. Stones were thrown at several cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda en route to Diamond Harbour on December 10. The BJP described it as an example of the “lawlessness”, and Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted that the Centre was “seriously looking into the matter”. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP and Nadda of indulging in “nautanki (drama)”. Several vehicles in Nadda's cavalcade were damaged in the attack. Sources in the BJP said its leaders including Vijayvargiya and vice-president Mukul Roy sustained injuries in the melee. The ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP have been engaged in a tussle over the attack on saffron party president JP Nadda’s convoy during his Bengal visit on Thursday, while he was travelling to Diamond Harbour. The Ministry of Home Affairs has called on three IPS officers of the state cadre to join the central deputation. The three officers -- Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) -- were responsible for the security of the BJP chief during his December 9-10 visit to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt depriving Asansol of Central funds, alleges TMC leader||Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari, a Trinamul Congress leader, has written to the Bengal government, accusing it of depriving the industrial town of central funds. Tiwari, also a TMC MLA, wrote to Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim, stating that the Asansol Municipal Corporation has been deprived of Rs 2,000 crore central funds as the state government created hurdles in the selection of the town in the Smart City project. "In his letter, Jitendra alleged that the Centre selected Asansol for the Smart City project but the state government created hurdles and ensured that it is dropped," a senior Trinamool Congress leader said. "He blamed political reasons for it and said that had Asansol been selected, the city would have got Rs 2,000 crore. The state government and the party is looking into the matter," the leader said. When contacted, Tiwari said it is a confidential letter. "It shouldn't have leaked to the press," he said. "Whatever I have to say, I will tell the party and the minister. I will not discuss the matter with the press. I am a loyal soldier of the party," he added. Tiwari, a key TMC leader in the West Burdwan district, recently also resigned from the board of governors of a college in Asansol. Hakim said he would talk to Tiwari to address the grievances. "I tried to contact him but couldn't connect. I would request him not to fall into the trap of the Centre. The Smart City project is hyped, 50 per cent of the funds are to be given by the state government," he said. Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who is the local MP, supported Tiwari, accusing the TMC government of depriving the industrial town. "Whatever Jitendra Tiwari has said is right. The TMC government has deprived the people of the state for its vested political interest," he said. The development comes amid rising dissent within the Trinamul Congress as Bengal goes to poll early next year. Party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari gave up cabinet portfolios amid speculations over him joining the BJP. Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee has also openly criticised a section of the party's leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Small tea growers in north Bengal seek land tag  ||Small tea growers in north Bengal have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to ensure they get no-objection certificates (NOC) for tea cultivation on their land from the state land and land reforms department. This official recognition will enable them access to the benefits of state and central schemes, they have said. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said there were over 50,000 small tea growers in north Bengal who contribute around 62 per cent of the tea produced in Bengal. “However, only a few of us have the NOC that the state government had issued around 20 years back. As most growers do not have NOC of the land on which they run their plantations, they do not have official recognition and are bereft of various benefits of state and central governments,” Chakraborty said. He said that way back in 2001, the then Left Front government of Bengal had announced that growers who had set up their plantations ahead of June 30, 2001, were the only ones eligible for the NOC. Accordingly, 7,435 growers of the region could get NOC from the state. Sources said recently, the BJP government in neighbouring Assam had come up with a decision to issue free NOCs to growers with land holdings up to 10 bighas. There are around one lakh small tea growers in Assam. In Bengal, small tea plantations are spread over districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and North Dinajpur. Growers have also said that if the Bengal government starts issuing NOCs, it would also boost the state exchequer. Growers will have to pay conversion and mutation charges of their land to the government. In their letter to Mamata, growers also requested her to see if the state could extend certain schemes meant for traditional farmers to the sector. “We have also urged the chief minister for a short meeting during her upcoming visit to north Bengal so that we can apprise her in detail about the sector and its issues that provides jobs to around 25 lakh people in the region,” Chakraborty said. “We are first-generation entrepreneurs and all those associated with the sector are local residents of north Bengal. Small tea growers, workers who serve these plantations and others in the sector are from various communities, including Rajbanshis, tribals and Muslims,” added the Cista president. With these demands coming a few months ahead of state elections, the Mamata Banerjee government needs to mull over them, considering the large number of people involved in the sector, political observers have said. “Several rural pockets have emerged as hubs of small tea growers. Now that many have learnt that NOC is being issued by the BJP government in Assam, they expect a similar move from the Bengal government. Also, BJP leaders here will take no time in flagging the issue and giving assurances to growers. It will be interesting to see how the chief minister and her party handle the demand,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Whistle-blowers left out, villagers write to Mamata||Some 100 families from villages of Kazigram panchayat under Englishbazar block of Malda have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging they were denied the state’s Swasthya Sathi facility for protesting against “corruption” in the Trinamul-run local body. “Because we protested against irregularities and wanted to avail the state’s welfare schemes too, some people in the panchayat started insisting that we withdraw the complaints. Those who refused were not included under the state’s free health insurance scheme (Swasthya Sathi),” said resident Bappa Mandal. This prompted them to write to Mamata, said another resident. “We feel block and the district administration will be active if Didi takes notice of the issue and passes orders to them. We have also sent a copy of the letter to administrative officials here,” he said. The letter from villagers comes at a time the state government launched “Duare Sarkar”, an initiative to extend the benefits of state-run welfare schemes to most people across Bengal, including those who were never a part of any scheme. Swasthya Sathi has been the top draw in the Duare Sarkar initiative. In Kazigram, some people had been vocal against the panchayat authorities, alleging that many workers were not paid wages for services rendered three years back under the 100-days work scheme. Residents had also complained about irregularities in sanctioning of houses under the states scheme and that many people were bereft of benefits of other schemes like “Samabyathi” (financial assistance to conduct one’s last rites) and pension for senior citizens. On December 1, the day Duare Sarkar was launched, a group of people held a sit-in demonstration in front of the district magistrate’s office. A resident filed a police complaint against the panchayat head Satyajit Mondal too. Mondal, however, denied the charges and said they are taking all initiatives to ensure that those eligible for the health insurance scheme and others had been included as beneficiaries. “We suspect that the BJP has provoked some of them,” he said. “These people did not turn up at the camp of Duaare Sarkar where forms for enrolment under the scheme are being issued. An official in the district administration said they are looking into the allegations. “So far as enrolment of prospective beneficiaries is concerned, we will not entertain any discrimination. We are looking into the allegations,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||New Bengal traders’ outfit flays Centre for retailer woes||Representatives of many business oufits on Sunday announced a common trade body and came down heavily on the Centre for “policies affecting retailers”. The newly formed Paschim Bengal Traders Welfare Association accused the Centre of “step-motherly attitude towards retailers” and appeasement of corporate groups. “The pandemic severely hit retailers and traders, yet we pay GST and other taxes to central and state governments. But the Centre is allowing corporate houses to enter retail and supporting them,” said Khokan Bhattacharya, outfit president. He said around 600 traders from 10-odd business outfits had joined the association, and they planned to meet the state commerce and industries minister and tourism minister to apprise them on their plight. He said online shopping had affected their business. “On one hand, the Centre is stressing vocal for local, and on the other, encouraging online business.” Yugraj Sirohia, association secretary, said they wanted maximum retail price (MRP) in all sectors, online promotion of local products, pension scheme for traders who have regularly paid GST for 10 years and rebate on interest of loans taken for micro, small and medium enterprises. “There should be no discrimination in taxes and other charges levied on offline and online trading,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Express train damper for Digha tourism||The South Eastern Railway has withdrawn services of the Howrah-Digha AC Super train since December 1, a move that has hit the flow of tourists to sea town Digha, which beginning March this year has suffered a series of lockdown-enforced hurdles. The tourist resort, heavily reliant on local and express trains for ferrying tourists, received a shot in the arm with the resumption of the Howrah-Digha AC Super during Puja season in October but sources said this month the train had been “running at a loss” and tickets were “prohibitively expensive”. “The 450-seater chair-car was carrying less than 100 passengers a day for those months. It is because the round fare for that train was Rs 900 against the Rs 200 you would get for normal express trains,” said a railway source on condition of anonymity. Despite the high ticket prices, hoteliers in Digha had reported an uptick in their occupancies starting from Puja season. Now, passengers coming from Calcutta are compelled to opt for an alternative tourist destination or board local trains operating between Digha and Panskura or Mechheda or Santragachhi. “The railway’s decision to terminate the train from December 1 is affecting Mandarmani and Tajpur tourism as well. This is a tourist-reliant area, and cessation of express trains from Howrah has hit the industry hard. We are hoping for South Eastern Railways to take a positive step soon,” said a member of the Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers' Association. The withdrawal of the Howrah-Digha AC has compounded the problem for tourists as the South Eastern Railway is yet to resume services of the Tamralipta and Kandari express trains that had stopped plying since the lockdown in March. Many tourists from Calcutta and its surrounding areas are resorting to expensive private vehicles or buses for their weekend getaways. Swapan Deb, 50, a lawyer from Tollygunge in Calcutta, travelled last weekend to Digha with four family members. Deb shelled out Rs 10,000 for hiring the vehicle when he was accustomed to booking the Tamralipta express for a tenth of the price for the whole family. Sources in the hoteliers association said they were working on a formal proposal to submit to the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) on the resumption of the two express trains from Howrah. “The current situation is a problem for tourists not only because there are no express trains from Howrah but also because of the timing of local trains. The last train reaches Digha now at 11.15am, which is inconvenient,” said one hotelier. Tourists prefer arriving in the morning, not near lunch time. DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri said the situation needed to be remedied given Digha’s “paramount” importance in Bengal’s tourism economy. “Daily footfall reached 20,000 persons post unlock. Inconveniencing so many people does not make sense. We will appeal to railway authorities to resume express trains,” he said. If Puri can have trains and buses, why not Digha," he added. Railway officials said the decision to resume express trains was up to the Union railway ministry. “If the state government gives us a specific proposal regarding this train, we can forward it to the ministry,” said divisional railway manager (Kharagpur), Manoranjan Pradhan. “Covid protocols dictated these route closures. Additionally, the Howrah-Digha AC Super route was running at too huge a loss to bear," added another senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Forty-six  who lost kin to elephant attacks get jobs||The district police, headed by SP Amitkumar Bharat Rathore, issued employment orders to 46 residents of Jhargram villages who had lost family members to elephant attacks since 2011. The move came a month after chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the area and said an employable youth of each family that lost a member to elephant attacks would get jobs as special home guard. Sources said after medical tests and preliminary training, all 46 would be deployed at police stations in the district. “Elephant attacks have always been a menace to our livelihood and lives. Other than destroying crops, particularly paddy, elephants storm our villages and trample anyone in their way,” said Daman Hembrom, 35, whose father was killed in 2018 as a part of a hula or search party to scare away elephants. “This job offer is a huge relief,” he added. Addressing the ongoing problem, villagers and district officials said other measures were also underway to address the threat to crops and people in Jhargram’s Bhowda, Kolabani and Chinchurgheria villages amid forests where a herd of 16 was spotted as recently as this month. “The state government has received a proposal from the forest department about the construction of ditches to deter herds, but we have received no response yet,” said Jhargram divisional forest officer (DFO) Basab Raj Holichhi, referring to the controversial move employed in other districts which sometimes has proven fatal for fallen elephants. Chinchurgheria resident Dulal Baskui said their chief concern in the rural forest belt was protecting their harvest from elephant herds. “Loss of life is not as rampant as loss of our crops. We appeal to the state government urgently to do something to protect our crops,” Baskui added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal officials to skip Delhi meet||Bengal chief secretary and director-general of police will not attend the meeting on the state’s law and order in New Delhi on Monday for which the Union ministry of home affairs summoned the duo to Delhi, said a source at Nabanna. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and DGP Virendra were asked to be present in the capital on Monday in the wake of the attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy on Thursday. “We did not get any response from the Centre after the chief secretary’s letter in which he requested the MHA to dispense with the presence of two officials.… As Delhi remained silent on the issue, we consider that they have accepted the request,” said a senior state government official. “The chief secretary has already sought exemption from the meeting. So, I think the Centre would not drag the issue further. If the issue is dragged further, the state would initiate appropriate measures, including legal recourse,” said another bureaucrat. The state government did not get any response from the Union home ministry after it conveyed to New Delhi that three IPS officers — who were posted on central deputation  by the MHA — would not be released. The Centre had asked the state to release the officers, who were posted in the nearby places where Nadda’s convoy was attacked, by December 15. The state sent a letter on Saturday expressing its inability to release the officers as they were doing well in Bengal. “According to the service rules of IPS officers, in case of any disagreement on deputation of cadre officers, it is incumbent upon the state government concerned to give effect to the decision of the central government. But I cannot recall any instance where the provision was exercised. It has to be seen if the Centre would use this provision despite the state’s objection,” said a source. Sources in the state government said it might move to court if the MHA went ahead with its decision to attach the officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker’s body found in in East Burdwan pond||A BJP worker was found dead with multiple injuries in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali on Sunday, within 24 hours of another allegedly lynched in Halisahar, North 24-Parganas. The body of Sukhdeb Pramanik, 33, was found in a pond. The BJP linked his death with his presence at a rally on December 10 to condemn the attack on J.P. Nadda’s convoy. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya accused Mamata Banerjee of “trying to retain power only through violence” and said he would appeal to the Election Commission to deploy central forces now. Trinamul dismissed the allegations. Early on Sunday, police also arrested three Trinamul workers in connection with the murder of Halisahar’s BJP booth-committee head Saikat Bhawal on Saturday. Saikat had been lynched during a BJP outreach event near his home. Suman Saha, Sudipta Ghosh and Somnath Ganguly (a.k.a. Kelta) were arrested based on a complaint filed by Saikat’s brother Sagar with Bijpur police. The trio, allegedly close aides of Trinamul leader Subodh Adhikary, were produced before a court in Barrackpore and ordered three-day police custody. Another prime accused named in the FIR is missing. Trinamul leader Adhikary denied the allegations, claiming the murder had no political link and was a fallout of personal rivalry. “We told police to arrest culprits without considering political identities,” he said. Ajoy Thakur, joint commissioner of the Barrackpore police commissionerate, said they had begun a murder case. “Three persons out of four named in the FIR have been arrested,” he said. Earlier in the day, BJP supporters demonstrated in front of Bijpur police station, accusing the police administration of inaction over alleged atrocities unleashed by ruling Trinamul. BJP leader and Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy said: “Trinamul has to pay the price for this politics of violence. They are afraid of losing power and are trying to unleash terror. We have been showing restraint despite losing our party workers. But, if the police take it as a sign of our weakness, they would be making a blunder”. Tension flared at Saalbagan under ward 12 of Burdwan town after a BJP party office was allegedly set on fire by suspected Trinamul supporters. BJP supporters blocked an arterial road for about four hours in protest, shortly before a Trinamul party office was ransacked allegedly by suspected BJP supporters in the town in an apparent retaliation. In Hansnabad’s Parghata area, at least 10 Trinamul supporters and a civic volunteer were injured during a clash with BJP supporters on Sunday morning over retaining control of a fish farm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to visit  Visva-Bharati on December 20||Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to reach Visva-Bharati on December 20 and BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya and Anupam Hazra met vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Sunday to discuss the visit, four days ahead of a virtual address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chancellor of the central university. Sources in the BJP’s Bengal unit said Shah’s visit was scheduled as a damage-control effort after the gaffe over Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace last week in a tweet that quoted party president J.P. Nadda. BJP national-secretary Hazra said Shah had expressed his desire to visit the varsity and meet its officials during the next weekend. “We know December 24 is the foundation day of Visva-Bharati and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is its chancellor. He wanted to address the Visva-Bharati community apolitically as the varsity’s glory and image were tarnished in the recent past,” said Hazra. “Amit Shah would like to visit and meet the officials of Visva-Bharati. He would also participate in a procession to boost the morale of our workers in Birbhum. After the procession, he would address the workers,” he added. On Wednesday, the Bengal BJP’s official Twitter handle had issued a tweet with a quote, attributing it to the party’s national president J.P. Nadda, stating that Tagore had been born in Visva-Bharati. BJP sources had said Nadda did not actually say so in his speech but the mistake was made by its IT cell. The tweet was taken down later. A senior BJP leader said Shah would speak to Chakrabarty and other officials regarding the current situation on the campus and the issue of violence following protests against the boundary wall of the Pous Mela ground. Nadda has tested positive for Covid-19, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to wish him speedy recovery and good health. Nadda had toured parts of Bengal a few days ago, and stones were thrown at some cars in his convoy, triggering a political row. “Heard about BJP National President Shri @JPNadda testing positive for Covid-19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and good health. My prayers are with him and his family during this time,” Mamata tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal daily Covid cases below 3,000 for a week||Bengal reported seven consecutive days of less than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases with 2,580 infections recorded on Sunday. This is for the first time that less than 3,000 cases being logged daily for a week since a similar spell ended exactly four months ago on August 13. The state logged 2,994 recoveries and 47 deaths on Sunday, contributing to the total of active cases dipping for the 48th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “Today, we achieved our goal of taking our total of active cases to less than 23,000 by December 31. Now, to the next goal of taking our recovery rate past 95,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 52 consecutive days, rising on Sunday to yet another new high of 93.94 per cent. The national rate now is 94.96 per cent. In the 48 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded over 1.8 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.68 lakh cases found. “Our total of active cases has fallen (since October 26) by nearly 15,000 to 22,573. We are back almost to where we were on August 4, which is 131 days ago. That is remarkable improvement,” said the minister. The state now has over 5.21 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.9 lakh recoveries and 9,057 deaths. With 41,218 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 64.23 lakh, at 71,372 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.12 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The fall in the positive confirmation rate is a clear indicator of less spread of the infection,” said the minister. The 47 deaths reported on Sunday included 11 which occurred in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,598 (83.98 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 21.6 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.27 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided so far during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar airport wings clipped for now||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has decided not to renew the licence for the Cooch Behar airport from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), leading to a fresh controversy in the district with Trinamul and BJP trading charges. According to sources in the AAI, the licence to run the Cooch Behar airport that is issued by the DGCA is valid till January 27 next year. However, as there is no flight service at the airport, the AAI has decided not to renew the licence right now. “It is a decision made at a higher level. We have nothing to comment on it,” said Moloy Kanti Dey, the airport director of Cooch Behar. Sources said that though there are no flight operations, the AAI had to bear expenses for the airport’s upkeep, a major reason for not renewing the licence. “That is why it has been decided not to renew the license. In due course, if there are proposals from airline companies to fly from here, the airport can be reopened again. Similar decisions have been made for some other smaller airports elsewhere as well,” said a source. In Cooch Behar, the airport had been developed by the royals. Flight services had come to a halt 25 years ago, in 1995. Since then, efforts had been made a number of times to resume flight services, but eventually those didn’t work out. In July last year, Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, had landed at the airport on a nine-seater flight and had assured that flight services would resume soon. This led to an impasse between the state and the Centre, with flight services not taking off. “One of the reasons for the non-resumption of flights at the Cooch Behar airport is the small runway. The length of the runway is such that at best only 20 to 25-seater plane can land or take off from the airport,” said an official. Now, the recent decision of the AAI to not renew the airport’s licence has come as a fresh disappointment to local residents and created a fresh political tussle between Trinamul and BJP.  Both the parties are blaiming the other for the airport’s debacle. Malati Rava, the district BJP chief, accused the Trinamul government of being “politically vindictive.” “It is because of the state’s lackadaisical attitude and political vindictiveness that flight services could not start from here. Last year, our MP had come on a flight and had spoken with a private airliner to start the services but the state government withdrew policemen and fire services,” said Rava. Trinamul leaders on the other hand, accused the Centre of “non-cooperation”. “Our chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) had put in efforts a number of times to make the Cooch Behar airport operational,” said Abdul Jalil Ahmed, a district leader of the party. “But the Centre  never helped to make the airport operational, and now, it has planned not to renew the licence. Such a decision by the AAI, which is after all a central government agency, will not go down well with Cooch Behar residents,” Ahmed added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Don’t tease a tiger just because it is quiet: Binay||Public meetings of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s two factions separated by nearly 100km on Sunday sent a clear message that the politics of the Darjeeling hills still remained unsettled though the BJP is a common enemy of both the camps. The Binay Tamang faction issued a veiled but strong message to the Trinamul Congress that it should not be taken lightly. This is despite the fact that the Tamang faction is an ally of Trinamul which is in power in Bengal. “The government must understand. We were the ones to douse the fire of 2017 (during the Gorkhaland agitation). The person who can douse a fire also knows how to ignite a fire,” Tamang told the public meeting at Sukna in Darjeeling district. Tamang added that he was “a tiger” but he should not be teased just because he was quite “and sleeping in the morning”. “When I wake up in the afternoon, I, too, eat meat.” Many interpreted the statement as an attempt by Tamang to harden his stand against the state government. Tamang’s deputy Anit Thapa who is nominated by the state government to head the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration also said “two khukris” should not be kept in the same sheath. The message from the two leaders was clear that they were in no mood to accept Trinamul’s decision to ally with Bimal Gurung. Nearly a 100km away at Birpara in Alipurduar district, Gurung targeted the BJP. “During Narendra Modi’s visit to Birpara, Modi had told me that our (Gorkhas’) problem is their problem. But in the past 10 years, they (BJP) did nothing but only used us,” said Gurung. He also claimed Alipurduar BJP MP John Barla and Birpara BJP MLA Manoj Tigga had won their seats because of the Morcha’s support. “I asked Amit Shah to give the BJP ticket to John and promised his victory. Birpara MLA Manoj Tigga also won with our support. I would request adivasis, Rajbanshis, Biharis and other people not to vote for the BJP,” said Gurung. A political observer pointed out that while Gurung seemed to be clear in his stand against the BJP, the Tamang camp looked tough on Trinamul. “The Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp seems to be trying to send a message that Trinamul should not cosy up to Gurung. The statement is an indication that Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa have come off age and that they, too, should not be taken lightly,” said an observer. The statements by leaders from both the camps suggest that politics in the hills has not settled ever since Gurung declared his support for Trinamul on October 21. “The complete story of hill politics has not unfolded. The tone of the speeches of the leaders of both the camps suggests that there could be realignment in hill politics once again,” said an observer of hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-276
14-12-2020||West Bengal||Railway relief for North Bengal Tea Park investors||The Railway Board has agreed to issue no-objection certificates to entrepreneurs so that they can borrow from banks and other financial institutions to develop their projects on their plots at the North Bengal Tea Park that exists on land leased out by the railways to the SJDA. In 2008, the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) had obtained land from the railways near New Jalpaiguri station — the largest railway station in north Bengal — on lease. The SJDA had then divided it into two parts to use the bigger plot of 50 acres for a tea park for entrepreneurs and the smaller one of 24.5 acres for a dry port. Expressing his relief at the Railway Board nod, Sanjit Saha, chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), admitted that without it, getting funds was a major stumbling block in the development of the tea park. “Many entrepreneurs could not open their units as they could not arrange the finances to do so. It is good that the railway board has finally said that no-objection certificates would be issued to entrepreneurs who have taken up plots at the tea park. This will go a long way in bringing in fresh industrial investments in the region,” said Saha. So far, around 132 private investors have taken plots at the tea park. The Tea Board has also taken a plot and established a quality control laboratory on the site. “We expect an investment of around Rs 1,000 crore at the tea park in the coming days that will help in generating employment for over 5,000 people. It is a major development of the region,” added Saha. At the park, tea packaging units, warehouses and some other ancillary units related to the tea sector are likely to come up, said sources. CII representatives, who had been instrumental in getting this assent from the Railway Board, and have time and again raised the issue with governments and elected representatives, also feel that the dry port will get functional soon. The dry port or the inland container depot (ICD), they said, would considerably reduce the expenses of logistics for importers and exporters of the region. “The MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector of north Bengal and northeast and those in horticulture and agriculture sectors, can package any kind of product, starting from fruits and vegetables to heavy machinery, in containers which would be transported to any destination by the railways from the ICD,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-277
14-12-2020||North East||Working to transform Guwahati as gateway to Southeast Asia, says  Sonowal||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Monday that his government was working to transform Guwahati as a gateway to Southeast Asia. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, Sonowal said the state is eyeing the ASEAN market, besides the BBIN (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal). "We are trying to develop Guwahati not as only a gateway to the Northeast, but also for Southeast Asia. The ASEAN block provides a large and lucrative market for Assam," he said. At the global investors' summit held in Assam in 2018, the state had received investment proposals worth Rs 79,000 crore, Sonowal said. "Of that, Rs 55,000 crore has already landed in the state," he added. The chief minister said that his government has been able to bring benefits worth Rs 2,000 crore for the MSME sector from the Centre's assistance programme, announced during the pandemic. Sonowal said that the focus area for the state is agriculture, and Israel has promised to provide the best technology for the development of the sector. The state is now sending vegetables by cargo flights to countries such as the UK, Singapore and UAE, he noted. Sonowal claimed that the state has handled the COVID- 19 well, as seen from the low mortality rates. The government is now working to boost the health infrastructure, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
14-12-2020||North East||BJP finds new allies to form Bodoland Territorial Council ||The BJP, along with its new allies United People’s Party Liberal and Gana Suraksha Party, will head the next Bodoland Territorial Council in Assam after governor Jagdish Mukhi accepted the three-party “post-poll coalition” claim to form the autonomous body on Sunday night. Although the Bodoland People’s Front emerged as the single largest party winning 17 of the 40 seats despite a stiff challenge from its rivals, its hopes of a fourth straight term fizzled out after the BJP rebuffed BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary’s appeal to support its bid to form the BTC since they were still allies in the state government. Debutant UPPL won 12 seats, BJP 9 and GSP 1 in the two-phase polls held on December 7 and 10. While the Congress-AIUDF alliance won only one seat, raising questions about the continuation of the alliance in the Assembly polls. A delegation of the BJP-UPPL-GSP combine formally staked claim to form the next council on Sunday evening after a series of meetings since Saturday night decided that UPPL president Pramod Boro would lead the council. Traditionally a governor invites the single largest party to form the council/state government but Mukhi, according to sources, accepted the claim because the UPPL-BJP-GSP coalition has “demonstrated more than enough through” its meetings, media interactions and a visit to the Raj Bhavan on Sunday that it enjoys the majority in a hung house. As Mukhi was out of station, the coalition leaders “submitted” support letters to the governor declaring “full support” to the formation of the council under Boro to the commissioner and secretary to the governor, S.S. Meenakshi Sundaram. A Raj Bhavan statement on Sunday night said the next council will be formed on December 15. BPF, an ally of the BJP in the state government since 2016, responded to the BJP’s rebuff by skipping a cabinet meeting on Sunday afternoon. Senior BPF leader Pramila Rani Brahma, one of three party ministers in the BJP-led government, told The Telegraph that party leaders will be meeting in Kokrajhar on Monday and decide on the party’s future course of action. The BJP’s move of ignoring BPF’s plea once again reflected its “expansionist design” by “cornering” smaller allies, political observers said. They cited the recent Bihar polls to show how it edged past its long-term ally Janata Dal United. In the 2015 BTC polls, the BPF had won 19 seats, the AIUDF 4, People’s Coordination for Democratic Rights (PCDR) 7, Independents 9 and BJP 1. The BJP gained 8 seats this time round. “The BPF had grown in strength when it was an ally of the Congress at Dispur for 15 years but the BJP has not only ended BPF’s monopoly but has also emerged as a key player in the Bodo belt, in less than 5 years. Something smaller parties like the UPPL and the AGP have to take note of. They cannot match the BJP’s aggressive and sustained campaign, something which changed the BTC poll outcome,” an observer said. Architect Sarma Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is seen as the architect of the BJP’s growth in the BTC. His high decibel campaign that focussed on corruption during the BPF regime and easing of rules for buying and selling of land in the BTC impacted the outcome. Sarma said they will honour the state-level alliance with the BPF till the 2021 polls but there can be no alliance in the council since they fought for parivartan (change) like the UPPL and the GSP. He has described the outcome as “a new dawn in BTR (Bodoland Territorial Region)”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda were among those who hailed the victory in BTC. Modi tweeted, “NDA is committed to serving the people of the Northeast. I congratulate our ally UPPL and @BJP4Assam for securing a majority in the Assam BTC election, and wish them the very best in fulfilling people’s aspirations. I thank the people for placing their faith in the NDA.” The BJP will now control all the Sixth Schedule councils in Assam since coming to power in 2016. It is heading the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council since 2017 and the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council since 2019. The BJP’s showing in the BTC is set to boost its prospects in the Assembly polls. Being part of the BTC, it will have more than a say in the sharing of the 14 Assembly seats in the Bodo belt, including 12 in the BTC. The BPF had been winning the BTC Assembly seats since 2011. These seats will help it offset any setback it may suffer in Upper Assam in the 2021 polls. Congress-AIUDF The BJP’s high decibel campaign not only split the Bodo votes between the BPF and the UPPL but also saw it eat into the non-Bodo and minority votes of the GSP and the AIUDF which drew a blank despite winning four seats in 2015. The Congress-AIUDF alliance, which had contested 20 seats but managed to win only one, has already become a cause for concern in the Congress circles. “The Congress won only one seat of the 13 it contested. People have rejected the alliance. We should have at least got four-five seats, at least in the minority areas,” one of them said.  In 2015, the Congress had failed to open its account. A large section within the Congress feels there should not be any open alliance with the AIUDF because it may cost the party dear in Upper Assam. “As it is we won about 7 seats out of 40-plus contested in 2016. It cannot get worse than this if we contest alone instead of losing all these seats too by tying up with the AIUDF,” one of them said. The ruling BJP calls the AIUDF a party of migrants and attacked its chief Badruddin Ajmal obliquely during the campaign by accusing the Ajmal Trust of receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror. “We don’t know what the BJP will come up with during the Assembly campaign. We need to build a narrative on the anti-CAA movement, economic hardships and development issues instead of defending our alliance with the AIUDF,” a senior PCC leader said. PCC insiders said the issue of the alliance will be discussed during AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh’s, visit after next week’s Tiwa Autonomous Council elections where the Congress is pitted directly against the BJP in most seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
14-12-2020||North East||Arunachal govt offices burnt over voting rights||At least three government offices were burnt down on Friday at Vijaynagar in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh by a mob allegedly led by the All Yobin Students Union in the run-up to the panchayat polls in one of the remotest administrative circles in India. The protesters, comprising about 400 youths and public from nearby Gandhigram, burnt down the extra assistant commissioner’s office, post office and the special bureau (SB) office and also ransacked the Vijayanagar police station around 8.30am. The protesters were armed with daos (machetes), lathis (sticks) and bows and arrows and shouting “hamare mange puri karo (fulfil our demands)”. The protesters were demanding cancellation of voting rights to non-indigenous people, mostly ex-Assam Rifles settlers, and their removal from the area as soon as possible, a police statement said. The situation is tense but under control. Four FIRs were registered against specific individuals based on local information and videographic evidence. Till Sunday, 24 people have been arrested in this connection. Four firearms have also been seized. A video message doing the rounds on social media purportedly shows Ngwazaso Yobin, the president of All Yobin Students’ Union, claiming responsibility for Friday’s violence and blaming the government for not meeting their demands of cancelling the settlers’ voting rights. He also says that they are ready to give up their lives to save their land and the settlers should move out as “their 30-year lease is over”. The video also shows Yobin and others raise slogans such as “hatao hatao, settlers hatao (remove the settlers)” and “go back, go back, settlers go back”. Yobin is also heard warning the government that “they should not underestimate us” and “don’t underestimate the tribal populace”. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav told The Telegraph that nobody was killed or hurt. “Since connectivity in the area is poor, we have flown down reinforcements by choppers from Miao town, around 150km away. We have requisitioned two choppers which will continue to send reinforcements, including additional CRPF platoons. Two magistrates on special duty have been stationed at Vijayanagar to deal with any situation,” he said. Vijaynagar, located along the Indo-Myanmar border, takes around six to eight days to reach from Miao. Panchayat and municipal polls are scheduled for December 22 but given the protest against settlers the state election commission had kept in abeyance the polls under Vijaynagar. “It is suspected the mob carried out the attack because the deferment impacted everyone. Strict action will be taken against those who vandalised government property and took the law in their own hands. Those who instigate local youths will be dealt with as per provisions of the law,” Yadav said. The population of Vijaynagar, around 250km from the Changlang district headquarters and around 150km from Miao circle, is about 6,000, half of whom are non-Arunachali tribes. Around 200 families of Assam Rifles personnel had initially settled in the area in the early sixties. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) had earlier this month also demanded a ban on non-tribal and non-indigenous people from participating in the panchayat and municipal polls as it was “unacceptable” to the organisation and “intruded” into the rights of the ethnic people of the state. AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai said the organisation had held a meeting with the government led by Pema Khandu and had also submitted a memorandum on the issue. Already 6,266 candidates have been declared elected unopposed ahead of the panchayat and municipal elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
14-12-2020||Opinion||Dreaded call: Zoom anxiety||The challenges to mental health seem to have intensified, taking on newer forms in the course of the global contagion. This grave reality was highlighted recently in a survey conducted by an agency based in the United Kingdom, which found that almost 75 per cent of the respondents had experienced ‘Zoom anxiety’ — a phrase used to describe the distress that is experienced while having to be part of video calls. This phenomenon is not restricted to the UK. The use of Zoom and other such digital communications by employers, political parties, educational institutions and countless individuals has soared across the world especially after national lockdowns were put in place to check the spread of Covid-19, forcing some constituencies of workers and students to work and study from home, respectively. But raising a firewall against threats to physical health has had adverse consequences for mental health. Earlier this year, researchers in Australia found that psychological suffering in adults, including symptoms of depression and anxiety, was markedly elevated during the peak of the coronavirus outbreak. Mental health experts from India’s National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences have said that professionals trying to adapt to the ‘new normal’ may be at particular risk from digital burnout. These concerns are not without basis. Online meetings require more attention, aggravating the stress of participants. The health consequences — for body and mind — of such hyper-connectivity, with little or no balance between the time spent in online and offline activities, merit scrutiny. The collapse of the boundaries between home and work is extracting a heavy cost from working women who are being forced to juggle multiple responsibilities — work from home, child-rearing and household chores — all at the same time. The Workforce Confidence Index survey has, in fact, underlined the disproportionate burden of the stress between men and women. It is thus important to examine ways in which India’s mental healthcare apparatus can deal with this new challenge, given that the reliance on technology is expected to be considerable in employment and education in the days to come. Mental illness in India is yet to be recognized as a significant contributor to poor health. This is reflected in the skewed ratio between patients and mental health professionals — India has 0.75 psychiatrists per 1,00,000 people — the closed nature of mental healthcare institutions, and the appalling treatment meted out to patients in spite of the concerns expressed by the courts, medical professionals and the media. There is a strong case to be made not only for incorporating provisions for recognizing newer forms of anxiety in the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 but also to foster public engagement with matters of the mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Unmatched taste: Palong shaak er ghonto||Sir — With the arrival of winter, the markets have been flooded with fresh produce like spinach and mustard greens. Yet, the kitchens of urban Calcutta seem more interested in cooking palak paneer and sarson da saag — delicious items no doubt — than the more nutritious (and tastier) palong shaak er ghonto or alu bori diye shorshe shaak. The once-common dheki and pui shaak are almost unheard of now. The profusion of restaurants selling North Indian food has perhaps changed the palate of the next generation of Bengalis forever. Can anything beat the taste of piping hot rice with palong shaak er ghonto and a touch of ghee? A. Sanyal, Siliguri Year of losses Sir — The year, 2020, will be remembered as one in which the world of football has been left impoverished. India lost Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Subimal (Chuni) Goswami, and world soccer weeps at the loss of one of it’s all time greats, Diego Maradona, and now the Italian football legend, Paolo Rossi, who died at the age of 64. In 1980, at the age of 23, when he was one of the world’s highest-paid players Rossi had been banned from soccer for three years after a match-fixing scandal, known as the Totonero (black-betting). This is a charge Rossi furiously denied, he maintained he had been dragged into a scandal and that his only mistake had been to allow himself to be introduced by a teammate, Mauro Della Martira, to two strangers one day at Perugia’s training facility. Rossi’s ban was reduced to two years, by which time he had been signed by Juventus, allowing his Italy manager, Enzo Bearzot, to include him in his 1982 World Cup squad. From here, there was no looking back for Rossi; he helped the Italian team to victory in the 1982 World Cup and scored the first goal for the Azzurri in the final against West Germany as Italy triumphed 3-1. He became the only footballer in history to win the World Cup, the Golden Boot, the Golden Ball and Ballon d’Or in the same year. Many opponents described Rossi as “pure phosphorus”, because of his agility on his feet. In his career Rossi scored more than 150 goals, but the most memorable will be when he scored all three goals as Italy beat Brazil 3-2 in the 1982 World Cup quarter final, which many soccer writers have called the greatest World Cup match ever. After Rossi retired in 1987, he became a popular TV soccer pundit on Sky Sports and the Italian national broadcaster RAI. May the legend rest in peace.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It was saddening to learn that the Italian footballer, Paolo Rossi, died at the age of 64. He single-handedly helped the Italian football team to victory in the Fifa World Cup of 1982. His timing, energy and ability to score made Rossi a footballing superstar. But the three-year ban on him by the Italian Football Federation left a long shadow on his career. However, given his talent, it could not stand in the way of his success. He will of course be remembered most for his hat-trick against Brazil in 1982, where the latter were the favourites to lift the World Cup. Rossi may no longer be with us but his games and his talent will keep him in our hearts for a long time to come. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Within a month, the world of football has lost the legendary footballers, Diego Maradona and Paolo Rossi.This brilliant forward was always considered as one of the greatest strikers in the history of the sport. To be honest, Italy has produced few footballers of Rossi’s talent. His contribution to Italian football is immense. In the year 1982, he led his country to a World Cup win. Rossi mesmerized football lovers all over the world that year. His loss is thus being felt not just by Italians but by football fans across the globe. Real admirers of the sport would never forget Rossi.Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Paolo Rossi was undoubtedly a gifted player. But what made him a national hero was the fact that when he gave Italy a leg up in the 1982 World Cup, the nation had been subject to significant social and political unrest for a number of years and, in spite of being regarded as one of the world’s premier footballing nations, had not won a World Cup since 1938. With the victory came an incalculable lift in the nation’s spirits, and Rossi was at the centre of the celebrations. Rossi scored more than 150 goals in his career but in order to understand his brilliance one would have to watch the goal he scored in the 1982 World Cup final. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Parting shot Sir — It is great news that breakdancing has been included as a medal event in the 2024 Paris Olympics (“Dancing in Paris”, Dec 12). Seeds for this were sown at the Buenos Aires Youth Olympic Games in 2018 where this event gained massive popularity. Although people may not agree with breakdancing being part of the biggest sporting event on the planet, they must remember that change is the only constant. What is more heartening is the fact that thousands across many countries will be able to participate. Hopefully India will also produce some world class breakdancers. Bal Govind,Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Lawless use: NSA, UAPA||This is not the first time that the Allahabad High Court has admonished the State for the misuse of the National Security Act, 1980. Last September, the high court had released the doctor, Kafeel Khan, detained under the NSA for allegedly ‘inciting hatred’ in a speech. The court had shown that Mr Khan’s remarks had been taken out of context, and had criticized the authorities for having applied the NSA on a ‘whim’. Clearly, even such a sharp admonishment from the high court has left the administration unfazed. This time, the Allahabad High Court quashed the order of detention of Javed Siddiqui, arrested under the NSA for alleged arson and rioting during a clash. The court focused on the violation of procedure: the representation of the accused, although submitted within the stipulated time, lay with the state government till two days after the advisory board had approved of the detention; then it was rejected. The court thus established its point that the history of personal liberty is largely the history of the insistence on observing procedural safeguards. The NSA, invoked for those who allegedly threaten security and public order, provides for preventive, not punitive, detention. Without procedure, it becomes an arbitrary deprivation of liberty. The steps of the violation as laid out by the court suggest, unfortunately, not carelessness but practice. This is precisely contrary to the Allahabad High Court’s most important statement in this case: when the law gives the executive ‘extraordinary power’ to detain someone without recourse to usual laws or legal trial, the executive must exercise the power with “extreme care”. Yet the NSA is being applied extensively, particularly in Uttar Pradesh although not there alone, to people charged with cow slaughter and those protesting against the new citizenship laws. This is a flagrant abuse of power intended to create fear in a particular community and among dissenters, for even if nothing can be proved — as has repeatedly been the case — the NSA allows detention for 12 months. Laws with a similar thrust, such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, are being used with similar intentions throughout the country. The Allahabad High Court’s clarion call for justice comes when it is sorely needed. It is up to the people to ensure that it is effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Code red: labour, wages, security||In September, Parliament gave its nod to three new labour codes in addition to the wage code already approved in August 2019 to promote labour reforms. The codes essentially deal with wages, industrial relations, social security, safety, and working conditions of workers. India’s female labour participation rate — one of the lowest in the world — has been on a precipitous decline. It was widely expected that the labour codes would offer a comprehensive approach in addressing this festering crisis that has been intensified by the pandemic. The female labour force contracted by about 2.4 million between January-April and May-August 2020 (as per CMIE’s unemployment surveys). Whether these laws succeed in tackling the problems that impede female workforce participation is a question that is well worth pondering. In India, the female labour force is largely concentrated in the informal sector with 95 per cent (around 195 million) of women working in informal jobs. Those employed in the sector are largely deprived of basic social security provisions, such as fixed minimum wages, insurance, maternity and pension benefits and so on. This makes them more vulnerable to job losses. As per CMIE data, in April 2020, in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, 122 million jobs were lost out of which 91 million were in the informal sector. Women, evidently, bore the brunt of these job losses. Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and anganwadi workers have been indispensable during the pandemic. Even though the Code on Social Security, 2020 aims to include formal and informal sectors under a social safety net, it excludes several categories of workers, including Asha and anganwadi workers, denying them the basic rights and protection of social security. The Code on Wages, too, has left this constituency out of its coverage, depriving employees of a fixed minimum wage. The care economy is massively under-provided in India with just 1.7 care workers (nurses and midwives) per 1,000 people as per World Bank estimates. This sector has a huge potential to generate employment, particularly for women. The lack of social security is not only a severe handicap for those currently employed in this sector but also a deterrent for women seeking employment as care workers. The inaccessibility of formal sector jobs to women can be attributed to the lack of opportunities, absence of necessary training platforms, a safe work environment and entrenched gender inequities in terms of wide gaps in payment. In a bid to create greater employment opportunities, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 entitles women to be employed in all establishments, for all types of work. In case of potentially hazardous or dangerous operations, the government is expected to direct the employers to implement adequate safeguards. It also enables women to work, with their consent, night shifts. The Code on Wages, 2019 prohibits gender-based discrimination in matters relating to wages by an employer and promotes equal pay for equal work. Although these are welcome steps, the responsibility of fulfilling these stipulations has been placed entirely on the employer. There is no clarity on how the accountability of the employer is to be ensured, especially in the case of a violation, in providing safe working conditions, transportation for nightshifts and security, preventing gender discrimination in wages, and paying additional wages for overtime work. The virtual world, too, poses serious threats with online sexual harassment on the rise. The labour codes remain grossly inadequate in terms of laying out specialized initiatives for addressing online harassment, remedial measures to minimize gender disparities in wages, and provisions of skill enhancement platforms for women to move towards jobs in sectors of growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Opinion||Contrasting fates||Contrasts between India and China are commonplace and they also apply to debates on the future of the global environment. One key aspect that is rarely discussed is the record of these societies in achieving peace with the non-human inhabitants of their lands and waters. Both countries are among the 12 nation states with the maximum terrestrial biodiversity and between them they also account for 40 per cent of the earth’s people. Can their long and rich history offer any clues about the choices for the future? The animal that offers rich insights is the saga of elephants in the two countries. Thomas Trautmann authored an essay in 1982 simply titled “Elephants and the Mauryas”. The empire founded by Chandragupta nearly 2,300 years ago rested in part on its ability to capture, train and deploy elephants in warfare. This was not a new discovery: what was new was his location of the eight hastivanas, or Elephant Forests, which were under imperial protection. In a more recent work, Elephants and Kings, he elaborates on the wider implications for the human-animal relationship. To secure elephants for war, kings and emperors had to take control of forests where they lived and bred. As the forest became critical to kingly power, the forest peoples were enlisted in a subordinate role to help protect the tuskers from being poached for ivory and also to trap and train adult elephants for war. This relation of forest and elephant, forest people and kingly power, was not confined to India although it began here. It was picked up by the Greeks in the wake of Alexander and transmitted across West Asia. Two thousand years ago, even Syria had wild elephants and these too were caught and used in war. Such practices had even wider currency across Southeast Asia. Burma, Thailand, Indo-China, the Malay world and Indonesia all had a special place for elephants in warfare and transport. The close association with the animals also made them central to lore and legend, religion and ritual. The care and upkeep of elephants and even remedies for ailments were as crucial as those for men in armies and the horses that were used in transport. The elephant was more than a mobile fighting machine: its personality and emotional intelligence were subjects of celebration. They remain so to this day long after the war elephant has passed into history. The species no longer exists in countries to the west of India where the numbers were never large. But the notable contrast was between South as well as Southeast Asia and China. As Mark Elvin has argued, there was an inverse relationship between the Han Chinese settlements (and their rice paddies) and the existence of elephants. The spread of cultivation was often accompanied, if not preceded, by the annihilation of elephants. Elvin goes so far as to speak of a 3,000-year war with nature in China in which the destruction of the elephant was central to human conquest and domination of the landscape. Not all humans were complicit: the tribal people of southwest China (where a few elephants still survive) had ritual and religious associations with the animal. For most other Chinese, the great beast was an antagonist, not an ally of State formation. The density of numbers of elephants in much of China was low but as Elvin shows the range was once vast. Two contrasts seem clear in the long-term histories of Southern Asia and China. China’s elephants were sometimes tamed and used for ceremonial purposes, but not on battlefields. Those in power in South and Southeast Asia had reason to keep herds alive and some habitats intact. The Arthashastra was clear on the punishment to be meted out to an elephant poacher: the death sentence. The second is a related point. Except among hill and tribal people in South Asia, elephants were not and are not killed for food. By contrast, Chinese delicacies included the trunk of the animal, with the recipe being recorded by scribes. It is equally interesting that except for a brief period — during the rule by the East India Company — elephants were not hunted or shot in India. The relatively short phase of sport hunting came to an end in 1873 in Madras Presidency that passed an elephant preservation Act. A similar enactment was made for all of British India six years later. These laws allowed for shooting in self-defence and also by tea or coffee planters in Assam and in the south, but it was still a legislation of global significance. Individual animals could be a threat if they turned rogue and were trapped or killed. It would be anachronistic to imagine a species being preserved in the 21st century sense. It was not under total protection to live its life in the wild. In fact, the aim was to secure supplies for war and more so for timber work. This was long before any large wild mammal was placed under State protection in North America, Europe or Japan. In contrast, England protected the grey seal only from 1911 and it was only around 1900 that the United States of America and Canada took steps to save the American bison from extinction. The Asian elephant’s saga of service in warfare continued into the 20th century. Over 3,000 elephants from India and Burma were deployed in the Second World War under the command of the man who would later serve as the last British Viceroy: Lord Mountbatten. Elephants were used for carriage of supplies by Viet Minh fighters on the Ho Chi Minh trail in the decade-long Vietnam War. These creatures were even targeted by the US air force as alien combatants. Elephants were victims of war across the ages but in the main their strategic value over two millennia gave the species a unique place vis-à-vis successive rulers. But any comparison of the two great Asian giants, India and China, has to take account of not only their present challenges and opportunities but also the longer record. China lost almost all its elephants to a combined offensive of peasant subjects and imperial states. About 300 survive in the southern Yunnan province, remnants of past glory. In comparison, there are 28,000 wild elephants in India. In India, the role of the same species in warfare, transport and forest work earned it a lease of life well into the modern era. This was largely true in much of Southeast Asia as well. Habitats in India have shrunk despite protection. The recent proposal of the Uttarakhand government to de-notify the elephant reserve in the state may endanger the western most population of this majestic creature in India and indeed Asia. Such steps need to be rethought and soon. Indian approaches saw the State and local producers make spaces for nature. Chinese State-building meant annihilation of animals seen as an adversary to economic growth and consolidation of political authority. This is a case of contrasting histories worth a critical look in our own times. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-based littérateur’s book launch||Dhanbad-based young littérateur-cum- art critique, curator and journalist ‑ Abhishek Kashyap launched his new book titled – Godfather in the presence of a galaxy of poets, art lovers, and local littérateurs, during a poet’s meet organized at Dhanbad’s Judge Colony. The 43-year-old’s latest book is based on his memoirs on Hindi littérateur ‑ late Rajendra Yadav, former editor of renowned Hindi literary magazine – Hans. Talking to the media, on the sidelines of the book release function, Sarita Jain, a Hindi poet from Delhi, present at the book launch event, said, “The book is one of finest memoir collections of a young littérateur about his guide. It also is the best way for a student expressing his gratitude towards his mentor.” The 123-page book, comprising 23 chapters has been published by India Telling, priced at Rs 150, focuses on different aspects of Yadav’s personality. Talking to The Telegraph Online Kashyap, said, “I was highly impressed with the personality of Rajendra Yadav, since the very beginning of my journalistic career or even before as my first article was published in Hans way back in 1998, that gave me a national identity.” “Such was the reputation of Hans that based on the publication of the compositions in Hans the writer or poet used to get job offers and I also got 100s of letters from across the country besides the job offer of a being a Hindi teacher of a school, immediately after the publication of my first article in Hans,” said Kashyap who’s two books titled Kala Vrat and Sahitya Samvad published by Delhi-based ‑ Nai Kitab Publishers were released on January 7, earlier this year during the New Delhi World Book Fair 2020 organized by National Book Trust at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi. “The book titled, Godfather was written during the lockdown and is divided into different chapters based on small reminiscences of Yadav ji from my memory. But it is not about a praise text eulogizing his positive aspects but deals with his weaknesses and darker side too,” said Kashyap. He added that Yadav never believed in developing such a cult image for himself where there is no scope for criticism. “It would have been a great injustice. I would have highlighted only his positive side as Yadav himself in his memoirs about other writers used to be a true critique. He never believed in writing only praises,” said Kashyap. “I used to write a column Sahitya Khomcha for a newspaper focusing on literary happenings taking place in the country. My office in Mayur Vihar, Delhi is next to his and hence we would end up spending hours together in the evening,” he said. A Commerce graduate of RSP College Jharia, Kashyap, has published a Hindi novel, Ham Sab Mahi ‑ a critique, Dekhte Parkhte Hue and also edited several books including Jogen ‑ based on artist Jogen Chowdhury; Shabd Sansar - collections write-ups by eminent Hindi journalist, writer, and Rajya Sabha member Harivansh. Kashyap has also translated several English books into Hindi including Ruskin Bond’s book titled Strange Men Strange places as Ajibogarib log, ajibogarib Jagahen, etc. He has also worked for several Hindi dailies and magazines including, Naya Gyanodaya, Das Din, Raj Sarokar, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman ends life with two kids in Koderma||Thirty-year-old woman Kaushalya Devi chose to end her life along with her two minor sons, in Mahuatand area in Jhumritelaiya of Koderma district on Monday. The two minor boys identified as 10-year-old Satish Kumar and 8-year-old Ashish Kumar. Her suicide sent shockwaves in the area, as neighbours maintained that the lady along with her kids was leading a content life with her husband and his first wife. According to police officials, Kaushalya, wife of one Mukhlal Yadav, a mason by profession, was living with her and his first wife in a rented house in Mahuatand, where he also worked. Yadav, hailing originally from Bicharia village, which falls under Markachcho police station of the district, had left for his hamlet, thereby leaving Kaushalya and his two sons in the house. According to the neighbours, in the wee hours of Monday, they heard some unusual sound coming from Yadav’s house. They even went and knocked on the door, but none opened it. During this time, they even heard the children crying for water. According to the police, when they reached the spot after being informed, they broke open the door to find Kaushalya and Satish dead. Ashish was rushed to RIMS Ranchi; however, he died on the way. According to the neighbours, Yadav had married twice and was keeping both his wives properly. They told the police that the two women would engage in quarrels. Kaushalya’s father Mahadev Yadav, a resident of Barkatha’s Manpur village of Hazaribagh, reached the spot but refused to lodge any complaint against his son-in-law. The sub-divisional police officer of Koderma, Rajendra Prasad said due to some feud, the woman committed suicide with her two sons. He added, “Mukhlal Yadav’s first wife was issueless, so he married Kaushalya with whom he had two sons.” The police have begun their investigation to crack the case. Meanwhile, the three dead bodies have been handed over to their relatives at the Koderma Sadar hospital, after an autopsy had been performed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Mahouts from Bankura bring relief to Chandil foresters||A 14-member-team of mahouts from Bankura, Bengal tasted success in driving away separate herds of 48 elephants from the Chandil forest range in Seraikela-Kharsawan on Monday. Chandil forest range officer, Ashok Kumar said that the elephants had been driven away to Tamar and Chaibasa jungles in the wee hours of Monday. “It’s a huge relief for us. We thank the mahouts from Bengal for bringing in relief,” he added. The mahouts had arrived on December 5 to chase out the elephant herds but had been encountering problems as there were calves in the herd. Three separate herds were anchored near human settlements in Nimdih and Ichagarh blocks under the Chandil forest range, about 45 km away from Jamshedpur. The herds had made their way from Tamar and Chaibasa jungles and were giving sleepless nights to foresters as well as villagers. The forest range officer had to call in elephant drivers after a second herd of 25 jumbos reached the human habitats near the Chandil forests, thereby escalating the number of migratory elephants in the area to 48. The forest department was determined to tackle the menace caused by the jumbos effectively as local mahouts had stopped working after their leader was killed by one of the elephants near Balidih village on November 20. “We are fed up of chasing away elephants from Bengal developing a liking for Chandil forest range. At present, not a single elephant is anchored in Chandil forest range,” Kumar informed. Earlier too, the forest range office had called mahouts from Bankura to drive away a herd of 25 elephants that had been causing damage to crops and houses. However, the team of mahouts could not do the job, forcing the foresters to call another group of mahouts from Bankura who finally achieved success. The range officer said, “Though it’s a relief for us you never know when the herds will come back to our area. We are cautious and would again avail the services of the mahouts from Bengal if they are back,” he added. According to him, the mahouts from Bankura are good people and come whenever called. “We salute their bravery and hard work. It is not an easy job to tackle wild elephants,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||High school teachers protest in Dhanbad||Altogether 17 qualified candidates for the post of high school teachers of Jharkhand government-run schools, who have been waiting for their appointment since the last 18 months, staged a day-long dharna and demonstration outside the office of Dhanbad district education officer, Prabha Xess on Monday. The protestors shouted slogans as part of their agitation and demanded their immediate appointment, failing which they threatened to stage a massive protest at the district headquarters. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha, who also reached at the site to lend support to the protesting teachers and also demanded completion of their appointment. Talking to Telegraph Online on Monday at the Dharna site, Sunita Kumari, one of the candidates blamed the former district education officer of Dhanbad, Alka Jaiswal for the entire mess. Notably, the 17 teachers who had applied against the state level recruitment notification of 2016 and got qualified after appearing in the exam, titled Jharkhand Trained Graduate Teachers exam conducted by Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission. Though the appointment to other teachers have been provided, these 17 teachers could not be appointed as the subject for which they applied for was not their honours subject and rather a subsidiary paper at the graduation level. “The then district education officer, Alka Jaiswal called us for providing appointment letters on July 17, 2019, but she later refused to provide the same claiming that she had sought guidelines from the state’s higher, technical education and skill development department and will provide an appointment only after receiving guidelines from the higher-ups,” said Kumari. “We have been waiting for the guidelines for more than 18 months finally compelling us to resort to the agitation path today,” stated Kumari and claimed that while other teachers from 23 districts of the state with a similar condition of having the subject for which they qualified being their subsidiary subject at the graduation level have been provided appointment while in Dhanbad they are being denied appointment and it is none of their fault. “Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission while inviting the application for the subject wise teachers’ appointment never put the pre-condition in the notification. They never mention that the candidate can’t apply for the subject if that subject is not their honours subject,” claimed another agitator requesting anonymity and added that when the recruitment authority conducted the exam and also published their results there is no logic of denying them an appointment. District education officer, Prabha Xess who met the agitators said, “We will sort out the issue within a month and since a guideline had been sought in the matter by my predecessor, Alka Jaiswal, we will wait for some time and then again, if necessary, will send a reminder to the department again and solve the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih police nab interstate gang of vehicle robbers||Giridih police busted an interstate gang of dacoits on Monday, who allegedly used to hire SUVs and then looted it away by murdering the driver. Police have arrested two members including the kingpin of the gang by conducting a raid at the Machiadih area under Gandey police station of Giridih. This dreaded gang with about half a dozen members were active in Jharkhand and Bihar. SP, Giridih, Amit Renu said, “We have also recovered two SUVs – Scorpio and Toyota Qualis – from their possession. The arrested duo including kingpin Mohammad Khurshid Ansari and his associate Mohammad Sultan Ansari alias Tipu revealed vital information about their gang during interrogation, following which raids are conducted to nab the other members of the gang.” He added that Khurshid is a resident of Jamui (Bihar) while Sultan belongs to Jhariagadi of Giridih. Police are verifying their criminal history from other police stations of neighbouring districts in the state and Bihar. Police arrested the duo conducting an investigation in connection to a murder of a Scorpio driver whose body was found under a culvert at Patrodih bridge under Bengabad police station on December 8. Conducting investigation, police identified the deceased as Ajay Ram a resident of village Lachhuwara, Jamui (Bihar). His family was immediately informed about the incident. His family later told police that Ram was the Scorpio driver of Neeraj Kumar Singh, a resident of village Lachhuwara, who used to run SUV as a private taxi. The accused had hired the SUV on December 7 from Lachhuwara for the Chhotki Khargadiha area. On the way, the accused killed Ram and looted away Scorpio, which police recovered on December, 13 following the arrest of Khurshid. The father of the deceased had lodged a murder case with Bengabaad police station. During the investigation police found that the murder was Ram was held for vehicle loot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand|| On first anniversary of Hemant govt, farm loan waivers||Jharkhand will roll out a farm loan waiver scheme on December 29, the first anniversary of the Hemant Soren government, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced on Monday, thereby fulfilling one of the key promises made by the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance during last year’s Assembly elections. “Our government under the leadership of Hemant Soren will gift loan waivers to our farmer brothers on December 29, the day when this people-friendly government completes one year, he said during a visit to Baidnathpur village in Sariya block in Deoghar district. “Loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 will be given in the first phase. The amount has been recommended by the high-powered committee set up by the agriculture department to work out modalities of the scheme. The proposal will now soon be placed before the cabinet for a formal nod,” the minister said. The state government has made a provision of Rs 2000 crore for the loan waiver scheme in this fiscal. As per agriculture department figures, between 2014 and 2019, about 8 lakh farmers took loans to the tune of around Rs 7000 crore in Jharkhand. Departmental sources said around 10 lakh farmers would be benefitted initially once the waiver is rolled out. “We are currently busy seeding Aadhaar details with bank accounts of beneficiary farmers,” commented an official of agriculture department. The minister added that the agriculture department was also working on an export policy to provide an additional market for surplus vegetables that are grown in Jharkhand. “A few months back, we exported several vegetables to Dubai. Now, we are preparing a holistic plan to ensure that our farmers get the right market and competitive prices. An export policy will be finalised soon,” said Patralekh, who tried his hand at threshing of harvested paddy at the village. Criticising the Union government over the new farm laws, the minister said, “Modi has forced our annadata to come out on streets today by its anti-farmer laws, while in Jharkhand, our government is working round-the-clock towards their welfare. The farm loan waiver will help scores of small and marginal farmers in the state,” Patralekh said. The ruling dispensation in the state has been speaking out against the new farm laws, and actively supported the December 8 Bharat Bandh in Jharkhand. In line with Monday’s hunger strike by protesting farmers on the Delhi border, several Left and other non-BJP parties also held symbolic fasts near Raj Bhavan here. The BJP on the other hand is gearing up for “sammelans” on Tuesday across the state to highlight the benefits of the new laws. Party general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “The party is holding farm sammelans across commissionaries and districts on December 15 to spread awareness among farmers about the new farm laws and prevent them from getting misled by those who are opposing the laws just for the sake of protesting against the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dumka rape prompts Governor to summon DGP||Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu has asked state DGP M.V. Rao to step up policing and ensure the safety and security of everyone, her directives coming in the light of rising crimes against women and children across the state. The DGP’s meeting with Mumru at Raj Bhavan on Monday afternoon was described officially as a courtesy call, but a statement issued later by Raj Bhavan aired the Governor’s immediate concerns. “Governor met with DGP to take stock of the law-and-order situation. During the meeting, she expressed her concern about crimes against women and asked the DGP to take appropriate actions immediately to arrest the situation so that people should move freely and safely,” the statement said. Sources claimed that Murmu was unhappy about the gang rape of a mother of five minor children by 17 men in Dumka last week, the incident prompting National Commission for Women (NCW) to take suo motu cognizance and send notices to Jharkhand police for a time-bound probe. So far, Dumka police have arrested one of the 17 accused. Opposition BJP has been highlighting the alleged lawlessness in the state at its public meetings, saying that law-and-order had collapsed ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD government of Hemant Soren took charge in December last year. Several BJP delegations have over the recent months met with The Governor to express concern about the growing number of crimes against women and children in the state. According to the state police website, till September this year, 1,359 rapes have been reported since January 2020. In 2019, over 1,500 rape cases were registered during the same period. State police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said that even though overall crime figures are low compared to previous years, they have started analysing crime patterns to take corrective steps. “The DGP has asked CID to study the crimes committed this year, mainly those against women and children, to be able to understand patterns. In many cases, crimes are committed by the victim’s near and dear ones. Police are also running awareness drives at police stations to sensitise people. This apart, in each case, we always focus on arresting the culprits at the earliest and take the case to its logical conclusion.” Around two months back, DGP Rao also announced Whatsapp-based helplines in all 24 districts for registering quick complaints regarding crime against women and children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport footfall way up since June, but still half of pre-Covid numbers||Passenger footfall at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, which had reduced to less than half in the light of the Covid induced lockdown, has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated on Monday. AAI in a tweet from its official Twitter handle stated that passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in the month of June when travel restrictions were relaxed after the strict lockdown since March. Passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their efforts. The director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma, said that the increase in the number of flights to and from Ranchi has led to an increase in passenger footfall. The number of flights from Ranchi, he said, was increased from eight in June to 17 in November. “We also started new flights to Chennai. Flight services to Calcutta, which were stalled during the lockdown, also resumed later,” said Sharma, adding that Ranchi airport now had flights to Hyderabad, Bangalore, Delhi and Mumbai despite Covid-enforced restrictions. However, passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be before the Covid-19 pandemic hit India. “We had a passenger footfall of around 3 lakh before the lockdown restrictions were imposed. Our target is to achieve the same passenger footfall gradually,” said Sharma. Passenger footfall is the number of passengers taking off from and landing at a particular airport in a given month. As per AAI, the footfall in Ranchi airport gradually grew from 65,602 in July to 86,445 in August and then it further rose to 1,01,271 in September. The passenger footfall in October was 1,28,145, AAI data revealed. At least 30 flights from Ranchi connected Jharkhand to different parts of the country before the Covid-19 restrictions hit the aviation industry. Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is the largest airport in the state and the only one which is connected to almost all major cities of the country. In October, the Birsa Munda Airport bagged the top position in the country as per a customer satisfaction index (CSI). Ranchi airport secured 4.79 out of five in the grading system of the survey, leaving behind Gaya, Surat, Agartala, Bhopal, Khajuraho, Vijaywada and 10 other “medium-sized” airports, officials added. Ranchi airport also has expansion plans. It is likely to extend its runway, increase the length of the basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the Cabinet gives its nod to the expansion plans, officials said. At present, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, would be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal block e-auctions: no ground-breaking in Jharkhand without SC nod||The Supreme Court on Monday took note of Jharkhand government’s claim about non-compliance of its earlier direction regarding re-grassing of mined areas by leaseholders after ceasing operations and warned that it might take contempt action against the concerned authority. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told the Centre that no groundbreaking after e-auction of coal blocks for commercial mining be done in Jharkhand without the apex court's nod. The apex court also said it might take action against concerned officials if the directions given by the top court were not complied with. “Don't break ground for mining in Jharkhand without our nod,” the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The apex court, while noting that mining results in complete elimination of grass, had on January 8 directed the government to impose the condition on leaseholders that they will have to restore the mined area by re-grassing it after ceasing operations. The top court, which had passed the order on a separate petition against large-scale illegal mining across the country, had asked the Centre to devise appropriate methods to ensure compliance of this condition. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, the bench was apprised by advocate Tapesh Kumar Singh, appearing for the Jharkhand government, that direction given by the top court regarding re-grassing was not being complied with. “Attorney General, if our order is not complied with then we may take contempt action against the concerned. We want strict compliance of our order. Re-grassing needs to be done for grazing animals. Animals cannot graze due to mining,” the bench said. The apex court asked Singh to give the details to Attorney General K. K. Venugopal so that he would look into it. The bench, which was hearing the pleas filed by Jharkhand government on the issue of e-auction of coal block for commercial mining in the state, said it would hear the matter in January. Senior advocate Fali S Nariman, who appeared for Jharkhand government, said since the matter was listed in January, an independent authority could be sent to examine the sites. “Give us some names Mr Nariman as one of the names you suggested has passed away. We will keep the matter in the first week of January,” the bench said. Besides the pleas filed by Jharkhand government, the bench also took up a separate plea related to the issue and issued notice to the Centre and others seeking their replies on it. On November 6, the apex court had categorically told the Centre that the November 9 e-auction of 34 coal blocks, including five in Jharkhand, shall be subject to its final order. The apex court had also asked the Centre to inform the bidders that benefits of any nature to them will be provisional. The Attorney General, appearing for the Centre, had told the bench that no trees will be cut in the area. In its note filed earlier in the matter, the Centre had given details of coal mines which are to be auctioned and their distance from nine eco-sensitive zones/ protected area/wildlife sanctuary. It had said out of nine coal blocks, five will be auctioned while the auction of four coal mines--Choritand Tiliaya, Chitarpur, North Dhadhu and Sheregarha-have been cancelled due to receipt of less than two bids. On November 9, financial bids were to be opened for five other coal blocks of Jharkhand which include--Gondalpara, Rajhara North, Urma Paharitola, Brahmadiha and Chakla. It had also referred to various cases, laws and office memorandum of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change with regard to the procedure for consideration of development projects located within 10 km of National Park/Wildlife Sanctuary seeking environmental clearance under the provisions of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006. On November 4, the top court had said it intend to pass an order that any proposed mining block within the 50 km radius of an eco-sensitive zone will not be e-auctioned in Jharkhand and a similar direction may be passed if such things are brought to its notice from other states. Maintaining that it only wanted to ensure that the "forests are not destroyed," the top court had also said it was mulling over the setting up of an expert committee to examine whether an area near the proposed mining sites in Jharkhand qualifies to be an eco-sensitive zone. The Centre had opposed the remarks of the top court saying the mining sites were at a distance of 20 to 70 km from such eco-sensitive zones and in states like Goa, the mining would become impossible if this distance parameter is applied. On September 30, the top court had observed that if an area falls under eco-sensitive zone then neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. Jharkhand had sought postponing of e-auction of coal block for commercial mining in the state till its suit under Article 131 was decided by the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||BJP to hold counter rally in Dhanbad||As Opposition parties upped the ante against the Centre over the contentious farm laws through a series of agitations across the district, BJP is gearing up to organise a farmers’ rally here in support of the acts on Tuesday. The rally here is part of the BJP’s nationwide programme. It will be held at Zila Parishad Ground and will be attended by former state president of the party Ravindra Rai, besides a host of other leaders. The party claims over 10,000 farmers will be attendance. “Congress is taking political mileage by misleading farmers while the Left parties are trying to aggravate the situation,” Dhanbad MP P.N Singh told the media in the presence of four BJP MLAs Raj Sinha (Dhanbad) Dhullu Mahto (Baghmara), Aparna Sengupta (Nirsa) and Indrajit Mahto (Sindri). “The farm laws will increase the income of farmers But the Opposition parties, led by Congress, who are not concerned about the wellbeing of the farmers, are opposing the bill and giving it a political colour,” said Singh. He said the good work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi can be understood from the fact that the agricultural budget of the nation for 2020-21 was Rs 1,34,399 crore, almost six times the budget of 2013-14. “Agricultural production has significantly increased under our rule at the Centre. Compared to 25.54 million tonne of food grain in 2015-16 the production reached to 296.65 million tonne in 2019-20,” he added. Singh said “real farmers” were happy with the farm laws. A day-long dharna and demonstration was organised at Randhir Verma Chowk, under the banner of Rastriya Janata Dal, led by the party’s district president Tarkeshwar Yadav on Monday. The protestors claimed the farm laws would make common farmers subservient to capitalist forces and that the Union government was taking advantage of the acts to abrogate the power of state governments. Left parties also took out a march against the farm laws. They walked in a procession on Luby Circular Road, Court More and later assembled at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Over 100 take part in XLRI's virtual Sunday run||XLRI's virtual marathon, Xhaust-2020, held on Sunday saw the participation of 100 students, faculty and staff. Conducted by SportsCom, the umbrella unit that organises all sports activities at XLRI, the marathon saw participants opted for the run in the two slots (7 am and 6 pm) in 3 km, 5 km and 10 km categories. The participants were required to install the "Pacer" app on their mobile phones to track the run and to share details within 10 minutes of finishing the run. The aim of the event was primarily to nudge the XLRI community to bring back physical fitness into their daily routine after months of inactivity. The event received positive feedback from participants. "It was great running for a long stretch after several months. Feels good to be active again," said one runner. Vaibhav Hinduja, a member of SportsCom, said many participants considered it as a stress buster event. Top performers among men were Yash Naiknavare (Mumbai) and Pranav Bhatt (Nainital). Among women, Rucha Kalekar (Pune) and Chandini Gunaparthi (Bengaluru) posted excellent timings. All top performers were students. While Yash and Pranav belonged to the Human Resources and Business Management stream, Rucha is a Business Management student, and Chandni is pursuing Human Resources Management. All students are away from the campus because of the pandemic. Members of the organising body said they are planning to present trophies to the best performers when they return to the campus. “For now, we have decided to send them some goodies via post," said a member of SportsCom. Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI, congratulated the performers and said the B-school would continue to promote fitness through various sporting events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||At unguarded Lemboiya temple, thieves make merry ||Situated on the Lemboiya hill and surrounded by forests, the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple in Pathalgadda block of Chatra district is a safe zone for thieves. Despite having an annual income in several lakhs, the temple committee failed to get CCTV cameras installed, giving thieves enough opportunity to lay their hands on jewellery and cash in the donation box of the temple at least four times in recent years. On Sunday, thieves broke into the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple and stole the silver crown and other gold ornaments on the black stone idol of Goddess Lemboiya. Temple committee members informed Pathalgadda police as soon as they came to know of the crime, and an FIR was lodged. Temple priests admitted that during the day the temple is surrounded with people, busy with activities. But once the temple closes in the evening, no one stays here and the entire area gets deserted. Even police hardly patrol the area,  seeing the tough topography of the area. The priests said this is the reason why thieves manage to commit theft here easily. Talking about the theft which took place on Sunday, they said a new temple in place of the old one is under construction here. The grills have been installed in the window space but the ventilators are still open. The thieves had used these ventilators to get inside the temple, they added. Devotee Bablu Singh said he was shocked to know about this theft and added that the temple committee should use the temple fund to increase security here. Police officials said investigation is on and they are hopeful of getting success soon. This temple attracts a large number of devotees round-the-year, not just from Jharkhand, but from Bihar and other neighbouring states. This temple is situated on Hazaribagh-Pathalgadda road. The nearest villages namely Pathalgadda and Singhani are situated only 3 km away from here. The distance of the Lemboiya village is only 2 km away from this hill temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll closing in on the 1000 mark in Jharkhand||At least four more Covid-19 patients, including two from Dhanbad, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 999, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Ramgarh and Palamu districts, both with less than 50 Covid casualties so far, reported one Covid death each on the day, NHM data further highlighted. While the number of casualties drew close to the 1000 mark, Jharkhand reported less than 150 fresh cases of infection on Sunday. As per government data, as many as 144 people, including 76 from Ranchi alone, were found infected in the state on the day. On the other hand, at least 179 Covid patients recovered from the lethal infection, bringing the number of active cases in Jharkhand down at 1571, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Despite reporting more than half of the fresh cases in Jharkhand on Sunday, the number of Covid patients in Ranchi dropped to 783 as at least 84 patients recovered from the infection here in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 19 cases against 15 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported seven cases against 14 recoveries, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit spike in Covid cases on the day, while as many as five districts – Sahebganj, Jamtara, Khunti, Gumla and Hazaribag – did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 15,822 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. In the past week, only around 1 per cent of tested people were found to be Covid positive irrespective of the number of tests conducted, health officials said. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 45.11 lakh people and tested 44.96 lakh of them. As per government data, the Covid-19 tally in the state on Sunday was 1,11,510 and at least 1,08,940 patients have recovered in Jharkhand from Covid-19 infection. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 94.90 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.26 per cent. The doubling rate of the infected in the state was 511.38 days against the national doubling rate of 263.79 days. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
