15-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta doctors provide medical aid at Singhu||Ten December nights in a tent. Twelve hours of work a day from a makeshift roadside camp. Meals at langars. The farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders features a team of Calcuttans. Its members carry stethoscopes, not placards. Anshuman Mitra, Mridul Sarkar and Soumyadip Ray, all Calcutta-based doctors and part of the non-profit Medical Service Centre, arrived at the Singhu border on December 2 evening to provide the protesters with medical aid. They were joined by three nurses and four volunteers, all members of their pan-India organisation, from Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi. Every day their camp opened around 9.30am and continued till sundown, treating people for common cold, allergies, upper respiratory tract infections, eye and skin infections and chronic conditions like hypertension and diabetes. After that, the team ran “mobile camps” looking for people in need of medical help. They slept in the portable tent but had to respond to emergency calls through the night. “The agitators welcomed us with open arms. They were very happy that a team from Calcutta had come to stand by their side,” said Sarkar, 43, who returned to Calcutta on Saturday. He added: “Delhi’s harsh winter, smog and pollution were behind the ailments of many. Some others needed treatment after facing water cannons, police batons and barricades.” His colleagues are still in Singhu. A couple of other doctors from the non-profit’s Calcutta arm have joined them. Sarkar, chief medical officer (paediatrics) with a private hospital in Calcutta, said the protesters’ resolve had left him amazed. When a 72-year-old woman reported at the medical camp with breathing problems, Sarkar had cited her age to suggest she return home. “I shall die here if I have to but will not return unless the farm laws are repealed,” Sarkar remembers her telling him. When another member of the medical team asked an elderly protester on a tractor how long he would be able to continue the vigil, the farmer held out his right palm. “This hand has steered tractors for decades. Don’t underestimate it. We are here for the long haul,” he said. Thousands of tractor trailers are parked along a stretch of highway that extends more than 12km from the Singhu border into Haryana. They have been turned into temporary homes with tarpaulin sheets. Sarkar and his colleagues had brought a portable tent and sleeping bags with them. The camp was formally inaugurated on December 3 by Sadbir Singh, Punjab state secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, and other farmer leaders. The non-profit had in the past conducted medical camps after natural disasters like the 1999 Odisha super-cyclone, 2004 tsunami and the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. Sarkar had been part of a series of camps in South 24-Parganas after Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20. The atmosphere at the Singhu border was different, he said. The lines in front of the camp kept growing by the day but, unlike the scenes witnessed at OPDs and clinics in Calcutta, none among the visitors was competing for slots or trying to jump the queue. “Everybody waited patiently. A young visitor made way for an elderly man despite having reached the camp earlier. The sense of common purpose and camaraderie was evident,” Sarkar said. Many of the protesters were patients of chronic hypertension, heart disease or obstructive lung disease and needed medicines every day. When they and Sarkar’s camp ran out of stocks, visiting doctors and medical students volunteering at the protest venue chipped in by donating medicines. A team of interns from a medical college in Amritsar handed over a variety of medicines to Sarkar’s camp. Every other day, young volunteers would come to Singhu carrying food, ranging from pizzas to bread pakoras. But Sarkar’s team ate mostly at the community kitchens or langars set up by the farmers. In between the long lines of tractor trailers, the agitating farmers and their supporters have set up more than 200 large langars and makeshift bathing and toilet facilities. The menu was usually rice, rotis, dal and sabzi with the occasional dessert. “We could walk into any langar and eat, no questions asked,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Warship launch at Garden Reach||The first of three stealth frigates, Himgiri, built by the Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited (GRSE) under Project 17A for the navy, launched into water at Garden Reach on Monday . The ship was  launched  by Madhulika Rawat, wife of General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff, who was the chief guest for the occasion. “China’s attempt to change the status quo on Line of Actual Control along the northern border during the Covid-19 pandemic necessitates high-level preparation on land, sea and air. I am fully confident that Indian Armed Forces will leave no stone unturned to safeguard our frontiers,” Rawat said. The contract for construction of three stealth frigates under Project 17A is the largest ever order awarded to GRSE by the defence ministry with a value of over Rs 19,293 crores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Tragic end to driving practise for a 64-year-old man||A 64-year-old man who was trying to brush up his driving skills and was at the wheel of his car apparently after five years, drove straight into a lake near his home in Behala and died in the car on Monday morning. A neighbour, who is a driver by profession and was with Ashok Kanti Roy to guide him, has been admitted to hospital. The victim, who had retired as executive engineer in the water department of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation four years ago, was last seen at the wheel around five years ago, younger brother Debashis Roy said. “Dada used to drive only in the locality. He had not touched the steering wheel for the last five years or so. I didn’t know that today he had gone out to drive. He called a neighbour who was to guide him,” Debashis told The Telegraph. The police said the Hyundai Santro that Ashok Kanti was driving smashed into a one-foot-high concrete wall of the lake in Jayasree Park and toppled over into the water. The lake is close to Ashok Kanti’s home. “The car had completely submerged in the lake. People in the neighbourhood were the first respondents. Many jumped into the lake and opened the doors to rescue the men inside,” said an officer of Behala police station. Ashok Kanti’s neighbour Subhas Banerjee, who was sitting next to him, was taken out first, Debashis said. Both were taken to a nursing home, where Ashok Kanti was declared dead. “A lot of water was pumped out from his stomach. Doctors tried a lot to revive him, but failed,” Debasish said. Ashok Kanti is survived by his wife and two sons. The elder son works in Bangalore, while the younger is a fashion designer in Calcutta. The car was later lifted out of the lake with a crane. There have been several incidents of people driving without proper training or supervision and causing accidents and even deaths in the city. In February 2019, a 30-year-old learner driver who had been illegally steering a vehicle unsupervised through Rashbehari Avenue knocked down a woman praying outside a temple. In February 2018, a woman who had been practising driving after a decade fatally injured a 70-year-old morning walker in Kasba. “This is a common phenomenon and accidents keep happening because people are careless. Driving without training and supervision could not only jeopardise other’s life on the roads but also makes the person at the wheel vulnerable,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Many Calcuttans who have not driven for years and have become accustomed to chauffeur service said they could not drive again because of limited road scape and lack of open areas. “I had learned to drive 20 years ago. A few months ago I took out my car at night and tried to drive on EM Bypass. I realised my mistake within a few minutes. It could have had dangerous consequences,” said a retired executive. According to motor vehicles rules, there is no upper age limit for obtaining a driving license. An official of the motor vehicles department said that to get a licence, an applicant would have to qualify a test and produce a certificate stating that he or she had the required eyesight and fitness to drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Youth at wheel fatally hits cyclist on Prince Anwar Shah Road connector||A 23-year-old engineering graduate driving a Volkswagen Polo hit a cyclist while trying to avert collision with a guardrail on Prince Anwar Shah Road and then knocked down a pedestrian before ramming into a lamp post on Sunday night, police said. The cyclist, who was barely a few feet from his home, died. The pedestrian, who was standing by the roadside with his wife, had to be hospitalised with multiple wounds. The youth at the wheel, Subham Banerjee, has been charged under various IPC sections, including one related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, after he was found driving in an inebriated state, police said. The section means the driver had full knowledge about the consequence of his action — that of allegedly driving drunk — and may lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. The police said Banerjee, who has graduated from a private university in New Town, was with one of his friends when the incident happened around 10.15pm on Monday. “According to CCTV footage and witness accounts, the car was coming from the direction of Jadavpur and heading towards EM Bypass. The person at the wheel pressed the brake at the last moment to avert a collision with a guardrail on the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector and the vehicle veered off towards the left and hit multiple people before hitting a lamp post,” said an officer of Garfa police station. The cyclist who was fatally injured was Ratan Sarkar, 48, a resident of Arya Vidyalaya Road, off Prince Anwar Shah Road. The injured pedestrian was Nilotpaul Biswas, 45, a resident of Bivas Guha Colony in Nayabad. The findings of a preliminary inquiry by the cops suggest that Banerjee, a resident of Sree Colony in Regent Park, had gone out with his friends and was on his way to drop a friend home when the accident happened. “It appears to be a case of speeding. Guardrails are essentially used as speed breakers at night. But in this case, the vehicle did not slow down in time and the driver pressed the brake at the last moment,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic police. Banerjee was taken to Garfa police station, from where he was taken to a government hospital. The police said his medical examination suggested that Banerjee was driving in an intoxicated state. He has been charged under IPC sections 304(II), 308, 427 — dealing with culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part II), attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder and mischief — along with Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act that deals with drink driving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||ICSE to activate 'online mode for submission' of marks obtained by Class XII for project work||The ICSE council has told heads of schools that it will activate the “online mode for submission” of marks obtained by Class XII students for project work on December 18. No last date to submit marks has been mentioned in a circular addressed to the heads of schools on Monday. The project is evaluated by an external or visiting examiner and a viva is conducted after which marks are uploaded by the external examiners, at least two principals said. “...all candidates confirmed to appear for the ISC Year 2021 Examination will have to submit projects in the concerned subjects offered by them for the Examination. Kindly ensure that the Project Work is submitted to the School by all the candidates within the stipulated time fixed by the school,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), in the circular. “The online module for the submission of project marks/SUPW grades will be activated on December 18,” he added in the circular. Since there is still no certainty as to when physical school can resume, several principals are anticipating that the evaluation by the external examiner could be conducted online, depending on the situation. The council has said if candidates are allowed to visit school to take viva, social distance should be maintained and viva must be conducted in a staggered way. Candidates who are unable to take viva at school, it may be conducted virtually or over phone. The CISCE in the circular has mentioned a list of subjects with a component of project work for the ISC 2021 examination. Principals of several schools said that since projects for some subjects were announced recently the council will give sufficient time to students to complete the projects and submit to the school. The CISCE has said that the project work could be submitted to the school in any of the formats which include handwritten projects or typed projects(in the hard copy or soft copy format) or scanned copy of the handwritten projects or power point presentation. “The visiting examiners should be provided with the projects of the candidates either in hard copy format or through electronic mode,” said the circular. The instructions by the council says : " The visiting examiners are required to evaluate the projects of the candidates in the school assigned."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Panel orders Midnapore hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked a private hospital in Midnapore town, which did not shift a grievously injured youth to a hospital with better facilities, to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the family of the youth who died subsequently. The commission asked the family to approach the West Bengal Medical Council with their complaint of medical negligence. If the council passed an order in the family’s favour, they can go back to the commission, which will then decide on the final compensation, said retired judge Asim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The commission cannot probe complaints of medical negligence. “Sayandeb Bhunia, 20, was admitted to St Joseph’s Hospital around 5.30pm on April 15. He suffered grievous injuries in a bike accident. We saw the X-ray report. The portion above his knees had fractured,” said Banerjee. “The family alleged there was no treatment during the golden hour after the accident. The youth was given only painkillers.” Representatives of St Joseph’s Hospital told the commission on Monday that a resident medical officer attended to the patient and a senior doctor examined him later. “The hospital said the patient was admitted at 5.35pm and the resident medical officer treated him. The hospital then informed a senior doctor, who is also an associate professor at Midnapore Medical College. The senior doctor went to the hospital at 9.30pm, four hours after admission,” said Banerjee. “The patient was practically without any treatment for four hours. The youth had vomited once. The senior doctor who examined him said the patient should be shifted to a better set-up if he vomited again. The hospital told us the patient’s condition was stable till 8.30am the next day, after which he slipped into a coma,” said Banerjee. The commission asked the hospital why it did not shift the youth to a better hospital. “The hospital said they had told the family that the patient needed to be shifted to a place with better facilities. But the patient’s mother said she could not take a decision till her husband came. We said it was natural for her to be not able to take a decision alone at that time,” said Banerjee. “The hospital should have been more humanitarian in its approach and shifted the patient to a place with advanced facilities. They could have shifted him to Midnapore Medical College,” the chairperson said. “We have ordered St Joseph’s Hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh to the family as interim compensation,” Banerjee said. Also on Monday, the commission asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a person who was charged exorbitant rates for pathological tests when he was treated at the hospital for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus owners’ appeal to South Point parents for fees||A section of school bus owners visited South Point school on Monday and handed over a letter to an employee requesting the management to urge guardians to pay at least 50 per cent of their monthly school bus fees so they could pull through during the pandemic. The owners had on December 4 visited DPS Ruby Park with the same request. There are around 4,000 operators of school buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas. Most schools hire buses from these operators to ferry students to the institutions and back home. South Point school has around 25 buses of its own and hired 20 buses from outside operators. Some guardians have arranged for transportation of their kids through agreements with bus operators. Owners whose buses South Point has hired said the school paid them Rs 60,000 per bus every month for one round trip. After schools were shut down in March, South Point paid 50 per cent of the total contractual amount to the operators till June. Post-June, nothing has been paid, the owners said. The non-payment has left the bus owners struggling to pay salaries to their staff and EMIs for the loans some of them had taken to buy buses. “The contract carriage owners and operators submitted a letter to us with their appeal. The school has a contract with them for running some of our buses,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school. “We have decided that we will continue to pay them 50 per cent of the school bus fees. The decision has now been taken.” There are around 250 schools in Calcutta and its adjoining areas and most have outsourced the operation of ferrying students to various bus operators. The hired buses bear the emblems of the respective schools. Depending on the number of trips a bus has to undertake, schools pay owners or operators between Rs 60,000 and Rs 80,000 per month per bus. The owners of school buses have been paying road tax of around Rs 4,000 every quarter, even though the owners of private buses and minibuses have stopped payment because of a waiver scheme announced by the state government. School bus owners said that unlike private buses and minibuses, their vehicles do not operate throughout the day. There are stringent rules that have to be met to ope-rate as a school bus and the insurance fees of these buses vary between Rs 45,000 and Rs 55,000. “We had written to the state government for waiving our road tax. We had even submitted our appeal to the chief minister’s office. Nothing happened. So we have decided to block the road near the chief minister’s residence next week to press our demand,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “How long can we pull through in this state?” All schools in the state were shut down in March as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The state government is yet to decide on reopening schools. As paying their staff is increasingly becoming difficult, many school bus operators have started exploring alternative careers. Some are considering surrendering their school bus permits and applying for a commercial one. In October, Calcutta High Court had ordered that all private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, would have to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume in-person classes. The schools were barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. In November, the Supreme Court in its order declined to interfere with the Calcutta High Court directions to the private schools in Bengal. “There was no clear instruction in the high court order on transportation fees of school students, whether bus service was also a part of those facilities that schools have been barred from charging including labs, sports and craft,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Arrest for SIM cards with forged papers in Lake Town||A man who ran a shop that sold cellphones, accessories and SIM cards was arrested on Monday for allegedly selling SIM cards that were activated with forged documents, police said. Jogendra Ojha was rounded up on the basis of a complaint lodged by a senior official of a network provider with Lake Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The complaint mentioned that Ojha was selling SIM cards and activating them through forged identity cards, the officer said. “Ojha had been selling SIM cards in this fashion for several months. We are trying to find out the exact number of SIM cards he had and we are also trying to track down those who bought them from him,” the officer said. An applicant needs to submit genuine documents such as voter ID or driving licence to buy a SIM card. The retailer has to verify the documents and then forward them to the distributor, who will, in turn, send them to the service provider. After receiving the application, the service provider makes verification over the phone before activating the SIM card within 24-48 hours. The police said Ojha used to make extra copies of documents and photographs submitted by customers. “SIM cards were sold to other people on the basis of photocopies of the documents submitted by genuine customers,” said another officer. Ojha has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 419 (punishment for cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document), among others. If convicted, he can be sent to jail for seven years. Ojha has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Postmen get e-bikes as Covid boosts parcel delivery in Calcutta||The pandemic has given a push to the parcel delivery business of India Post. And to deliver the parcels, postmen are coming to the doorstep riding e-bikes. The metamorphosis in the image of the mailman, from the runner of yore, carrying a sack full of letters over his shoulder and a lantern in hand, or even from those on foot or on bicycle in more recent times, has been necessitated by the shift in the nature of deliveries. “Parcel is a new trend of mail that is developing for both home delivery and commercial sectors. They require a different approach from letters. While a single mailman can handle a large number of letters for a small area, parcels are bigger and heavier,” said postmaster general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar. So the city has been demarcated into zones, with a post office — designated as a nodal delivery hub (NDH) — chosen in each zone catering to not just its own area of service but a larger area encompassing the neighbourhood. “In a digitally integrated environment that post offices now have, we have assigned a location in each area where parcels can be handled in a more focused manner,” said Kumar. There are six NDHs in the Calcutta metropolitan area, with Bhowanipore and Salt Lake CC Block post offices being added on November 24 to the existing list of the General Post Office, Alipore, Dum Dum and Tangra. Because of the bulky nature of the parcels, e-bikes, three wheelers and four-wheelers are being procured. “We chose e-bikes as a postman’s footprint should not be carbon,” Kumar explained. The bikes are being rented, according to the need of each delivery hub. Parcels for the entire neighbourhood are gathered in each hub and mailmen from neighbouring post offices come to help with sorting before setting off for delivery. Though parcel delivery has been a growing business for some years, 2020 has been a catalyst. “During the lockdown, we were the only ship in the stormy waters and we saw a great surge in parcel delivery orders, to carry essentials like medicines. Our post offices were flooded with parcels. Even afterwards, the demand has remained high,” the postmaster general added. The bikes are easy to charge, he adds. The daily charging is done by representatives of the rental agency. This is not the first bid at mechanisation of the mailman’s delivery mode. “We had tried using mopeds experimentally in 1998. But the postmen refused to use them. The unions pointed out that cycling was a requirement for their recruitment but having a driving licence was not. It was an idea before its time,” recalled Gautam Bhattacharya, who retired as chief postmaster general, West Bengal circle, in April. “This generation of postmen is more open. Neither do e-scooters need licences to be driven,” he added. E-scooters were used in a pilot project in April 2018 at the Sarat Bose Road post office for parcel and speed post delivery. They were deployed for parcel network optimisation when the first NDH was inaugurated in September 2019 at the General Post Office. Since this March, four more NDHs have come up. Currently, a fleet of 51 e-scooters is deployed in the city for parcels, making mailmen on bikes an increasingly familiar sight. The highest number of parcels is handled by the Alipore post office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University cancels convocation, degrees to be mailed||Jadavpur University has asked graduating students to send their postal addresses to which hard copies of their degree certificates can be sent, officials said. The university has scrapped its annual convocation, usually held on December 24, “due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic crisis”. A resolution adopted by JU’s executive council at a virtual meeting on Sunday night says: “Neither in physical mode is feasible... nor the university has the necessary infrastructure to organise the annual convocation on virtual mode for four thousand and seven hundred recipients.” A notification signed by registrar Snehamanju Basu requests the graduating students to clear their dues online by December 20. The degree recipients have to send their mailing addresses to controllerexam@jadavpuruniversity.in in a format specified on the university’s website. They can collect their degree certificates from their respective departments in batches. The university will also upload digital versions of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository, from where recipients can download them from December 24, a JU official said. The university consulted the higher education department before deciding to do away with the convocation. “The higher education department has kept the campuses closed across the state till December 31 because of the Covid pandemic. It would not be proper of us to seek permission for reopening the campus for a day, to hold the convocation, at the cost of risking the degree recipients’ health,” said a university official. The department has postponed its plan to let in-person classes resume at colleges and universities in December. “Since the degree certificates are a must for pursuing higher studies, we want to distribute the certificates at the earliest,” said a JU official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal government nod to daily flights from Delhi||The Bengal government on Monday gave the green light to resumption of daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta “with immediate effect”, but the restrictions on flights from five other cities will continue. Several airlines said they would take a few days to resume daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta because of operational and other issues. The decision to allow daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta was taken after the director of the city's airport requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday to ease the restrictions, sources said. Mamata was at the airport on Monday to catch a flight to Bagdogra. The sources said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya requested her to lift the restrictions. “The airport director told the chief minister that many passengers were inconvenienced because of the restrictions. The chief minister told him that the number of Covid cases in Bengal would start rising if the restrictions were lifted,” said an airport official who was present when Mamata and the airport director were talking. “The chief minister said the restrictions would be lifted in a phased manner. Then she said her government would allow daily flights from Delhi,” the official said. Bhattacharya said he did talk to the chief minister during the day, but refused to divulge any details. Later in the day, Bengal home secretary H. K. Dwivedi wrote to the secretary of the civil aviation ministry, informing him about the state government’s decision to allow daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta from Tuesday. “....this is to inform you the government of West Bengal has decided to allow direct flights in Kolkata-Delhi sector on a daily basis with immediate effect,” the letter written by Dwivedi stated. “However, the restriction on flights coming in from five cities viz Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad for thrice a week shall continue as earlier notified.” Flight operations to Calcutta from the six cities, which had a high Covid prevalence, had remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities thrice a week. Now, flights from these cities are arriving on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Calcutta airport officials said the airlines could start operating daily flights from Delhi from Tuesday, but a number of airlines said it would not be possible for them to resume daily flights immediately. “The flights were cancelled till December 21. We received the information about the state government lifting restrictions on Delhi flights this evening. So, we have to discuss how to redeploy aircraft,” said a source at IndiGo airline. “We have to apply for slots both at Calcutta and Delhi airports. This will take some time.” An official of SpiceJet, too, said, the airline would not be able to resume daily operations from Tuesday. “We have to open bookings for the flights. Without that it would be an almost empty flight. Tickets cannot be sold overnight,” said an official of the airline. Airlines and travel agents have long been demanding lifting of the restrictions. This newspaper has reported several times that the airlines have requested the airport authorities to speak to the state government on the issue. Tour operators had written to the state government pleading for the restrictions to be lifted. “It’s a welcome move. The Delhi sector is more important now than before because of the air bubble connections to other countries. Many people from Calcutta have to go to Delhi for travelling onwards to places like London and New York,” said Manav Soni, chairman, eastern region, Travel Agents Association of India. “The one-way fare in the Delhi-Calcutta sector on the days the flights are operating is as high as Rs 10,000 if the ticket is booked 48 hours in advance,” he said. “We will appreciate it if the state government lifts restrictions on all sectors, particularly Mumbai. Airlines and tour operators are incurring losses because of the restrictions,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “The government can introduce a clause of Covid testing on arrival for passengers from these cities.” The Calcutta airport authorities have set up a Covid testing facility at the old domestic terminal building for passengers arriving from London on Air India flights without undergoing tests before boarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Business||Daily losses of thousands of crores due to farmers’ protest: Assocham||Industry organisation Assocham on Tuesday appealed to the Centre and farmers’ outfits to resolve their issues regarding the new agri-marketing laws, as the protests are affecting the economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. “A daily loss of Rs 3,000-3,500 crore is resulting in the economies of the region from the value chain and transport disruption because of the protests,” the chamber said in a rough estimate. Assocham President Niranjan Hiranandani noted, “The size of the combined economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K is about Rs 18 lakh crore. With the ongoing farmers' agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt.” The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday had said that the protests have led to a disruption of the supply chain, which will impact the economy in the coming days and may impinge upon the ongoing recovery from the economic contraction in view of Covid-19. Hiranandani also observed that  industries such as textiles, auto components, bicycles, sports goods which cater significantly to the export markets would not be able to fulfil their orders, ahead of Christmas, harming the industry's goodwill among the global buyers. “Recovering from the harsh Covid-19 blow, the Indian economy needs to double down on growth which is possible only with a conducive environment for industrial activities, investment including the Foreign Direct Investment,” Assocham said. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in the last 20 days, trade and other activities of about Rs 5,000 crore have been affected in Delhi and its surrounding states. According to an estimate, about 30 to 40 per cent of the goods coming to Delhi have been affected by the movement of farmers, which is adversely affecting the trade and other activities of Delhi and neighbouring states, the traders' outfit stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||All you need to know about buying two-wheeler insurance online||Two-wheelers are among the most preferred modes of transport in India. Their popularity as a preferred commute option could be gauged from the fact that in 2019, two-wheeler sales in India reached an all-time high of over 21 million units. Moreover, despite the COVID crisis and the ensuing lockdown which dampened the consumer spirit in the country, over 17 million two-wheelers were sold in 2020 till October[1]. And with top-six auto manufacturing firms posting a 16 per cent spike in sales, we might as well see the sales crossing the last year’s figure despite the COVID crisis[2]. This surge in two-wheeler sales may partly be due to the fact that while people have to get back to their daily lives with regular commute to and from work, they do not prefer to use public transport and prefer to commute using their own vehicles to avoid the risk of contagion in crowded public spaces. Nevertheless, two-wheelers have been popular in India even before the crisis due to their multi-dimensional appeal of affordability, efficiency in congested roads and lower maintenance costs. However, it is also a matter of the fact that a large number of two-wheelers remain uninsured. According to a General Insurance Council of India (GIC), almost 60 per cent of motor vehicles in India do not have a valid vehicle insurance and most of these are motorcycles and scooters. And this huge proportion of uninsured two-wheelers becomes an even bigger problem when one takes into account the fact that over 5 lakh road accidents get reported in India every year involving over 1.5 lakh deaths. So, it is crucial to have the right kind of protection when you go out on the road on your two-wheeler. And this protection not only includes the right protective gear, but also a comprehensive bike insurance policy that protects you financially if any mishap happens. A comprehensive bike insurance plan not only secures the vehicle on the road, but it also protects it from theft and damage due to natural calamities, vandalism and other such events. Moreover, riding without vehicle insurance is not only inadvisable, but also illegal in India. To tackle the menace of uninsured vehicles plying on the roads, the government has also amended the Motor Vehicles Act, making laws more stringent for offenders. Under the new laws, there are harsher punishments and steeper fines for any violations. And if anyone is caught riding their two-wheeler without a valid insurance, they could be fined Rs 2,000 or even face imprisonment up to three months. Avoid Penalties- One of the major advantages of having two wheeler insurance is that one can avoid the steep penalties under the new Motor Vehicles Act. Financial protection- If you unfortunately meet with an accident and your vehicle is damaged, you do not need to worry about the repair cost as the insurance would take care of it. Not only in case of accidents, you can claim the insured amount also in case of damage caused due to natural calamities, and even theft of your vehicle. Keep NCB Active- If the two-wheeler insurance policy is renewed on time, then you can continue to enjoy the no claim bonus (NCB) benefit -- a type of incremental bonus offered by the insurance companies that reduces the amount of premium for the policy when you renew on time and when you have not made any claim in the last policy period. Coverage: Before purchasing the two-wheeler insurance, you must evaluate the coverage that you need. There are essentially two basic types of covers -- comprehensive coverage and third party insurance for bike . As the name suggests, the former covers third-party legal liabilities only whereas a comprehensive plan offers a complete cover package including the third party liabilities, a personal accident cover, coverage against damage to the vehicle, and also coverage against theft. If you can afford it, it is always wise to go for comprehensive policy instead of the third-party as one will get covered for their own losses as well. While purchasing the policy, you must remember that the right choice is based on the coverage, and not on the price. While price is important, you must not compromise with the coverage to get an attractive price. Understand IDV: Before buying a policy, you must understand the concept of IDV, or Insured Declared Value. IDV is the current valuation of your two-wheeler in the market. As years go on, depreciation of the two-wheeler is factored in and the IDV is calculated accordingly. It decreases over the years and thus also results in reducing premium. However, you must make sure the IDV is not less than the actual market value of your vehicle at any given time. Because in such a case, you might be able to save some money in the form of reduced premium, but it also reduces the insured value that you may be able to claim in case of any mishap. Riders: There are many policies available in the market which let the policyholder customize them to suit their specific needs using a variety of riders that are available. Renew on time: The biggest mistake many people make is letting their policy lapse. You must avoid that at any cost as this not only leaves you unprotected, but it also hurts you financially by increasing your policy’s premium and also voiding the no-claim-bonus that you may be able to avail at timely renewal. Insurer’s reputation: While you may have done all the homework, checked all the boxes and chosen the right insurance plan for your two-wheeler, if your claim is not settled without any trouble, then it may all be in vain. And this is where the importance of choosing the right insurer comes in. You must choose an insurer who has a good reputation of settling claims on time and without much fuss. It is also crucial to have the right insurer while making online payments as your credit or debit card details may be compromised. The simplest way to do this is to choose industry leaders like Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. With bike insurance policies by Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, you could go with a personal accident cover rider. You could also cover any additional fitment that you may have installed on your bike. Moreover, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance also offers riders like engine protection cover and depreciation shield, which reduces your expenses by excluding the depreciation cost of your vehicle while filing a claim. With Bajaj Allianz, you also get the comfort of buying your vehicle insurance online with just a few clicks in a seamless, fast and convenient fashion. Just fill the required details, pay the premium amount and voila! You are done. This also goes for insurance renewal. Bajaj Allianz also allows you to transfer up to 50 per cent of the no-claim-bonus from your previous policy with a different insurer when you choose to get insured with them. It’s best to be safe than sorry. You may follow the rules and take all precautions, but accidents by nature are unpredictable. An insurance cover protects you from situations beyond your control. Be a smart buyer and get complete coverage for yourself and your two-wheeler. Source: [1] https://www.statista.com/statistics/318023/two-wheeler-sales-in-india/ [2] https://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/diwali-props-up-two-wheeler-sales-in-november-top-six-firms-post-16-spike-120120101286_1.html||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Sensex down by over 130 points in early trade||With heavyweights including Infosys, TCS and Reliance Industries tracking losses, the equity benchmark Sensex Sensex dropped over 130 points in early trade on Tuesday, in a weak trend of global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 135.05 points or 0.29 per cent lower at 46,118.41. In a similar manner, NSE Nifty fell 48.55 points or 0.36 per cent to 13,509.60. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, M&M, ICICI Bank, Asian Paints, SBI, HUL, L&T, Titan, Infosys and TCS. Reliance Industries was trading 0.38 per cent lower in early deals. On the other hand, NTPC, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, Maruti and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. Traders said financial stocks and select banking counters witnessed heavy selling pressure, which dragged the indices down. A weak trend in the Asian and global markets also influenced market sentiment, they added. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 154.45 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 46,253.46, its new closing record. The NSE Nifty rose 44.30 points or 0.33 per cent to a record 13,558.15. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,264.38 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were all trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. The US stocks closed mostly lower on Wall Street. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 50.07 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Indian investment banking pool expected to rise to $1 billion over 2-3 years||Investment bankers are bullish about their business, backed by a healthy pipeline of initial public offers, mergers and acquisitions and private equity investments. Till date in 2020, the average Indian investment banking pool has jumped 30 per cent to $800-900 million from $600-700 million in 2019. This is expected to rise to $1 billion over the next 2-3 years. During the year, deals in the equity capital market accounted for 37 per cent of the banking fee pool followed by private equity at 37 per cent. Mergers and acquisitions accounted for the remaining 26 per cent. While fundraising via IPO has jumped 2.25 times to Rs 45,000 crore compared with Rs 20,300 crore in 2019, QIP has also doubled to Rs 79,100 crore from Rs 35,200 crore in 2019. Fundraising through rights issue has been Rs 65,000 crore compared with Rs 52,100 crore in 2019. “The deal appetite has remained strong despite the pandemic. Easy and ample liquidity across the globe has been one of the key factors for driving deal making. We expect the investment banking fee pool in the next 12-34 months to get closer to $1 billion,” said S. Ramesh, MD and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. “In 2021, we may continue to see heightened IPO activity dominated by resilient sectors such as new age tech, health care and consumer,” said V. Jayasankar, senior ED and head ECM, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. In private equity, the total deal value has been $33 billion from 575 deals compared with $35.8 billion from 776 deals in 2019. “Unlike previous global crisis events, the private equity market has matured into a large and established segment in India with higher average deal size,” said Pankaj Kalra, senior ED, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. Mergers and acquisition Of the total $109 billion of M&A activity in 2020, $ 65 million has come from inbound minority (foreign investor acquiring minority stake) and domestic majority transactions (Indian company acquiring majority stake in another Indian company). “Apart from interest seen in stressed assets, there has been sale on account of restructuring for value creation and stake enhancement, divestment of non core assets by large corporate and MNC houses and exit by financial sponsors. We expect this trend to continue in 2021 including stock for stock transaction to preserve cash in current uncertain environment,” said Sourav Mallik, joint MD, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Burger King India shares make stellar debut on the bourses||Shares of quick-service restaurant operator Burger King India on Monday made a stellar debut on the bourses as it settled with gains of 131 per cent over its issue price. On the BSE, the scrip listed at Rs 115.35 — a gain of 92.25 per cent over its issue price of Rs 60 per share. The stock later hit a high of Rs 138.40 before finally closing at Rs 138.40, a rise of Rs 78.40, or 130.67 per cent, over the offer price. The finish gave it a market cap of Rs 5,282.10 crore. Similarly, on the NSE, the scrip ended at Rs 135, a rise of 125 per cent over the issue price. Burger King India’s share sale was subscribed 156.65 times earlier this month. The initial public offering had comprised  a fresh issue of shares aggregating up to Rs 450 crore by the company and an offer for sale of up to 60,000,000 shares by QSR Asia Pte Ltd. The price range for the share float was fixed at Rs 59-60 per share. At present, the quick service restaurant chain operates 268 stores in India and out of them, eight are franchises, mainly located at airports, while the rest are owned by the company. It had allotted 6,07,50,000 equity shares to 55 anchor investors and raised Rs 364.50 crore ahead of the IPO. According to a report from Angel Broking, in the last six years of its operations in India, the company has opened 268 stores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||India Inc pitches for fiscal consolidation over three-year period ||India Inc has pitched for fiscal consolidation over a three-year period in their pre-budget meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. In the first of such meetings by the finance minister, the business leaders proposed bringing down government stake in banks to below 50 per cent, strategic sale of PSUs along with fiscal stimulus to revive an economy laid low by the coronavirus. “The government has an unenviable task of ensuring a fine balance between supporting economic recovery and growth on one hand and ensuring macro-economic stability on the other. The CII’s suggestions take this aspect into cognisance,” Uday Kotak, president of CII, said. He said government expenditure should be prioritised in three areas — infrastructure, healthcare, and sustainability. The budget proposals should also address the two critical areas of boosting private investments and providing support for employment generation, Kotak added. Ficci president Uday Shankar said the budget must prioritise growth-oriented measures and fiscal considerations should be secondary.  The need for further fiscal stimulus remains. “A scheme like MGNREGA for the urban poor may be considered – this may include sanitation work, plantation of trees and the maintenance of public places.” Interest subvention on housing loans of 3-4 per cent for a period of 3 to 4 years will have a multiplier effect on the economy, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Oaktree Capital emerges as highest bidder for DHFL ||Oaktree Capital on Monday emerged as the highest bidder for troubled finance firm DHFL with a revised offer of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company that beats the Piramals (Rs 35,500 crore bid) and the Adanis (nearly Rs 30,000 crore). The Oaktree offer includes an interest of almost Rs 3,000 crore earned from the cash in the books of DHFL and another Rs 1,000 crore from the sale of DHFL’s stake in an insurance venture. According to reports, lenders will recover their dues the fastest if they accept Oaktree’s proposal. The US-based investor will pay upfront Rs 11,500 crore with the remainder in over seven years. In the Piramal group offer, the financial creditors will get Rs 12,000-13,000 crore upfront and the remainder over 10 years. The Adani group’s offer includes Rs 11,000 crore paid upfront and the remainder over seven years. The committee of creditors had decided to seek fresh bids, the last date of which  was Monday. The participants had the option to either submit fresh bids or continue with their proposal in November. The Adani group, the Piramals, Oaktree and SC Lowy had submitted bids for DHFL in October. Subsequently, the Adanis, which had initially bid only for DHFL’s wholesale and slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) portfolios, offered to take over the entire book in a revised proposal submitted on November 17. The Adanis  offered a total of Rs 30,000 crore plus interest of Rs 3,000 crore, more than the Rs 28,300 crore offered by Oaktree. The Piramal group had quoted over Rs 23,000 crore only for the retail portfolio of DHFL, while SC Lowy bid Rs 2,300 crore for the SRA portfolio. SC Lowy did not submit any revised bid in the latest round as also the Adani group. The lenders will now meet again on December 18 to evaluate the bids and voting is expected to begin from December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Reserve Bank of India relaxes current account rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday exempted certain operators from the tough rules it had announced in August on the  opening of current accounts. The regulator had sought to crack down on multiple operating accounts: banks would not be allowed to open new current accounts for customers who have already availed themselves credit facilities in the form of cash credit (CC) and overdraft (OD); all transactions should be routed through the existing CC/OD account. In a notification, the RBI said banks can open specific accounts which include accounts from real estate projects to maintain 70 per cent of advance payments collected from the home buyers. Accounts can also be opened for the purpose of IPO or follow on public offering, new fund offer, share buyback or dividend payment and issuance of commercial papers. Banks can also open accounts for the payment of taxes, duties, statutory dues, accounts of White Label ATM operators and their agents for sourcing of currency. The facility has been extended to payment aggregators or pre-paid instrument issuers. Banks shall flag these accounts in the CBS (core banking system) for easy monitoring. Lenders to such borrowers may also enter into agreements/arrangements with the borrowers for monitoring of cash flows/periodic transfer of funds (if permissible) in these current accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||BPCL to evaluate bids from Vedanta, Apollo Global and Think Gas||A high-powered committee will evaluate on Tuesday preliminary bids received from mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s arm Think Gas for buying the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, sources said. Last week, an inter-ministerial meet was held to discuss the BPCL valuation process and setting of the reserve price. On Tuesday, the panel will see transaction adviser Deloitte’s report on the scrutiny of the three bids that were received at the close of bidding last month, sources in know of the development said. The ministry of petroleum and natural gas, the parent ministry of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), has been asked to give its views on the response and the process so far. A special purpose vehicle floated by the BSE-listed Vedanta Ltd and its London-based parent Vedanta Resources submitted an expression of interest (EoI) before the close of deadline on November 16. While I Squared Capital is a private equity firm focusing on global infrastructure investments, New York-based Apollo Global Management, Inc is a global alternative investment manager firm. I Squared Capital invests in energy, utilities, transport and telecom projects in North America, Europe and select high growth economies such as India and China. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in India's second largest fuel retailer as part of plans to raise a record Rs 2.1 lakh crore from disinvestment proceeds in 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021). But share price of BPCL has plunged by nearly a fifth since the time the strategic sale was approved in November last year. At Monday's closing price of Rs 405.75 on BSE, the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL is worth just over Rs 46,600 crore. Also, the acquirer would have to make an open offer for buying another 26 per cent stake from the public, which would cost about Rs 22,800 crore. Vedanta's interest in BPCL stems from its $8.67 billion acquisition of oil producer Cairn India nearly a decade back. The company produces oil from oilfields in Rajasthan which are used in refineries such as those operated by BPCL to turn them into petrol, diesel and other fuels. The government had at the close of bidding stated that “multiple” EoIs had been received. It, however, did not reveal the identity of the bidders. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), which is handling the strategic sale, had tweeted on November 16 that the transaction advisors for the sale of government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL have reported receiving “multiple expressions of interest.” “The transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by TA,” he had said. TA stands for transaction advisor. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had also tweeted on the same day. Sources said the transaction advisor's job was to evaluate the bidders to ascertain if they meet the qualifying criteria and have the financial muscle to do the acquisition. BPCL will give the buyer ownership of around 15.33 per cent of India's oil refining capacity and 22 per cent of the fuel marketing share. BPCL operates four refineries in Mumbai (Maharashtra), Kochi (Kerala), Bina (Madhya Pradesh), and Numaligarh (Assam) with a combined capacity of 38.3 million tonnes per annum, which is 15.3 per cent of India's total refining capacity of 249.8 million tonnes. While the Numaligarh refinery will be carved out of BPCL and sold to a PSU, the new buyer of the company will get 35.3 million tonnes of refining capacity -- 12 million tonne Mumbai unit, 15.5 million tonne Kochi refinery and 7.8 million tonne Bina unit. It also owns 17,355 petrol pumps, 6,159 LPG distributor agencies and 61 out of 256 aviation fuel stations in the country. BPCL is India's second-largest oil marketing company with a standalone domestic sales volume of over 43.10 million tonnes and a market share of 22 per cent during FY20. It is India's sixth largest company by turnover. Its petrol pumps sell more fuel than the industry average -- BPCL pumps sell 124 kilolitres per month as compared to the industry average of 116, according to the company website. The firm also has upstream presence with 26 assets in nine countries such as Russia, Brazil, Mozambique, the UAE, Indonesia, Australia, East Timor, Israel and India. It is also making a foray into city gas distribution and has licences for 37 geographical areas (GAs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Retail inflation dips to three-month low of 6.93 per cent||Retail inflation dipped to a three-month low of 6.93 per cent in November because of the softening of vegetable prices though it remained above the comfort levels of the Reserve Bank of India. Economists expect the central bank to hold on to the policy rates to support the economy limping back from the Covid-19 pandemic. In November, food inflation eased to 8.76 per cent from 10.16 per cent a month ago with vegetable inflation falling to 15.6 per cent, data released by the statistics department showed. Retail inflation based on the consumer price index stood at 7.61 per cent in October. Earlier in the day, the industry department released inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) for November which rose  to a nine-month high of 1.55 per cent  as the prices of manufactured items accelerated even as those of vegetables declined. With a sharp and fairly broad-based month-on-month increase of 0.8 per cent, core WPI inflation rose to a 22-month high of 2.6 per cent . Retail inflation data showed that oils and fat inflation stood at 17.86 per cent, meat and fish at 16.67 per cent, and pulses and products at 16.67 per cent. Inflation in transport and communication came in at 11.06 per cent and that in recreation and amusement at 4.57 per cent. The CPI inflation has remained above 6 per cent this year, except in March. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said: “The divergence between retail and wholesale food inflation is increasing, it rose to a five-month high of 5.5 per cent in November 2020. “We expect the retail inflation to decline to 5.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent range in 4QFY21 due to the cooling-off of food prices. However, sticky core inflation and Covid related inflation will keep headline inflation elevated.” Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist, fund management, of IDFC AMC, said: “November CPI of 6.9 per cent year-on-year showed some signs of easing sequential price pressure in food items.  With food price momentum also easing in the WPI released, it is now to be seen how broad based this food price disinflation cycle becomes, how much pace it gathers and for how long.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Tata group submits an expression of interest for Air India||Nearly 67 years after its exit, the Tata group again wants to pilot Air India. Sources told The Telegraph the salt-to-software conglomerate had submitted an expression of interest for the troubled airline. It is learnt the $106-billion group is going solo and not through any of its two other aviation ventures — Vistara or Air Asia. A company spokesperson declined to comment. Apart from the Tata group, a section of Air India employees along with Interups Inc, an US-based fund, have filed expressions of interest (EoIs). While there is speculation of bids by the Adanis and the Hinduja group, this could not be confirmed. The deadline for the submission of EoIs ended at 5pm on Monday. In January this year, the government had invited bids to sell 100 per cent of its holding in Air India and its international arm Air India Express and 50 per cent in ground handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services. Of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.50 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The interested entities will  have to submit their actual bids within 15 days. The Centre had said it will intimate the qualified interested bidders of Air India on January 5, 2021. Tata Sons had set up Tata Airlines in 1932 with J.R.D. Tata himself flying a Puss Moth aeroplane from Karachi to Mumbai. It was later renamed Air India in 1946. Later in 1953, the government nationalised Air India. In the 90s, the group tried to launch an airline in partnership with Singapore Airlines, but the plan did not succeed. In 2013, after the Centre changed the FDI norms in the industry the group launched two airlines — Air Asia India and Vistara with Air Asia of Malaysia and Singapore Airlines, respectively. Air India had a market share of 9.4 per cent in October. The market share of Air Asia India was 7.1 per cent and Vistara, 6.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
15-12-2020||India||Tablighi: Delhi court acquits 36 foreigners of all charges||A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted 36 foreigners, who were charge-sheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here by allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines issued in wake of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg acquitted the foreigners from 14 countries of all charges. The court had on August 24 framed charges against the foreigners under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Act, 1897. The charges were also framed under section 51 (obstruction) Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, they were discharged for the offences under section 14 (1) (b) (violation of visa norms) of Foreigners Act, sections 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of IPC. The court had also discharged eight foreign nationals from six countries of all charges under which they were charge-sheeted in the absence of any record or any credible material against them. The foreigners were charge-sheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here at Nizamuddin area allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Delhi airport all set for safe flight operations during fog||The Delhi international airport is geared up to ensure safe flight operations amid increasing fog in the city, operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Limited) said on Tuesday. The airport utilises an Airport Collaborative Decision Making (ACDM) cell – which has representatives of domestic airlines, air traffic control and the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) – for better coordination when visibility reduces due to fog, it mentioned. The airport has three runways, and they are equipped with a landing system that allows CAT-III B operations, the DIAL stated. "A CAT III B compliant infrastructure allows aircraft to land with a minimum visibility of 50 metres. At IGI (Indira Gandhi International) airport, an aircraft can take off with a visibility of 125 metres," it said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, at present, Terminal 3 is handling 18 flights an hour, and Terminal 2 is handling nine flights per hour, the DIAL said. "This in conjunction with other safety measures in place already would provide a safe environment to the flyers," it added. The Civil Aviation Ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. This limit has been gradually increased by the ministry, and the airlines are currently permitted to operate up to a maximum of 80 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. The DIAL will also continue to assist flyers 24x7, especially through social media, to ensure minimal inconvenience to them, a statement said. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Opposition misleading farmers over new laws: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reiterated that the Centre was addressing concerns of farmers over the new legislations, but blamed Opposition parties of misguiding them. Speaking yet again on the farmers’ agitation over the three new agri-marketing laws, Modi said, “Farmers gathered near Delhi are being misled as part of a conspiracy. Farmers are told that their land will be grabbed by others if new farm reforms get implemented. I want to ask you, did the dairy owner take your cattle because you are selling milk to him.” The Prime Minister was speaking at an event following after laying the foundation stone of a desalination plant, a hybrid renewable energy park and a fully automated milk processing and packing plant at Gujarat. “Opposition parties, when they were in power, were in favour of these farm sector reforms, but did not take any decision back then. Now when the country has decided to embrace these reforms, these people are spreading falsehood and misleading farmers. I want to reiterate that my government is ready 24 hours to resolve all your doubts,” he added. Last week, the BJP had accused the Congress of instigating the farmers and opposing the farm laws. The Prime Minister also interacted with farmers from the Kutch district of his native state, including those who have settled there from Punjab, as well as members of a local self-help group. The PM met delegations of farmers from Punjab settled in Kutch district as well as local cultivators and heard their issues with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani accompanying him. The PM also interacted with a group of local women from a self-help group at the venue. Sikh farmers cultivate land in areas near the Indo-Pak border. As per a rough estimate, around 5,000 Sikh families reside in and around Lakhpat taluka of Kutch district. Sikhs started settling in Lakhpat after the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri urged citizens to settle in this barren patch of land after the 1965 India-Pakistan war. The separate interactions took place on the sidelines of Modi’s event, where he laid foundation stones for the world's largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a milk processing plant. The meeting during Modi’s day-long visit at Gujarat comes at a time when thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, are protesting against the three farm laws demanding their repeal. It took place at the tent city of Dhordo in Kutch district, where Modi laid the foundation stones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Deputy pulled down from chairman's seat at Karnataka council proceedings||Pandemonium broke out at the Karnataka Legislative Council on Tuesday, as Deputy Chairman S L Dharme Gowda was literally pulled down from the Chairman's seat and the House was adjourned sine die without taking up any business. After it was adjourned sine die originally on December 10, the council was convened for a day by the government, accusing the Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty of "abruptly" adjourning the session, for today. Though the no-confidence motion against Shetty moved by the BJP members did not find mention in today's agenda, as the Chairman had rejected it citing procedural lapses, the ruling party members have been insisting that it should be taken up. As the House met for the day, Gowda occupied the Chairman's seat, which angered the Congress MLCs who rushed to the chair demanding that he vacate it, following which BJP and JD(S) members came to Shetty's protection. Separately, few Congress members were seen forcefully opening the door through which the Chairman enters the house, accusing the ruling side of shutting it with an intention not to allow Shetty to enter the House. Congress members accused the government of trying to start the proceedings even before the Chairman could come, with the help of Gowda with an intention to take up the no-confidence motion against Shetty, which has been rejected by him. Some Congress members including M Narayanaswamy was seen forcefully pulling down the Deputy Chairman from the chair. Several members and marshals of the council were also allegedly manhandled in the melee, even as the Congress managed to make one of its members occupy the chair. Several BJP and JD(S) MLCs objected to this and questioned whether the person occupying the Chair was among the panel members who could sit on it. After some time Chairman Pratapachandra Shetty entered the House and went up to the chair even as Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan tried to obstruct him from occupying it. Shetty then announced that the house was adjourned sine die. Leader of opposition in the Council S R Patil alleged that the Deputy Chairman occupied the chair against the rules and procedures and it was against the constitution. Revenue Minister R Ashoka, accusing the Congress of unruly behaviour in the House, said the government will soon announce its next course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||NCB summons Arjun Rampal in drugs case for second time||The Narcotics Control Bureau has summoned actor Arjun Rampal for questioning at its Mumbai office on Wednesday, an official of the agency said on Tuesday. The actor has been asked to be present before the NCB team, which is conducting an investigation into the alleged drug-use in Bollywood following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year, the official said. This is the second time that the anti-drugs bureau will question the model-turned actor in the case. On November 13, Rampal was questioned by the agency for seven hours. Rampal was summoned on Wednesday after the NCB obtained some information during interrogation of some of the persons arrested in the drugs case, the official said The agency had conducted searches at Rampal’s residence last month following which it seized electronic gadgets and some medicines under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The actor’s partner Gabriella Demtriades was also questioned by the NCB for two days in November. Gabriella's brother Agisilaos Demetriades was arrested by the bureau in the case in October and it was found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, the official said. Rampal's friend Paul Bartel was also earlier arrested by the NCB in the drugs case. Based on some WhatsApp chats involving drugs, the NCB launched a probe into the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of Rajput in June this year. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late filmstar and a few others under sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother, and some other accused were later granted bail. Agisilaos Demetriades and two others get bail A special NDPS court in Mumbai on Tuesday granted bail to Agisilaos Demetriades, brother of actor Arjun Rampal's partner Gabriella, and two others in a drug-related case. Demetriades was arrested in October after Narcotics Control Bureau raided a resort in Lonavala where he was celebrating his birthday and allegedly found 0.8 grams of a sticky brown substance. He was granted bail by Special Judge GB Gurao, said his lawyer Kushal Mor. Demetriades was granted bail in October but he remained in jail at the time since the NCB had filed an FIR in another drug-related matter. Mor told the court no person could be vexed twice for the same cause and that there was no new evidence to support the allegations against him. The only new piece of evidence were statements of co-accused, which, in view of a recent Supreme Court ruling related to statements made before NCB officers, were not admissible, Mor said. Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former Dharmatic Entertainment executive producer, who was arrested on September 26 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, was also given bail. Nigerian national Uka Emeka was also given bail by the special NDPS court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Boris Johnson set to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day Parade||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be the chief guest at India’s Republic Day Parade on January 26, UK Foreign Secretary said on Tuesday after his meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Addressing a joint press conference after the talks, Jaishankar said the four-hour long discussion focussed on the process of taking India and the UK’s bilateral ties to the next level. “In recent years as you know, there have been very big changes in global politics and we both believe that our interests are better served by working together more effectively,” he said. The situation in Afghanistan as also developments in the Gulf and evolution of the Indo-Pacific region were among the important issues that were further discussed in the meeting. “Prime Minister Boris Johnson has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to join the UK-hosted G7 summit next year. The UK Prime Minister has also accepted the very generous invitation to attend India's Republic Day celebrations (as chief guest) in January which is a great honour,” Raab said. On his part, Jaishankar said Johnson accepting the invitation for the Republic Day was, in a way, symbolic of a new era in Indo-UK ties. Raab's three-day visit to India from December 14-17 comes at a time the UK is holding complex negotiations with the European Union on reaching a post Brexit trade deal. In the wake of Brexit, the UK has been looking at ramping up trade with leading economies like India. There have been apprehensions that its separation from the European Union without a trade deal could severely cripple its financial markets and may have long-term implications for its economy. The British foreign secretary is scheduled to meet Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Raab will also travel to Bengaluru where he will meet Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on December 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||AAP will contest UP assembly elections in 2022: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2022. Kejriwal, who is AAP's national convener, slammed the political parties in Uttar Pradesh, accusing them of stabbing the people in the back. Questioning why people from UP should have to look at Delhi for health services and education, he said Mohalla clinics, free electricity, water, good education and health facilities can also be provided in the state. Kejriwal said UP has been held back from progress and development because of "dirty politics" and "corrupt" politicians in the state. He asserted that the AAP would instil honest intentions, and prove that governance is not restricted by resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||No winter session of Parliament due to Covid-19 pandemic||The government has said the winter session of Parliament will not be held this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and that it will be appropriate to convene the budget session in January next year. In a letter to the leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of the recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon." The minister said he had informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and "they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session". "Government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic," Joshi wrote. Talking about the monsoon session which was delayed due to the pandemic, he appreciated cooperation from all political parties for a productive session held under extraordinary circumstances by making special logistical arrangements. The winter session of Parliament normally starts from last week of November or first week of December. The Constitution broadly stipulates one major rule that there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of Parliament. However, it has been a convention to hold three sessions of Parliament – budget, monsoon and winter – in a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi; minimum temperature dips lowest this season at 4.1 degrees||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Tuesday as icy winds blowing from the snow-covered western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than the normal for two consecutive days. "However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. At 4.1 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, was five notches below normal on Tuesday morning. At Jafarpur, the mercury dipped to 3.6 degrees Celsius. The Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations recorded a minimum of 4 degrees Celsius and 4.2 degrees Celsius respectively, the IMD said. On Monday, the maximum temperature in the national capital had dropped to 19.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal and the lowest so far this month, as cold winds swept the city. The air quality has also improved to the "moderate" category due to the strong winds. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 190 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 160 on Monday, 305 on Sunday and 356 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
15-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir set to intensify as over 2,000 women likely to join protests||The agitation of farmers against the three new agri-marketing laws seems set to intensify further as more of them are likely to travel to Delhi’s borders to press their demands. Adding to this, over 2,000 women are also expected to join their families at the Singhu border and demonstrate alongside them. Farmer leaders said they are making arrangements for the women coming from Punjab to support them. Tents are being put up, a separate langar is being planned, and extra temporary toilets are being arranged, they added. Several roads leading to Delhi have been closed in the wake of the farmers camping at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points for nearly three weeks now. Commuters have been advised to take alternative routes to avoid inconvenience. Police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders were closed, and commuters have been advised to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders while traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Multi-layered cemented barriers, additional police force and barbed wires formed the first layer of security at the Singhu border protest site. The second layer of barricades deployed by the Delhi Police is being guarded by a team of Rapid Action Force along with personnel from the paramilitary forces. Water cannons, trucks, containers and iron barricades have also been deployed. On Monday, leaders of around 32 farmer unions observed a day-long hunger strike at the Singhu border as part of the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||India promises to help fight Covid-19 crisis at global level||India on Monday said its vaccine production and delivery extent will be used to help everyone fighting the Covid-19 crisis, something which has brought forward gaps in global cooperation. It also highlighted the need for the international community to address the pandemic with cooperation and not confusion. Addressing the UN General Assembly special session on Covid-19, Secretary (West) in India's Ministry of External Affairs Vikas Swarup said that the pandemic “laid bare” the miscommunications that exist in global cooperation and governance structures of multilateral organisations. “It is important that we make reformed multilateralism our guiding principle. It is imperative that we must join hands to show leadership, solidarity and collaboration to deal with the pandemic. We can respond best by collaboration, not confusion; preparation, not panic and coming together, not growing apart,” he said. “As a responsible member of the international community, I want to reiterate that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capabilities for the delivery of vaccines,” he added. “World leaders, top UN leadership and vaccine developers addressed the high-level special session early this month on Covid-19 and discussed the impact of the pandemic, as well as the multifaceted, coordinated response required to address the crisis,” Swarup said in his address at the resumed session. He told the UN that India has several vaccines to combat the pandemic, which are under different stages of development. “Indian vaccine candidates COVAXIN and ZyCoV-D are under phase three and phase two trials, while Indian vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India is already conducting final testing of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca COVISHIELD vaccine,” he said. “India is recognised as a world leader in vaccines, as we produce 60 per cent of vaccines globally and have a record of supplying high quality, affordable vaccines to the developing world,” Swarup added. “During the unprecedented crisis faced by the world, India emerged as a net provider of health security and successfully shouldered its responsibility as the pharmacy of the world, sending consignments of medicines and medical supplies to almost 150 partner countries,” he said. Swarup noted that while it is encouraging that the efforts to curb the crisis had yielded positive results, a long road still lays ahead of us. “No one is safe till everyone is safe. This should be our mantra. In this context, the role of the United Nations becomes important towards coordinated and concerted efforts to deal with the multi-dimensional impacts of the pandemic,” he said. Highlighting India's timely and proactive response to the pandemic, Swarup said calculated measures by the country were designed not just to protect its huge population from the pandemic but also to ensure that minimal damage is caused to the economy. He said the initial phases of the lockdown gave India the critically needed time to ramp up its healthcare system and equip it with sufficient hospital beds, isolation facilities, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), testing kits and other medical devices as well as with trained medical staff across the country.  “Within two months of the pandemic, India expanded its diagnostic facilities from just one major facility for pan-India testing to more than 2,000 today. From having almost no domestic manufacturing of PPE kits, India today has become the second largest manufacturer of PPEs,” Swarup added. “More than 17,000 dedicated Covid-19 facilities were set up with 1.6 million isolation beds and digital tools such as the Aarogya Setu app were developed and are being effectively used for extensive contact tracing,” he said. “The Narendra Modi government announced a massive USD 266 billion stimulus package, amounting to almost 10 per cent of India's GDP directed at helping low income groups, marginal farmers, small businesses, migrants and those in the informal sector,” Swarup added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Covid: India's single-day spike at five-month low||In a first in over five months, India’s daily Covid-19 case count fell below 23,000, as the national recovery rate stood at 95 per cent, data updated by the Health Ministry showed on Tuesday. The Covid-19 caseload surged to 99,06,165 with 22,065 infections being reported over the past 24 hours, as 354 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,43,709, data updated at 8 am said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 94,22,636 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.12 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below four lakh for the eighth consecutive day on Tuesday, with 3,39,820 active cases comprising 3.43 per cent of the total caseload. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16; 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,55,60,655 samples have been tested up to December 14, of which 9,93,665 were conducted on Monday. The 354 new fatalities include 60 each from Delhi and Maharashtra, 43 from Bengal, 24 from Kerala and 21 from Punjab. Total 1,43,709 deaths reported so far in the country include 48,269 from Maharashtra, 11,954 from Karnataka, 11,909 from Tamil Nadu, 10,074 from Delhi, 9,100 from West Bengal, 8,083 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,059 from Andhra Pradesh, and 5,098 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Jio alleges Airtel and Vodafone using farm protests to draw out subscribers||The farmers’ agitation appears to be hitting Reliance where it hurts most. Reliance Jio, Mukesh Ambani’s telecom leader, has alleged that industry peers Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea are running a “vicious and divisive campaign” and making the preposterous claim that migrating Jio mobile numbers to their networks would be an act of support for the farmers’ protests. Jio said it had received a large number of port-out requests, with the customers citing campaign messages of Airtel and Vodafone Idea. Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have termed the complaint “baseless”. The brawl, linked directly to an ongoing agitation, comes at a time farmers have been insisting that the contentious farm laws were pushed through to favour the Ambanis and the Adanis. Reliance Jio, in a letter to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), has sought strict action against the two companies. Jio said that earlier, too, it had written to Trai about an “unethical and anti-competitive mobile number portability campaign” by Airtel and Vodafone Idea to capitalise on the farmers’ protests. “We submit that Airtel and VIL (Vodafone Idea Ltd) remain unabated in pursuing this vicious and divisive campaign through its employees, agents and retailers. They are inciting the public by making preposterous claims that migrating Jio mobile subscribers to their networks would be an act of support to the farmers’ protests,” Jio said in its latest letter. Bharti Airtel said in a letter to Trai: “We wish to emphatically deny this baseless charge.… Despite being provoked by some competitors who we know will go to any length to make baseless allegations, adopt bullying tactics and use intimidatory behaviour, we have always conducted our business with character and transparency something that we are deeply proud of and known for.” A Vodafone Idea spokesperson said the company believed in doing business with ethics. “These are baseless allegations against us to malign our reputation. We strongly refute such irresponsible comments on us,” the VIL spokesperson said. Bharti Airtel had pipped Reliance Jio in new mobile subscriber addition in September after a gap of four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India|| Rajnath Singh dodges talk on China status quo||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday spoke of China’s “unprovoked aggression” in eastern Ladakh and how Indian soldiers had “forced them to go back” but did not say where the two sides stood on disengagement amid reports of Chinese inflexibility on the subject. Several military veterans questioned Rajnath’s silence on the Indian demand for status quo ante and on reports — in the media and security establishment corridors -– that the Chinese army had told its Indian counterpart to accept the new status quo on the ground. “The defence minister’s statement is contrary to the ground situation. He must explain what he meant when he said the Indian troops had forced the Chinese to go back, and clarify which friction points he meant,” a retired lieutenant general said. “During the ongoing military talks, the Chinese are said to have indicated that India should accept the new status quo.” Chinese troops had breached the unmarked Line of Actual Control at several points — including the Depsang Plains, Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — and are estimated to be occupying close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. A defence ministry official said that when Rajnath spoke of the Indian soldiers’ bravery and the Chinese being forced back, he was alluding to the June 15 Galwan Valley clash during which 20 Indian soldiers died while China suffered unspecified casualties. Rajnath, who was speaking at the annual general meeting of industry chamber Ficci, did not mention any particular friction point. “The unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in the Himalayas but across the Indo-Pacific,” he said. “As you are aware, there is a big build-up of armed forces on the LAC in Ladakh. In these testing times, our forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude. They fought the PLA with utmost bravery and forced them to go back.” Rajnath added: “The coming generations of this nation will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year. Whenever there is a situation at the LAC, the most obvious outcome is a comparison between India’s and China’s military strength.” A retired colonel asked: “Why is the defence minister no longer talking about restoration of the pre-April status quo?” Another veteran said: “The Chinese have refused to pull back;  they want India to accept the new normal at the LAC in Ladakh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Govt steps up divide & defuse drive against agitating farmers||As the protesting farmers on Monday said they were preparing for the long haul while seeking repeal of the three new farm laws, an umbrella organisation that is older than the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee that had given the “Dilli Chalo” call came out in support of the new regime and demanded the laws should not be withdrawn. Simultaneously, the BJP’s Haryana unit raked up the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL), purportedly in the hope of disrupting the newfound bonhomie between the farmers of the state and Punjab that is firing up the protests now spreading to other parts of the country. Haryana agriculture minister and BJP leader Jai Prakash Dalal had last week goaded the state’s farmers, protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three new farm laws, to secure the Centre’s intervention for the completion of the canal so that the state received its share of the waters from Punjab. On Monday, all the BJP MPs and MLAs of the state met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Tomar to raise the issue at the national level. Although this is a longstanding issue between the two states, the decision by the government’s ecosystem to raise it at this juncture is being widely perceived by farmers as an attempt to sow dissension within their ranks, since neither persuasion nor vilification has weakened their resolve so far. The All India Kisan Coordination Committee met Tomar and extended support for the three new laws, urging the government not to repeal them. This umbrella organisation claims to have the support of 7,000 NGOs and said their members would rise up to support the farm reforms. After the meeting, Tomar said farmers from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Bihar had met him and welcomed the farm reform bills. Tomar reaffirmed that the government was willing to talk to the agitating farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet representatives of the farming community, including Sikh cultivators, in Gujarat during a visit to Kutch on Tuesday. However, the farmers loyal to the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), who had moved towards Delhi with rations for a couple of months, have begun cultivating seasonal crops in the areas they are picketing. According to the AIKSCC – which organised dharnas and gheraos across the country on Monday -- the farmers are sowing coriander, radishes, carrots and other crops on the highway dividers to protect “food sovereignty of the nation”. A fresh strategy for the days ahead is likely to be announced on Tuesday after the various collectives under the AIKSCC meet to chalk out a course of action in the face of multiple efforts by the government to isolate the protesters. The protesting farmers took over the Jaipur-Delhi highway after issuing an apology for the inconvenience caused. In a pamphlet issued by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – the umbrella organisation under which 500 farmers’ collectives are agitating –- titled “Mein ek kisan (I am a farmer)”, the farmers have apologised with folded hands. They have repeated their request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take back the three farm laws. Referring to Modi’s claim that the new laws are a historic gift to the farmers, the SKM said: “This is not a gift but a punishment. Please keep this gift with yourself. If you want to give us a gift, please enact a law that guarantees minimum support price for our crops.” Stating “we do not want charity but proper price for our crops”, the farmers said the government was only putting on a show of talking to them. “The government is not listening to us. It is not our goal to block roads or trouble the common people. We have no option but to sit here in protest,” the pamphlet said. With the protesting farmers digging their heels in and drawing fresh support, the government is working at various levels to create a parallel narrative. Apart from the ongoing propaganda about the new laws being a silver bullet for the farmers, the BJP’s Delhi unit is planning a four-day campaign to urge the farmers to give up their protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena says new farm laws carefully designed to benefit big industrialists||The Shiv Sena has accused the Narendra Modi government of employing a “trick of the trade” in the garb of laws to facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture, warning this will destroy farmers across the country. “These (new farm) laws have been carefully designed to benefit big industrialists. This is a trick of the trade, presented in the garb of laws,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson, Sanjay Raut, has written in party mouthpiece Saamana. “This will destroy both the existence and self-esteem of farmers. A false propaganda has been launched that only farmers of Punjab and Haryana will be affected. These laws, brought by Modi as an agricultural reform, will mean the kabr-gah (burial ground) for farmers.” Government supporters have been claiming the new farm laws would hurt only a small section of rich farmers from Punjab and Haryana while triggering a windfall for most farmers across the country. Raju Shetti, farmer leader from Maharashtra who is part of the all-India coordination committee overseeing the ongoing movement, too contested the claim on Monday. “If it is a movement only of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, what am I doing here?” Shetti told The Telegraph on Monday over the phone from the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers have gathered in protest for the past several days. “There are hundreds of people from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and many other states. These laws are an attack on agriculture as a whole, the objective being to allow the corporate sector to capture farming.” Shetti went on: “It is not surprising that BJP leaders and Modi bhakts are trying to conceal the truth about the black laws and our movement, and are spreading rumours and misconceptions.” He asked how the Bharat Bandh could have been so successful, with demonstrations and shutdowns at more than 10,000 places in the country, if this was a Punjab-centric agitation. “We understand the Modi government’s conspiracy. They want to create rifts. When farmers from Maharashtra want to join the protest at Delhi’s borders, the police in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh block them,” he said. “The usual trains are not running and the special trains have no general compartments. How will the farmers reach Delhi? Farmers from as far as Karnataka and Tamil Nadu wanted to join the protest but the BJP governments stopped them.” Raut wrote: “Maharashtra should understand the darker aspects of these (new farm) laws. Ordinary people will have difficulty understanding the complexities hidden in the details. “The stock limit has been removed to allow hoarding. The government doesn’t want any limit on the stocking of food grain. What is the purpose? Why have Punjab’s farmers risen in protest? Because they have seen the gigantic silos built by the Adani group in Punjab. These are not like our godowns, these are a hundred times bigger. “When farmers bring their new crop to the market, these corporate houses will artificially kill the demand by releasing their stored stuff and bring down prices. The farmers will have no option but to sell cheap. After that, prices will be jacked up at will.” Raut added: “The farmers of Punjab know the reality of contract farming, too. They know… potato farmers were fleeced after some time, in violation of contracts…. They (companies) used the pretext of quality to whittle down prices. “Then there is a provision that you can’t go to (civil) court. Farmers have to appeal to the SDM (sub-divisional magistrate). Then they can go to the DM. The DM’s peon will turn them away. Farmers will become helpless, (left at) the mercy of the big players.” Raut went on to explain the problems that could arise if the Agricultural Produce Marketing Act was abolished, which many farmers fear it would be. “Initially, private mandis (wholesale markets) will offer better prices and facilities. Gift vouchers of Reliance will be given along with higher prices. The farmers will sell their stuff there and the government mandis will vanish slowly,” he wrote. “Once the government mandis are gone, the real game will begin.... One kilogram of maize flour is being sold at Rs 150 while maize is bought for Rs 7 a kilogram. These laws will render the farmers bankrupt. If the farmers lose this battle, the whole social system will collapse. Ministers will come and go but the country will be ruined if agriculture is destroyed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Faces in mirror held up by farmers’ protest ||The decisive Battle of Plassey that gave the East India Company its foothold in India and established its rule was lost not for lack of battlefield valour but because of the treachery of a military general. An African saying warns: “An army of sheep led by a lion can defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.” The truth behind this saying is wider, and covers not only battlefields but many modern governments and democratic leaders. A wrong leader, a toxic ideology, foolish ambition or a false sense of grandeur can play havoc, cause unimaginable damage in a very short time. And then the country would take a long time to recover, if at all. Examples abound in history. Hitler and Mussolini are still not too distant in memory. The irony of Stalin’s rule was that the Red Army defeated the Nazis but, at the same time, his policy of purges left the independent communist parties of Eastern Europe crippled, from which they never quite recovered. It is now well documented that toxic policies promoted by the International Monetary Fund and embraced by its market-fundamentalist leaders sent Argentina, a country of vast natural resources, begging before the world. Delusion combined with a toxic ideology is a recipe for disaster in any country. A negative rate of growth, an unprecedented recession and massive unemployment coexisting with a soaring stock market combined with such ideological priorities as banning cow slaughter and building a Central Vista to show the historic importance of a leader have been foretelling such a disaster. But we woke up to the fact that the monster was at the door only when the farmers of the country showed us the mirror. If you have not already deposited all your intelligence to the expert discussions and images of the mainstream media, you might ask, like in the fairy tale: “Mirror, mirror on the wall, show me who is behind it all”. And, the mirror would show not the obvious faces of the two most powerful politicians (both from Gujarat) of the ruling party in power, but two other faces, the two richest businessmen (again, both from Gujarat) of the country. No prize for guessing who they are. Both have been long time cronies of the current leader from his days as the chief minister of Gujarat. However, it’s not merely “crony capitalism” that we are talking about. The three farm laws recently passed hastily in a moribund Parliament are no exception to the trend already set in a way. The government has done it repeatedly but the trend started earlier with blitzkrieg attacks that gave the public no time to react. It started with the guerrilla attack of demonetisation and then the strategically bad implementation of the GST to weaken petty and small businesses and the states in our federal financial structure. This was followed by the violent uprooting of the lives and livelihoods of migrant workers with the imposition of a most severe lockdown at four hours’ notice. There was disquiet, discomfort and distress, but the public response was still not one of outrage. The illusion of the government fighting against black money (forget the promise of Rs 15 lakh in every Indian’s bank account) and valiantly imposing a lockdown against the looming pandemic still had some credibility with the trusting public. But soon we all could not but see how the pandemic was being used as a cover to hollow out from within the essence of parliamentary democracy. A series of anti-labour and pro-corporate labour laws were passed, virtually without any prior notice or discussion. Now the government has adopted the calculated move of bringing the three farm laws into effect, fearing little resistance inside or outside Parliament, again under the cover of a pandemic in a demoralised economy with negative growth and crushing unemployment where most are gasping for oxygen. Briefly, the three laws are meant to dismantle the mandi (wholesale market) system and the minimum support price of agricultural commodities. And — this is the point of general interest, often underemphasised by mainstream media — they are meant to do away with virtually all normal legal processes in case of disputes through the grant of unilateral power to the government. These laws transfer the power of settling disputes to the executive itself, with no role for the judiciary. The alleged culprit will judge the nature of the guilt, violating all notions of possible conflicts of interest in law. Such a law was passed by our democratic Parliament hurriedly, demolishing not only farmers’ rights but threatening the rights of all Indian citizens. The farmers rose against it. They rose to defend their rights and this has now become linked with the wider constitutional rights of all Indian citizens. India’s demoralised, impoverished majority has suddenly become aware of the serious danger that stares them in the face. The corporatisation of agriculture is a prelude to the corporatisation of the Indian democracy, of our constitutional rights. Economists of the establishment are known not for their expert knowledge but for their irrelevant half-truths, couched in jargon. The cornerstone of their argument, made famous by Milton Friedman, is that a free democracy requires a free market. The farm laws have brought up the question: Is it a democracy where the executor is also the judge? Is that the new definition of a free democracy? And then, how free is a market where a small or marginal farmer faces Mr Ambani or Mr Adani in a bargain over price? It is a badly kept secret of standard economic theory that the price mechanism does not work unless all buyers and sellers are price takers in the market. This means nobody has the market power to make prices. The high-powered general equilibrium theory had to invent a disinterested outside “auctioneer” like Voltaire’s God who would set and revise prices to get at the market clearing prices. With all its imperfections and corruptions, the minimum support price is the closest we have to a price set by an “auctioneer”. The farmers want it enshrined as a law; the government is unwilling because it wants the corporations to set the prices, sooner rather than later, when the mandi system becomes dysfunctional under the new laws, with or without amendments. This is the free market mechanism celebrated by mainstream economists, debated by so-called experts in the mainstream media, and financed by the big corporations. And in the meantime, Mr Ambani’s Reliance has its fingers on the retail market of agricultural produce and Jio will control all corporate online bulk purchases, while Mr Adani is busy extending his network of corporate transport and silos for storing agricultural commodities. The government is understandably enthusiastic about the future of digital capitalism with 5G, which will be controlled by Jio in India. Is there any respite, any alternative route possible? The farmers are showing how wrong we all were in our pessimism. Things change, but not always in the way a few plutocrats and their minions want, if ordinary people unite with all their usual frailties and force Opposition political parties to unite at least on this issue. (Otherwise, the Opposition parties want to have neither a clear pro-poor road map of development nor the courage to call the bluff of mechanised corporate agriculture as the El Dorado of the future.) The farmers’ determined resistance has created the necessary circumstances. It is for us all to join boldly. It reminds one of the wisdom of a well known observation. Paraphrasing Marx, we might say: “Men (and women) create history, but not under circumstances of their own making, but already created.” The circumstances have indeed been created by the valiant resistance of the farmers. The lion of the African proverb can still lead an army of sheep to defeat what looked once like an invincible enemy. ⚫ Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January this year, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar launches multiple crop scheme||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar launched an “agriculture according to the climate” programme on Monday in which multiple crops would be cultivated simultaneously throughout the year in a bid to increase the income of the farmers. Bihar has become the first state implement such a scheme. It has been prepared after consultation with scientists from various institutions like the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Borlaug Institute for South Asia, Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University, Bihar Agriculture University and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The new format of agriculture to factor in the impact of climate change on crops and farming as well as the ways to deal with it comes after a successful pilot project in eight of Bihar’s 38 districts that was started last year. “Around 76 per cent population of Bihar is dependent on agriculture for livelihood, but floods and droughts are a constant fixture in the state. Farmers will benefit much if they adopt ‘agriculture according to the climate’ because it will cut down the cost and increase the profit,” Nitish said after launching the programme in Patna. Nitish said that agriculture scientists will adopt five villages in every district to showcase the programme and educate the farmers. Crop residue management is an integral part of the scheme. Nitish said that he had discussed its concept with CIMMYT director general Martin Kropff at a meeting in 2018 after seeing that three crops were being simultaneously grown at a farm at the Borlaug Institute for South Asia at Pusa and fresh crops were being sown immediately after harvesting. “We intend to take the ‘agriculture according to climate’ programme to every farmer in the state,” Nitish said. Expressing worry over the fast-catching trend of burning the crop residue in agricultural fields by the farmers, the chief minister pointed out that it “started from Punjab, entered Bihar through Rohtas and Kaimur districts and has now spread all over the state”. Nitish directed chief secretary Deepak Kumar to get an aerial survey done with the help of agriculture department officials and make the farmers aware about the pernicious effects of burning crop residue in the fields. He also asked the officials to ensure that information about various machines that do not leave crop residue in the fields is disseminated among the farmers along with the schemes under which the government is providing 75 to 80 per cent subsidy for buying them. The agriculture department has already started blacklisting the farmers who are caught burning “parali” or crop residue in their fields. Such people will not be able to get benefits of various grants and subsidies provided by the state government from time to time for various purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||Kerala journalist wife fears tricks to block bail||Imprisoned journalist Siddique Kappan’s wife Raihanath fears the Enforcement Directorate is cooking up charges against her husband to try and block his bail. Raihanath on Monday asked how the agency had concluded that a leader of the Popular Front of India had funded Siddique’s trip to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, during which he was arrested on October 5. She feared Siddique might be entangled in a money-laundering case, too. “This ED allegation has come just when we were hoping the court would grant him bail. Now I don’t know what will happen next,” she told The Telegraph. On Saturday, the ED had arrested K.A. Rauf Sherif, a leader of PFI student wing Campus Front of India, from Thiruvananthapuram airport and told a Kochi court he had funded the Hathras trip by Siddique and his three companions. The agency has accused Sherif of money-laundering, among other offences. “I just saw news reports that the ED is now trying to involve Siddique in some money-laundering case. Why don’t they check his bank account to see if he had ever received any money from such groups?” Raihanath said. “They are assuming things with the sole purpose of denying him bail.” Uttar Pradesh police had arrested Siddique and three PFI activists accompanying him on their way to Hathras, where a Dalit girl had been fatally brutalised. The state government claims Siddique was travelling under the “cover” of being a journalist, held a post in the PFI, and planned to disturb peace in Hathras. The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of violence but has not been banned. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has told the Supreme Court that Siddique, booked under sedition and anti-terror laws, is a Delhi-based journalist with the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com and is not connected with the PFI. Sherif was arrested while trying to catch a flight to Oman. The ED has told the principal sessions court in Kochi that Sherif had received Rs 2.5 crore in foreign remittances during the lockdown period and had funded the Hathras trip by transferring some money to Ateequr Rahman, one of the PFI activists arrested with Siddique. Raihanath said: “The only amount that gets credited to his (Siddique’s) bank account is his monthly remuneration (from azhimukam.com). He then transfers some money to my bank account for our household expenses.” Siddique, 41, had told his office he was heading to Hathras to write a report on the brutal gang rape and murder. Raihanath has impleaded herself in a habeas corpus petition filed in the Supreme Court by the KUWJ since Siddique’s whereabouts were not known after his arrest. Siddique had to wait 43 days to talk even to his lawyer. The habeas corpus plea has brought some relief, with Siddique being allowed to call home. “He has been allowed to call a few times. At least, I now know he is alive,” Raihanath said. Asked how Siddique was being treated in jail, she said: “I hope and pray he is not being beaten and is getting his medicines regularly. He has very high sugar levels.” Siddique’s lawyer had quoted him as saying the police had beaten him with a baton, slapped him in the face and deprived him of sleep. A native of Malappuram in Kerala, Siddique has been based in Delhi for several years, writing for several publications. He is the secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-489
15-12-2020||India||BJD in a bind on farm laws||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha, which follows an avowed policy of maintaining equidistance from the Congress and the BJP, is being pushed into a corner on the issue of farmers’ agitation. Due to the BJD’s growing closeness with the BJP, the party led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik is not in a position to directly oppose the Centre on the farmers’ issue, according to farmer leaders. Though the BJD claims to be extending moral support to the farmers’ cause, it has so far refrained from hitting the streets along with them. Even though the BJD had demanded in Parliament in September that the farm bills be sent to the Select Committee, it preferred not to hit the streets during the Bharat Bandh on December 8. Nor did it come out openly on Monday and joined the farmers during the 9-hour strike call at all the district headquarters. Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan president Akshay Kumar said: “It (BJD) has so far done only lip service to our cause by sending a letter to the Centre urging it to implement the M.S. Swaminathan Committee’s report on the MSP. It’s nothing new. Though the Assembly had unanimously adopted a resolution twice, in 2017 and 2018, for enhancing the MSP as per the committee’s recommendation, it hardly took up the issue with the Centre and the Prime Minister. The farm laws should be repealed.” He said the BJD’s role on the farmers’ issue was confined to press statements and sending letters to the Centre. Damburu Soren, a 50-year-old tribal labourer told The Telegraph: “Today, I joined the strike called by the farmers. All the political parties except the BJD and the BJP supported us and joined the movement near the additional district magistrate’s office. The BJD and the BJP did not turn up to show their solidarity. In fact, the BJD is tacitly supporting the BJP but is not in a position to express it openly.” Soren came to the capital city 30 years ago from the mineral-rich belt of Keonjhar in search of work. BJD spokesperson, senior MLA and former finance minister Sashi Bhusan Behera said: “We are always with the farmers. We have extended our moral support to the farmers. In order to ensure improvement in the livelihood of the farmers, the state government has taken up a number of welfare schemes. We are one of the first states to introduce an exclusive agriculture budget. We have passed a unanimous resolution in the Assembly for the implementation of the Swaminathan committee’s report on recommendation on implementation of the MSP and urged the Centre to implement it.” On the issue of not joining the agitation, Behera said: “We are supporting the farmers’ cause in our own way. No one can compel us to join the agitation. We do have our own action plan.” “The state government has to move cautiously. Why should we earn the wrath of the Centre? Because of our good equation with the Centre, we have so far received a good amount of assistance either be it help during the time of Cyclone Amphan or during the Covid situation. The state cannot take that risk,” said another senior BJD leader. State convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Suresh Panigrahi, said, “The BJD may be giving moral support to the farmers. But it should announce that Odisha will not implement the farm laws. They should demand repeal of the laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Rape after husband wagers wife in Bihar||A woman was allegedly gang-raped in Bihar after her husband put her at stake while gambling with his friends and lost. Later, he allegedly poured acid on his wife for resisting the atrocities while in captivity and threatening to complain to the police. Although the victim’s ordeal had started on November 2, it came to light on Sunday after she escaped from captivity and reached her parents’ place, where her relatives took her to police. An FIR was registered against her husband and five unknown persons, supposed to be his friends. The husband has been arrested, while raids are going on to arrest the other accused. “The victim approached us on Sunday after which immediate action was taken. Her husband has been arrested. We are investigating the case and trying to gather other evidence. Her medical examination has also been conducted. We will file the chargesheet quickly and request speedy trial in the case,” Bhagalpur senior superintendent of police Ashish Bharti told The Telegraph. The victim’s statement was recorded before a magistrate under Section 164 of the IPC on Monday. “I got married around 10 years ago, but was continuously tortured by my husband and in-laws for not having a baby. My husband is a habitual drinker and a gambler. He put me at stake while gambling with his friends at home on November 2 and lost. I was next blindfolded and raped by them,” the woman told reporters. The situation worsened after she threatened to complain to the police. “My husband tried to force me to drink acid. When he didn’t succeed, he poured it on my body. I was later taken to a hospital for treatment, but was asked by him to remain silent. I was treated for burn injuries and had to tell the doctors that I accidentally fell on an acid bottle,” the victim said. However, the woman got a chance to flee from the house in Hasanganj locality under Mojahidpur police station in Bhagalpur city and managed to reach her parents’ house at Lodipur Jichcho in Bhagalpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Supreme Court takes up plea against Emergency||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine “whether a simpliciter declaration that the Emergency of 1975 was unconstitutional would be feasible or desirable after a passage of 45 years” after a 94-year-old woman said she and her entire family suffered untold hardships, including the death of her husband, during the dark days. Initially reluctant to entertain the petition, a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued a notice to the Centre on the petition filed by Veera Sarin through advocate Neela Gokhale. The bench includes Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the woman, told the bench that the issue raised in the petition was a “matter of considerable importance” and contended that when the principles of abuse of constitutional power can apply to the removal of state governments and presidential proclamations, the same yardstick should also cover the issues of rights of citizens. “We rely on the Shah Commission report prima facie to say that the declaration of the Emergency was an abuse of power…. It’s important to look into this that if a situation like this ever arises, then a court can and will can look at it,” Salve submitted. Justice Kaul asked the senior counsel: “But after 45 years, is it proper to go into this issue...?” Salve said: “There are certain things in history which we have to revisit and see if correct thing was done. This is one such issue.” The bench said: “…We are finding it difficult to go into this. The Emergency was an abuse and something happened which ought not to have happened….” The senior counsel said the petitioner wanted a declaration that the Emergency was unconstitutional. “We can’t keep digging on these issues. Persons are gone today…,” Justice Kaul said. However, Salve contended that today, war crime complaints are considered and 90-year-olds hauled up for crimes. The bench asked what purpose it would serve, to which Salve said it is a matter of constitutional debate, and principles must be laid down. The court then dictated the following order: “We have heard learned senior counsel Shri Harish Salve on the subject matter with some trepidation, more so arising due to passage of time. It is his submission that the wrongs of history must be set right. “We would be disinclined to open all such aspects as there may have been wrongs done to persons but with the passage of almost 45 years, it would not be appropriate to re-open those issues. We would, however, be not disinclined to see whether a simpliciter declaration, something which is feasible or desirable after a passage of time and issue, restricted to that aspect….” The bench then adjourned the matter. In her petition, Sarin said her family had a flourishing business in gold artefacts and gems at Karol Bagh as well as at KG Marg in New Delhi.  During the Emergency, their immovable property was seized. Movable property of artefacts, gems, carpets, paintings, tusks, statues, and ivory worth crores of rupees were also seized and there has been no restitution till date. She and her husband were forced to leave the country for fear of being thrown into jail “in pursuance of unjustifiable and arbitrary detention orders issued against the petitioner’s husband”. His business was shut down and the assets were seized. Her husband succumbed to the pressure and died, the petition said. In 2014, it said, Delhi High Court had quashed the proceedings against her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||India||Year after, Jamia student struggles to cross road ||Mohammad Minhajuddin struggles to cross the road as he heads to the civil court where he practises. Rush-hour in Samastipur, Bihar, is nowhere close to even Sunday traffic in Delhi. But Minhajuddin’s field of vision is half what it was when he was a student in the capital. The 27-year-old also struggles to estimate the speed of an approaching car. His right eye tears up if he goes through legal documents on his laptop or mobile screen for too long. Minhajuddin says a police baton claimed his left eye on December 15 last year when Delhi’s law-keepers went on the rampage at Jamia Millia Islamia university, where he studied. Ostensibly, the cops were looking for violent protesters against the new citizenship regime who had allegedly torched vehicles. The boots and canes left a trail of destruction through the varsity libraries and even a place of worship, causing Rs 2.66 crore worth of damage. Minhajuddin, then doing his master’s in law, is among the students and security guards the police thrashed. He says a CRPF man hit him with a fibreglass baton as he was fleeing a reading room that stick-wielding cops had barged into, shortly after the building had been shelled with tear smoke. “Every day is a struggle. I need help to cross a road. I collide into people when I try to move fast through the crowded court premises,” he told The Telegraph. “Delhi High Court has clubbed several petitions for compensation, including mine, and is still hearing the case. We were refused even interim compensation despite a recommendation from the National Human Rights Commission (that the Delhi government compensate the injured students).” The assault has forced Minhajuddin to drop his plans to earn a PhD and practise in Delhi’s courts. The only compensation he has received so far is a cheque for Rs 5 lakh from the Delhi Wakf Board. Doctors were able to save his right eye but have ruled out an eye transplant on the left side because of nerve damage. Minhajuddin has already spent Rs 1 lakh on treatment and needs to regularly consult an ophthalmologist. “Initially, several people and NGOs promised help. Their enthusiasm lasted only a short while. Ultimately nothing came (apart from the wakf board’s assistance),” he said. “I have learnt to be patient and not depend on politicians, to be self-reliant.” Chandan Kumar, 22, who earned a BA in mass media from Jamia this year, was taken to hospital in the same ambulance with Minhajuddin. Kumar received five stitches on his head for injuries from alleged caning by policemen who had found him in the library toilet. He had hid there after the tear-smoke shelling. “This whole year has been a nightmare that never ends. I have recurring dreams of the police attacking us,” he said. Kumar, set to begin an MA course in linguistics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said he wanted punishment for the errant cops rather than compensation for himself. “Fascism came alive from a concept I had read in books to something that we as students had to endure because we were studying in a minority institution,” he said. “In my court petition, I did not seek compensation. For me, justice will be served only if the officers guilty of attacking us are punished. I’m yet to see (signs of) that happening in court so far.” Kumar, an activist of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, was named in an FIR on the Jamia violence but has not been named in the chargesheets. Two of his mobile phones have been seized, one after the other, during the four sessions of interrogation. The police have questioned him over the Jamia violence and the protests against the new citizenship regime that the force blames for the February riots that killed 53 people. The women-led agitation at Shaheen Bagh began as a reaction to the Jamia brutality. Asif Iqbal Tanha of the Students Islamic Organisation — another Jamia student-activist named in the FIR with Kumar — is in jail, waiting to be tried for his alleged role in inciting the February violence through his participation in the citizenship protests. “The result of our protest, and others that followed, is that finally, today, the government which never listened to anyone has been compelled to talk to the farmers,” Kumar said. “The protests by students, doctors and farmers have helped sustain at least a nominal democracy. Despite (the government’s supporters) calling the farmers Khalistanis who eat foreign-funded pizzas, the farmers cannot be delegitimised like we students were.” A photograph of women students shielding a man from the police’s batons at the protest march that preceded the rampage became a symbol of the resilience of the students, who continued to participate in the anti-citizenship-act protests. Aysha Renna N, an MA (modern history) student, was one of the women in the photo. “I was trolled online. Details of my family, my social media posts and my studies were made public,” she told this newspaper. “I was also criticised so much for the politics I spoke about, for asserting my identity, for praising Allah before my speeches, or wearing a scarf, that it made me more stern in my politics.” Her Facebook profile was blocked, and she moved to Twitter. “Every time I recall that incident (of the protest march in which she was hit by the police), it is traumatic and painful. But it also became an inspiration for a pan-India anti-CAA movement… and to speak out against the anti-national activities of the BJP government,” she said. Jamia has not claimed damages from the Centre, to which the Delhi police report. The university had to move court after the police refused to register an FIR on its complaint of a rampage. “We have not received anything from the court,” vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar told this newspaper. “Whatever comes your way, you have to find a way out and we have successfully done it.” In June news came that Jamia had made it to the top ten in a national-level ranking of universities. Besides, 14 of its teachers figure on an internationally peer-reviewed list of top scientists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-490
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata alleges Centre’s interference in Bengal affairs||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the Centre of interfering in the state's jurisdiction by summoning IPS officers to serve under it. Banerjee also dared the Union government to impose President's Rule in the state, lashing out at the BJP for trying to convert West Bengal into "riot-torn" Gujarat. She reiterated that BJP national president J P Nadda's convoy was not attacked and wondered why "convicted criminals" were accompanying him. "If the BJP and the central government think they can scare us by bringing in central forces and transferring state cadre officers, they are wrong. The Centre is summoning our officers... No one wanted to hurt him (Nadda) or his convoy," Banerjee said at a rally here. "Why were so many cars accompanying his convoy? Why were convicted criminals accompanying him? The goons who vandalised the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar last year were also accompanying Nadda... People get infuriated when they see such goons roaming free... I dare the Centre to impose President's Rule in Bengal," she added. Referring to a recent letter addressed to the prime minister by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy over changing the national anthem, the chief minister said the people of the state will give the party a befitting reply if it goes ahead with such a "misadventure". "They want to change the history of our country, and now the national anthem," she said. Banerjee also said refugee colonies have been recognised in West Bengal, and no one needs to fear the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Population Register. "BJP has created a new religion of riots and hatred among communities," she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb discharged from hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday, almost a week after he was admitted following breathing troubles. Bhattacharjee will however have to remain on non- invasive ventilation (BIPAP) support, undergo physiotherapy and follow restrictions on movement at home, besides sticking to a prescribed diet, doctors said. The veteran communist leader was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta on December 9 and put on mechanical ventilator support at its critical care unit, after his breathing-related problems escalated. The 76-year-old former chief minister's health parameters improved subsequently, following which doctors took the call to discharge him on Tuesday. A senior hospital official said a makeshift ICU has been set up at his home, where a critical care expert and medicine specialist will monitor his health. Bhattacharjee, the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011, has been suffering from COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other old age-related ailments for some time. He has been away from public life for the past few years due to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University offers BSc in tea science ||North Bengal University (NBU) on Monday introduced a three-year undergraduate course in tea science. So far, the varsity had been offering postgraduate and post-doctoral (PhD) courses in the field. “We have introduced tea science, which is a new subject at the undergraduate level. Those studying the course that will be taught on university campus and get a BSc degree in the subject. This is the first time that any university of the country has come up with such a course,” said Subires Bhattacharyya, the vice-chancellor of NBU. He said that the varsity now had a full course at all levels from undergraduate to post-doctoral in the course. “We expect students from different parts of Bengal and from other states to come here and join the course,” added the VC. As of now, 20 seats are available for the tea science undergraduate course. At the department, five faculty members will teach the subject, said sources. “A number of students have taken admission in the course and online classes will start from Tuesday,” said a faculty member. Along with Bhattacharyya, state tourism minister Gautam Deb, director (research & quality control) of the Tea Board Biswajit Bera, faculty members and students who have taken admission in the course were present at an event hosted by the varsity to launch the course. Pranab Ghosh, a former head of the department of tea science, said students studying the subject would have job opportunities in the tea industry. “Those finishing the course can find jobs in tea estates. It is a job-oriented course and there is scope for higher studies (in the subject) under one roof,” said Ghosh. The minister appreciated the varsity for introducing this new course. “NBU is one of the best universities in north Bengal. It has been conducting research work on tea which can help the industry that is considered one of the principal employment providers of the region,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP toiling to win 50 seats in north: Dilip Ghosh||State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Monday that the party would pull out all stops to win 50 seats in north Bengal in the next Assembly elections. The BJP had won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats and secured lead in 38 Assembly segments in the 2019 general election. “In north Bengal, we will win 50 Assembly seats. Our leaders and workers at different tiers are toiling to ensure the party’s victory in these seats. People of the region had extended overwhelming support to us in 2019. We had won seven Lok Sabha seats and missed the eighth by a meagre margin,” said Dilip Ghosh. There are 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. Ghosh, who is touring north Bengal, attended an interactive programme at Gangarampur in South Dinajpur on Monday morning. Later, he addressed a public meeting in Patiram, on the outskirts of Balurghat. Over 100 workers from other political parties joined the BJP at the event, claimed party leaders. Speaking at the meeting, the BJP state chief said his party didn’t want imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution in Bengal. “We feel the imposition of the article will benefit the BJP….. it is not our party but Mamata Banerjee who wants it. Nowadays, she is trying to gain people’s sympathy but such tactics will not work,” said Ghosh. That the BJP is focussing on north Bengal is evident from a series of activities the party undertook in the region in recent times. Last month, a series of internal meetings were held in Siliguri where new posts were created to monitor political activities and assess the situation, right up to the booth level. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu also spoke at the Patiram meeting. The chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri on Monday sought the post-mortem report of BJP supporter Ulen Roy from police. Roy had died from pellet injuries on December 7 after a clash had broken out in Siliguri during a protest march by the BJP. “The court said the post-mortem report should be placed before it on Tuesday,” said Soujit Singha, the lawyer representing the deceased man’s family. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Villagers block road for erosion guard wall in Kalyani||Over a thousand villagers from eight villages in Kalyani’s Sarati panchayat on Monday launched an “indefinite” demonstration to protest alleged administrative apathy in starting the construction of a permanent guard wall to prevent the erosion of the Hooghly river embankment. Villagers formed the Ganga Bhangan Pratirodh Committee, an apolitical platform, and under its banner also blocked the Kalyani-Ranaghat state highway at Ishwaripur near Kalyani town, suspending traffic for about 10 hours. Protesters sought “immediate commencement” of construction of a permanent guard wall (also called a protective dam), compensation and rehabilitation of about 40 families who recently lost homes and farmlands to erosion. The blockade was withdrawn for the day at  6pm after district officials said the matter would be looked into. Villagers, however, said their demonstration against apathy would go on till work on the 950m guard wall from Roydanga village started, adding that was a promise made last year by the administration. In south Bengal, many areas adjacent to rivers like Hooghly, Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia are affected by erosion of the river embankment, attributed to the obstruction of the river’s natural flow caused by the Farakka Barrage. This erosion, which started in the early 60s with the barrage project, is now termed a “long-term natural disaster” to which both the Centre and state have found no permanent solution. Sukur Ali Mondal, joint convener of the villagers’ platform, said: “Erosion eats up our homes and farms every day and our suffering is deepened by the cavalier attitude of the administration.” SDO Kalyani Hirak Mondal said the irrigation department’s proposed 950m wall was waiting for the finance department’s approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP play infrastructure card in north Bengal ||Trinamul and BJP leaders in north Bengal seem to be running a race to tom-tom state and central infrastructure projects, respectively, on their campaigns ahead of the Assembly election scheduled next summer. Both sides are gathering information on infrastructure projects particularly those related to road and railway connectivity in north Bengal to prove to the electorate that they have taken major initiatives for the region, which is traditionally perceived as “neglected”. “In another three days, north Bengal will witness a historic development by way of rail connectivity, as on December 17, the Haldibari-Chilahati (in Bangladesh) railway route would be reopened. The central government has made it possible for the project to come true and after a gap of 55 years (the route had closed in 1965), train connectivity between Bangladesh and the region will resume,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a prominent BJP leader of the area. The BJP, party insiders said, will also highlight the second rail bridge that has come up over the Teesta river along the principal rail route that moves through north Bengal and connects the northeast with the rest of the country. The bridge is likely to be commissioned in January next year. The saffron party, which is banking on the north Bengal electorate and has iterated its target of winning 50 of the 44 Assembly seats from the region, will also talk about the second bridge coming up over the Ganga at Farakka, the second bridge over Teesta along NH27 near Jalpaiguri that has been recently commissioned and two bypasses which are under construction in Islampur and Dalkhola of South Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders of the region are also not sitting back. Bengal’s ruling party is eyeing the new Joyee bridge that the state government is building over Teesta to connect Haldibari with Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. “The bridge is likely to be opened next month. Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee has always focussed on infrastructure development and once this bridge is made operational, road connectivity between north Bengal and northeast will improve greatly. Also, export and import from north Bengal districts, the northeast and Bhutan to Bangladesh will get a boost, particularly after reopening of the new rail route to the neighbouring country,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a district Trinamul leader in Jalpaiguri. Trinamul also intends to mention that it is the state government that has cleared the decks for expansion of Bagdogra airport by providing the required land to the Centre, said sources. They would also point out that it is because of Mamata that the two Asian Highways (II and 48) have come up in north Bengal. “The central government, on the other hand, has failed to finish the four-laning of NH27, the principal highway that connects northeast, in the region even though the project started almost two decades ago,” a Trinamul leader said. Political analysts from the region said that the infrastructure card would be played by both Trinamul and BJP, along with a host of other issues, in the campaign. “It would be exciting to see whether by highlighting new projects whether BJP manages to retain its support it had garnered in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls or whether Trinamul manages to revive its base,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
15-12-2020||West Bengal||GNLF team off to Delhi to meet Amit Shah||A three-member delegation of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) left for Delhi on Monday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders. Sources in the hill party said the purpose of the visit was to discuss the permanent political solution of the hills, an issue time and again flagged by hill parties. The delegation of party president Mann Ghising, general secretary Mahendra Chhetri and Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba who had won on a BJP ticket at the 2019 bypolls, left for Delhi after a call from the Union home ministry. “We received a call from the Union home ministry on Monday and were told that a meeting would be held in Delhi. It seems that the Union home minister will be present but are yet to know other details like the agenda and venue,” said Chhetri. “We would, however, hold talks only on the issue of permanent political solution and not any other issue,” he added. The delegation’s trip to Delhi follows Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Trinamul. Gurung was an ally of the BJP since 2009. In last year’s Lok Sabha polls, GNLF joined hands with the BJP and also fielded Zimba as a BJP candidate in the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. However, for the past few months, GNLF leaders have spoken against the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and questioned the Centre’s silence to address key demands of the hills. A political observer said Gurung parting ways with the BJP had been a setback for the saffron camp in the hills and it urgency to continue its ties with the GNLF was greater. So far, the BJP won hill polls piggybacking on hill parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to skip Matua bastion, CAA hand seen||The BJP has said Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar during his two-day Bengal tour was cancelled. BJP sources said the cancellation of the visit suggested that the Centre was not yet ready to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act, a major demand of the Matuas. Instead of Thakurnagar in the Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency, Shah will go to West Midnapore on the Day 1 of his Bengal tour from December 19. “Amitji is coming (to Bengal) as scheduled but the plan to visit Thakurnagar has been changed. He will visit West Midnapore to take stock of the party’s organisation in the Midnapore zone,” said state BJP vice-president Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, who is also the in-charge of the party’s Nabadwip zone, under which the Bongaon parliamentary constituency falls. “Amitji will visit the Nabadwip zone later,” he added. Although Roy Chowdhury didn’t elaborate on the replacement of Thakurnagar with East Midnapore, multiple sources in the BJP said the sudden change in Shah’s itinerary was significant. Several BJP leaders, including state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, had earlier said Shah would visit Thakurnagar to address the concerns of the Matuas as discontent was brewing in the community over the delay in the implementation of the CAA. BJP’s Bengal minder and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya had visited Thakurnagar last week and met local party MP Santanu Thakur to draw up the details of Shah’s programme amid a buzz in the saffron camp that the Union home minister would make some announcements on the implementation of the CAA during his coming tour. “It seems the Centre is not yet ready to implement the CAA and hence, Amitji is not visiting Thakurnagar,” a source in the BJP said while adding that the plan to drop Thakurnagar from Shah’s itinerary would hurt the party. “The Matuas are already unhappy with us over the delay in framing of the CAA rules. Sensing an opportunity to woo the Matuas back, Mamata Banerjee had recently visited Bongaon and met representatives of the community,” said a BJP insider. A section of the Matua Mahasangha has held Santanu Thakur responsible for the change in Shah’s plan. “The MP is not protecting the interests of the community,” said a Matua leader. The grumbling in the community over the cancellation of Shah’s visit prompted Prasenjit Bose, convenor of Joint Forum Against NRC, to remind Matua leaders that the citizenship issue was being dangled before them only as a carrot. “The Matua leadership must understand that the BJP is only using them as a vote box,” said Bose, whose organisation held several meetings with the Matua leadership on the citizenship issue. Shah’s plan to visit Midnapore has also led to speculation in the BJP about the possible reason. “There is a rumour that some senior Trinamul leaders in the Midnapore region will join the BJP during Amitji’s visit,” a source said. However, MP and state BJP general secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who held a preparatory meeting with party workers at Kharagpore in East Midnapore on Monday over Shah’s visit, rejected all speculations. “Both Thakurnagar and Midnapore were options in hand and we zeroed in on the latter,” Mahato said. “Amitji will visit freedom fighter Khudiram Bose’s house here (in Midnapore) and will have lunch at a farmer’s house. He will also meet BJP workers on December 19.” Sources said offices were being set up for each leader in charge of five BJP organisational zones in Bengal. “These leaders will stay in the respective zones they have been assigned till the Assembly elections are over and hence, they will need work space,” said a BJP leader. Sunil Bansal, the general secretary (organisation) of Uttar Pradesh, who oversees the Calcutta zone will have his office at the state BJP headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in the city. Pawan Rana, Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya and Ravinder Raju will have their offices in Midnapore, Nabadweep and Burdwan zones, respectively. Ratnakar, the joint general secretary (organisation) of Bihar, will have his office in the north Bengal zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA needles Bengal governement on ‘denial’ of funds||Jitendra Tiwari, Trinamul Congress MLA from Pandaveswar and chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, has fired off a letter to Bengal urban development minister Firhad Hakim, saying the city lost out on central funds because of the state government’s refusal to be part of the Smart City Mission for “political reasons”. The letter from Tiwari is an embarrassment for the Mamata Banerjee dispensation at a time the Union government is accusing Nabanna of denying people of Bengal the benefits of central schemes like Ayushman Bharat, a health insurance scheme. “I am grieved to state that our city was chosen by the ministry of Urban Development, Government of India under the Smart City Mission Project which if would have been allowed by you our city could have received funds amounting Rs 2,000 crore… But due to political reasons we were not allowed to get the benefits of this project by the State Government,” Tiwari wrote. He also mentioned in his letter that Asansol could have received another Rs 1,500 crore under the Centre’s solid waste management project had the urban development department allowed. The letter has left the ruling establishment in the state in an uncomfortable situation as Tiwari has raised questions about the policies of his party’s government. Several Trinamul insiders said the letter would help the BJP launch another round of offensive against the state government. “The BJP has been asking why the state did not join central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana... Now, if a Trinamul MLA raises similar questions, it is definitely uncomfortable for the party,” a Trinamul insider said. In 2016, the chief minister had announced that Bengal would not join the Centre’s Smart City Project, saying the state had to pay more for the project and it only focused on a particular city or area. “We will develop all cities and towns as smart cities,” the chief minister had announced then. Minister Hakim said in Calcutta on Monday that he had spoken to Tiwari on various issues over the past few months but he had never talked about the Smart City Mission. “Government’s policy is framed in the Assembly and he is a part of it. I guess some people are misleading him. The chief minister said that her focus was to develop all towns as smart cities and we are working on it,” said Hakim. The ruling party has got into a damage control exercise as Hakim is set to hold a meeting with Tiwari in Calcutta on Tuesday where poll strategist Prasant Kishore is also likely to be present. BJP’s Asansol MP and junior Union minister, Babul Supriyo, said: “I may have political differences with Tiwari but I must say thank you to him for gathering courage to bring out the fact in public.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers block highway over ‘unfair trade’ in Malda||Hundreds of paddy farmers blocked NH512 that connects Malda and South Dinajpur on Monday morning, alleging irregularities at the state-run paddy procurement centre of the Kisan Mandi in Malda’s Gazole. Farmers of Gazole, one of the largest paddy producing blocks of Malda, alleged that only one counter of the paddy procurement camp of the Kisan Mandi was open, which slowed the process of selling paddy. This deprived many of minimum support price (MSP) and helped middlemen thrive, they alleged. At a time farmers are protesting in Delhi against farm laws that allegedly removed the MSP buffer, this agitation shed light on challenges that growers have to face even outside of the laws. Farmers’ fronts of the Left and Congress jumped into the fray, opening a toll plaza on NH12 near the NH512 to enable vehicles to go through without paying tax. Police had to go to the spot to control the agitation. The situation became normal by afternoon. Farmers like Sunil Baskey, Dibakar Sarkar, Mamud Hassan and Akhtar Hossain said  the single counter had delayed the whole process of trade and affected their income. “Last week, we had to take back our produce home as there was a long queue (at the single mandi counter). This week, the situation was the same. It deterred us from getting MSP. We were asked to come after two or three months. Frustrated with this delay, many farmers were forced to sell their paddy in the open market at a much lower price,” said Hassan. Another farmer alleged that as MSP for paddy was higher in Bengal than neighbouring states, some middlemen procured paddy from Bihar, brought it to the mandi and sold it there for a tidy profit. “They are running a syndicate while genuine farmers like us are getting deprived (of a fair price),” said Sunil. Malda DM Rajarshi Mitra said some people were trying to foil the aim of the (paddy procurement) camp for vested interests. “We will open another procurement centre by Friday,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung stand worries TMC||Several Trinamul Congress functionaries apparently told Mamata Banerjee on Monday that Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s stand of extending support to the ruling party on one hand and demanding a separate state on the other could be detrimental to its prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls. The chief minister reached here on Monday afternoon for a three-day north Bengal tour and then held a series of meetings with Trinamul leaders and senior Jalpaiguri district administration officials. “Bimal Gurung has been reasserting the demand for Gorkhaland at his public meetings. This has left our local leaders and workers perturbed as people have started raising questions. We have passed on the feedback to our senior leadership that even a section of our workers is feeling disgruntled because of Gurung’s comments,” said a Trinamul source. Gurung, who had resurfaced in Calcutta in October after a gap of three-and-a-half years, had announced that he was severing ties with the BJP and would support Mamata Banerjee and her party in the 2021 Assembly elections. Last week, the Morcha leader reached Siliguri and addressed a public meeting in the city. On Sunday (December 13), he spoke at another meeting in Birpara, Alipurduar. At both his meetings, the Morcha leader tried to drive home the point that even though he was supporting Trinamul, he would continue to press for Gorkhaland, a demand that is staunchly opposed by Mamata and Trinamul. A number of Trinamul leaders based in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts said they couldn’t ignore the strong anti-Gorkhaland sentiment in the Terai and the Dooars. “Trinamul workers have pointed out that resentment is brewing among people who ask how the party can get Bimal Gurung on board when it is against Gorkhaland? He has compulsions and can never drop the demand. We are also confused whether it would be apt to take up joint political programmes with him in the coming days,” said a Trinamul leader. State tourism minister Gautam Deb who was among Trinamul leaders who called on Mamata at the PWD bungalow here, said they wanted to move together to ensure peace and development in the Darjeeling hills. “The state government and our party have a clear stand on the issue (of separate statehood). All we want is to walk together so that peace prevails in the hills and the Dooars and they develop. On Monday afternoon, the chief minister arrived in Bagdogra and took a chopper to Jalpaiguri. On Tuesday, she will head for Cooch Behar where she will speak at a public rally on Wednesday. A three-member delegation of the Gorkha National Liberation Front left for Delhi on Monday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders. Sources in the GNLF said the purpose of the visit was to discuss the “permanent political solution” of the hills, an issue time and again flagged by hill parties. The delegation of party president Mann Ghising, general secretary Mahendra Chhetri and Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba who had won on a BJP ticket in the 2019 bypolls, left for Delhi after a call from the Union home ministry. “We received a call from the Union home ministry on Monday and were told that a meeting would be held in Delhi. It seems that the Union home minister will be present but are yet to know other details like the agenda and venue,” said Chhetri. “We would, however, hold talks only on the issue of permanent political solution and not any other issue,” he added. Additional repoorting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Biggest dip yet in active cases but fewer tests||Bengal on Monday recorded the sharpest drop by 1,189 in total active Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic, as the total fell to 21,384, back almost to where it was on August 2, 134 days ago. However, the number of tests conducted was 31,671, considerably less than the 42,000-45,000 conducted on an average every day. The state’s recovery rate, which has risen for 53 consecutive days, went past the landmark of 94 per cent, to touch 94.18. The national rate now is 95.05 per cent. With 1,834 new Covid-19 infections, Bengal also reported eight consecutive days of less than 3,000 new cases. The state also logged 2,980 recoveries and 43 deaths on Monday, including 16 from Calcutta. The total active cases showed a decline for the 49th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “On Dashami, the total active cases in Bengal were 37,190. In these 49 days, it has gone down by 15,806. That’s an improvement of 42.5 per cent. At this stage of the pandemic, that is highly commendable,” said a minister. In these 49 days, the state has recorded over 1.83 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.69 lakh new cases found. The state now has over 5.23 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.93 lakh recoveries and 9,100 deaths. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.73 per cent, still lagging behind the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the total deaths in Bengal in the pandemic, 7,634 or 83.9 per cent have been attributed to comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renal problems, by the state government. Calcutta High Court had intervened with a set of instructions against overcrowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over the festivities of Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state is now hoping that the upcoming Christmas-New Year spell of revelries do not result in a further spike in infections. At this point, the state’s total test count is 64.55 lakh, at 71,724 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests done — is 8.11, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 of November 20. Bengal also reported 20.89 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic and over 5.29 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||West Bengal||Rampage by stray horses halt winter cultivation in Suri||For months now, farmers from a cluster of villages in Suri, Birbhum district, have borne the brunt of horseplay. At least 300 farmers of Balijuri, Meje, Banskathi and other neighbouring villages on Monday wrote to the local police station and the block development officer that they had been run roughshod by a group of seven stray horses. The rampage of the horses since June has compelled farmers to put a halt to winter cultivation. Officials must capture and tame the horses, the letter said. The villagers insisted that the authorities identify the owners of those horses which had been munching on their crops and running amok on their farms. The horses seem to have been “let loose” by their owners to save on feeding expenses during the lockdown, the residents unanimously say. “This is an agriculturally rich area, and animals have no business wreaking havoc here, especially when they have private owners. Panchayat authorities need to step in immediately or there will neither be any winter produce nor income for this area,” said Binaj Mondal, a farmer from Meje. Mondal added that the number of farmers ready to stop winter cultivation was around 1,000, far more than the 300 who wrote to the police and the BDO about the horses. “These horses were first spotted grazing by a pond near Balijuri. We did not pay them heed initially but within a few days, when they finished all the grass by the pond, they were all over our crop fields wreaking havoc,” said farmer Bappa Das Baishnav, who owns and cultivates 3.5 acres of land. “Now we are on the verge of giving up on winter cultivation altogether, because aside from eating our paddy, onions and other vegetables, these horses seem intent on trampling the fields, playing strange games among themselves and even encroaching on our stockpile areas at night,” he added. The farmer added that over 1,000 acres of cultivable land had been affected by all the horsing around. The horses seemed to go without sleep at nights as well. “We hear them whinnying and thumping their hooves late into the night. It is strange. One time I saw a horse scratching its back against a crop cluster as a dog would do,” added another farmer. Asked, panchayat officials said they had begun a search for the horses’ rightful owners but had been unsuccessful so far. “We don’t know from where the animals came. We have visited at least a dozen neighbouring villages to search for the owners, but to no avail,” said Munmun Ghosh, chief of the Balijuri gram panchayat. Block officials claimed they had already contacted forest officials, requesting them to tame the animals, but were told that horses didn’t belong to the “wild” animal category. “Foresters refused the responsibility point blank,” said Aniruddha Roy, the block development officer of Dubrajpur. “Now, we have requested the police to help us in this regard. Villagers can’t catch running horses. We have also asked the local gram panchayat to campaign in adjoining villages in case anyone is interested in taking the animals away,” Roy added. A police officer in Dubrajpur police station added that they did get the mass petition from villagers on the taming the horses. “But what can we do with those animals even if we capture them?” he asked quizzically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-275
15-12-2020||North East||Day after BTC poll result, vocal Assam Congress leader quits||The Opposition Congress lacks the seriousness and the strategy required to take on the ruling BJP in the state, according to Kamal Kumar Medhi, who quit the Assam PCC on Monday. In his resignation letter to PCC president Ripun Bora, Medhi, who was heading the state unit’s RTI department and was also one of its most visible spokespersons, cited “various political reasons” to leave the party. Medhi’s departure comes a day after the result of the Bodoland Territorial Council threw up a hung house with the Congress putting up another disappointing show, winning only a single seat despite contesting on 13 in alliance with the AIUDF, which fought on seven seats, a tie-up most in the party feel will cost it dear. However, the lone Congress winner in the BTC polls, Sajal Kumar Singha from Srirampur constituency, too has shifted his allegiance to the BJP. The Congress responded by expelling him for anti-party activities. The anti-defection law does not apply in the council formed under the Sixth Schedule. Medhi told The Telegraph: “I joined the Congress in June 2018 because it was the only party which could take on the BJP. I could have also joined the BJP, which was in power both in Delhi and Dispur. However, after over two years, I feel the Congress is not serious about fighting the BJP. It also has no strategy.” These reasons are something most PCC office-bearers admit in private given the party’s freefall in the state since the BJP unseated it in 2016 after 15 years of uninterrupted reign under the chief ministership of Tarun Gogoi, who passed away in November due to post-Covid complications. The former Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (a peasant organisation) leader also said he will be now joining one of the regional forces such as the Raijor Dal or the Assam Jatiya Parishad floated to take on the BJP. “We may win or we may lose but I am sure we will be in the contest. My objective is to unite the regional forces, something the Congress too should try before the 2021 Assembly elections,” he said. A section of Congress insiders said Medhi’s departure would not impact the party because such exits are routine before elections and when the party is in the Opposition but they did not dismiss the reasons cited by Medhi to leave the party. “It is true our electoral fortunes have dipped. People are unhappy with the BJP but the Congress is not being seen as an alternative. We need to be more cohesive and convincing as a unit. We need few faces who could connect with the masses, a political narrative promising hope. If these things are not fixed as soon as possible we don’t stand a chance, forget about putting up a fight,” a PCC general secretary told this newspaper. However, there were others such as Assam PCC general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma. Refuting Medhi’s contention, she asserted that the party has been working on the ground. She cited the party’s outreach during the ongoing Covid crisis or collecting 20 lakh signatures to oppose the Citizenship Amendment Act. “We don’t know what he meant by strategy. If strategy is poaching people from other parties or betraying allies or dividing people along religious lines like the BJP does, we have no such strategy,” Sharma said. Congress legislator Rupjyoti Kurmi has told a media house that the state leadership should learn its lessons from the BTC debacle which he attributed to its tie-up with the AIUDF, which failed to open its account. Kurmi said he has always opposed the alliance and will continue to oppose it. “The Congress has once again been reduced to zero and this has a lot to do with the wrong selection of candidates. We will be reduced to single digit in the next Assembly polls if this drift continues,” a Congress insider rued, referring to Monday’s defection to the BJP. Owing to reservations over the alliance issue, AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, has said the central leadership will take a call on whether there will be any tie-up with the AIUDF in the Assembly polls early next year. Singh is expected to visit Guwahati after December 20, sources said. “Time is running out. The AICC has to take some concrete and effective steps by this month,” one of them said. The new council will be formed on Tuesday morning in Kokrajhar after the Raj Bhavan accepted the claim of the “majority” three-party “post-election coalition” of the BJP, United People’s Party Liberal and Gana Suraksha Party under the leadership of Pramod Boro of the UPPL. As many as five BTC members will be sworn in on Tuesday. However, the Bodoland People’s Front, which emerged as the single largest party winning 17 out of 40 seats, has decided to legally contest governor Jagdish Mukhi’s decision to invite the coalition instead of the BPF to form the council. “We too had staked our claim on Sunday and sought seven days’ time to prove our strength. Going by tradition, we should have been invited to form the council. Had we failed, the coalition could have been invited,” said BPF general secretary Prabeen Baro. The BPF had been ruling the council since 2003. The first election was held in 2005.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
15-12-2020||Opinion||Climate cloud: Paris pact and more||Five years are enough to compile a report card on global action to mitigate climate change. The legally binding climate pact in Paris was adopted by as many as 196 countries in December 2015; it is, therefore, important to underline the silver linings — if any — without taking eyes off the darkening clouds. There is cause for some optimism. The United States of America is set to re-enter the pact under a new president and this welcome move, given the US’s resources and technological capital, it can be hoped, would bolster concrete policy interventions. India has been among the handful of performers: the Climate Change Performance Index, which assesses performance on the basis of the directives established in the Paris agreement, ranked India among the top 10 countries. A report by the United Nations Environment Programme has found that carbon dioxide emissions are expected to fall by 7 per cent globally this year. But that is where the good news ends; the planet’s prognosis remains grim. The expected decrease in carbon emission in 2020 is more the result of Covid-19-induced reductions in industrial activity than meaningful climate action; the first three positions in the CCPI were left blank since none of the nations managed to meet the target goals that are, incidentally, voluntary; scientists predict that the world is headed towards a three degree Celsius rise in temperature, far above the permissible levels of sustenance. There is bad news for India too. In spite of its efforts — the prime minister assured recently that the country will exceed its climate goals — a report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water found that 75 per cent of the nation’s districts, home to over 60 crore people, are likely to experience extreme climatic events. The paucity of funds, creaky infrastructure and the spectre of the displacement of thousands of climate refugees would make it nearly impossible for India to contain the crisis on its own. International cooperation, however, is unlikely to materialize soon. That is because global climate negotiations remain hobbled by the failure of the international fraternity to arrive at a consensus on a number of prickly issues. Financing the climate actions of developing nations, the transfer of technology from wealthy nations for the purpose as well as the latter’s stubbornness in accepting their disproportionate share of responsibilities are some of the areas of contention. The planet and its species are feeling the heat for this criminal apathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||Noble flights: a new parliament||Foundation stones are being laid at the drop of a hat throughout the people’s struggle with a pandemic and its fallout. Recently, the prime minister laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament complex, a project so deeply etched into an imagined history of the future that Narendra Modi refused to delay it amid countrywide distress, unemployment, a struggling healthcare system, an economic crisis, the Opposition’s objections and the Supreme Court’s caution. Also, just when thousands of farmers are walking to Delhi in protest against the new farm laws, bludgeoned through Parliament — the old building — like many other legislations since 2014. As Mr Modi perorated nobly on democracy while inaugurating a project that will cost crores of public money to complete, a glance back toward the earlier stone-laying ceremony may seem relevant. Then the prime minister inaugurated the building of a Ram temple in place of the destroyed Babri Masjid. Democratic ideals are being re-laid, perhaps? Different views empower India’s vibrant democracy, according to Mr Modi’s speech. In case sceptics felt that this represented a greater than usual disconnect from reality even for the prime minister with the prisons overflowing with protesters and activists jailed for sedition, terrorist activities and so on, Mr Modi carefully established that India was democratic in its soul: for Indians, democracy was a way of living. For example, not only ancient texts but various kingdoms, too, exhibited democratic principles — one being called a republic, another evolving the notion of the panchayat while words such as samiti and sabha were in use even then. It was hardly surprising that Mr Modi’s elevating speech should remind listeners that these India-born practices and texts predated the Magna Carta and Western ideals of democracy, and that it was an irony of the times that India’s democracy should now be assessed through a Western prism. This approach to democracy is not just patriotically energizing, it is comfortable too. It quietly removes India’s so-called democratic markers — such as Mr Modi’s claim that here differences are resolved through governance — neatly out of critical scrutiny. As a Parliament is built to celebrate this unique democracy, the prime minister’s promise, that the world will see India as the mother of democracy, may come true. The fate of the mother in India is traditionally tragic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||One pandemic unmasking another||Amidst the great excitement around the phase-three trials of a number of vaccines throughout the world as well as in India, we must not forget what this new tiny spiky virus has taught us about ourselves over the last one year. Covid-19 has already claimed more than 1.5 million lives worldwide out of more than 67 million registered cases. The global case fatality rate is hovering around 2.3 per cent. India has registered close to 140,000 deaths out of close to 10 million cases. Yes, the case fatality rate in India is indubitably much lower -- around 1.5 per cent as compared to the global data. A number of causal conjectures have been laid out and are being explored by scientists, mostly based on the age-old “hygiene hypothesis”, which says a life history replete with exposure to a variety of infectious agents makes the immune system more efficient in dealing with new infections -- the so-called “trained immunity”. The sub-tropical biodiversity as well as a social life closer to nature compared to the West are also being explored as plausible explanations. This is definitely good news for us Indians. But there is also some bad news lurking as we delve deeper into the details of those who are dying of the coronavirus and of those who are at a higher risk of contracting it. Why do people die from Covid-19 and to what extent is the virus itself responsible for these untoward outcomes? The symptoms that patients who were able to realise they had come down with Covid presented at clinics around the world have led to the description of this disease in two distinct phases. Most of the symptomatic patients suffer from mild flu-like symptoms with fever, malaise or at times brief episodes of diarrhoea, followed by uneventful recoveries. Physicians have named this “mild Covid.” Some patients progress to the second phase of the disease, a more severe one, in which their lungs fail to deliver sufficient oxygen to the circulation, leading to falling oxygen saturation levels in the blood. As a result, most of these patients feel distressing shortness of breath and require immediate oxygen therapy. An even more dangerous situation arises in some patients as they never feel any drop in their oxygen saturation levels. Doctors have termed this condition “happy hypoxia”. Unless oxygen saturation in the blood is measured, for example, using a finger-clip device called a pulse oximeter, this cannot be detected until very late. This acute respiratory distress syndrome is what precedes most of the fatal outcomes in Covid-19 and this later phase of the disease is referred to as severe Covid. Research done in different parts of the world has also made it clear that severe Covid is less due to the viral load the patient is carrying. It stems more from aberrant hyperactivity of the immune system, which was no doubt triggered by the infection but creates problems more due to dysfunctional braking mechanisms. Continued activation of the immune system leads to a sustained flood of proteins called cytokines in the circulation that drives organ damage. This phenomenon is frequently referred to as the “cytokine storm”. But returning to the question of how much the virus is responsible for sustaining this “cytokine storm,” it’s assumed to be to a far lesser extent than factors associated with the host body. In other words, the infected individuals who develop this severe form of Covid more often seem to have pre-existing conditions that predispose them to it. What are the discernible characteristics of such predispositions? It is reported from large studies that people with pre-existing medical conditions (or co-morbidities), like chronic lung diseases, obesity, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, chronic kidney diseases, chronic liver diseases and type 2 diabetes, are over-represented among patients who develop severe Covid. Those factors linked most consistently to worse outcomes have been obesity, type 2 diabetes and hypertension. These observations started coming in from China right at the start of the epidemic. One report from Tongji Hospital in Wuhan recorded almost one-in-four of severe Covid patients were diabetic. And it held true for all countries as the epidemic touched them. In Italy, diabetes had been the second most common co-morbidity associated with death -- one-in-three -- after hypertension. France’s CORONADO study which only studied diabetic patients with Covid found that more than one in five of them required ventilator support and more than one in ten died. If we now go back to the issue of the lower case fatality rate recorded in most south Asian countries, it’s been argued that a large part of this can be explained by demographic characteristics. These countries have a much higher proportion of younger individuals in the population compared to the West. Now if we consider the comorbidity situation in India, our experience has not been much different. More importantly, possibly, is the fact that the number of severe Covid patients having pre-existing metabolic co-morbidities is much higher. Our own experience, taking a rather small cohort of patients while working in a single centre in eastern India in a plasma therapy trial, was the finding that almost one-in-two severe Covid patients had diabetes. This tells you that in the absence of pre-existing ailments, the Indian case fatality rate perhaps could have been even lower. Over the past few decades, India has been experiencing a steadily progressing prevalence of non-communicable diseases, especially diabetes. More importantly in contrast to the West, where obesity is more often associated with the development of type 2 diabetes, in this part of the world non-obese individuals are also affected by this condition in large numbers. Several population-level studies over the past few years have shown this and it is also evident from the National Family Health Survey data. Regular personal physical health check-ups are not usual for most of the Indian citizens so the absence of any physical appearance usually thought to be associated with diabetes, such as obesity, also precludes early diagnosis. Thus, we’re also experiencing a silent epidemic of diabetes in the country, as for a large number of people, the first diagnosis leading to the start of medical therapy has to wait till some of the later complications are noted. In a large number of severe Covid cases, diagnosis of high blood sugar or hyperglycemia came as a coincidental finding, with the patients having no prior knowledge of having diabetes. It is true that there have been propositions about de novo incidence of hyperglycemia associated with the virus infection or due to corticosteroid therapy. But these factors only apply to a handful of patients. A large number of patients, apparently healthy in terms of chronic diseases, only came into contact with the medical system due to Covid. It turns out that this pandemic is revealing a number of pre-existing medical conditions, most often type 2 diabetes, that had been unattended until now. A number of these patients are progressing to severe Covid as expected from the already established susceptibility. In addition to the menace of “happy hypoxia” which is delaying medical attention, this ignorance about pre-existing co-morbidities is also playing a big role in the fatalities that could be otherwise prevented if the patients had known before being diagnosed with Covid. It took a viral pandemic to unmask another silent one and it's time we pay heed to that. Covid is not the first infection that makes diabetics more susceptible. Rather, the susceptibility here is of a different sort, leading to hyperactivation of the immune system. Diabetics are known to have a weaker immune system and, thus, higher susceptibility to infections. For example, diabetics have been a major victim of another, much longer-standing pandemic, that of tuberculosis. A number of questions remain unanswered though. One relates to why the immune system suffers in diabetics and if ways can be found for an “a priori” assessment so that diabetics who are more susceptible to immune dysfunctions can be detected. This needs support for focused scientific studies. On the other hand, in the public health domain, greater efforts should be made to screen the population for diabetes much before complications arise. This would be another very critical tool in being prepared for other epidemics that we may have to face in the future. Dipyaman Ganguly is a physician-scientist and immunologist working in CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta and is actively engaged in studying Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||The only option: farmers' protest||Let’s understand the chronology: before the 2014 general elections, Narendra Modi promised farmers that he would comply with the Swaminathan Commission formula to arrive at a minimum support price for farm produce: a 50 per cent profit over the production cost. Post elections, he reneged on the promise and buried it. In 2016, he dangled a new carrot: that his government shall double farmers’ income by 2022. Four years on, there is no mention of it or any sign of it coming to fruition. We are two years away from the deadline. Farmers’ incomes are stagnant or dipping. Then on Diwali in 2016 came the ‘reform of all reforms’: note-bandi, or demonetization, crushed peasants when their kharif produce arrived in the markets. Their economy lay in tatters while the prime minister sang paeans to his ‘master stroke’, building a perception that it would address the problem of black money. Today, neither the prime minister nor his cabinet ministers speak about the reform that crippled the economy and broke the back of the peasantry. In between, a series of policy measures opened up the farm sector for private plunder, including the three laws that the Modi regime unveiled at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, thinking that the peasantry will not be able to put up a resistance to them. The new laws came after the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, announced a series of measures called ‘impetus’ that even she does not talk about four months on. It must be recalled that she had described her 2019 and 2020 budgets as farmer friendly. Yet, hundreds of farmers across the country are up in arms against the Centre. This is because farmers now understand the Modi regime better. For six years, they have been hearing grand announcements that are no more than a mirage. Not only did the regime not deliver on its promises to the farmers, but it has rummaged through whatever little architecture existed in its support. The fixation to do away with middlemen as though they are thugs and the mandis or markets as though they were a bottleneck is ridiculous because both are essential for the farm-to-fork journey. The Modi government did not consult farmers or their unions, state governments or Opposition parties while ratifying the three laws. It was in line with the prime minister’s style of governance: take decisions first and ask people to ratify them ‘in the nation’s interest’ post facto. The laws and a string of policy measures alarmed the farmers, particularly those in Punjab and Haryana. Back in the 1970s, a simple but robust three-pillar formula ushered Punjab and Haryana into the Green Revolution: quality inputs, assured price and guaranteed timely procurement. It worked for three decades until yields stagnated, global markets ravaged local markets, governments steadily withdrew from the farm sector, developed world subsidies bulldozed our small and marginal farmers and an unprecedented agrarian distress enveloped the countryside. Since then, a new deal has eluded the country’s rural-farm sector. Year on year, consumers get cheap food and profits go to market players while risks and losses are borne by farmers. We flittered over temporary relief measures — compensation packages, loan waivers, insurance schemes and so on. We opened markets for some crops and kept them closed for others. We tried floating an evergreen revolution, some missions to reform the sector, created e-markets, and set up infrastructure funds. But our structural problem — small and marginal rain-fed sustenance farms, over 80 per cent of India’s agriculture sector — remains unaddressed. In a world plagued by economic and social uncertainties, farmers are rattled by the harvest of falsehoods being dished out to them by the Centre amid a long running agrarian crisis. A sincere dialogue could have assuaged their fears. But when dialogue ends, protests are the only option.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
15-12-2020||Opinion||Lessons from 2020||The year, 2020, will be marked in history as the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, much like 1918 was the year of the Spanish flu a century ago. The year actually began on an optimistic note as world output was predicted to improve and the US-China trade tensions showed signs of resolution. And one daresay that despite the virus pushing the world into recession, 2020 ends too with optimism and hope as successful vaccine discoveries preview the pandemic’s end on the horizon. It does not, however, overlook the year’s distressful imprints, most notably on unemployment and inequality. The permanent damages inflicted by it will surface over time. The year challenged governments and people all over the world, opening their eyes to previous neglects. What can be learnt from 2020? Perhaps the most outstanding discovery is that climate change risks are real, and can cause blowbacks to humans in unpredictable, dangerous ways. The fact that declining forest covers and the consequent displacement of animals and birds brings closer the human interface increasing disease transmissions is a lesson for urgent action to limit such possibilities. And, indeed, if the accelerated climate-change actions in the year’s latter half are an indicator, this is a lesson that has been learnt quickly. Although climate concerns gained urgency in recent years — as observed from shifts in regulations, policies, capital and investments, the UN’s adoption of it as one of the world’s foremost concerns, and the Paris agreement of 196 countries to keep global warming well below 2 degrees Celsius — the prevailing doubts and half-heartedness seem to have been replaced by an urgency to proceed, advance committed goals, and even raise the bar. Thus, fossil fuel phase-out plans have speeded up. Britain announced last month it will ban the sale of new gasoline and diesel cars by 2030, a decade ahead of its previous commitment. China pledged in September to turn carbon neutral by 2060; as the world’s top polluter, its hurrying to reduce carbon dioxide emissions is the year’s most important message. Then, the United States of America, which exited the Paris deal under President Donald Trump, will re-join it and the president-elect, Joe Biden, is set for a major diplomatic push to realize climate ambitions. The US’s net zero target by 2050 now equals that of the European Union, bringing all major nations on one platform. On the private side, leading global companies are making commitments to reach zero emissions by 2050. These quickening steps to address climate change risks make it the most important learning of 2020. India is also on course to fulfil its self-determined obligations committed in Paris. It now needs to step up the secondary-round changes to transit from fossil-fuel-based uses to clean, renewable energies. This is a bigger challenge than adding renewable capacities because it involves difficult changes to electricity markets, the setting up and enforcement of emission norms, devising necessary incentives, penalties and so on. Beyond the fossil-fuel transition risk, India faces significant physical risks from climate change. These vulnerabilities are concentrated in agriculture, water scarcity, public health, ecosystems, habitat, and infrastructure; they are explicit in the rise in average temperature, and increased frequency of extreme weather events — floods, cyclones and so on — over time. Widening climate policy to address these could be our own learning from this pandemic year: 2020 highlighted the mutual reinforcement between climate change and health vulnerabilities — crowded slums, poor and underfunded health services and medical staffs, poor access to good sanitation facilities — connecting the spread of a contagious virus to the provision of health services. This raises the second lesson to be drawn from this year — the priority of public health in national policies, resources, and investments. The year underscores how an unknown, communicable disease without any effective cure, therapeutic treatment or precautionary vaccine could only be managed through non-therapeutic measures like distancing and masks, while treating high infection volumes depended critically on the existing strength and penetration of public health systems, infrastructures and capacities. Countries with robust healthcare systems managed better; Germany is an example. But here too, leading international agencies as also the G20 recognized public health as one of the main concerns. Hopefully, this discovery will lead to the strengthening of public health fundamentals across countries in the forthcoming times. Where India is concerned, the bare public health infrastructure and investment deficit were severely exposed in the pandemic, including the hurried augmentation of capacities. Its public health gap is understood to have been reviewed as a result of the 15th Finance Commission whose chairman has stated that public health expenditure needs to increase from the current 0.95 per cent to 2.5 per cent of the GDP. A third important learning from 2020 can be about social security — its provision, coverage, and the economic and labour market structures impacting these. Moral and ethical conflicts surfaced in 2020 as lockdowns and containment restrictions posed difficult trade-offs between lives and livelihoods, bringing support provision for the affected to the forefront. It especially challenged countries with poor social security systems, little or no financial resources, safety nets and partial coverage. Countries with built-in automatic stabilizers — these are budgetary methods to increase spending or lower taxes when the business cycle slows or vice versa — fiscal reserves or ability to borrow, low informal employment, could respond better to offset the loss of jobs and incomes. This is exemplified not just by the advanced countries that spent generously on pay protection programmes, furlough schemes, and other welfare measures, but also by many emerging market ones. India, however, was seriously challenged in this aspect for three reasons. One, its social security and safety net coverage is limited, typically underfunded, and has large gaps because of a vast informal economy and employment. Two, the lack of money limited temporary fiscal support that stood out as amongst the lowest in the world. Three, the existing channels and schemes through which immediate financial help could be successfully reached or delivered were inadequate; these are restricted to the countercyclical job-provision programme, the MGNREGA, which enabled rural outreach, but channels for urban areas that were more severely affected by shutdowns and forced large-scale exodus of migrants are missing. No doubt there’s something to be learnt here and is testified by efforts to construct a migrant database to address this gap. Fortifying social security provision and enhancing coverage with sufficient resources are an equally important lesson from 2020. Here, the abysmal Union and state government finances that have been, and are likely to remain, would pose severe drawbacks in the foreseeable future. Indeed, the most outstanding message of 2020 for India is perhaps this — save or reserve for a rainy day. These are only a few spheres of discovery. Undoubtedly, there are many others. Some more will also be discovered ahead, after the pandemic recedes and creates space for looking back. We can look forward to more introspection in 2021. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-103
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt slashes Covid-19 test price to Rs.400||A notification issued by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that the Jharkhand government on Tuesday had halved the price for Covid-19 tests across the state, through RT-PCR at private facilities, thereby bringing it down from Rs.800 to Rs.400 per test. This is the second time that the Hemant Soren government slashed the price for the Covid-19 test. Earlier this month, on December 2, the government had slashed the price from Rs.1050 to Rs.800 for the tests being done at private laboratories and diagnostics centres. At a time when the state administration lowered the price for the tests, figures compiled by the Jharkhand health department, at least 209 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced on Tuesday. However, the number of active cases dropped down to 1578, with 211 Covid patients recovering from the infection on the day. A Covid patient, from Ranchi, died during treatment during the day, thereby taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 1001 and that in Ranchi to 207, mentioned a bulletin released by the NHM. The bulletin further stated that the Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi reported the highest number of fresh cases as well as the highest number of recoveries among all the 24 districts of Jharkhand on Tuesday. The districts reported 98 cases of infection against 113 recoveries, and the number of active cases here dropped to 763, highlighted, the government data. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported around 38 cases with 24 recoveries while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 21 recoveries. At least 14 people were found infected in Bokaro while 10 patients recovered there on the day, the NHM bulletin revealed. At least five districts of Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases. With 763 active cases, Ranchi accounted for about half of the total active cases in Jharkhand by the end of Tuesday. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had fewer active cases than 100. At least 166 patients were battling the virus in East Singhbhum, highlighted the government data. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 17261 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected with the deadly virus. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.44 lakh people from across the state and have tested around 45.33 lakh of them. The number of swab samples pending for tests has also dropped from 14000 to 11,000, health officials informed. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.25 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 490.84 days against the national average of 279.17 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 95.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four more arrested, including a minor, in Dumka rape case||Four more were arrested by Dumka police, including a 16-year-old juvenile, on Tuesday in connection with the gang rape of a 35-year-old tribal woman that took place under the Mufassil police station area, last week. The victim, a mother of five minors, was returning home with her husband on December 8 after attending a rural haat when the incident took place. In the first information report (FIR) filed by the women, the next day, she told the police that as many as 17 men were involved in the crime. The revelation triggered an outrage across the state and also prompted the National Commission of Women (NCW) to take suo-moto cognizance. It also sent notices to the Jharkhand police urging it to start a time-bound probe. Jharkhand governor, Droupadi Murmu, too on Monday, summoned DGP MV Rao and directed him to step up policing to curb crime against women and children. Addressing the reporters in Dumka on Tuesday evening, Ambar Lakra, informed, that 13 persons stand accused in this case. “Although the victim has complained about 17 men gang-raping her, the investigation, however, has so far revealed that around 13 individuals were involved in the crime. Along with these four arrests, we have arrested five more individuals. The special investigation team trying to trace the remaining eight accused,” he said. On the recent arrests, SP said, “They had camped in a hideout near their village ‑ Ghasipur from where we picked them up last night after getting a tip-off. They have been produced before the court today after their formal arrest and have been sent to jail. The minor has been sent to a juvenile home.” Those arrested today included Bodilal Hansda, Santosh Hembrom, Manoj Hansda, and a minor. The other three accused, fall in the age group of 20 and 22, he said. On December 10, one Mangal Mohli was held and sent to jail. Meanwhile, different tribal and rights bodies namely Hazaribag Gramin Vikas Kendra, Munda Sabha, Women and Gender Resource Centre among others staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka chowk on Tuesday afternoon demanding the arrest of all the culprits in this case. They also pressed for the state authority to ensure the safety and security of women in the state. They also asked to put all such cases into fast track courts. Jharkhand police off late have been facing lots of flak for law and order situation with a sudden rise in the number of rapes, murder, dacoity among others in recent months. According to the state police website, till September this year, 1,359 rapes alone have been reported since January 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal occupants shooed out of Dhanbad railway quarters||Engineering cell of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway today conducted an anti-encroachment drive at Diamond Crossing colony. During this drive around 25, railway quarters lying in unauthorized occupation were cleared by the Railway authorities in association with the Railway Protection force team. The four-hour-long drive began at around 11 am under the leadership of assistant engineer, Anand Kumar Pandey, ended at around 3 pm. No resistance was witnessed during the eviction. Minutes after the eviction, speaking to The Telegraph Online, officer-in-charge of RPF Post, Avinash Karosia said, “We removed the encroachers from around 25 quarters today. This drive will continue till all the 200 quarters lying in illegal possession are cleared in the area.” “In the past, we have witnessed encroachers returning to the vacated quarters soon after the completion of the drive, hence we have removed the doors and windows of the freed quarters to avoid their reoccupation by the unauthorized people,” said Karosia. Public Relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, PK Mishra maintained that repeated notices have been given by the railway administration to occupants of quarters to vacate the same. With the notices not eliciting any desired response, a forcible evacuation programme was carried out. “We will conduct such evacuation drives along with demolition drives of dilapidated quarters lying in illegal possession,” said Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ravindra Rai accuses Congress of playing politics of deceit||Addressing the divisional level farmers' meet organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Dhanbad, Ravindra Rai, the party’s former state president accused Congress of deceiving the farmers and misleading them. The meet was hosted with a single agenda of extending support to the recently passed farm laws. Speaking at the event Rai maintained that the farm bills were a pro-farmer policy that aims at benefitting the agrarian community across India. Addressing a crowd of over 500 people, Rai as the chief speaker of the divisional farmers' meet organized at the Zila Parishad ground, charged, “Whenever the country was at the crossroad, Congress chose to play politics of deceit and have stabbed them.”He further accused the grand old party of thwarting attempts of the present government to strengthen Indian democracy after 1974’s total revolution and Congress imposed emergency.“At a time when the central government is working hard to uplift the status of the farmers, an unnerved Congress is trying to mislead the farmers.” accused Rai. He added, “In fact, Congress has always betrayed the farmers and is doing the same again.” He quickly asserted, “Any attempt to mislead the farmers is not going to succeed. The unprecedented mandate given to the BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi is an example of the farmers’ consent to the steps being taken by the government.” When asked about the objective of organizing the farmers’ meet he answered, “The farmers, in general, are with the government. We want to expose the design of Congress-led opposition, which is trying to create confusion, by showing that the farmers are discontent.” Extolling about the work done by the BJP government in favour of the farmers he highlighted the implementation of the suggestions made in the Swaminathan Report submitted during the Congress regime, by the central government. He also spoke about the honorarium being provided to farmers across the country. He ended his speech by accusing Congress of attempting to increase its declining support base, by misleading the farmers. He added that his party would continue with their farmer meet programmes till they expose the fake agitators in the name of farmers. Dhanbad MP, PN Singh and different MLAs of the party including Bokaro MLA, Biranchi Naryan; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto and Nirsa MLA, Aparna Sengupta were also present at the farmers’ meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park in a shambles ||The only amusement park of the Dhanbad district, Birsa Munda Park, is lying in a poor condition due to lack of coordination between different government departments and prevalence of red-tapism in several organisations. As many as 25 employees of the 24-acre park in Nawadih, including the 10 gardeners have not been paid their salaries since the last four months by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Several rides of the park, including the toy train, swings, and slides are lying non-functional due to the lack of maintenance. The Birsa Munda Park, opened in 2009, has remained closed since the imposition of the Janta Curfew on March 20, followed by the nationwide lockdown. Talking to The telegraph Online on Tuesday, Paresh Mali (50), a gardener at the park, said, “I have been working here ever since the establishment of the park in 2009 but have never witnessed such a bad situation, where we were deprived of our salaries for over four months.” Mali revealed that he was the sole breadwinner of the family of four, which includes two daughters and a wife, with his salary of Rs 10,500. “Due to non payment of salary since August we are finding it very difficult to even manage the food expenses of the family,” he said, adding that two gardeners from Odisha who live in Dhanbad are in worse situations. Birsa Munda park manager Niwas Kumbhamkar said, “The situation of the 25 employees, including me, is pathetic and there is no headway for its improvement. We have even raised the issue with the district administration but it was of no use.” The manager also informed that the security service in the park was also withdrawn and employees handling the ticket counter were now doing the extra work. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in April last year took over the management of the park. A host of arrangements were made to improve the condition of the ground, including facilities for online booking of entry tickets and refurbishing existing facilities. “Due to the closure of the park for over nine month, the income through entry tickets has gone down to zero and it was the lone source of income,” said city manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Anand Raj. Situated in Nawadih aea about 6 kilometers from the district headquarters the park is equipped with seven swings, 10  sliders, a toy train, and a vortex among others. A musical laser fountain has also been installed at the park during the last year adding to its tourist attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||7-hour stand-off with tribals over burial at densely-populated Mango||A controversy centred around the burial of a tribal man at Ulidih in Mango led to a stand-off in Jamshedpur on Tuesday, prompting police to step in and negotiate a truce, which finally happened after over seven hours of arguments amid frayed tempers. The body was finally cremated at Subernarekha burning ghat at 6.30 pm after the tribals were persuaded by the police and administration. Officers who had gathered there by noon, an hour after the tribals had arrived there with the body, saw merit in the argument of local residents who insisted that the land where the tribals wanted to bury the body belonged to the government and was not a cemetery. The tribals, however, claimed that they had been using the ground at Road No 5 at Sankusai in Ulidih for burials for decades. "We convinced the agitating tribals and asked them to move the body for cremation at the Subernarekha burning ghat. They agreed only after our assurance that the administration would look into the matter thoroughly," Ulidih police station OC Dhananjay Baitha told The Telegraph Online. The standoff occurred at a residential area in Ulidih along Dimna Road near Ganga Memorial Hospital. Local residents found it difficult to move about since morning as protestors from both sides had gathered there in addition to the large posse of policemen. Madan Sirka, who represented the tribals, said, "The site may not have been registered as a burial ground in government records, but we have been burying bodies there for decades. In fact, several houses have now come up on the burial ground.” But circle officer of Mango Kamini Kaushal, who looks after issues related to land disputes, wasn’t convinced. "The tribals had produced a paper signed by an executive magistrate in 1983, but that was not enough for proving their claim on the land. There is no mention of a burial ground. If it indeed was a burial ground, then it should have been mentioned in land records,” Kaushal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Golf stars Lahiri, Chawrasia, Randhawa coming to steel city||Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses from Thursday, December 17 to 20 with a prize purse of Rs 1.5 crore. The tournament, hosted by the Tata Steel Group and PGTI, will feature a field of 125 professionals. It will be the seventh event of the 2020-21 Tata Steel PGTI season. It will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be a cut applied after 36 holes. The Pro-Am event preceding the tournament will be played on Wednesday. It will be for the first time in six years that a PGTI event in Jamshedpur will be jointly staged at both Beldih and Golmuri golf courses. In round one, one half of the field will play its 18 holes at Beldih Golf Club while the other half of the field will play its 18 holes at the Golmuri Golf Club. In round two, both halves of the field will switch venues. In rounds three and four, after the cut has been applied, all players will tee off from Golmuri and play their first nine holes at Golmuri before moving to Beldih to play their second nine holes. The tournament will feature a star-studded field, including Indian golfing greats such as Anirban Lahiri (7 international wins), SSP Chawrasia (6 international wins), Gaganjeet Bhullar (10 international wins), Jyoti Randhawa (9 international wins), Shiv Kapur (6 international wins) and Rahil Gangjee (3 international wins). The other prominent names in the field include defending champion Udayan Mane, India’s highest-ranked golfer Rashid Khan (282 in the world rankings), PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Khalin Joshi, Chikkarangappa and Viraj Madappa, to name a few. Former Asia No. 1, PGA Tour regular and Olympian Anirban Lahiri, will be returning to play in Jamshedpur after nearly 13 years. Lahiri, a two-time winner on the European Tour, last played in Jamshedpur during the 6th Tata Open in January 2008. Shiv Kapur, a four-time winner on the Asian Tour, will return to play in Jamshedpur after 16 years. Kapur last played in Jamshedpur at the 3rd Tata Open in November 2004 where he finished runner-up. Addressing a press meet at Beldih Club on Tuesday, Tata Steel vice-president (safety, health and sustainability) and captain of Jamshedpur Golf Club Sanjiv Paul said: “It is heartening to see the initiative taken by PGTI to continue with the golf tour this year even during these difficult times. The format of this year’s tournament will be an exciting challenge for professional golfers as it will be played over two golf courses – Beldih and Golmuri. It is befitting that the top professionals of the country will be competing for the top honours.” Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO of PGTI said: “We thank Tata Steel for being a pillar of PGTI even in these challenging times. The tournament promises to be a spectacle for golf fans as some of the leading lights of Indian golf are part of it.” Strict Covid protocols will be adopted during the course of the four-day tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Senior advocate S.R. Das, who represented ED and CBI, dies in Ranchi||Senior advocate Sushil Ranjan Das, who was the special public prosecutor for Enforcement Directorate and had argued several money laundering cases against former Chief Minister Madhu Koda, breathed his last during treatment at a private hospital in Ranchi on Monday. Seventy-six-year-old Das was admitted in the ICU of Raj Hospital in the state capital on Saturday after complaining of discomfort in his chest. He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday afternoon, doctors said. Condolences poured in from the legal fraternity, including judges and senior advocates, soon after the news of his demise broke. Some Jharkhand High Court judges also offered their condolences in person to the bereaved family at their Pe Pee Compound residence. Das' last rites were performed at Mukti Dham in Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon. Besides ED, Das was also the lawyer for several cases under National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Jharkhand. The Ranchi District Bar Association has condoled the senior advocate’s demise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gloomy weather likely to give way to sub-10 chill||Ranchi Met office warned of a fall in minimum readings by 3 to 5 degree Celsius in Jharkhand after the next 48 hours, paving the way for a colder weekend. "Dry and crisp north-westerly winds would get restored from Friday after three days of gloomy weather with most parts of the state witnessing a sharp drop in minimum temperatures, " said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, on Tuesday. This means a sub-10 chill is expected to prevail in most parts of the state including the state capital, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma and Daltonganj around this weekend. Anand explained that the two cyclonic circulations which have formed over Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan due to a passing western disturbance would continue to impact Jharkhand's weather till Wednesday. The two systems resulted in overcast conditions in several parts of the state, including Jamshedpur and many northern and central districts on Tuesday. IMD has also forecast light rain over northern and central Jharkhand in the next 24 hours due to the twin weather systems. Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and several other parts of the state woke up to clear weather. But, later in the day, it turned cloudy. Most places also experienced winds at a speed of 15kmph. Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of early morning fog and mist till Friday. The state capital recorded a minimum temperature of 13.4 degree Celsius on Tuesday, which was three notches above normal. Bokaro, Ramgarh and Dhanbad recorded minimum readings of around 14 degree Celsius, two notches above normal. Daltonganj recorded a minimum of 15.9 degree Celsius, six notches above normal. Jamshedpur was warmer at 17.2 degree Celsius, about five notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid-19 death toll reaches 1,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand reached the 1,000 mark on Monday as one more patient, a resident of Garhwa, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department showed. Fresh cases of infection outnumbered recoveries in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the number of active cases up at 1581. The state reported 212 fresh cases against 201 recoveries on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission. Ranchi reported 98 cases of infection on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, the number of active cases dropped in the district as at least 107 patients recovered from the infection on the day. As per government data, at least 774 people were battling the infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. Of the 1,000 deaths in Jharkhand, at least 355 were from East Singhbhum and 206 from Ranchi. These two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of Covid fatalities in the state. On the other hand, Garhwa, which reported the state's 1,000th Covid death, has seen only 11 Covid casualties so far. While at least five districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and East Singhbhum reported a double digit spike in cases. East Singhbhum reported 23 cases against 18 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 21 cases against seven recoveries. At least 22 cases surfaced in Bokaro while 15 patients recovered. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 15,645 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.25 lakh people and tested 45.13 lakh of them. Around 12,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. As per government data, Jharkhand's Covid-19 recovery rate 97.68 per cent against the national average of 95 per cent. The Covid mortality in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent, while that across India was 0.26 per cent, showed the health bulletin. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 498.10 days against the national average of 262.28 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||No FJCCI polls this year due to pandemic||The annual election of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, will not be held on December 20 as scheduled earlier due to the Covid situation. Responding to an appeal from the past presidents of the trade body, the contesting candidates agreed at a meeting held at Chamber Bhawan in Ranchi on Sunday evening to form a 21-member team selected from among themselves to run the show for the next year. “This is certainly an unprecedented happening in the chamber’s history but holding election at this time would also be very risky,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, one of the past presidents of FJCCI. He expressed satisfaction that the candidates agreed to avoid an election. Some of the past presidents had called the meeting of the candidates to reach a consensus though the election committee had started preparations for the polls and 44 members filed their nominations for 21 posts of the executive committee. Two 21-member teams led by incumbent president Kunal Ajmani and Praveen Kumar Jain Chhabra had filed nominations for the election. Two other individual members also did so, taking the total number of candidates to 44. At the meeting on Sunday, 23 candidates agreed to withdraw their nominations, leaving the rest 21 in the fray who were declared to have won unopposed. Among those 21 declared winners, 13 were from Chhabra’s team while the rest 8 were from Ajmani’s team. “Since only 21 candidates were left in the fray for as many posts, they all were declared winners,” said Vishnu Budhia, chairman of the election committee. He said the winning candidates would now select from among themselves a president, two vice-presidents, a general secretary, two joint secretaries and a treasurer. Though the winners will choose suitable members for those posts, the selection will be done under supervision of the election committee, Budhia added. The FJCCI has around 3,400 members under various categories and about 60 per cent of them turn up for voting every year. As such, the polling station remains crowded throughout the day which is not desirable at present, the past presidents had said in justification of their request for not holding the election this year. The annual FJCCI election was actually due in September but it had to be deferred due to the pandemic. In view of the coronavirus situation, the chamber’s general body meeting that will be held on December 19 will also have restricted entry. “Only 75 members will be allowed inside the venue on a first come, first serve basis while others can join in through a digital platform,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Slew of sops on Hemant govt anniversary||A slew of schemes and policies would be launched on December 29 to mark one year of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand under the leadership of Hemant Soren. According to a senior official in the chief minister’s office in Ranchi, the list was finalised on Monday after a series of review meetings of various departments held in the past week. “During the review of the respective departments done by the chief minister in the last one week, the departments were asked to submit a list of ready projects/schemes which can be inaugurated/launched on December 29 and also about new projects that could be announced at a programme to be held at Morabadi in Ranchi. The list was drawn up on Monday with the consent of the chief minister and approval of the chief secretary (Sukhdev Singh),” said a close aide of the chief minister on the condition of anonymity. Topping the list is the announcement of a universal pension scheme for the elderly, widowed and disabled, irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. “Jharkhand would be first in the country to have such a universal pension scheme for the elderly, widowed and disabled. As of now, in other states, pensions are provided to elderly, widowed and physically challenged only if they are below the poverty line (BPL) or belong to SC (Scheduled Caste)/ST (Scheduled Tribe). There will be a mechanism wherein beneficiaries, if they are not getting any other pension either from the state or the central government, will be entitled to get pension. Monitoring would be done at the district level to avoid duplicity among beneficiaries with the existing central government scheme,” said a source in the state social welfare department. Hemant would also launch a Jaipal Singh Munda overseas scholarship scheme for post-graduate studies and a statewide campaign on service delivery of caste, residential, birth marriage and income certificates. He will also launch a Sidho Kanhu Agriculture and Forest Produce Cooperative Society aiming to increase income of farmers and tribals selling forest products and a special 1,000 days nutrition mission initiative to track and curb malnutrition and anaemia amongst mothers and children and track nutrition/health outcomes and launch a transformation of the ITI programme. Hemant would also oversee the signing of an agreement between All India Football Federation (AIFF) and the state government on football development in Jharkhand and launch a special tourism and brand campaign of the state government named Jharkhand@20. The function would also see unveiling of the Jharkhand Tourism Policy 2020, Jharkhand Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 2020 and launching of all approved clusters under the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (Sfurti). Hemant would also provide direct employment certificates to descendants of those who gave up their life in the separate statehood struggle and also release a special year book projecting the work done by the government in the last one year, especially focussing on Covid-19 management. Talks are on for the announcement of a loan waiver scheme for farmers by Hemant. “The review meeting with all departments is continuing and we will present a report card of the work done by our government and also announce several sops for all sections of society on December 29,” said Hemant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
