16-12-2020||Calcutta||Fearing ‘vendetta’, Suvendu seeks governor’s intervention||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday that former minister Suvendu Adhikari has sought his intervention so that the state police is dissuaded from implicating him in criminal cases out of “political vendetta”. Sharing the copy of a letter that Adhikari wrote to him, Dhankhar said that he was taking “expected steps”. The letter came to the fore hours after Adhikari submitted his resignation as an MLA amid speculations of him switching over to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress. “I am constrained to seek your intervention as constitutional head so that police and administration apparatus in the state is dissuaded from implicating me and my associate followers in criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta,” Adhikari stated in the letter, shared by the governor on Twitter. Claiming that he had quit the ministry dictated by a sense of duty and public welfare, Adhikari wrote that this change of political stance is spurring those in authority to be in vendetta mode against him. He gave up the cabinet portfolios in the Mamata Banerjee government on November 27. “Unleashing police repression by implication in criminal cases on political considerations is certainly an alarming indicator of governance away from rule of law,” the former Transport minister wrote. Urging the governor to initiate appropriate steps so that those concerned in police and administration desist from implicating him in a politically motivated manner, he wrote “surely ‘political bonhomie’ with the ruling party or dispensation cannot be essential requisite for enjoying liberty and human rights, as is the situation presently’. Adhikari, a leader with a mass base, holds considerable clout in Purba Medinipur, Paschim Medinipur and some other parts of south Bengal. He played a significant role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram that catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power in the state in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cyclists plead with top cop for space||Organisations of cyclists and cycling enthusiasts have written to Calcutta’s police commissioner on Tuesday with an appeal to allow bicycles to ply on all roads in the city. The organisations have said a growing number of people, many of them poor, are cycling to work to avoid crowded public transport amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The letter also said the city’s transport system should gradually start giving more space to cycles as they do not pollute the air. Given the annual phenomenon of poor air quality in Calcutta during winter, reducing tailpipe emission is necessary and that can be achieved by switching to green transport like cycle. Metro had on December 10 reported that the Calcutta police had launched a drive to prevent cyclists from moving on thoroughfares. Cyclists spotted on arteries are being asked to stick to lanes. Despite a notification restricting bicycles to lanes and bylanes, the police had been allowing them even on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds” during the pandemic as a large number of people had no option but to cycle to work in the absence of adequate public transport. But the resumption of suburban trains and a rise in the number of accidents involving bicycles have prompted the police to launch an awareness drive urging cyclists to stay away from main roads. “We write to appeal to you to continue the plying of cycles and other forms of non-motorised transport across Kolkata roads and integrate a cycle safe infrastructure into the current transport system of the city,” the letter read. Satanjib Gupta, one of the signatories of the letter, said there was an unfair bias against cyclists in the city. “Every time there is a talk of snarls on the road, the reaction is to keep cyclists away from roads. Has the administration ever thought about restricting private cars? Cars, used by far fewer people, take up more space. Cycles occupy very little road space but they are used by a large number of people, especially the poor,” said Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, an honourary position given by the Amsterdam-based BYCS, an organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. “We are only appealing to the police commissioner to not restrict cycles from roads. Mumbai has very heavy traffic on its roads, but cycles are not restricted from the city’s roads. Same for Bangalore, which has also started making lanes for cycles in various places of the city,” said Gupta. “A lot of people, especially the poor who cannot afford to ride taxis, are riding bicycles to go to work nowadays to avoid crowded spaces like buses. The move to restrict cycles will put them in trouble.” The signatories of the letter also argued that a car-centric view would only add to the congestion and worsen Calcutta’s air quality. Every year, the city’s air quality drops to poor, very poor and severe levels during winter, according to the National Air Quality Index prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board. “Emissions from diesel-powered transport is an important contributor to the city’s air pollution. We have to think about greener and cleaner transport modes that do not pollute the air and cycles are one of them,” said Vinay Jaju, the founder of Bengal Clean Air Network, a citizens’ group fighting for better air quality in the state. Urban transport specialists have told Metro that in India the focus has been on moving cars over moving people, which is why cars have always been accorded priority on roads. But they have argued that transport policies should be built around moving people. A Calcutta police officer with experience in managing traffic for over three decades said narrow roads, encroached footpaths that force pedestrians to walk on roads and scant regard for traffic rules among many cyclists were some of the hurdles to allowing cyclists on all roads. “Most cyclists think traffic signals are not meant for them. They will move ahead despite seeing a red light. We are not against cyclists, but the fear is there will be many road accidents involving cyclists if cycles are allowed on all roads,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
16-12-2020||Calcutta||JU teachers assert right to return home||Teachers at Jadavpur University have said that “just as students have the right to agitate for their demands, teachers too have the right to return home after meetings”. Detaining teachers and officials for hours “in this pandemic situation”, they have warned, “can have severe, if not fatal, consequences”. The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) has flagged the points in a letter to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, days after teachers and officials were gheraoed by the students’ union of the engineering faculty over alleged lapses in the online Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS). That siege continued from around 4pm till midnight. “You will agree that just as students have the right to agitate for their demands, teachers too have the right to return home after meetings. Staying inside a confined space for nearly twelve hours in this pandemic situation can have severe, if not fatal, consequences, especially for those who suffer from various ailments, as many teachers and officials do,” reads the letter from Juta. VC Das declined to comment when Metro asked him about the letter. Aritra Majumder, a leader of the engineering and technology students’ union at JU, said: “Corona is not the sole crisis. We are of the view that demands regarding the results are of immediate concern to us…. Realising the importance of the demands being raised by the students, we would suggest the teachers rethink their stand.” Juta had on November 25 issued a statement blaming students for the resignation of two acting deans of science over the past couple of months and said they were noting with “dismay and concern” the harassment and humiliation a section of teachers was subjected to by some students in the science faculty. The latest friction between students and teachers had started when the Faculty of Engineering and Technology Students’ Union (Fetsu) led agitations on December 9 and 11 over alleged anomalies in the management system. According to Juta’s letter, the dean of the faculty of engineering and technology and two pro-vice-chancellors had been kept confined for several hours on December 9. On December 11, during a meeting of the JUMS Restructuring Committee, a section of students, “including, most unfortunately, some who were themselves members of the Committee, prevented other members of the Committee (teachers and officials), from leaving the meeting even after discussions had been concluded”, says the letter. The teachers were detained till 1.30am. The association has said that given the past few days’ events and the prevailing situation, its members would not join any in-person meeting. “They are, of course, willing to join virtual meetings, where their health and safety will not be jeopardised,” the letter says. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association, who had signed the previous statement, told this newspaper that teachers and officials might have no option but to boycott meetings of the JUMS Restructuring Committee. “Amid the pandemic, they are keeping the teachers confined in a small room regardless of the fact that this could have fatal implications. Just as I had observed in regard to the activities of the science union, I will say student leaders in the engineering faculty don’t know where to draw a line,” said Roy. A JU official said two statements from Juta in as many months against highhandedness of students was bound to affect the image of the university. “One-third of the 1,253 BTech seats have remained vacant this year after the end of centralised counseling by the JEE board. About 15 per cent undergraduate seats in science and arts have remained vacant... Such a situation could not be conceived earlier and this could be partly attributed to the perception problem,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Farm bill protest rally on Friday in Kolkata||A march from Rajabazar to Moulali has been organised on Friday to prot-est farm laws and express solidarity with the protesting farmers. A group of people who took part in a sit-in against the National Register for Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act from January to March, and was forced by the pandemic to call off the protest, has given a call for the rally. “We felt the need to raise our voice for the protesting farmers. One need not be a farmer to protest against the laws enacted by the Centre. This law is going to bring in the rule of a few oligarchs in the agricultural sector,” said Umar Awais, the convenor of the United Forum for National Integrity. “The laws allow hoarding of essential agricultural products. This will lead to increase in prices and we as consumers have to pay a very high price. A big corporation will hoard the products and then sell them at a very high price. We will be forced to buy at a high price,” he said. The organisers also want the minimum support price mechanism (MSP) to remain unaltered. “The MSP has saved farmers for so many years. Why this attempt to dilute the MSP?” asked one organiser. Jai Kisan Andolan, a farmers’ organisation affiliated to Swaraj India, will participate in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||More Calcutta Metro trains on Sundays||The Sunday Metro fleet will go up from December 20, the carrier announced on Thursday. Starting December 19, passengers will not need an e-pass to enter Metro stations on Saturdays, it said. “Starting December 20, we will run 102 trains instead of 68 on Sundays,” said an official. Metro officials expect the Sunday passenger count to go up as winter sets in. The first trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9am, instead of 10am, and the first train from Noapara will leave at 9.09am, instead of 10.13am. The last train will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9.30pm, instead of 9pm. The last train from Noapara will leave at 9.25pm, instead of 8.53pm. The interval between two trains will be reduced to 15 minutes from 20 minutes. The authorities have also decided to do away with the system of e-passes on Saturdays. “Starting December 19, passengers will not need an e-pass to avail themselves of Metro services,” said the official. The carrier has already done away with the e-pass system on Sundays and, since Monday, during non-rush hours on weekdays. Since Monday, an e-pass has been mandatory only between 8.30am and 11am and again from 5pm to 8pm. Outside these two rush-hour windows, anyone can enter a station without an e-pass. Women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an e-pass throughout the day. An e-pass is needed to enter the station. A smart card is a must for a Metro ride, irrespective of the passenger’s age. The token system will remain suspended as of now, said an official. The number of daily passengers had been over 1,20,000 over the past few weekdays. But a third of the slots during the non-rush hours were remaining vacant, prompting the authorities to do away with e-passes during those slots even on weekdays. On Monday, the first day of the relaxed norms, the carrier ferried over 1,35,000 passengers. Last Saturday, the passenger count was over 1,00,000. Asked if doing away with e-passes would increase the risk of crowding on Saturdays, Metro officials said it was unlikely. “The passenger count during rush hours on Saturdays has been 40-45 per cent less than that on weekday rush hours,” said a senior Metro official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Flyovers at Ruby and Avishikta crossings||The CMDA is mulling to build two short flyovers above the Ruby and Avishikta crossings instead of one running over the two, as was proposed earlier, an engineer of the organisation said on Tuesday. “A traffic survey of the two crossings has revealed that separate flyovers will be more beneficial to motorists than one long flyover,” the engineer said. Both flyovers will be about one kilometre in length. The old proposal was of one long flyover that would stretch from near the Ambedkar bridge on EM Bypass till the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector crossing. The new proposal will allow vehicles coming via the Rashbehari Avenue connector and headed for Patuli to bypass the snarl at the Avishikta crossing. The northern end of the flyover will merge with the Bypass at a point to the south of the Ruby crossing. “If there were one flyover, motorists from the Rashbehari Avenue connector headed for Patuli would not have been able to benefit from the elevated road,” a CMDA official said. Similarly, a separate flyover running over the Ruby crossing will benefit those vehicles from the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector that are headed for the Science City crossing. “We conducted a traffic survey and found that a large number of vehicles access the Bypass through the Anwar Shah Road connector and go towards Science City. Almost an equal number of vehicles approach the Bypass from the Rashbehari Avenue connector. Most of them are headed for Patuli,” the CMDA engineer said. “A single flyover would mean that these vehicles will have to move along the road below. They might get stuck at the crossings. For the benefit of these motorists, we are thinking of having two flyovers.” An official of RITES, which had prepared the proposal of a single flyover, said: “Our initial proposal did not have any ramp from the Kasba connector merging with the flyover near the Ruby crossing, but that could have been considered. CMDA has verbally communicated to us that they want two shorter flyovers…. Construction of two flyovers on the Bypass could be challenging,” the official said. The CMDA is also in talks with RVNL, which is building the New Garia-Airport metro corridor, to build a footbridge at the Ruby crossing. “We want people to be able to access the footbridge from all roads converging at the intersection. We will discuss with RVNL whether that is possible or not,” a CMDA engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ aviation school busted in New Town||Three men who were allegedly running a fake aviation academy in New Town were arrested early on Tuesday for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 1.5 lakh by promising her the job of an air hostess, police said. The accused have been identified as Kushwant Singh, 26, from Jharkhand; Rohit Singh, 25, from Madhyamgram; and Janmanjoy Roy, 27, from New Barrackpore. “They were operating 07 Bird Link Aviation Academy, a fake unit, on the fourth floor of Astra Tower in New Town,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “They were arrested after a woman, a resident of New Town’s Action Area II, lodged a complaint with the airport police station five days ago,” the officer said. According to the complaint, the trio had taken Rs 1.5 lakh from her for an air hostess’s job. They had also allegedly handed over an “offer letter” from the airline. Another investigating officer said the men would regularly pose as “consultants” engaged to hire people for various airlines. They would also post advertisements on social media and send bulk text messages. “Once a person responded, they would call him/her to their New Town office. In this case, the men had collected a part of the money from the woman in front of the airport to make it look authentic,” said the officer. When she did not receive an appointment letter, the woman visited the airline’s office with the “offer letter” and was told that the letter was fake. “We have arrested all three owners of the institute. We are finding out whether they had duped others and whether they have criminal antecedents,” said the officer. The accused have been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document). If convicted, they can be jailed for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Car in lethal crash was moving at ‘80kmph’||The Volkswagen Polo which killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road on Sunday was moving at approximately 80km an hour before the man at the wheel braked to avoid hitting a guardrail, police said. “Preliminary findings suggest the vehicle had skidded and hit the cyclist, who was standing closest to the car along a footpath. Then the car hit the pedestrian,” said an officer of the traffic department. The skid marks could be because of “locking of wheels” with sudden pressing of brakes, said another officer who is part of the probe. Specific details will emerge after the Volkswagen’s event data recorder is examined, the police said. Subham Banerjee, a 23-year-old engineering graduate, was at the wheel when the vehicle met with the accident. Lodged in the Lalbazar central lock-up, Banerjee has purportedly lamented the accident. “He said he wanted to do his masters, for which he was preparing. He is worried whether he would be able to complete his studies from inside jail,” an officer at Lalbazar said. Banerjee has been charged under IPC sections related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, mischief and drink driving. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. He will be produced in court again on Thursday. The deceased cyclist, Ratan Sarkar, 48, is survived by his wife and two daughters. “I don’t know how we will survive,” said Sarkar’s wife Manju.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Jump in compensation for trafficking survivors||Three in nearly seven years. Eleven in the next seven months. A spurt in the number of compensations awarded by the state to trafficking survivors has come as a shot in the arm for rights activists. Till March this year, 14 trafficking survivors have received compensation from the state government under the West Bengal Victim Compensation Scheme, according to the state legal services authority (SLSA), the custodians of the corpus created by the government for disbursal of funds. The scheme that had come into force in 2012 had its ambit expanded in 2017. But till August 2019, only three trafficking survivors in Bengal had received compensations under it, according to information obtained through an RTI application filed by lawyers and activists. Between September 2019 and March this year, 11 survivors received the compensation. There have been compensation orders post-March as well but the amounts could not be transferred to the survivors because of lack of funds, said a senior official of the SLSA. “We have more cases where the compensation has been cleared but the amount cannot be disbursed because of lack of funds. Our coffers went empty in March. We are waiting for fresh funds from the state government,” said Durga Khaitan, member secretary of the SLSA. The recipients of the pending disbursals — over 90 — include survivors of acid attacks, Pocso victims and trafficking survivors. Trafficking survivors, lawyers, activists and researchers welcomed the rise in the number of compensations. In the third week of November, a 17-year-old trafficking survivor was awarded a Rs 9 lakh compensation by the district legal services authority in Calcutta. The amount was billed as the “highest ever” of its kind. The girl, 13 when trafficked from Odisha in 2016, was rescued by Calcutta police the same year from Sonagachhi. On November 3, a survivor from South 24-Parganas was awarded Rs 6 lakh compensation by the DLSA. She was trafficked in 2018 and rescued the same year from Bangalore. The amounts being given have gone up since the scheme was amended in 2017, widening its scope and the grounds on which a survivor can seek compensation. Compensations ranging between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 were common a few years ago, said activists. “There has been a significant shift in terms of the amounts received as victim compensation awards in the past three years. Lawyers now calculate compensation by breaking into separate categories the violations that victims suffered. They also use various judgments of different states as precedents,” said Nisha Mehroon, a sociologist and researcher who has been studying the issue of victim compensation in India. Mehroon is part of Tafteesh, a coalition of survivors of human trafficking, lawyers, researchers, rights activists and other stakeholders that has been instrumental in supporting survivors in their legal battles. The number of victim compensation applications being filed has also gone up substantially, activists said. “Earlier, an application filed even towards the later part of the year would be ranked as ‘number 2 or number 3’ of that year. Now, an application ranks in double digits,” said Pompi Banerjee, a social worker with Sanjog, an organisation working on survivors’ access to justice and rehabilitation. Increased awareness and better coordination between agencies have played a key role in the rise in the number of compensations. “The survivors are also feeling more courageous from seeing others getting compensated, and getting the support of police, NGOs and DLSAs. They are now looking at compensation as a right,” said Banerjee. The SLSA has prepared a database of acid attack survivors in Bengal awaiting final verification by the director general of police. “We are now preparing a similar database for trafficking survivors. The work got delayed because of the pandemic but has resumed,” said Khaitan. Several campaigns for legal officers in districts have been conducted to sensitise them in dealing with survivors. “The amounts under different headings in the West Bengal Victim Compensation Scheme were substantially increased in 2017. In the past couple of years, there has been an increased effort on the part of the SLSA,” said Joanna Shireen Sarkar, a lawyer with the International Justice Mission, another NGO that works for the rescue and rehabilitation of trafficking survivors. Sarkar had fought the case in which the survivor was awarded Rs 9 lakh in compensation. Compensation is still a long and cumbersome process fraught with legal hurdles, activists pointed out. In most cases, those trafficked are rescued from outside the state. The case papers of the police station in whose jurisdiction a woman/girl had been rescued is essential to settle compensation claims. The claims often get dragged because of the time taken to send and receive documents and the language barrier. “The survivors who have got compensation have had organisational support. It is not like the state is voluntarily knocking on their doors with money. For every woman who has got compensation, there are others who lack a support system that can help them in the legal battle,” said Kaushik Gupta, a lawyer in Calcutta High Court who works for trafficking survivors and is part of Tafteesh. The disbursement of the compensation has led to divided opinions. The SLSA wants three/fourth of the amount to be deposited in the recipient’s account with nationalised banks. Two trafficking survivors had challenged the condition in the high court. A single-judge bench had ruled in their favour in February this year. But the SLSA then challenged the verdict in a division bench which stayed the previous order and is expected to hear the case in January next year, said lawyers familiar with the case. “In many cases, we have found that the money a victim got in compensation was used by her family members in building a new floor or getting a sibling married, for purposes not aligned with the interest of the survivor. To prevent misuse of the money, the SLSA ordered that 75 per cent of the amount should be kept in monthly income schemes in a nationalised bank,” said Khaitan. A 21-year-old trafficking survivor from Kultali in South 24-Parganas, who was awarded Rs 6 lakh in compensation on November 3, said once she got the money, she would use it for business. She has learnt embroidery and takes small orders from a ramshackle shop her father owns. “I want to scale up the business,” she told Metro over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Business||Sensex touches 46 thousand-mark in opening trade||As participants hailed improved domestic macro-economic indicators as positive trends in global markets, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty during their opening deals on Wednesday touched new highs. The BSE gauge Sensex surged 288.55 points or 0.62 per cent to trade at 46,551.72; while the NSE barometer Nifty climbed 82.70 points or 0.61 per cent to 13,650.55 in early deals record highs for both benchmarks. In the Sensex pack, Mahindra and Mahindra, Asian Paints, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance, ONGC and HDFC were the prominent gainers. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Bharti Airtel and ICICI Bank were trading in the red. Both Sensex and Nifty had ended with marginal gains on Tuesday. Market experts said that Indian equities continued to trade at record-high levels, gaining confidence from improving domestic macro-economic indicators and positive global market outlook. Asian stocks were trading higher on account of US economic stimulus optimism. S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday raised India's growth projection for the current fiscal to (-) 7.7 per cent from (-) 9 per cent estimated earlier on rising demand and falling COVID-19 infection rates. Retail inflation declined to 6.93 per cent in November on softer food prices, though it remained above the comfort level of the Reserve Bank, official data showed. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,484.09 crore on Tuesday, according to exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
16-12-2020||Business||Jaguar Land Rover India opens bookings of first Plug-In Hybrid||Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday opened bookings for its first plug-in hybrid in India, the new Defender P400e. Hybrids are taxed at the highest tax slab of 43 per cent. Most manufacturers, including Mercedes, have bypassed the hybrid route to bring in fully electric cars, which attract a tax rate of 5 per cent. Combining a two-litre four-cylinder petrol engine and a 105 kW electric motor, the P400e develops 297 kW of combined power and 640 Nm of combined torque. Rohit Suri, president & managing director, Jaguar Land Rover India said, “We are extremely proud to introduce our first Plug-In Hybrid, the New Defender P400e in India, a vehicle that perfectly balances performance with efficiency, while retaining Land Rover’s legendary off-road capability. Meanwhile, Mahindra & Mahindra on Tuesday announced that effective January 1, 2021, the company will increase the price of its range of passenger and commercial vehicles, across models. Details of the price increase across different models will be communicated in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
16-12-2020||Business||Majesco announces eye-popping interim dividend of 19480 per cent||Insurance technology firm Majesco on Tuesday entered the record books as it announced an eye-popping interim dividend of 19480 per cent or Rs 974 per share. At its board meeting on Tuesday, the directors approved the payment of this interim dividend for the current financial year. It translates into an amount of  Rs 2,788.4 crore on a shareholder base of 28.577 million shares. The company said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges that following the dividend payout, the balance cash reserves estimated at Rs 103 crore will be distributed to shareholders, subject to board and regulatory approvals. At the face value of Rs 5 per share, the dividend of Rs 974 per share translates to a rate of 19480 per cent, which is the highest declared by any listed firm in recent times. Shares of Majesco reacted positively to the dividend announcement as it hit a new high of Rs 1,019 on the BSE during intra-day deals, thus rising almost 5 per cent over the previous close. However, the share shed some of its gains to close at Rs 982.80 — a gain of Rs 8.60, or 0.88 per cent, over the last close. While dividend payouts are always good news for shareholders, the Majesco announcement, however, led to questions about the taxes that the investors would have to pay. It may be recalled that recipients did not have to pay tax on dividends till March 31, 2020 as the company (which declared the dividend) paid the dividend distribution tax. However, this year’s Union budget went back to the classical system following which all dividends received after April 1, 2020 is taxed in the hands of the individual. Therefore, in this case if the individual is holding even one share of Majesco and is in the 30 per cent tax bracket, he or she will have to pay a tax of Rs 292. The incidence on high net worth individuals will be much higher as they will be subject to a higher surcharge. Some of the experts are, therefore, suggesting that it will be better for an investor to sell the Majesco shares or book profits instead of paying a higher amount as dividend tax. Tuesday’s announcement comes after the company came up with a share buyback plan of up to Rs 631.26 crore. The buyback opened on November 27 and closed on December 11. As regards the future plans on monetisation of real estate, the management said this could take longer- over a year and depending on real estate market conditions. The company added that post monetisation of real estate it will decide the best method for distribution of sale proceeds to shareholders. In July this year, Majesco, had signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by Thoma Bravo, L.P., a leading private equity firm focused on the software and technology-enabled services sectors, in a transaction valuing the company at $594 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||BPCL board to consider buying out Oman Oil Company||State owned refiner BPCL, which is in the midst of privatisation, on Tuesday said its board will meet on Wednesday to consider buying out Oman Oil Company in the Bina refinery project in Madhya Pradesh. The BPCL board will also consider merging Bharat Gas Resources Ltd (BGRL) with itself, the company said in a filing to the stock exchanges on Tuesday. BPCL holds a 63.68 per cent stake in Bharat Oman Refineries Ltd (BORL), which built and operates a 7.8 million tonne oil refinery at Bina in Madhya Pradesh. The company board will on December 17 “consider a proposal for in-principle approval for acquisition of 36.62 per cent of equity shares in BORL from OQ S.A.O.C. (formerly known as Oman Oil Company S.A.O.C.)”, it said. This would amount to the acquisition of 88.8 crore equity shares from OQ. Shipping Corporation The government plans to soon come out with the expression of interest for the privatisation of Shipping Corporation of India, which could see players like Essar Shipping, Adani, Vedanta, GE Shipping and Dubai Port World taking part in the stake sale process. Sources said a ministerial panel is expected to meet on Friday to take the call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||S&P Global Ratings say Indian economy to contract 7.7 per cent current financial ||S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said India’s economy will contract 7.7 per cent in the current financial year instead of 9 per cent estimated earlier on rising demand and falling Covid-19 rates. For the next financial year 2021-22, S&P projected growth to rebound to 10 per cent. Its revision in growth forecast for the current fiscal reflects a faster-than-expected recovery in the September quarter. “Rising demand and falling infection rates have tempered our expectation of Covid-19’s hit on the Indian economy. A faster recovery keeps more of the economy’s supply side intact and can set India up for more prolonged above-average growth during the recovery phase, it added.  In the statement, S&P said India is learning to live with the virus, even though the  pandemic is far from defeated. “It is no surprise that India is following the path of most economies across the Asia-Pacific in experiencing a faster-than-expected recovery in manufacturing production,” S&P Global Ratings Asia-Pacific chief economist Shaun Roache said. India’s GDP fell 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter against a contraction of 23.9 per cent in the April-June period. Earlier this month, Fitch also revised its forecast for India to a 9.4 per cent contraction from 10.5 per cent contraction seen earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Infosys cloud, cyber security pays off||The strategy adopted by Infosys over the last three years in cloud, cyber security and other areas to help enterprises in their digital journey has began to pay off and the country’s second largest software services firm is now seeing its deal momentum remaining steady despite the current quarter being a seasonally weak period. At a virtual media interaction event, Infosys CEO and managing director Salil Parekh said they had invested a lot in high potential areas such as cloud, cyber security and re-skilling. Parekh said the strategy had been appreciated by clients, with Infosys witnessing lot of traction in its digital offerings and the “live enterprise” well received by customers.  While the October-December quarter is usually a lean period because of holidays and furloughs, Parekh said that there had been no adverse impact on deal wins which continue to remain steady and strong. The US elections has also not affected the decision making at a client level even as the intensity of connecting with them has only gone up due to multiple virtual interactions. The technology spend scenario remains extremely strong at this stage, Parekh said. In his inaugural address, Nandan Nilekani, co-founder and chairman, Infosys said that there had been a “consumerisation of IT” as he referred to the massive impact of consumer oriented technologies on corporations. Nilekani focused on three trends — the adoption of cloud, need for cyber security as more applications get exposed on the public Internet and the huge need to retrain or reskill employees. He averred that till 2005-06, it was enterprise driving technological innovation. But after the arrival of the iPhone in 2007 and subsequently the Android operating system, the smartphone became the essential vehicle or engine of innovation. This led to a major change in how digitization as there was consumerisation of user experience and people who used enterprise applications wanted the same ease of use. It led to the rise of big data and artificial intelligence and large companies used data to find out what consumers needed. It also led to demand of modernization of existing applications of large enterprises. He added that a huge challenge facing enterprises is their legacy systems of many decades. However, today’s world required much more agile infrastructure and more services on cloud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||India will grow to be among top three world economies: Mukesh Ambani||Reliance Industries Ltd  chairman Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday forecast that India will grow to be among the top three economies in the world in the next two decades and that it would become a premier digital society. At a virtual chat with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Ambani said  it was the social media giant’s investment of $ 5.7 billion in Jio Platforms in April that set the ball rolling for FDI into India during the pandemic. The result has been that India has received the largest ever FDI during April-August 2020 over any comparable period. “And during the pandemic, India has attracted the largest foreign direct investment in its history. Mark, we have our own example of how Jio and Facebook concluded our partnership right in the middle of lockdown.” “I have no hesitation in going on record, that it is your investment that set the ball rolling. Not only for Jio, but for the Indian FDI which has been the largest-ever in its history. And our partnership between Jio and Facebook, will actually demonstrate that it is great for India, Indians, and small Indian businesses’’ he said at the Facebook Fuel for India 2020 event. The Reliance chief was upbeat about the future of technology in India. The digitisation steps in India will “democratise” wealth and value creation . He cited the example of the tie-up between Facebook and Jio which will bring millions of subscribers of WhatsApp and Jio and JioMart which is looking to service small shopkeepers. He pointed out that the association will see Jio bringing digital connectivity, WhatsApp  with WhatsApp Pay bringing digital interactivity, and the ability to move to close transactions and create value, while Jio Mart would present the huge online and offline retail opportunity apart from giving a chance to the mom and pop stores to digitize. "And together with our platforms and the tools that we will provide to small businesses and to individual consumers, I believe will drive India to a 5 trillion economy and will make a much more equal India, with more equal wealth growth at the bottom of the pyramid," Ambani said. He was of the view that there are great future opportunities in areas like education and healthcare and that the next two decades will prove to be "historic" in terms of the social and economic transformation. While the domestic economy is now showing signs of recovery from the pandemic, Ambani was optimistic about its growth trajectory in the years ahead. He projected that the per capita income will rise from $ 1800-2000, to $ 5000 per capita. Further, the mid-income or the middle class in India which is about 50 per cent of its total number of households, will grow to three to four percent per year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||RBI approves re-appointment of Uday Kotak as MD of Kotak Mahindra Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has approved the re-appointment of Uday Kotak as the managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank for three years. The banking sector regulator also approved the appointment of part-time chairman Prakash Apte for three years. “The RBI has vide its letter dated December 14 2020, granted approval for the re-appointments of Prakash Apte as part-time chairman; Uday Kotak as MD & CEO; and Dipak Gupta as Joint MD for a period of three years, with effect from January 1, 2021,” the bank said in a communication to the stock exchanges. Earlier, the board of the bank and its shareholders had approved these re-appointments, subject to the approval of the RBI, at their respective meetings held on May 13 and August 18. Apte was appointed as the part-time chairman at the annual general meeting held on July 19, 2018, for a period from July 20, 2018, till December 31, 2020 Kotak is the founder managing director and promoter of the bank. There was uncertainty on his continuation as the managing director in June after a discussion paper from the RBI proposed that the tenure of the whole-time director or CEO of a bank, who is a promoter or major shareholder, should not be more than 10 years. The discussion paper further said it would allow banks up to the end of their founder CEO’s current tenure to find a new head or two years from the time the new guidelines are implemented, whichever is later. Brokerages feared Kotak Mahindra Bank would be the most impacted of the all the banks since Uday Kotak has been leading the private sector lender for the past 17 years. “Among the leading private banks, we believe Kotak Bank may be affected more as Uday Kotak is the promoter and the CEO/MD. He has been CEO/MD since inception and his current term expires in December 2020. So, if the norms are implemented (and notified by September 2020) then his term may expire on September 2022 or April 2023,” a note from Jefferies had said. However, the recommendations of the discussion paper is yet to be accepted by the RBI. While the announcement was made after market hours late on Monday, the shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank on Tuesday hit a new 52 week high on the news. The scrip touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,958 after which it settled at Rs 1,950.45 — a gain of 0.53 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Civil aviation ministry officials discuss resumption of international flights||The resumption of international flights was discussed with the airlines by the civil aviation ministry officials on Tuesday, but no decision has been taken. During the meeting, the airlines pitched for looking beyond the air bubbles, which is being used to connect international destinations. The meeting assumes significance as rapid progress has been made on the development of the vaccine to treat the coronavirus that has brightened the prospect of the opening up of global aviation and normality restored in the coming months. Airlines were of the view that the ministry should look at opening up the connectivity to the major hubs in South East Asia and West Asia. They are  expected to be opened up sooner than the US or European destinations. The ministry officials, however, pointed out the opening up of international travel would depend on several factors including the specific country’s norms. Civil aviation regulator DGCA had recently extended the international flight ban till 31 December because of  the pandemic. The restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). Anyone who wants to travel to foreign countries will have to depend on the air bubble arrangements. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by the airlines of the respective countries between their territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||CARE Ratings revises ratings for Srei Infrastructure Finance||CARE has revised its ratings of Srei Infrastructure Finance’s (SIFL) bank facilities, long term infrastructure bonds and non convertible debentures to credit watch with negative implications. The rating agency said the revision takes into account the developing implications of the slump exchange for the transfer of lending business, interest earning business and lease business of SIFL to its wholly owned subsidiary Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). SEFL has approached NCLT, Calcutta, with a scheme of arrangement to obtain formal consent from the required majority of lenders for the slump exchange and also for restructuring of its liabilities, including a part of the debt transferred from SIFL. “The ratings of SIFL were under credit watch with developing implications pending the outcome of the proposed meetings of creditors for considering the scheme of arrangement according to the  NCLT order dated October 21, 2020 received by SEFL,” CARE Ratings said in a statement. The revision in ratings also takes into account further deterioration in the liquidity position and fund raising ability which has substantially impacted the consolidated credit risk profile of the company with SEFL. SEFL had approached the lenders for restructuring of its bank facilities (including transferred from SIFL). The ratings firm further said the current development with respect to the special audit initiated by the RBI for both SIFL and SEFL and concerns on the outcome of the same have impacted the fund raising ability and may also impact the implementation of the scheme of arrangement proposed by SEFL. “There is no clarity as yet on the stance of the consortium on the slump exchange and restructuring scheme. A likely delay and lack of unanimity among the creditorsmay further impact the consolidated credit risk profile of the company.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Next union budget discussed at FSDC meet headed by FM Nirmala Sitharaman||The measures that could be taken by the government in the next budget  to accelerate growth while maintaining financial stability were discussed at a high-level FSDC meet headed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday. There is a need to keep a continuous vigil by the government and all regulators on the financial conditions that could expose  vulnerabilities in the medium- and long-term. The 23rd meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) noted the policy measures taken by the government and the financial sector regulatory authorities have ensured faster economic recovery as reflected in the reduced contraction of GDP in the second quarter. “The economy has gained momentum and the path to recovery will be faster than what was predicted earlier,” a statement released after the meet said. The council also discussed the challenges involved in smooth transition of London Interbank Offer Rate (Libor) based contracts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Govt to focus on public investment in infrastructure in next budget||The Narendra Modi government will focus on public investment in infrastructure in the next budget as this will reinvigorate an economy devastated by the virus, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at an Assocham event. She said the government will also intensify its stake sale efforts. “We shall definitely sustain the momentum of public spending in infrastructure. Because that is one way we assure that the multipliers will work and the economy’s revival will be sustainable... I am conscious that the forthcoming budget will have a vibrancy that is so required for the economy’s revival,” she said. With regard to the government’'s stake sale programme, she said the pace of disinvestment will now gain a “lot of momentum”. Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani urged the Centre and farmers’ organisations to resolve the impasse over the new agri laws, saying that the protests are inflicting a heavy blow to the economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K. “A daily loss of Rs 3,000-3,500 crore is resulting in the economies of the region,” according to a rough estimate . “The size of the combined economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K is about Rs 18 lakh crore. With the ongoing farmers’ agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt,”  Hiranandani said. Supply chains The world wants resilient supply chains and it is looking at India as a trusted partner, Piyush Goyal said at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. He said  Atmanirbhar Bharat was not about closing engagement with the rest of the world. “We are on the contrary expanding our engagement; we should import modern technology,modern equipment which can help us do the job better,” he said while addressing the members on a virtual platform. Exports fall India’s exports dipped 8.74 per cent to $23.52 billion in November. Trade deficit during the month narrowed to $9.87 billion as imports declined by 13.32 per cent to $33.39 billion, the trade data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||India||Govt making all efforts for COVID-19 vaccine; cold chain logistics to be strengthened||The Indian government is making all efforts to support and promote the development of Covid-19 vaccine, however, there is a need to strengthen cold chain logistics and remove vaccine hesitancy, experts said on Wednesday. Currently in India, there are more than 30 groups both from academia and industry, which are actively involved in developing COVID-19 vaccines. There are six vaccine candidates in various stages of clinical trials, out of which four are developed indigenously, said Asha Sharma, scientist and adviser of Department of Biotechnology. “The government is facilitating capacity enhancement to strengthen the ecosystem across the country to promote and support vaccine development,” she said while participating in the discussion on ‘Economics and Logistics of a Vaccine Response’ at the CII Partnership Summit 2020. In order to strengthen the ecosystem, 11 good clinical practices compliant clinical trial sights have also been established across the country, Sharma said. The government is making purposeful and integrated efforts to support and promote vaccine development for COVID-19, she added. IHH Healthcare Berhad Group Head of Operations and Integration Ashok Bajpai said India has a very good existing infrastructure of administration of mass doses but cold chain logistics requires to be strengthened. “I am not worried about the physical process of distribution and administration. I actually worry about the cold chain logistics and loss of efficacy of the vaccine as we distribute it into the heartland of the country, where we have relatively poor infrastructure,” he added. Sanofi Pasteur, India Country Head Annapurna Das emphasised on the need for information, education and communication especially in these times. She however highlighted that India has a good blueprint in terms of cold chain and healthcare workers capacity and that the entire framework is quite digitally enabled. There is a need for community education information programme to remove the vaccine hesitancy, as it is a reality and also minimising vaccine wastage, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Bombay HC stays order to construct Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday stayed an order for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed system, in a blow to the Uddhav Thackarey government. The October 1 order was passed by Mumbai suburban district collector, allotting 102 acre of salt pan land in Mumbai's Kanjurmarg area for the purpose. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also held the authorities from executing any kind of construction work on the plot. The Centre and the Shiv Sena-ruled government of Maharashtra are locked in a tussle over the ownership of the land allotted by the state for construction of the car shed. The plot was earlier earmarked at the Aarey Colony of Mumbai, a green belt of the city. The Union government has filed a petition in the high court challenging the October 1, 2020 order passed by the collector allotting the land for construction of the car shed, and said the land belongs to its (Centre's) salt department. “We cannot allow the collector's order of October 1, 2020 to continue. The order has to go. We are admitting the petition and granting relief as sought by the petitioner (Union government) in prayer clauses ‘h’ and ‘I’,” the bench said. As per prayer clause 'h', the Union government had sought the court to stay operation of the collectors order of October 1, transferring possession of 102 acres of land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for construction of an integrated car shed for a Metro line. In the prayer clause 'I', the Centre had sought an order from the court restraining the MMRDA from carrying out any construction work on the said land. The court on Monday had suggested the Maharashtra government to withdraw the October 1 order. On Wednesday, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state government, told the HC that the state was ready to withdraw the order and give a fresh hearing to the Union government, but the construction work would continue at the land. Kumbhakoni told the court that presently soil testing work was on at the site. The high court, however, noted that when it was of the prima facie view that the collector's order transferring possession cannot continue, then how can it allow construction work to go on at the said land. The court on Wednesday granted stay and admitted the petition for final hearing in February. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had opposed the plea and said the land that has been allotted to the MMRDA for the Metro car shed is owned by the state government. The Union government in its plea claimed the entire salt pan land in the area, including the 102 acres allotted to the MMRDA, belongs to the Centre's salt department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||NHRC issues SOP on collection, processing of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) on collection and processing of forensic evidence to ensure effective prosecution leading to conviction in cases of sexual assault on women, officials said on Wednesday. The SOP, which was prepared in consultation with medical experts has been sent to various states and union territories so that instructions can be issued to all officers concerned for its implementation, they said. "The National Human Rights Commission, in order to ensure effective prosecution leading to conviction in cases of sexual assault on women, has prepared a 'Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Collection & Processing of scientific/forensic evidences'," the NHRC said in a statement. The SOP has been broken down into seven sections of key operating procedures. These sections are victim care, promptness and examination, collection of samples, collection of blood and urine samples, genital and anal evidence, handing over samples to FSL, and general guidelines, it said. "The commission has come out with this SOP after it observed that in many cases of alleged rape and sexual assault, there is substantial delay in medical examination, collection and processing of scientific and forensic evidences of the victim," the statement said. The exhibits are forwarded to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) after much delay and by that time, the samples deteriorate or autolyse and become unsuitable for examination, the rights panel said. "This delay adversely affects the investigation for effective prosecution leading to conviction," it added. The NHRC hopes that this SOP, if implemented in letter and spirit by the authorities, will definitely help improve the system of medico-legal investigation in cases of sexual assault on women in the country, the official said. The SOP can be accessed through the NHRC website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
16-12-2020||India||Republic Media Network CEO granted bail by Mumbai court||Republic Media Network CEO Vikas Khanchandani, who was arrested in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam on Sunday, received bail from a Mumbai court on Wednesday. The Mumbai Police’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) had arrested Khanchandani on December 13 from his residence. His lawyer Nitish pradhan revealed that a metropolitan court had granted him bail on a cash surety of Rs 50,000. The police began a probe into the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about rigging of TRP by some channels. Khanchandani’s arrest came less than a week after the Supreme Court dismissed a plea of the ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, the owner of the Republic Media Network, seeking protection of its employees. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. The BARC engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households. It was alleged earlier that some families are being paid to tune into certain channels to gain more TRP. In a charge sheet filed recently, the police alleged that an official of Hansa paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV. The Republic TV had denied all accusations. Police have arrested 13 people in connection with the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||SC talks of countrywide panels to resolve agri issues||The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a panel having representatives of the Centre as well as the farmers’ unions, as both the parties remain in a deadlock over the three new farm laws, which the peasants want to repeal. A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde, and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian proposed the formation of this committee across the country to ensure the end to this impasse between the farmers and the government. The top court was hearing a bunch of pleas seeking removal of the protesting farmers from the borders of Delhi as it poses inconvenience to commuters and may cause spread in Covid-19 infections. In the hearing conducted via video conferencing, the bench directed the petitioners to make protesting farmer unions parties to the pleas and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. It also issued a notice to the Centre and others regarding the petitions. “Your negotiations with protesting farmers have not worked apparently till now,” the bench told the Centre. “This will soon become a national issue and will have to be solved through negotiations,” Bobde was quoted as saying by NDTV. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench in reply that the government will not do anything against the interest of farmers. “Different ministers talked to them. But they turned their chairs back and did not talk to them,” Mehta said. In one of the pleas filed earlier this month, petitioner Rishabh Sharma, a Delhi University law student, also cited the hardships the border siege was inflicting on the public. “Lives of lakhs of people protesting at Delhi’s borders (are) at immediate threat since the virus is very contagious and if by chance this coronavirus disease takes the shape of community spread, it will cause havoc in the country,” the petition said. It sought the court’s “immediate intervention” and “appropriate direction for restricting mass gathering of people at any place”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees, very cold day likely||Dense fog blanketed parts of the national capital that recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. The India Meteorological Department has predicted both "cold day" and "cold wave" in parts of Delhi on Thursday and Friday. The visibility dropped to 100 metres in the Palam area in the morning, it said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is dense, 201 and 500 moderate, and 501 and 1,000 shallow. The minimum temperature was three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 19 degrees Celsius, it said, predicting 'cold day' conditions at a few places. The IMD had declared a cold wave in Delhi on Tuesday as icy winds blowing from snow-covered western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far. The maximum temperature had also dipped to 18.5 degrees Celsius, more than four notches below normal. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature is likely to remain around five degrees Celsius till Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said the Western Himalayas recorded widespread snowfall due to strong Western Disturbances and now frosty winds have been blowing towards the plains, bringing the mercury down. He said both "cold wave" and "cold day" conditions are likely in Delhi on Thursday and Friday. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria are fulfilled even for a day, Srivastava said. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is 4.4 degrees Celsius below normal. The air quality was recorded in the "poor" category. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 278 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 230 on Tuesday. It was 160 on Monday, 305 on Sunday and 356 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ unions ask Centre to stop ‘defaming’ their movement||An umbrella group of 40 farmers unions agitating against the government’s new agri-marketing laws wrote to the Centre on Wednesday and asked it to stop holding “parallel talks” with other farmers’ organisations over the contentious legislations. The letter, written by ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ representing farmer unions mostly from Punjab, comes in the backdrop of the government holding talks with multiple agricultural organisations from different states  who the Centre claimed have extended their support to the new agriculture laws. In the letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said the Centre should not defame the ongoing demonstrations being held at different borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three laws. “We want the government to stop defaming farmers' agitation and holding parallel talks with other farmers' organisations,” Darshan Pal, a member of the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said in his letter written in Hindi. Pal also recorded in writing the unions’ decision to reject the Centre’s proposal of amending the laws recently. “We had already made our stand clear in previous talks (with the government) that's why we did not send a written reply earlier,” he wrote in the letter. Representatives of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum with suggestions on the laws and the Minimum Support Price. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan), which was protesting at the district levels in Uttar Pradesh, has also decided to end it for now. They have not been part of the 40 farmers' groups that have been protesting on various borders of the national capital, and they had also attended the recent rounds of talks with the Centre without any breakthrough. According to an agriculture ministry statement Tuesday, Tomar thanked the BKU (Kisan) leaders for coming out in support of the laws and said these legislations have been welcomed in various states across the country. Earlier this week, a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had also met Tomar. On Tuesday, the leaders of agitating farmers asserted they will make the Centre repeal the three new agri laws in a hardening of their stand. Security arrangements on Wednesday were tightened at the Chilla border connecting Delhi and Noida as farmer union leaders warned of completely blocking the key area to press their demands of repealing the three central farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Police stand guard at Chilla border as farmers vow to make govt repeal laws||Security arrangements on Wednesday were tightened at the Chilla border connecting Delhi and Noida as farmer union leaders warned of completely blocking the key area to press their demands of repealing the three central farm laws. A senior police official said elaborate security arrangements were already in place at the Delhi-Noida border. Multi-layered barricades, jersey barriers and additional security personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order. He informed that just a small group of protesters were demonstrating at Chilla, and the situation was largely normal. Farmer leaders had on Tuesday said they would “make” the government repeal the new legislations, and asserted that their fight has reached a stage where they are “determined” to win no matter what. “The farmer unions are not running away from negotiations, but the government has to pay heed to their demands and come forward with concrete proposals,” the leaders had said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met farmers on Tuesday, not in Delhi where tens of thousands are sitting on dharna for the past 19 days to demand the repeal of the new farm laws his government has brought, but in Gujarat where he declared that the laws have the support of “almost the entire country”. According to the police, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders are closed. Commuters have been advised to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders, while traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. The Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44 should be avoided, they said. Meanwhile, Gazipur border also remains closed for traffic coming from Gaziabad to Delhi due to the protests. Commuters have been advised to take other routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara and Bhopra borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Modi commemorates 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday marked the beginning of the 50-year anniversary of India’s 1971 victory over Pakistan by lighting up the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in New Delhi. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh  the chief of defence staff and tri-service chiefs joined Modi as he laid wreath and paid tributes to the soldiers who were martyred during the war and made the supreme sacrifice for the country. Four victory mashaals (flaming torches) will be carried to various parts of India, including to the villages of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra awardees of the 1971 war, the defence ministry has said. “Soil from the villages of these awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the National War Memorial (NWM),” the ministry said. India celebrates December 16 as Vijay Diwas to commemorate its victory over Pakistan during the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. As December 16 marks the anniversary of the military victory, the nation will celebrate 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' (golden victory year) through several events across the country, and it will continue for a year. Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war veterans will be felicitated, the statement said, adding that band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclaves and adventure activities will also be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload surges to 99.32 lakh||India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 99.32 lakh as the country reported 26,382 cases over the past 24 hours, while the number of recoveries mounted to 94.56 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. The total coronavirus caseload rose to 99,32,547, while the death toll increased to 1,44,096 with 387 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 94,56,449, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.21 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. Wednesday also marked the 10th consecutive day, when the active Covid-19 cases remained below four lakh. There are 3,32,002 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitute 3.34 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,66,46,280 samples have been tested up to December 15, of which 10,85,625 were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi meets farmers, not in Delhi but in Gujrat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met farmers on Tuesday, not in Delhi where tens of thousands are sitting on dharna for the past 18 days to demand the repeal of the new farm laws his government has brought, but in Gujarat where he declared that the laws have the support of “almost the entire country”. “Aaj kal, Dilli ke aas-paas kisano ko bhramit karne ki saazish chal rahi hai (These days, in Delhi’s vicinity, there is a conspiracy under way to mislead the farmers),” Modi said. After claiming that farmers taking part in the largest such protest in recent memory were “misled”, Modi said his government was willing to hear them out. “I tell my farmer brothers once again, again and again, that the government is ready to solve each of their concerns,” he said. The Prime Minister did not, however, offer to meet the protesting farmers who have already held several rounds of talks with his government. More than 30 unions from Punjab alone and five national collectives, representing hundreds of farmers’ organisations from across the country, are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws forced through Parliament in September. Among the farmers invited to meet Modi in Gujarat on Tuesday were a group of Sikhs settled in Kutch. A news release issued by the Gujarat government’s information department before the visit specified that Sikh farmers had been invited. It was not clear why the invitation was extended and highlighted. Several Sikh farmers, who started settling in barren land in Kutch after the 1965 war on the invitation of the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, had faced eviction when Modi was chief minister of Gujarat. After Gujarat High Court ruled in favour of the farmers, the state government had gone to the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, the Centre released an e-book on “PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs”. Punjab’s farmers have been at the vanguard of the protests against the three laws. “I believe, our government’s honest intentions, honest efforts, which have the blessings of almost the entire country (kareeb kareeb poore desh), the blessings of farmers from every corner of the country… the strength of the blessings” would defeat those trying to “mislead” and do “politics”, Modi said. The Prime Minister was speaking at a programme to lay the foundation for a renewable energy park in Kutch, Gujarat. Modi broached the topic of the farmers’ protest at the fag end of his speech. “They are being made to feel scared by being told that after the reforms, farmers’ land would be taken over by others,” Modi said. He asked the crowd: “Do dairy companies take your cows and buffaloes when you enter into an agreement with them to sell milk?” Modi said the demand for the farm reform brought by his government was being made for long and that even the Opposition, when it was in government, had tried to bring it but couldn’t. “But today, the same people are engaged in misleading the farmers,” he said. Many farmers’ organisations have been demanding that they should have the freedom to sell their produce to anyone, he said. Senior BJP leader and transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, too, urged the protesters to discuss each clause of the new laws, claiming that the government was ready to address all their concerns. Sticking to the tactic of vilifying the protesting farmers, Gadkari claimed he had seen pictures of Naxalites participating in the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Industry chambers call for early end to deadlock over farm laws||Apex industry chambers on Tuesday called for an early end to the deadlock over the new farm laws, stating that the protests are disrupting supply chains and affecting the post-Covid economic recovery. Attention is being drawn to the wider economic impact at a time the Prime Minister has been trying to project the farmers’ grievances and agitation as an isolated (“Dilli ke aas-paas”) phenomena. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) estimated that around two-thirds of the consignments in transit are taking 50 per cent extra time to reach destinations in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and the Delhi-National Capital Region. In addition, freight carriers are forced to travel up to 50 per cent longer to reach Delhi from the warehouses in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “This may push logistics cost by up to 8 to 10 per cent. Many companies in the industrial belt surrounding Delhi are facing labour shortages as people struggle to reach production facilities from neighbouring towns,” the chamber said. Nikhil Sawhney, chairman of the CII’s northern region, said in a statement: “The ongoing farm agitation requires an immediate amicable solution as it is impacting not only the economic growth but also putting a huge dent to the supply chain which is affecting the large and small industries alike.” Niranjan Hiranandani, the president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India (Assocham), said in a separate statement: “With the ongoing farmers’ agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt. Industries such as textiles, auto components, bicycles, sports goods which cater significantly to the export markets would not be able to fulfil their orders ahead of Christmas, harming our goodwill amongst the global buyers.” Assocham’s estimates have pegged the daily loss because of the disruption in the value chain and transport between Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 3,500 crore. Indicating that the protests have hit where it hurts (the farmers believe the three laws are aimed at benefiting the corporate sector and not the farming community), the two industry bodies said the agitation was impacting the post-Covid economic recovery. Assocham also sought to convince the farmers that the industry has a big stake in their welfare and that they can rest assured that any economic proposition from the farm sector would have a bias only in favour of farmers. The farmers are upset at the constant vilification and infantilisation of the protests through government statements that they are being misled, iterated on Tuesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The farmer leaders likened the amendments offered by the government to removing two grams of poison each from three tablets of 10 grams poison. “The poison will still kill us,” said farmer leader Inderjit Singh from Haryana. Responding to Modi’s address in Kutch, Yudhvir Singh of one of the Uttar Pradesh-based factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said: “The Prime Minister on one hand says this is for farmers but at the Ficci meeting last weekend, he tells industry that ‘I have opened the farming sector for you’.” Stating that the Prime Minister never found time for farmers in six years — except for two “staged” meetings — Yudhvir Singh said the more the government delays addressing the demands of farmers, the more support the movement will get. “This is a kisan yagya, and more farmers are joining in. They may not be able to reach here because they are being stopped on the way, but the support is increasing. We are ready to die for the repeal of these laws,” he said, adding that farmers have realised their mistake in voting for Modi. Yudhvir Singh was equally sharp in responding to allegations of foreign funding that is being levelled against the movement. “Modi got funding from Gujaratis abroad and used it for elections to reach where he is. That is OK. But if our children who are abroad contribute for this, it is wrong. Did we get it from Namaste Trump?’’ The farmers have decided to block the Chilla border on the Delhi-Noida link road again from Wednesday. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha has urged all farmers to organise memorial meetings in villages across the country on Sunday as a mark of respect to those who have died in the protest. Until Tuesday, 13 farmers have died participating in the protests. Earlier in the day, addressing a separate news conference, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah — who has been attending the meetings with the government as a member of the umbrella organisation, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee — said: “This government is only interested in selling everything. Now, only land is left; they want to sell that too in the long run through these laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||NRI Pandit claims Srinagar fire arson act by Islamists||“Normality” in Kashmir means something as commonplace as a fire can ignite conspiracy theories, fodder for propaganda and a riddle about a temple. On Sunday, a fire broke out at Rainawari in Srinagar’s old city locality, apparently reducing a factory and two adjacent houses to ashes. Soon, the ripples of what was a civic issue threatened to spread far beyond the Union Territory. Some Kashmiri Pandits, including a BJP leader, claimed that a temple was set ablaze in the area, triggering an unlikely spat between officers in the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and the Pandits. Vimarsh Raina, who claims to be a doctor working abroad, posted purported images and videos of the fire on Twitter and said “one of the oldest Arya Samaj Hindu temples” at Motiyar in Rainawari had been burnt. “This is how Hindus are being persecuted by radical Islamists in my homeland in Kashmir,” Raina posted on Facebook. Jammu and Kashmir police lodged an FIR against Raina, following which his Facebook account has been deactivated. The police action came after tensions flared up on social media as several Pandits, including BJP leader Ashwini Chrungoo and journalist Aditya Raj Kaul, waded into the controversy. So much so that the police were compelled to issue a counter-claim. “Some unknown anti-social miscreant has posted with criminal intention... a baseless post regarding alleged act of arson at the Arya Samaj Temple, Motiyar, Rainawari, when the said mandir is safe and intact. No act of arson has occurred at the said temple,” a police spokesperson said on Monday. The deliberate act of malice would have wounded feelings of Hindus within the district and elsewhere in the country and world, the police added. “The said rumour/tweet bears potential to create feelings of enmity and hatred between religious groups,” the police said and released multiple pictures of the temple to show it was intact. The Srinagar district administration said the fire broke out some “200 metres away from the Shri Vaital Bhairav temple”. Many Pandits, however, were adamant and said the officers were lying. BJP leader Chrungoo said the Srinagar administration was “misguided in this regard”. Chrungoo posted on Facebook: “It was the Yagyashalla of the Arya Samaj Mandir under the control of Arya Samaj Committee, Rainawari. I have many a time visited this complex near a small bridge in Motiyar. In fact, it was a donated property and was usurped post 1990s by the Akhoons.” Chrungoo was referring to former National Conference MLA Syed Akhoon. Rainawari is his ancestral home. Rainawari was a mixed neighbourhood where many Kashmiri Pandits lived before militancy. Many of them have sold their property. Kaul, a Kashmiri Pandit journalist based in Delhi, said the police FIR was aimed at intimidating exiled Kashmiri Pandits further and asked the lieutenant governor to take the police “to task”. “Shame on Srinagar Police, Kashmir. It shows there is no damage to Arya Samaj Temple by showing photos of another — Vital Bhairav Temple in Motiyar Rainawari. Officer who wrote this juvenile press release without probe or reaching out to exiled Kashmiri Pandits should be fired,” Kaul tweeted. The tweet claims there are two temples in Motiyar locality and it was the Arya Samaj temple that was torched. Akhoon, the National Conference leader, said there was no Arya Samaj temple in Motiyar while the Vital Bhairav temple was safe. He said the fire destroyed his cousin Rafiq Ahmad Akhoon’s factory. “It is not my property. I had a home in Rainawari which was torched thrice (during militancy) and I have never gone to the area since,” NC leader Akhoon told The Telegraph. Cousin Rafiq said the fire had destroyed his factory and two adjacent houses. “I had purchased a house from a Kashmiri Pandit in 2004 which I converted into a glass factory. The police came yesterday to enquire about the fire and I produced all the documents to prove I had legally purchased the property,” he said. Rafiq said the Vital Bhairav temple was more than 100 metres away from his factory and there was no Arya Samaj temple in the locality. “It (the Vital Bhairav temple) is perfectly all right,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-486
16-12-2020||India||Nationwide vaccine effect surveillance||India’s Covid-19 vaccination guidelines have proposed a nationwide surveillance network to detect and respond to possible adverse events after immunisation (AEFI) that experts say would be critical for evaluation of vaccines approved under emergency use authorisation. The guidelines prepared by the Union health ministry would require every vaccination session site across the country to be linked to an AEFI management centre located at a primary health centre, a community health centre, a district hospital or a private hospital. The AEFI surveillance would also require doctors to “ask and record” a history of Covid-19 vaccination in patients during out-patient or emergency consultations and report any symptoms that have occurred after immunisation telephonically to designated local health officials. Health officials and experts say the planned Covid-19 mass vaccination campaigns would require heightened levels of AEFI surveillance than currently available to monitor AEFIs after immunisation with infancy and childhood vaccines with proven efficacy and used for years. “The (Covid-19) vaccines are new and multiple platforms — and that brings in complexity. Also if emergency authorisation is given, it is emergency authorisation,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination. India’s drug regulatory agency is currently evaluating applications for emergency use authorisation of three vaccines — the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. A national expert panel has recommended that the vaccines — if approved by the regulatory agency — should be initially offered to healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with underlying health disorders. Paul and other experts have also underlined that mass vaccination campaigns in adults over a short period of time could lead to increased reports of AEFI, particularly among the elderly or those who have certain underlying health disorders. While the AEFI surveillance is intended to track and record every AEFI, experts point out that certain recipients of vaccines such as the elderly and those with underlying health disorders are also likely to experience higher mortality and illness rates than younger healthy individuals. “Many of the deaths and hospitalisations after Covid-19 vaccinations in these high-risk groups may be coincidental,” the guidelines say. “However, it is important that all deaths, hospitalisations, and any event occurring in clusters following Covid-19 vaccination should be investigated immediately.” The proposed AEFI surveillance network would require all AEFIs — minor, severe, and serious — to be reported digitally into a web-based application. Co-WIN health authorities will use for the Covid-19 vaccination process, including AEFI reporting. The surveillance network would seek to estimate serious AEFIs in the population and compare them with local and global data, identify signals of unexpected adverse events that might need validation and planned studies, and document AEFI rates, if any, for specific vaccines. “The emergency use authorisation provision falls short of a full-fledged approval based on a positive risk-benefit analysis,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Calcutta. “Those who receive vaccines under emergency use authorisation should be viewed as participants in a very large clinical trial. It is important to have a robust safety and efficacy evaluation in place. Data generated through such surveillance could guide decisions on the full approval of vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Boris Johnson to be Republic Day chief guest||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has accepted his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi’s invitation to be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade on January 26, Downing Street said here on Tuesday. The visit will mark Johnson’s first major bilateral visit since taking office last year and the first since Britain’s exit from the European Union. Describing India as a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, Johnson said on Tuesday that his visit would mark the start of an “exciting year” for Global Britain and deliver a “quantum leap” in the bilateral ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||BJP decimates its senior and secular leadership in Bihar||The BJP has in one stroke decimated its senior and secular leadership in Bihar. It has appointed several of its seasoned leaders as chairpersons of various Assembly committees, effectively removing them from the race for ministerial berths in chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet. The choices indicate that the BJP is shedding its secular faces and planning to go the whole hog on the hardline path, but has also led to murmurs about factionalism and injustice in the rank and file of the party. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha announced the chairpersons of the different committees on Monday. Senior BJP leaders Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar, who have been elected to the House for the seventh and the eighth time, respectively, figured on the list. Both had been part of the NDA government in Bihar since the beginning. Nand Kishore will now head the estimates committee while Prem will chair the petition committee. Other veteran leaders Vinod Narayan Jha, Ram Narayan Mandal and Krishna Kumar Rishi will also head different Assembly committees. They too had served as ministers in the previous NDA governments. Traditionally, the chairpersons of the House committees are not made ministers and vice-versa. The move by the BJP to herd these veteran leaders into the House committees came at a time when they were being seen as the top contenders for ministerial berths. It also completed the chain that began with the sidelining of former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and shifting him out of the state’s political scene by sending him to the Rajya Sabha. “Be it Sushil, Nand Kishore, Prem, Vinod or others, they all have given their life to the party and the organisation. They were the ones who took the party to every nook and corner of the state. Now they all have been sidelined. None of them are too old to work. This shows that there is not much value for work, seniority, experience and loyalty here,” a BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. Incidentally, all the sidelined senior leaders have been the secular faces of the BJP in Bihar. They had stayed away from the communal agenda and were never considered hardliners. Sushil’s wife is a Christian tracing her roots to Goa, while Nand Kishore had always revelled in reciting Urdu poetry during his speeches in the Assembly. While sources in the BJP said that the leaders’ good relations with chief minister and Janata Dal United president Nitish did them in, they also pointed towards factionalism in the Bihar BJP. “Different factions and lobbies are active in the party in Bihar. They are headed by Nityanand Rai (Union minister of state for home affairs), state unit chief Sanjay Jaiswal, and Union minister Ravishankar Prasad. Some of them are even contenders for the chief minister’s post. Whatever is happening in the party is due to the pulls and pressures of these groups despite the fact that they have the stamp of approval of our top leadership. But this will not be good for us in the long run,” a BJP source told The Telegraph. Asked about the internal wrangle in the party and sidelining of several senior leaders, BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel denied any such development and said that the seniormost members of the Assembly had been made chairpersons of the House committees. “Expansion and change keep happening in the party. New people keep coming in. Our central and state leaderships assign work and roles to our party leaders. When the time comes for cabinet expansion, our leadership will decide who will become ministers,” Prem Ranjan told this newspaper. With the cabinet expansion due in Bihar and the “khar mas”, or the 30 days time considered inauspicious for new ventures setting in, Nitish has put the ball in the BJP’s court by highlighting that the delay has been due to the ally. “There has been no talk of cabinet expansion so far. We will take a decision on it after the BJP sends a proposal,” Nitish told reporters on Tuesday. The BJP with 74 seats is the biggest partner in the NDA government in Bihar while Nitish’s JDU has 43 seats. The Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and the Vikassheel Insan Party have four seats each. The BJP held a two-day internal meeting at Vaishaligarh in Vaishali district to deliberate on the party’s course in 2021. It was chaired by its Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh and ended on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Bihar farmer destroys ready-to-harvest crop ||Omprakash Yadav of Muktapur village in Bihar’s Samastipur district was happy with the cauliflower crop he had sown three months ago on his 5-acre land. Each of the vegetables had grown to weigh around 2.5 to 3kg and was ready to be harvested. But his joy evaporated when he tried to sell the produce in the mandi (wholesale market). Cauliflowers were fetching just Re 1 per kg, or Rs 100 per quintal, in the wholesale market. This would not cover even the Rs 150 per quintal required just to harvest the crop and take it to the market. A heartbroken Omprakash, 36, returned to his village and ploughed the field with a tractor to destroy the ready-to-harvest crop. “I have ploughed around 3.5 acres so far over the past two days. Around 1.5 acres still remain. I will plough it tomorrow (Wednesday). I had never expected to see such a day, but I now know the place of farmers in our country,” Omprakash told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The usual price for cauliflower ranges between Rs 700 and Rs 1,500 per quintal, he said. But there is a glut in the market this season and also a fall in demand allegedly because of the pandemic-induced economic strain. Omprakash’s act came at a time when farmers from different parts of the country are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against three new farm laws. The farmers are also demanding a legally guaranteed MSP (minimum support price) for all crops. At present, MSP is offered only for wheat and paddy. Bihar’s farmers like Omprakash take their produce to a private mandi held at the same bazar samiti or government mandi premises that the Nitish Kumar government had done away with when it scrapped the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in 2006. In the absence of government mandis, private merchants from nearby districts and Nepal decide the prices of agricultural produce. Omprakash said he spent Rs 150 to harvest every quintal of cauliflower, under various heads such as the payment of labourers who cut and pack them, sacks, thread to sew the sacks, transportation and hiring a coolie in the wholesale market. “I have taken the land on lease for Rs 25,000 per acre and spent over Rs 1 lakh per acre on cultivating cauliflower. Its seeds come at Rs 40,000 per kg. We have to spend on fertiliser, pesticide, labourers and irrigation. If nature is benevolent, the crop is good, and the market is fine, we can make as much as around Rs 5 lakh per acre. If not, the earnings come down. But it had never been so bad as this year,” he added. Omprakash, who lives in a joint family of nine members with his elder brother, had taken Rs 3 lakh as crop loan from a nationalised bank to cultivate the crop, and now is worried about how to repay it. “I have no idea why the prices are so low in the wholesale market. I don’t even know what the government has done to protect farmers like us. I have an entire family to take care of and I may have to spend the next few months begging everybody to give some more loan or to grant some reprieve,” Omprakash said. The family owns around 3.5 acres of land on which they are now cultivating wheat, potato, maize and beetroot. Omprakash had taken another 5 acres on lease to cultivate cauliflower to augment the family’s income and provide better education to the brothers’ five children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Rahul alleges Modi of defaming society except 'his capitalist friends'||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the Narendra Modi government had defamed every section of society except his capitalist friends as the Congress expressed shock at the establishment’s apathy towards the agitating farmers in this biting cold. Rahul tweeted: “For Modi Government: Dissenting students are anti-nationals. Concerned citizens are urban Naxals. Migrant labourers are Covid carriers. Rape victims are nobody. Protesting farmers are Khalistani. And crony capitalists are best friends.” Rahul has been attacking the Prime Minister for pursuing a “pro-rich policy” and repeatedly asserted that the new farm laws are designed to facilitate a corporate takeover of agriculture. Party leaders on Tuesday held a massive demonstration at the BJP’s headquarters in Delhi to protest against the new farm laws. The Punjab Congress had on Monday protested against the Union ministers maligning the farmers by alleging Khalistani and Maoist links with the movement. The Congress tweeted: “The food-giver is being called traitor and terrorist. The dictatorial sultanate has crossed all the limits of arrogance to insult the farmers.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted, recalling how the farmers of Bardoli had fought against British threats and coercion under the leadership of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. She said: “On Patel’s death anniversary, the Modi government should be reminded that farmers are not frightened by false propaganda and threats.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also took strong objection to the attempts to discredit the peaceful movement and asked the central government to accept the demands of the farmers. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “It is shocking that after 20 days of farmers’ protests in the bitter winter of Delhi, the government continues to stick to the ‘no repeal’ stand. “It is obvious that any agreement between farmers and government will necessarily require a new bill to be passed in Parliament. The simple way forward is to repeal the present laws and re-enact a new law based on the agreement. Repeal and re-enactment is a well-known legislative tool. The government should climb down from its high horse and reach an agreement with the farmers quickly.” The government has already announced that there would be no winter session of Parliament, demonstrating its intent to stick to the laws no matter how big the farmers’ protest become. Temperatures also dipped in Delhi on Tuesday, making staying in the open extremely difficult, but farmers said that thousands were on way to join them. The Congress, which demanded an immediate calling of a Parliament session, described the move to skip winter session as another blow to democracy. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Modi ji, decimation of ‘parliamentary democracy’ is complete. NEET/JEE exams can be held during Covid. Schools can be opened, universities can hold exams. Rallies can be held in Bihar-Bengal. But winter session of Parliament can’t be held. Any semblance of democracy left?” The Congress ran a campaign on Twitter under the tagline — The year it should have been — recalling how the Prime Minister mishandled the pandemic, the economy, the lockdown, the Chinese intrusions and women’s safety throughout the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Homeopathy can’t be sold as Covid cure: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that homeopathic, ayurvedic and unani practitioners can prescribe their respective alternative medicines only as preventive doses and immune system boosters but not as a cure for Covid-19. The court said no medical system, including allopathy, had claimed to have found a cure for the disease. The apex court noted that according to the guidelines issued by the Ayush ministry on March 6, homeopaths are permitted only to prescribe certain homeopathic medicines as “…preventive, prophylactic, symptom management of Covid-19-like illnesses and add-on interventions to the conventional care”, but not as a cure. “The high court, however, is right in its observation that no medical practitioner can claim that it can cure Covid-19. There is no such claim in other therapy including allopathy. The high court is right in observing that no claim for cure can be made in homeopathy. Homeopathy is contemplated to be used in preventing and mitigating Covid-19 as is reflected by the advisory and guidelines issued by the ministry of Ayush…,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said in a judgment. The Supreme Court passed the ruling while disposing of an appeal filed by the Kerala-based Dr AKB Sadbhavana Mission School of Homeo Pharmacy that was aggrieved by Kerala High Court’s direction on August 21 for action against homeopaths who claim cure in homeopathy for Covid-19 patients. Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, noted that the Ayush ministry guidelines clearly refer to certain homeopathy medicines as preventive, prophalytic and add-on interventions to the conventional therapy. “The above guidelines refer to homeopathy medicines as medicines for prophylaxis, amelioration and mitigation. The guidelines, however, specifically provide that ‘the prescription has to be given only by institutionally qualified practitioners’,” the bench said. According to the court, homeopathic practitioners are bound by rules from prescribing medicines as cure for Covid-19. “When statutory regulations themselves prohibit advertisement, there is no occasion for homeopathic medical practitioners to advertise that they are competent to cure Covid-19 disease. When the scientists of the entire world are engaged in research to find out proper medicine/vaccine for Covid-19, there is no occasion for making any observation as contained in paragraph with regard to homeopathic medical practitioners,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Why Niti Aayog CEO’s statement is a warning to the people||Placing India’s secular-democratic constitution in the background, while the six priests from Sringeri Math in Karnataka were chanting mantras from the Vedas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed “bhoomi pujan” for the new Parliament building on Thursday. In his usual style, he even quoted from Guru Nanak: “Jab tak sansar rahe, tab tak samvad rahe (So long as the world exists, dialogue too must exist).” Emphasising the point, the Prime Minister said that democracy was the soul of India. Anyone who applies their mind to these words would naturally think about the happenings at the borders of the national capital, where the “annadatas (providers)” of the country have realised the meaning of “dialogue” in the Modi era. Democracy is the political framework for dialogue that provides space for debate and dissent. People would in this context naturally remember the position taken by the CEO of the Niti Aayog on democracy itself. It was not for nothing that the Modi government dismantled the Planning Commission. For this government, everything connected with Jawaharlal Nehru is anathema. The Niti Aayog was invented by the RSS-controlled BJP as an alternative to the concept of planning. They think that the word “planning” is a stepping stone towards socialism. The Niti Ayog presents a glittering profile: “National Institute for Transforming India”. This establishment has within no time become a mirror for the thoughts and deeds of the Modi government. Many a time the Niti Ayog has proven to be a harbinger of the policy orientations of the Modi government. What its moots today as an idea can become the guiding principle of the government tomorrow. That is why the country has noted with anxiety the recent statement by the CEO of the Niti Ayog (Amitabh Kant). He was addressing a webinar, “The Road to Atmanirbhar Bharat”, organised by the Swarajya magazine. He said India was “too much of a democracy”, which made tough reforms difficult to execute. It was the revelation of a philosophy that locates democracy as a counter-current on the path to a self-reliant India, or atmanirbhar Bharat. While the whole nation stands united behind the farmers who are fighting against so-called reforms in agriculture, the Niti Ayog chief laments that tough reforms are difficult in India. He minced no words in praising his government, which had “shown the will to bring hard-headed reforms across sectors like mining, coal, labour, agriculture...”. Everyone in India knows what is happening in the country in the name of reforms. In every walk of life FDI has become the salvation mantra for the government. The government’s concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat itself is mortgaged to foreign capital. Almost all the reforms it has railroaded were blows to the foundations of democracy. Economic, social and political democracy in India is constantly under attack from the initiators of these hard-headed reforms. The basic rights to organise, differ and protest are brutally suppressed. The annadatas of the country, knocking at the borders of the national capital, are denied entry to the citadel of democracy where the elected government of the people sits. The concrete barricades, wire fences, water cannons and tear gas shells, together with the thousands of paramilitary forces deployed, speak volumes about the functioning of democracy in India. The Prime Minister must be aware of the way the provisions of Article 370 were abrogated, the CAA and NRC reforms were enacted, and labour law reforms and farm laws were imposed on the country. He must also have a basic understanding of the rights enshrined in Articles 14 (equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. The farmers, workers, students, Dalits and other deprived sections of society do have the right to question those “hard-headed reforms”. These reforms affect their inalienable right to lead a dignified life in a democratic country. The Prime Minister should understand the brewing discontent among the masses. The reason behind it is not the abundance of democracy but the growing disparity of wealth and living conditions. The stimulus packages announced during the pandemic did no justice to the poor. Migrant labourers, domestic workers and sanitary labourers were forgotten. The paltry benefits offered to them did not reach the majority of them. The crisis in the economy has arisen not because of “an act of God” or too much democracy. The policies evolved by the Niti Aayog and implemented by the government are the reason. The ruling circles intend to resolve it by providing concessions to wilful defaulters and foreign capital. The question is: people or profit? Here the government is coming out with dangerous propositions with far-reaching impacts, like using the (anti-terror law) UAPA to curtail democracy. This is to strangle the people’s right to differ so that the flow of capital for super profits remains unhindered. That is why the Niti Aayog CEO in his speech urged “huge amounts of political determination”. This was a call to the government to arm itself further with more and more oppressive laws. That was a caution to the nation and a warning to its people. The Prime Minister’s intention at the foundation stone ceremony was to hide the undemocratic path the government wants to pursue. This “swadeshi” government is keen to do it under the cover of a $5-trillion dollar economy, where only FDI will define the parameters of democracy. (Modi has said he hopes India will have a $5-trillion economy by 2024.) Binoy Viswam is secretary, CPI National Council, and leader of the party in Parliament||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Panel to manage Lingaraj temple ||The Odisha cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance to constitute a committee for managing the affairs of the 11th century Shree Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar and its properties, including those on its premises, other temples, sacred places and maths, for better administration and governance. The management will be on the lines of the procedure followed in the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on December 2 had visited the Lingaraj temple and assured the servitors that the state government will take steps for its better governance. The state government said in a release, “The detailed provision have been made in the proposed Ordinance covering all relevant aspects, such as constitution of managing committee, its composition, responsibilities and powers, administrator’s responsibilities and powers, maintenance and management of moveable and immovable properties of the temple, role and responsibilities of the servitors, constitution of the temple fund and its management.” “This apart, the government has recently proposed to undertake several developmental works for all-round development of Lingaraj temple which are required to be done on priority basis. Since the Odisha Assembly is not in session, the new law is proposed to be enacted through this ordinance,” the release said. Under the existing laws, all the maths and temples, except the Jagannath temple, are governed by the Endowment Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Odisha tableau plans for Republic Day parade rejected||Odisha will not be able to showcase its heritage and culture during the Republic Day parade this year after its tableau proposals were rejected by the selection committee. The Republic Day parade in New Delhi offers an opportunity to the states to put their art and culture on display through tableaus. The information and public relations department had invited proposals from artists for preparing tableaus for the state to be showcased during the Republic Day parade. “Initially eight proposals had been short-listed. After screening, we sent four proposals to Delhi. Later two proposals were sent to the Republic Day screening committee — one based on Jagannath culture (Nagarjuna Vesha — when the deities are dressed like warriors) and another on Buddhist culture. But they failed to impress the committee and Odisha lost the opportunity,” said a senior state government official. The proposals sent by the state were selected by a committee comprising experts from BK College of Arts and Crafts, secretary of Odisha Lalit Kala Akademi, state archaeology department, director, culture, and officials from the information and public relations department. Information and public relations director Krupasindhu Mishra said: “This time there are a number of restrictions due to Covid-19. The artists have put up their best effort. Perhaps they failed to give a good presentation before the selection committee. Many things such as colour combination and themes were taken into consideration by the selection committee during the presentation of the subject. There were times earlier when Odisha had failed to participate in the Republic Day parade. Next time we will certainly do better.” Gajendra Prasad Sahoo, one the artists with an expertise in making tableaus, told The Telegraph: “This time we have involved a new generation of artists while preparing the proposals. We wanted to give them an exposure. Perhaps, they failed to rise to the expectation. Only through failures one can learn. Odisha will certainly do well next time.” Last year, Odisha had showcased the Rukuna Rath Yatra of Lord Lingaraj during the parade. The tableau had replicated in miniature the art and architecture of the Lingaraj temple and Rukuna Rath. It had been adjudged the second best tableau and the accompanying cultural troupe had received the first prize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh vigilance department to probe IPS duo  ||The Uttar Pradesh vigilance department has started a probe into the assets of two suspended IPS officers — one accused of extorting and abetting the suicide of a businessman and the other of facilitating transfers and promotions in exchange for money. The vigilance investigation is in addition to the departmental inquiry for corruption against Manilal Patidar, the former superintendent of police of Mahoba district and now absconding, and Abhishek Dixit, senior superintendent of police of Allahabad. Uttar Pradesh police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anybody providing information leading to the arrest of Patidar, who is absconding ever since businessman Indrakant Tripathi died of a bullet injury on September 13. Tripathi had allegedly shot himself in his car at Kabrai on September 8. A day earlier, he had sent a video message to his contacts alleging that Patidar was demanding Rs 6 lakh every month from him and threatening to implicate him in a false case or kill him in an encounter. An inquiry conducted by a special investigation concluded that Tripathi had been under mental pressure and had committed suicide by shooting himself with his revolver. The report found Patidar guilty of abetting the suicide. Dixit, who was the senior superintendent of police of Allahabad, was suspended on September 9 on multiple complaints of corruption in transfers and postings in the department. The police on Monday announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for the arrest of Arvind Sen, a suspended deputy inspector-general, for his involvement in a corruption case in the veterinary department in 2018. Sen had allegedly accepted bribes while probing a tender scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-487
16-12-2020||India||DU initiates process of changing curriculum for the third time in seven years||Delhi University (DU) has initiated the process of changing its curriculum for the third time in seven years, prompting academics to fear that frequent revisions with little funding could convert varsities into “experimental labs” without achieving the desired results. An expert committee headed by Prof. Vivek Suneja is examining possible changes to the existing curriculum in order to implement the government’s National Education Policy. The committee appointed by vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi held a meeting last week where it discussed, among other things, integrating skill-based courses with undergraduate programmes in science, humanities and commerce. According to the proposed structure being discussed by the committee, each programme will include courses in vocational skills. General BA, BSc and BCom courses at DU now do not have any skill component. In 2013, DU had introduced a Four-Year Undergraduate Programme (FYUP) that had skill-training programmes. In 2015, the Centre told DU to discontinue the FYUP, saying it did not have the approval of the visitor, the President of India. In 2015, DU had implemented the University Grants Commission (UGC)’s directive to varsities to introduce a Choice-Based Credit System (CBCS), allowing students of a particular stream to study up to 30 per cent of the syllabus of another discipline. But in 2019, the UGC modified the CBCS and asked universities to introduce a Learning Outcome-Based Framework (LOCF) with focus on skill enhancement. The universities are yet to implement them. Now, the government wants all public universities to implement the FYUP under the National Education Policy (NEP). The policy prescribes enhancing the duration of undergraduate courses from three years to four years with multiple exit options. Those completing four years will get a bachelors with research degree. The DU committee is also considering the integration of subjects on Indian languages with foundation courses in natural environment and ethics, two members said. Abha Dev Habib, a faculty member of Miranda House College and former executive council member of DU, said continuous changes in the curriculum were not an academically sound measure. “We have been witnessing continuous changes in curriculum since 2010. Any change in the academic curriculum takes time to show results. But changing the curriculum every two years is not an academically sound measure. We should not convert universities into experimental labs,” she said. Habib said the plan to integrate skill courses should be backed by understanding of the system. “There is hardly any space in colleges to add labs for skill courses, nor is there any promise of grants. The colleges have implemented the quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS) without expansion in infrastructure and faculty strength,” Habib said After Class XII, students have the option of joining professional courses such as engineering or medicine, or skill courses at the polytechnics or general courses such as BA, BCom and BSc. “Integration of skill courses with general courses will dilute the quality of skill training and also the general BA, BCom and BSc courses. Ultimately, the quality of degrees awarded by public universities will be diluted. It will help private universities to prosper,” Habib said. DU executive council member J.L. Gupta questioned the procedure of setting up the Suneja committee. “The Academic Council, comprising deans, heads of departments and teachers, is the appropriate body to decide academic matters. If they wanted, they could have set up a committee. But the vice-chancellor has set up a committee without going to the Academic Council. This is wrong,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-488
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Amid rumours of joining BJP, Suvendu quits as MLA||Rebel Trinamul Congress MLA Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday stepped down from his role at the Bengal Legislative Assembly, a month after he quit as a state minister. Adhikari submitted his  resignation as an MLA to the Assembly secretary, party sources said. The 50-year-old, an MLA of Nandigram constituency in Purba Medinipur district, is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state or earlier. Adhikari is also scheduled to go to Delhi and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week, sources said. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” a source said on Tuesday, hours after the leader addressed yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia. “His mind is made up. He cannot stay in Trinamul anymore. There have been generous offers from elsewhere, such as the Congress, but he is going to the BJP,” added the source, pointing out that the Centre had already granted Z cover security to Adhikari. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier on Wednesday attacked the BJP over coercing TMC leaders to the party, and labelled the detractors as "opportunists". “Imagine the audacity of the BJP leaders, they are calling up my state president Subrata Bakshi and asking him to join the party. The BJP doesn't have any political courtesy or ideology. And, there are one or two opportunists who only work for their benefit,” Mamata said. “The old-timers of the party are our real assets. The BJP is trying to coerce TMC leaders to join. It is using moneybags to break opposition parties... But, we will fight and defeat them in the assembly polls,,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee released from hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was released from a private hospital in Calcutta on Tuesday after being admitted there with acute respiratory problems on December 9. Bhattacharjee, 76, will remain in supervised homecare at his residence with non-invasive ventilation support and physiotherapy. His mobility will also be restricted. The CPM veteran had been put on mechanical ventilator support at the hospital’s critical care unit after his chronic respiratory problems had got aggravated. Over the past few days, his health parameters improved — while he kept insisting on going home — allowing the medical team supervising his treatment to decide on his release. “Sri Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is being discharged from hospital with acceptable clinical parameters. He is given homecare advice and all other relevant advice on nutrition, medication, nebulisation, BiPAP, physiotherapy. Hospital team of doctors and nurses accompanied him during the journey,” read a statement from the hospital. “He is made comfortable at his home as much as possible. We wish him an uneventful stay and recovery. He and his family have expressed their happiness on medical services and thanked the doctors and hospital team for the support extended,” it added. A senior hospital official said a makeshift intensive care unit was set up at Bhattacharjee’s Palm Avenue residence, where a critical care expert and a medicine specialist would monitor his health. The official said Bhattacharjee completed his course of antibiotics on Monday. Other supportive medicines are still on. The former member of the CPM politburo had been the chief minister between 2000 and 2011. He was the Jadavpur MLA from 24 years till 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari skips meeting with Firhad Hakim||Jitendra Tiwari, Trinamul Congress MLA from Pandaveswar and chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, skipped the meeting with urban development minister Firhad Hakim on Tuesday in Calcutta amid murmurs that he was distancing himself from the party. The meeting was urgently called by Hakim and Trinamul’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor was scheduled to be present. Tiwari, who is also Trinamul’s West Burdwan district president, shot off a letter to Hakim, saying the city (Asansol) had lost out on central funds because of the state government’s refusal to be part of the Smart City Mission for “political reasons”. Sources close to Tiwari said he wanted to discuss the issues only with chief minister Mamata Banerjee once she returned to Calcutta after her visit to north Bengal. Both Tiwari and Firhad got involved in a war of words over the letter. Sources said Tiwari and Bengal housing minister Aroop Biswas had a brief telephonic conversation on Monday after the letter triggered a controversy. “Aroop Biswas called up Tiwari on Monday evening and asked him to say whatever he wanted to Mamata Banerjee. He also assured him of arranging a five-minute meeting with the chief minister to discuss the matter,” said Trinamul leader in Asansol who is close to Tiwari. Sources said Tiwari had been asked to be in Calcutta on December 18 to meet the CM. Tiwari was on Tuesday seen busy in attending several programmes of the AMC where he repeatedly said he was ready to quit his chair to fight for the development of Asansol, his home town. “I am not hankering for chair or power. All that I want is to develop Asansol as it is my city and for the purpose, I need funds. I am ready to quit the chair if I am asked to,” he said. However, sudden development in the ruling party politics surprised everyone in Asansol. Sources said the relation between Firhad and Tiwari turned bitter since the minister raised allegations against Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty during an administrative review meeting of the chief minister last month. At the meeting, Firhad accused Agasty, who is close to Tiwari, of not working properly. Later, Mamata ordered to remove Agasty from the meeting after describing him as “good for nothing”. However, Agasty remained in his chair and recently held a meeting with the chief minister during her visit here last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt informs state election commission that it is ready to hold CMC polls||The Mamata Banerjee government has informed the state election commission that it is ready to hold polls to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation but 45 days are needed to frame the voter list according to the requirement of civic polls after the revised electoral roll is published on January 15, administrative sources said. “The state government and the SEC would file an affidavit in the Supreme Court to this effect on Wednesday. The government and the SEC would require 45 days as the voter list has to be rearranged because the number of booths in the civic and the Assembly polls would be different,” said a senior state government official. The revised voter list published by the Election Commission of India on January 15 is for Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The civic polls are conducted by the SEC. The BJP had recently filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking polls to the CMC and other civic bodies in the state. The court asked the SEC to submit an affidavit pointing out when the elections could be held. If a 45-day window is allowed after the revised voter list is published, the civic polls have to be held in March, which many officials said, would not be possible as dates for the Assembly elections are expected to be announced by then. “The state government might propose to hold the polls in March next year, but for practical reasons, they are unlikely before June,” said a source. The officials have explained why elections cannot be held just ahead of the Assembly polls. “It is possible to hold Lok Sabha and Assembly polls simultaneously as the ECI holds them and can place two EVMs in each booth which is linked to one control unit,” said an official who monitored local elections several times. As the civic polls are held by the SEC and the Assembly elections by the ECI, it is not possible to place two separate EVMs in a booth. Also, the polling officials cannot be asked to control both the EVMs. “Moreover, it would not be possible for the SEC to arrange the required number of EVMs if the CMC polls are scheduled ahead of the Assembly elections. This is because all voting machines would be kept ready for Assembly polls during that period,” said an officer. The elections to the CMC had been deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic and Firhad Hakim was appointed as the chairman of the board of administrators. “The state will present the ground reality. It will then depend on what the court orders,” said a source. Although science and technology minister Bratya Basu said the Trinamul Congress was ready to face the CMC polls in March, his colleagues said the state government would seek the 45 days very tactically. “We know civic polls are unlikely to be held in March and that’s why we proposed to hold them just ahead of the Assembly elections. We cannot take the risk of holding CMC elections just ahead of Assembly polls as nobody can guarantee that voting would be held peacefully,” said a minister. “We cannot take any risk given the bitter experience of 2018 panchayat polls where complaints of muscle flexing were levelled against us and that had hurt us in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal witnesses 50 consecutive days of drop in total active cases||Bengal on Tuesday achieved a landmark in its spell of turnaround in the Covid-19 pandemic since Durga Puja with 50 consecutive days of drop in total of active cases which fell by nearly 17,000 during the period. The state on Tuesday logged 2,965 recoveries, 2,289 infections and 45 deaths, bringing the total of active cases down to 20,663, back almost to where it was on August 1, 136 days ago. “Our goal was to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases — mind you, we were at 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami (October 26) — but now less than 20,000 appears highly likely. Not even the most optimistic of estimates within the government was able to forecast this remarkable achievement,” said a minister. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 54 consecutive days, reached yet another new high of 94.33 per cent. The national rate now is 95.12 per cent. In the past 50 days till Tuesday, the state recorded over 1.86 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.72 lakh cases detected for the same period. “During this period, we managed an improvement of 44.44 per cent in our total of active cases,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has nearly 5.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 4.96 lakh recoveries and 9,145 deaths. With examination of 41,569 swab samples recorded on Tuesday, the state’s total test count rose to 64.96 lakh. Tests per million people are 72,186. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.1 now, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 on November 20. Tuesday’s 45 deaths included 14 from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,675 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.73, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 20.16 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.31 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided so far during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee says AIMIM on BJP payroll to divide minority votes||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged, without naming the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), that the party was on BJP’s payroll to divide minority votes in the Bengal elections. Referring to the recent Bihar polls, Mamata at a public meeting in Jalpaiguri  alerted her Trinamul leaders, workers and Bengal’s minority community to the AIMIM, which she referred to as “a party from Hyderabad”. “The BJP is now bringing in a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes….. You know what happened in Bihar. This party has assembled some people here as well...The party is on BJP’s payroll. Be alert,” Mamata said. The AIMIM, headquartered in Hyderabad and headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, won five Assembly seats in Bihar’s Seemanchal area, leading to allegations that the party split the votes of the anti-BJP Mahagathbandhan to pave the way for the BJP-JD(U) victory. Mamata did not name the AIMIM even once, but it was evident that she was worried that Owaisi’s attempts to organise the minorities electorally would hurt her party. “They (the AIMIM) will move into Hindu areas and resort to criticism so that Hindus vote for the BJP. They will move into Muslim areas and will speak there to draw their votes. In this manner, the BJP will try to collect Hindu votes while they (the AIMIM) will try to gather Muslim votes. What would be left for me then?” asked Mamata. Owaisi has already said his party would field candidates in Bengal districts such as Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur with a high concentration of minorities. A couple of days back, Owaisi met his party leaders of Bengal in Hyderabad to talk poll plans. Mamata also played the development card in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar to try and revive her support base in north Bengal where BJP had secured a lead in 38 of the 54 Assembly constituencies at the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Jalpaiguri, she announced the state would create two new civic bodies in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri and in Falakata of Alipurduar and a new block at Kranti in Jalpaiguri. In Cooch Behar, where she went in the afternoon, she inaugurated the new campus of Maharaja Jitendra Narayan Medical College and Hospital and two fire stations at Jaigaon in Alipurduar and at Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts. She also laid the foundation stone for the headquarters of the Narayani battalion of state police named after the Narayani Sena, the troops of the Cooch Behar royals. She also met her party’s elected representatives and key leaders and asked them to work together, and keep an eye on the India-Bangladesh border, sources said. No second autopsy The Jalpaiguri family of BJP supporter Ulen Roy who died of pellet injuries during the party’s protest march in Siliguri on December 7, on Tuesday withdrew their petition for a second post-mortem. The Roy family’s lawyer said they went through the post-mortem report and expressed satisfaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari likely to join BJP during or after Modi meet||Rebellious Trinamul Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari is likely to join the BJP during or after a visit to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah this week, sources close to the dissident said on Tuesday. Sources said Adhikari, who turned 50 on Tuesday, would resign as Trinamul member and its Nandigram MLA over the next couple of days and leave for Delhi on Thursday. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” said a source, hours after a public appearance by the East Midnapore leader in yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia, where he was bitterly sarcastic — albeit anonymously — towards Trinamul and its leadership. “His mind is made up. He cannot stay in Trinamul anymore. There have been generous offers from elsewhere, such as the Congress, but he is going to the BJP,” added the source, pointing out that the Centre had already granted Z cover security to Adhikari. Sources in the Union home ministry corroborated the claim. “The ministry has granted him Z category security after assessing his threat perception. He is likely to get either Central Reserve Police Force or Central Industrial Security Force cover comprising 20 security personnel,” said a ministry official. When he resigned as minister last month, Adhikari gave up the Z-category security given by the state home department under chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The fact that Adhikari is all set to up the ante on chief minister Mamata Banerjee became clear on Tuesday as he attacked the Trinamul chief — without naming her — over her bohiragawto (outsider) leitmotif against the BJP. “We are Indians first, then Bengalis,” he told an event attended by over 10,000 people in Haldia to commemorate freedom fighter Satish Chandra Samanta’s birth anniversary. “Satish Chandra Samanta (a five-term MP from Tamluk, for the Congress and the Bangla Congress) never thought of Jawaharlal Nehru as a bohiragawto. Nehru never thought of Samanta as a non-Hindi speaker. There was mutual respect. That is what India is,” he added. A senior Trinamul MP said with this rebuttal, Adhikari tried discrediting a core theme of Mamata’s anti-BJP campaign. The Trinamul chief has repeatedly been accusing the saffron camp of trying to break the very backbone of Bengali culture, prompting eager attempts by the BJP to substantiate its Bengal connect. Adhikari also took on Trinamul over its alleged hegemonism. “For the people, by the people, of the people… this the Constitution has said. This has to be brought back to Bengal…. For the party, of the party, by the party… why should this system prevail?” the rebel leader asked, adding that he had never been in greed for posts and had toiled for the masses all his life. “Nandigram was a mass movement. It did not belong to a party. It did not belong to a person. It belonged to the people…. Like the Independence movement against the British…. In Nandigram, the people won,” said Adhikari on Tuesday. In north Bengal on Tuesday, the Trinamul chief lambasted Adhikari. However, she, too, did not name him. “There is no need for making comparisons to see who is bigger…. Thriving for 10 years in the party in power, thriving for 10 years in the government, taking it all, then looking to tie up with others when the elections approach… this opportunism, I will not tolerate. Keep this in mind,” said Mamata, who has considered Adhikari “a closed chapter” for weeks. Adhikari, speaking earlier in the day, said he did not believe in personal attacks. “There have been some attacking me personally. They occupy major posts…. Remember this, when the people go to the jute cubicles (voting enclosure in booths) in a few months, they will respond to you with their fingers, aimed at a specific button (on the electronic voting machines),” he said, apparently suggesting a Trinamul defeat. BJP national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party's Bengal minder, said he called up Adhikari to wish him on his birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata accuses BJP of cheating hill residents and trying to divide minority votes||Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday told Bengal’s Gorkha population that only her party could come up with a “permanent political solution” for the hills, a term that her political adversary BJP had used before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in response to the Gorkhaland demand. Mamata, while speaking to a gathering of around 15,000 at the ABPC Ground here, slammed the BJP for “cheating” hill residents by promising a separate state of Gorkhaland. “The BJP drew support from the hills time and again by promising Gorkhaland but eventually, it turned out to be a hollow promise. It is only us (Trinamul) who can bring a permanent political solution for the hills. I thank my brothers and sisters in the hills as they have finally realised that the BJP has duped them again and again over these years. We want peace to prevail in the hills and in the Dooars,” she said. Mamata’s use of “permanent political solution”, a phrase the BJP used in its election manifesto last year, is significant, said a political observer. “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region,” BJP’s manifesto had said. The 2019 election results proved that the BJP had indeed made deep inroads in the hills as in the entire north Bengal as the party won seven out of its eight Lok Sabha seats. The political landscape in the hills changed significantly since May 2019, with long-time BJP ally Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung dumping the party for Trinamul camp in October 2020. A political analyst said Mamata’s speech on Tuesday was a clear indication that she was referring to a permanent political solution as part of her attempt to woo the Gorkha population, who play a decisive factor in five to six Assembly seats. Mamata tried to explain how her approach was different from that of the BJP. “We did not win (here) in the Lok Sabha polls, but we carried out our development (work). The BJP on the other hand did not do anything for the region. They promised to acquire closed tea estates... nothing happened. On the other hand, we took up a series of initiatives for people of this region, including the tribals and Rajbanshis,” she said, speaking on the housing scheme for tea workers, jobs for former militants and cultural board and language academies for the Rajbanshis. Referring to the BJP, she said: “I am usually a peace-loving person but if I face any attack, I will retaliate in such a manner that it would be tough for you to counter. BJP is trying to foment tension among communities,” said Mamata. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, the president and general secretary of one of the faction of the Morcha, headed for Calcutta on Tuesday on an “emergent assignment”, Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the faction’s spokesperson said. The trip is ahead of December 20 when Bimal Gurung, who heads the rival faction, will hold a public meeting in Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-274
16-12-2020||North East||Assam govt to convert madrasas into regular schools from the 2021-22 academic session||The Assam government on Monday said all government-run madrasas will be converted into regular schools from the 2021-22 academic session. “The word madrasa will be removed from government-run madrasas along with theological courses from April 1, 2021, which means there will be no high madrasa exam from 2022,” state education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday. High madrasas are equivalent to high schools covering Classes IX and X and are under the Board of Secondary Education, Assam (Seba). Sarma was briefing the media on Sunday’s cabinet decision to shut down all government-run madrasas and Sanskrit tols. The government will table a bill to this effect during the winter session of the Assembly from December 28. The tols will be offering degree and diploma courses on ancient Indian history and culture under the Kumar Bhaskar Varma Sanskrit and Ancient Studies University, a first of its kind initiative in the country, Sarma said. Sarma had told the Assembly in September about the decision to shut down all government-run Sanskrit tols and madrasas from November because Dispur was moving towards providing modern and secular education. The State Madrassa Education Board, Assam, which looks after pre-senior madrasas, senior madrasas, Arabic colleges and title madrasas will also be dissolved after declaration of results of the examinations conducted in 2021-22. The administration of madrasas under the board will be transferred to the Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC), which conducts Plus Two courses and exams. The board was formed in 1934. “All madrasas will be modern and secular. Teachers who teach theological courses in madrasas will be trained in imparting general subjects. The administrative control of all madrasas will be transferred to the Directorate of Secondary Education, Assam, and the madrasas will be renamed as high schools and colleges,” Sarma said. In all, 610 madrasas will be converted into regular schools. The state has four Arabic colleges, 14 title madrasas, 138 senior madrasas and 230 pre-senior madrasas. The government spends about Rs 260 crore annually on these madrasas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
16-12-2020||North East||AGP leader Pabindra Deka quits, decries silence on CAA||A founder member and legislator of the Asom Gana Parishad, Pabindra Deka, resigned from the party on Tuesday claiming the AGP had not only lost its regional character, which was “exposed by its silence on the Citizenship Amendment Act, but was also “completely” under the control of the BJP. Deka, a three-time MLA from Patacharkuchi in lower Assam, former AASU president and minister told The Telegraph that he had no option but to leave the AGP, an offshoot of the Assam Agitation against illegal foreigners, because the party has “given up” its responsibility towards the people, economy or politics and is now run by a “small group” only interested in becoming ministers. “Being associated with regionalism since my student days, I had openly opposed the CAA but the party sidelined me. I was the vice-president but they ignored me in the new committee set up recently. They say they are against CAA and that they have challenged it legally. But at the same time they are still with the BJP and are ministers in the BJP-led government. Didn’t the BJP-led Centre impose the law despite widespread protests in the state? The AGP voted in favour of the CAA in Parliament even though the party had decided to oppose it. They are silent now. It stands exposed. I had no option but to leave,” Deka said. The CAA makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship, which is seen by most in Assam as a threat to the state’s identity and culture. The second phase of agitation against the law has resumed and is likely to intensify before the Assembly polls. “The AGP is under the BJP’s control. They are talking about contesting from seats won by the AGP in 2016. I foresee the AGP suffering the same fate as the Bodoland People’s Front as it grows in strength. The AGP workers and leaders at the grassroots are unhappy with the prevailing state of affairs under the present leadership which has now even started being sarcastic about student protests, forgetting the party is a product of the AASU-spearheaded Assam Agitation. They have apparently given up on the promise of protecting jati (community), mati (land), bheti (hearth) of Assam,” Deka said. BPF is an ally of the BJP in the state government but the ruling party not only contested the BTC polls alone but launched a bitter campaign against them. Though the BPF managed emerged as the single largest party in the BTC polls and fell short by four seats to form the council, the BJP did not help it and instead tied up with its rivals, the United People’s Party Liberal and the Gana Suraksha Party, to form the council on Tuesday. After announcing his resignation, Deka left for Sivasagar where the Assam Jatiya Parishad, a new regional party backed by the All Assam Students Union and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, is holding its two-day debut convention. He is expected to join the new party. Former AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi will be joining the party on Wednesday. Sources said Gogoi may be handed a key position in the new party. AGP insiders said Deka’s departure should not be seen in isolation and that “at least four-five” AGP legislators are on the verge of quitting since the top brass are more concerned about their friendship with the BJP than the “promise” made to the people and its bounden duty to strengthen the party. “The AGP, Congress, and to some extent the AIUDF, will see a lot of churning before the polls because the new parties, especially Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad, may offer a choice to aspiring candidates, ticket-seekers and voters. The Congress needs to go back to the boardroom if it wants to remain in the contest,” a political observer said. AGP spokesperson Manoj Saikia said that Deka was planning to leave because his chances of winning in the next polls was very thin. “His position is not good. That is why he left,” he said. Saikia also said the AGP is against the CAA and is fighting it legally since it has already become a law. “We are opposed to it, let there be no doubt. Moreover, we are an ally of the BJP. We have not joined the BJP. We are working in the field to strengthen the party before the polls. We will do well,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
16-12-2020||Opinion||Watch out: religious bias||A law is the codified expression of dominant social values. Or of the prohibitions they imply. The determination with which the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, pushed through the ordinance outlawing religious conversion undertaken solely for the purpose of marriage sprang perhaps from a desire to lead by following the followers. The chief minister’s own penchant for discrimination flows into and feeds on the same cultural propensity of the state he governs. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 violates the constitutional right to practise any religion and the right to privacy and personal autonomy interpreted as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017. “Unlawful” conversion assumes the State’s right to judge whether anyone has been forced to change religions. The religious bias that the UP government takes no pains to conceal ensures that the ordinance is applied only in cases of Hindu women marrying or having a relationship with men from the largest minority community. Projecting such relationships as part of a plot by this community to change India’s demography establishes a foundational myth that becomes an alibi for the aggression of the dominant sections of UP society. The ordinance takes the myth as its premise and formalizes unconstitutional action based on community and gender hatred. Most important, it legitimizes the intervention of families, relatives and neighbours into interfaith relationships and marriages. They willingly turn into useful representatives of the State, especially when a romance is about to flower. At a later stage, just before marriage or just after it, there are the police who can act on parents’ complaints, or temples and registration offices, where officials act as informants. It is not even necessary to report to the administration; alerting a Hindutva organization is enough for the State to leap into action. These organizations take great pride in counting and declaring the number of ‘love-jihad’ unions they have destroyed. The entire state of UP has gradually turned into an enormous surveillance network, with its skeins running through the narrowest alleys. Social media, too, are attuned to the same purpose — of spying and informing. The informer syndrome demonstrates how the nurturing of distrust for one community can become an internally divisive weapon for the other. Hatred does not obey boundaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Poor timing: The Central Vista project||Sir — The orderly ‘ground-breaking ceremony’ in New Delhi for a new, grand and imposing Parliament complex seemed rather incongruous to the times, as the country is going through unprecedented difficulties owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic downturn. The occasion was rendered cheerless in the face of the intensified agitation by farmers, who demand that the new farm laws be repealed. The ‘bhoomi pujan’ performed in keeping with Hindu traditions was a display of the primacy of one particular religion. The Central Vista project, estimated to cost about Rs 20,000 crore, reinforces the notion that politics is too often determined by the personal vanities of politicians. The new Parliament building is being touted as a necessity to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence. But would not a resolve to strengthen democratic values and practices and a plan of action to mitigate crises like poverty have been a worthier tribute than the construction of a grandiose building? The government should be more concerned with resolving the economic hardships of India’s impoverished multitudes than with securing ease of working for parliamentarians and bureaucrats. In a city where destitute, homeless countrymen sleep on pavements, one cannot in good conscience boast of a four-storey, triangular building within a grand construction sprawling across the heart of the national capital. Further, the clearance of trees — they are supposed to be transplanted and not cut down — to prepare the ground for concrete structures is not going to help with the abatement of pollution in Delhi. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament complex project while the people of India, many of whom are still starving, wonder what was the point of such a massive financial indulgence at a time when the country’s economy is facing severe crises. Many have also lost their livelihood on account of the pandemic. The construction work, however, cannot begin at the moment since the Supreme Court is still hearing petitions challenging the project. It has warned the government against “pushing forward aggressively” with the project ahead of the top court’s decision. The prime minister owes an explanation to the people of India for the huge expenditure which appears to be nothing but a waste of public money, especially during a time of crisis. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Central Vista project will be of little benefit to the people. In comparison, the statue of Vallabhbhai Patel was better designed, as it was supposed to serve, in certain ways, the interests of the people. The government needs to imagine public edifices that embrace the common people; they cannot be exclusive fortifications. Edifices and facilities — consider the Grand Trunk Road — built by monarchs for public use have endured in the collective memory of the people because of their inclusiveness. In monarchies, national infrastructure has owners who pass on the responsibility of its maintenance to their heirs. But in a democracy, ministers are keen only on extending their term; so they pander to the current set of voters by means of ostentatious constructions. Perhaps that is why many European nations happily carry on public business in the centuries-old structures that bear the memorable stamp of every period of their history. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Cheerless season Sir — It is disheartening that many countries in Europe are considering strict lockdowns just ahead of Christmas owing to a spike in Covid-19 cases. After Greece and Germany, the Netherlands are now expected to enforce a renewed phase of lockdown. Although it is understandable that people would be heartbroken by these moves, it is necessary that they stay strong and fight the virus by abiding by the rules chalked out for their own safety. After all, keeping it low one festive season could ensure that they live to celebrate many more such occasions in the future. Shekhar Moitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Strange idea: tweaking the National Anthem||A maverick leader may be a political liability in an election season. The prime minister and his colleagues in the Bharatiya Janata Party — they have their eyes fixed on the approaching assembly elections in Bengal — seldom lose an opportunity to wax eloquent about Rabindranath Tagore, the state’s tallest icon. Unsurprisingly, the shadow has fallen, once again, between the BJP’s words and deeds. As if the embarrassing attribution of Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace in a tweet by the Bengal unit was not enough, Subramanian Swamy, the BJP’s proverbial enfant terrible, has now demanded that the national anthem penned by the Poet be tweaked as some bits of it, in Mr Swamy’s opinion, no longer reflect the ground realities of post-Independence India. The mention of ‘Sindh’, now in Pakistan, in the anthem has got the BJP parliamentarian’s goat: Mr Swamy deems that the version sung by Subhas Chandra Bose and his comrades in the Indian National Army can be a suitable replacement. There are several weaknesses in Mr Swamy’s argument. Substituting some of Tagore’s words with those used by Bose and his comrades would not help Mr Swamy’s cause because ‘Sindh’ had not been dropped by the valorous peers in the INA. There is also a broader, philosophical problem. The spirit of Tagore’s song transcends the narrow borders of geography and territoriality. Its aesthetic appeal lies in its explicit endorsement of humanism, harmony, pluralism, brotherhood and cultural diversity. The importance of these elements had been recognized and appreciated by members of the Constituent Assembly in the context of the founding and the sustenance of the nascent Republic. Should Mr Swamy’s demand then be seen as a rejection of this composite vision? The conjecture cannot be dismissed, given these divisive times. Ironically, there may even be an ideological argument against Mr Swamy’s reasoning from the sangh parivar itself: the deletion of Sindh would dismantle the parivar’s Akhand Bharat project. Narendra Modi, the recipient of Mr Swamy’s letter, would be more concerned with the immediate political costs of such periodic howlers. Earlier, another missive had been sent to the National Council for Educational Research and Training, demanding the excision of Tagore’s writings from textbooks. Another contribution of Tagore, the national anthem, is now being viewed through the lens of revisionism. Mr Modi is surely aware that such radical propositions could undo his attempts to win Bengal’s heart with quite a bit of help from Tagore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||For a slice of double delight||“Where can I get doubles?” I asked a stranger while walking around Queen’s Park Savannah in Port of Spain on a Sunday morning. The stranger guided me to one corner of the park saying, “Usually you get doubles there till about 9 am.” As directed, I proceeded and found a vendor who was selling doubles. It was a small stall on wheels with “doubles for TT$ 5” printed on its body. I had to wait in a queue for a few minutes since there were customers before me. I asked for a doubles as my turn came. Hearing my English, which was without the touch of a Trinbagonian Creole, he looked at me and asked, “With chutney or without?” I did not know much about the ingredients in a doubles and didn’t want to miss any flavour. “With,” I replied. As he prepared the food, I observed how he put the cooked chana or chickpea between two pooris and rolled it on a paper. As I unwrapped it and took a bite, I could taste cooked Indian chickpea curry, close to the ghugni style and something like poori or bhatura but not the same. Trinbagonians call this poori-like soft flatbread, bara. Besides the cooked chickpeas, the other ingredients included Caribbean chilli sauce and sweet mango pickle. The whole package was faintly sweet for my palate. It reminded me of the poori and chana that I had enjoyed as a boy in Sambalpur in Odisha, especially at the roadside shop in front of Gangadhar Meher College (now University) near Fatak railway station. Four pooris and cooked chana on a knitted sal leaf plate was a unique weekend attraction for students and travellers both for taste and affordability. The preparation of chickpea brought back the memory of ghugni in Ravenshaw College (now University) square in Cuttack. The chana preparation for a doubles is less spicy than ghugni. As is known, ghugni is a popular snack in the Indian subcontinent, especially in the eastern region of India. The chickpea, popularly known as kabuli chana in the subcontinent, is used for doubles. I am told that most of this chana is supplied from Canada, grown in the areas of Alberta and Saskatchewan. The use of either saffron or turmeric gives the bara a light yellow colour. “Have you tried our doubles, High Commissioner?” was one of the questions that often crept in during my conversation with guests and visitors in Trinidad and Tobago in the early months of my arrival in Port of Spain. “Do you have doubles in India?” I was asked sometimes. After getting a taste of the Trinidadian doubles, I could frame an answer, “Not exactly, but something similar is the poori-chana or chole-bhature. Though the bhatura in North India has grown in size over the years.” Doubles is a signature street-side breakfast in Trinidad and Tobago. In some places, it can also be eaten as an afternoon or late-night snack. Over the last eight decades, it has grown to become a Trinbagonian national cultural identity, cutting across ethnic and racial barriers. It has also crossed geographical boundaries. Presently, doubles is available in London, New York City, Toronto, Winnipeg, Miami and Tokyo. The doubles has a history rooted in indentureship in Trinidad and Tobago. A total of 1,43,939 indentured labourers from India came to this land between 1845 and 1917 out of which about 14 per cent were Muslims. Mamoo Deen, who is credited with having introduced doubles to the colonial Trinbagonian community in 1936, is part of this history. According to the book, Out of the Doubles Kitchen: A Memoir of the First Family of Doubles — The Number One Street Food of Trinidad & Tobago, written by Badru Deen, one of Mamoo Deen’s sons, his ancestors hailed from Uttar Pradesh in pre-independent India. The exact place in Uttar Pradesh is lost in migration history. ‘Mamoo’ Deen means ‘Uncle’ Deen in Hindi. However, the actual name could have been Imam-ul-Deen, and the British officer could have registered the name as Mamoo Deen as he heard it. According to Badru Deen, Mamoo Deen was born on January 22, 1917 and died on March 13, 1979. It is believed that before doubles, Mamoo Deen sold fried chana wrapped in cone-shaped paper in front of cinemas and colleges and improved it by adding a cooked variety. He then introduced a single bara with the curried chana cooked by his wife. Subsequently, customers, especially college students, asked him to make it a ‘double’ by adding a second bara over the chana. Thus came the name, doubles. Subsequently, Deen’s two sisters were married to the two Ali brothers, and the Deen-Ali family business expanded. According to one grandson, Araby Ali, who runs the Araby Ali’s Doubles Ltd. in Barataria in Trinidad, his ancestors were the ‘Bengali miyan’ of colonial India. Today, besides the Deen and Ali family outlets, many other vendors sell doubles across the Caribbean and outside. They usually sell them out of boxes. A few stalls fry their baras in makeshift kitchens in the back of pick-up trucks. However, the chana continues to be prepared in home-based kitchens. Many Trinbagonian cuisines have an Indian connection. Roti shops are omnipresent where one can buy one’s lunch. Dal and white flour are two crucial ingredients in these recipes. Since the indentured labourers from India did not bring wheat flour or atta, they used white flour supplied from Europe. Therefore, the roti one gets in roti shops here is made of white flour and not atta. The other household food are baigini, sahina, dhal puri, tarkari and chokha. Ever since the day I was treated to chokha, I had been wondering where did the litti go, leaving the chokha lonely. Gradually, I came to know that since the atta could not come with the indentured labourers, only the chokha had arrived, leaving the litti behind to keep the Chhath festival celebrations going in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Opinion||Epic markers||“The farmers are camping along five major highways on the outskirts of New Delhi and have said they won’t leave until the government rolls back what they call the ‘black laws’.” This was the news on December 8, the day on which the nation observed a voluntary lockdown, a Bharat bandh. A group of farmers in Karnataka with whom I was talking on the day of the bandh said that these five camps are like the five Pandavas. The unexpected analogy set me thinking. Thousands of farmers had set out on an unprecedented march from Punjab, the land of five rivers. Their destination was New Delhi, which, in ancient times, was Indraprastha. Twelve days earlier, on November 27, they were stopped by the Haryana police by digging trenches in their path, using water cannons and raising massive barricades. The site of the clash was not too far from ancient Kurukshetra where the Mahabharata war took place. The time of the year too was the month of Margashirsh, intimately associated with the plot of the ancient war. From the moment the farmers arrayed themselves for the confrontation, the media gaze, the divya-chakshu, turned to the spot where the action was taking place. In the Mahabharata, Sanjaya, gifted with divine vision, was charged with the task of presenting a blow-by-blow account of the war to the blind father of the Kauravas. The initial day on the ancient Kurukshetra battlefield was spent in shouting war-slogans and blowing insignia-conches. From that day, till the tenth day, Bhishma was the general on the Kaurava side. Bhishma was shot through, but waited for his death till Margashirsh got over. Drona, who followed Bhishma as the general, lasted for five days, to be followed by Karna, who lasted for three days, finally followed by Shalya who presided over the defeat of the Kaurava army. The minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, was fielding for the government for the first ten days of the agitation. Tomar was sidelined and the action moved to the residence of the home minister, Amit Shah, on the eleventh day. Besides, there is in the background the construction of the Central Vista and its foundation laying ceremony permitted by the Supreme Court, reminiscent of the palace-building in the epic. There are also the million lamps that lit up the ghats of Ganga to mark Dev Deepavali, exactly when the ‘love jihad’ law by the Uttar Pradesh government emboldened vigilantes to swoop down on Hindu girls in love with Muslim boys, no less demeaning than Bhishma’s abduction of the unwilling daughters of the king of ancient Kashi, now famous as the constituency of Narendra Modi. Although apparently superficial, the similarities are eye-catching. The ancient epic depicts a war for protection of ‘racial purity’. ‘Kulkshya’, the loss of pure lineage, and the ‘pollution of women by others’ were among the main reasons presented by Arjuna to Krishna for his reluctance to go to war as the beginning of the Bhagwad Gita states it. Krishna’s advice was to stay steadfast in one’s duty, the dharma as the Gita described it. The Gita marks the first day of the epic war. November 26, the day of the Constitution, marked the beginning of the farmer’s march. Indeed, the confrontation between the farmers and the government has an epic scale. The Mahabharata was set in times that witnessed the historic transition of society from pastoralism to agriculture. The current confrontation is set in times when society is witnessing a shift from a responsible democratic State to the crony-capitalism of an authoritarian government. All that the Pandavas were asking for was their right over Hastinapur. All that the farmers are asking for is the repeal of the recent agriculture related Acts. Their argument is that if the government does not provide the minimum support price for their production, they would be rendered vulnerable to the vagaries of the open market. Those of our countrymen who are not directly connected with agriculture as a profession tend to think that if other sectors such as banking, insurance, healthcare and education have already been handed over to private players, why not agriculture? Every day, so many economists have been asking this question in television debates. The logic in this question is flawless, but the understanding of the issue is deeply flawed. The agrarian society is not ‘a sector’; it is a distinct civilization, particularly in the case of India, Iran and Egypt. These are countries, which in ancient times gave birth to distinct civilizations because they had moved from pastoralism to agriculture. Indian farmers are, if described from a comprehensive historical perspective, the true makers of India. The nation did not create Indian farmers; the farmers here created the Indian nation. Farming is not just an occupation or a livelihood but much more. It is the very basis of the village-systems, which, despite their serious drawbacks, provide Indian society its resilience and tolerance. Hence, when they are pauperized, left in a deep debt trap and forced to commit suicide, the legislators and economic planners should not look at them merely as an economic liability. True to its characteristic habit of propaganda, the regime made it appear that the farmers’ agitation is fuelled by the separatists and by Opposition parties. The genuine concerns of farmers were sidelined and ridiculed. Many government spokespersons question why farmers should insist on getting more than what they are already getting in the form of cheap electricity and subsidized fertilizers. It is not the government that is subsidizing the farmers but it is the farmers who subsidize the nation by not demanding pension, old age allowance, annual increments and LTA. They are only asking for a guarantee that their production gets a reasonable and a minimum price. Elaborate war-time debates form a feature of epic poems. There have been many debates within the Mahabharata as to why the war that destroyed everybody could not be prevented in the first place. Many of those discussions point to the greed, contempt and anger of Duryodhana and to his father’s turning (literally) a blind eye to evil. The ancient Mahabharata provided an occasion for a metaphysical text like the Gita. Anger towards all those who hold divergent views and contempt for constitutional norms have been the unmistakable features of the present regime. The Constitution assures us that India is and will continue to be a democracy. The directive principles in it are clear about the direction in which the State policies ought to move. Let us hope that the epic agitation by India’s farmers provides the regime with a desire to think of the constitutional norms and Bharat does not have to go through a Mahabharata-like destruction for defending democracy. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist  ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh policeman murdered, body found near a school||Twenty-eight-year-old police personnel of Hazaribagh district police was mercilessly murdered in Ichak block on Wednesday.  The recovery of his dead body near a school, which is barely 20 kilometres away from the district headquarter make top police officials reach the spot and launch an immediate investigation to get more clues in this blind case. Birendra, a resident of Deepugarha area of the town, used to work as a driver with Hazaribagh traffic police, till he was recently posted at the police control room. Birendra was a native of Debhatauri village under the Mayurhund police station of the neighbouring Chatra district. According to his relatives, he had returned home at around 8:30 pm. He was about to enter his residence when a few people from an SUV parked near his house called him. Birendra, without telling anything to his family, when away with those men, still dressed in his uniform. Around 9 pm, his family discovered that his mobile was switched off. Much later his dead body was found 20kms away from his house. Superintendent of police Karthik S and DSP Amita Lakra reached the spot with other officials and began an investigation. According to police officials, serious injuries were present on the head and face of Birendra. They even hinted at the possibility of the victim being torture and then strangulated.  “But we will wait for the post-mortem report before reaching any conclusion,” they said. Later in the evening, the police arrested a person on suspicion, in connection with this case. His interrogation is on. According to his relatives, someone close to Birendra had killed him. Officer-in-charge of Ichak police station, Devendra Kumar, said that his killers would be nabbed, soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Trouble brews for Bokaro steel plant and Electrosteel Steels||Semi-nude youth took on a unique way of registering their protest. The demonstrators, armed with shoe brushes resorted to polishing the shoes of Bokaro Steel Plant’s (BSL) employees. Raising anti-BSL slogans, bare-chested, they stood outside BSL’s headquarter, on Wednesday evening. They raised anti-slogans standing outside the gate of BSL’s headquarter in a semi-nude state and as the employees came out they started polishing their shoes. The protestors, all dependants of BSL’s deceased employees, have been demanding compensatory jobs from the company’s managing authorities. To get heard, this year, they have organized several protests to highlight their demands. They even stood in chest-deep water for hours in this cold to make those in authority pay heed to their demands. “We have reached a position where we have no option but to beg or polish shoes for our survival. If BSL does not provide us with a job, that they had themselves promised to give us, only to later backtrack, we don’t have many options left,” said Rajesh Gupta a protestor. Another protester, Parmeshwar Kumar said, “We have been campaigning with our demand for the past one year but nothing positive has been announced by the BSL management. They are unable to feel the pain of the dependants of their employees who died serving the plant.” In a bid to get heard, they have threatened to intensify their protest, to get them heard. ESL’s public hearing faces stiff opposition Meanwhile, in Bokaro’s Chandankyari block, a public hearing was organized to bag environmental clearance for the expansion of Vedanta’s Group, ESL at Siyaljori. However, former revenue minister and Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri along with JMM leader, Mantu Yadav and others, registered stiff opposition against it, on Wednesday. The public hearing jointly conducted by Jharkhand State Pollution Board (JSPCB) and district administration, assessed the environmental impact and its repercussion of the proposed expansion plan of ESL, which includes 3 MTPA steel plants from existing 1.5 MTPA. According to sources, the facility is all set to be installed close to the existing steel unit in Chandankyari Block of the district. The hearing was conducted in the presence of villagers residing close to the steel facility. CEO of Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC), who chaired the public hearing, Shashi Prakash Jha, maintained that the hearing was successful and that the villagers gave their consent but, with a condition that the company would conduct plantation drives to control the pollution level of air and water, build good roads and also provide employment to land losers and others residents.” Chief of communication, ESL, Shilpi Shukla said, “ESL expansion plan, commits overall 70 percent employment to the local community. The public hearing was successfully concluded at the plant premises.” However, there was a huge opposition against the public hearing outside the plant premises as political leaders and public when they discovered that the company administration had organised the hearing quietly, without the public-at-large being clueless about it. They even alleged that those present at the public hearing were the company’s sympathisers, an allegation that an administrative official denied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Finally, CCTV vigil at Chatra's ancient Lemboiya temple||The ancient temple on Lemboiya hill of Pathalgadda of Chatra district finally gets CCTV cameras on Wednesday. A devotee Deepak Kumar Chandravanshi donated six high definition cameras. Total five thefts were reported here with the last one on Sunday where the thieves laid their hands on the silver crown, mang tikka and other ornaments. The temple committee brought new ornaments performing special puja for the 8th century idol of Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple. The temple committee members also agreed to guard the temple jointly to put a check on any wrong activities here. The old silver crown and other ornaments were stolen on the wee hours of Sunday with police struggling hard to get any clue of the thieves. Chandravanshi who is resident of Singhani village said the CCTV cameras have been installed inside the temple as well as in areas around the temple. “Total six cameras were installed and connected with Wi-Fi facility. Now, the priests can keep an eye on all the activities here round the clock,” added he. Now including the temple committee members, shop owners selling puja paraphernalia agreed to guard the temple as well. Three members will remain in the night here now, the temple committee members informed. About this temple, priests said it is a shaktipeeth where it was believed that the eyelids of Sati had fallen here. So far, five thefts have been committed here in this temple. In 2017, a theft was reported where the police caught Saurabh Tiwary, son of a priest and upon his confession, all ornaments were recovered. The temple committee is trying since then but failed to get the recovered ornaments from the police yet. Committee's vice president Yogeshwar Prasad said the matter is in the court and they are trying to get the ornaments. Meanwhile, police had searched the entire hill area to get clues related to thieves. Pathalgadda police station officer-in-charge Avinash Kumar said the investigation is going on to nab the thieves. “I urge people to co-operate and if having any information about thieves then inform us,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Water supply stalled in Jharia for one week||More than two lakh residents of Jharia are facing an acute water crisis for the last one week due to burning of two pumps of intake well of water supply complex at Jamadoba in Jharia. The hyacinth from the Damodar river entered the pumps which has lead to this incident. Worst affected are the residents of Mishra para, Poddar para, Koiri Bandh, Rajmata Colony, Upper Rajbari locality, Upper Kulhi, Chothai Kulhi, etc. who are getting partial water supply since last three days after the repair of one of the pump. Expressing disgust over the situation, Anup Sao, a resident of Koiri Bandh locality of Dhanbad said, “The water supply was completely disrupted for three days in our locality since December 9 and though partial resumption of the water supply has been carried out since December 12 due to lesser pressure of water in pipeline water supply has not resumed in some localities like Mishra Para situated on slightly higher altitude.” “We can’t understand the reason for not providing a permanent fix of the problem. Instead, they are making stop-gap arrangements for water supply and the situation is continuing for more than five-six years when water supply was disrupted on one of the other pretexts like leakage in the pipeline, technical fault in motors or pumps at Jamadoba based water treatment plant, etc.” added Sao. Narayan Chail, a restaurant owner of the taxi stand locality of Jharia said, “We need a huge quantity of water in our restaurant both for cooking food and dishwashing but the irregular water supply is incurring extra cost as we have to purchase water from vendors and affecting our profit to a great extent.” President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Amit Sahu alias Dipu Sahu who also owns a lodge, Sahu lodge in Shiv Mandir road locality of Jharia said, “Our business is also getting affected due to irregular water supply as we need the regular water supply for inmates in all the rooms and thus had to primarily depend on groundwater for bathing purpose, etc.” “Why can’t the old pipelines and the age-old equipment like motor, pumps installed at Jamadoba based water treatment plant situated on the bank of river Damodar be replaced with a new one as the old machineries installed more than 50 years ago and developed regular technical snag affecting water supply?” questioned Sahu. When contacted Indresh Shukla, executive engineer cum technical member of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), he said, “We have repaired one of the two pumps three days ago while the remaining one pump of intake well at Jamadoba has also been repaired last night.” “Work for laying of new pipeline as well replacement of old machineries at Jamadoba based water treatment plant has also resumed as part of a comprehensive project worth Rs 316 crore but it will take around 18 months to show benefit as the project is at its initial stage,” added Shukla. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh liters of river Damodar water through its Jamadoba based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras out of which around 105 lakh liters of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity WTP while remaining around 71 lakh liters is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools reopen Monday, parents’ consent letter must for attending classes||Parents of children studying in class 10 and class 12 of schools across Jharkhand will have to submit a consent letter stating clearly that they are aware of precautions that students would need to take in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic while attending regular classes at school, officials of the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Wednesday. “Students will be allowed to attend regular classes only if they get consent letters from their parents. All schools will have to take the necessary Covid-19 precautions and maintain social distancing,” said JEPC Director Shailesh Chaurasia. The Jharkhand government decided to reopen schools for students of class 10 and class 12 during a review meeting of the home, prisons and disaster management department on Tuesday night. However, while minister Banna Gupta said that schools would reopen with immediate effect, JEPC officials on Wednesday said that schools were likely to reopen from Monday, December 21. “Regular classes for students of class 10 and class 12 are likely to resume next week. However, students of class 11 will continue attending online classes as of now,” said Chaurasia, adding that the government’s focus was on the students who would appear for their boards exams next year. Schools across Jharkhand have remained closed since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in March. After initial hiccups, the process of conducting online classes in government schools was also streamlined and the government launched special platforms for imparting lessons while students stayed indoors. All students attending classes once schools reopen would have to wear facemasks, carry hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing during classes, JEPC officials said. Special seating arrangements will also be made in classrooms to ensure that students do not come in close contact with each other. Besides, students who have fever or are unwell will not be allowed to attend regular classes once schools reopen. Several thousand students from Jharkhand will appear for class 10 and class 12 board exams under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and ICSE next year. Usually, the exams are conducted in the months of February and March every year. However, board examinations are likely to be delayed this time due to the pandemic. A notification from the school education and literacy department stated that all teachers of government-run middle schools across Jharkhand would have to be physically present at schools from Thursday. So far, only two teachers were supposed to attend school every day for non-teaching work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Body of trapped miner found, search on for the other||The body of one of two minters trapped in an underground coal mine at Mugma was recovered late on Tuesday night after eight days of rescue efforts launched after a bore hole burst led to flooding. Eastern Coalfields ECL senior manager (safety) of Mugma area Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “We recovered the dead body of Manik Bauri around 11pm on Tuesday while efforts are on to find the other person, Basia Maji.” Sharma said the process for providing compensation as well as a job on compassionate grounds to Bauri’s next of kin had been completed. “An appointment letter will be handed over after the submission of necessary documents by the family of the deceased,” he added. Local residents, led by Bauri’s family members and including his co-workers, blamed the ECL management for his death, alleging that rescue operations were tardy. They even tried to prevent the company management from transporting the body to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem, demanding that compensation be paid and a job offered to the family first. The body was finally sent for post-mortem during the wee hours of Wednesday after a meeting was held between the protestors and the ECL management. It was agreed that ECL would pay compensation of Rs 15 lakh to Bauri’s next of kin within a week, besides employment to one family member. Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta said, “Immediate steps should be initiated to rescue the other person trapped in the underground mine. The charges of Bauri’s family members that the colliery management was trying to send the body for post-mortem without providing them an opportunity to see the body are grave.” The two miners, Basia Maji and Manik Bauri, were trapped inside the Khudia Colliery on December 8 at 3.30am after it got flooded when a bore hold burst. The ECL management first carried out a search using its rescue team. Later, it hired a team of professional divers who came from Cuttack, Odisha, to help in the rescue operations from December 9 after personnel of the National Disaster Response Force expressed their inability due to lack of experience in mine rescues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri residents demand resumption of train services to coal town||A delegation of former employees of the Sindri Fertiliser Factory on Wednesday met the Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division, Ashish Kumar Jha, demanding immediate resumption of local train service. Led by former public relation officer of the factory Sewa Singh, the delegation said they were facing unprecedented transport crisis since over a month due to the withdrawal of the local train services from the Sindri town to Dhanbad, which are 30 kilometers apart. The group, comprising former accounts officer of the factory G. Wheeler and three other employees -- DN Singh, Uma Shankar Singh and RC Prasad -- explained in detail the difficulties faced by more than five lakh residents of Sindri and adjoining areas due to disruption of train services. After hearing the problems, Jha assured that the Dhanbad Division would soon send a proposal based on the demand of Sindri residents to the East Central Railway Headquarters at Hajipur as well as the Railway board. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sewa Singh said, “The Sindri township residents, majority of whom are retired employees of erstwhile  factory of Fertilizer Corporation of India  are deprived of any transport service.” Talking about any alternatives, the president of the All India FCI VSS Employee’s Association added, “Autorickshaw service is not an alternate to train or bus service as it is expensive and tiresome. The passengers are also compelled to make ‘break-journeys’ to reach Dhanbad from Sindri in autorickhshaws.” DN Singh, the vice president of the same association said, “Very few autorickshaws make direct trips from Sindri to Dhanbad and the rest go to Jharia, from where another auto has to be hired for Dhanbad.” “In 1960s and 70s, before train services were launched, eight to 10 buses used to operate between Sindri and Dhanbad, all of which used to make three of four trips. But they were discontinued after the launch of local train service in October 1982. We demand the district administration  to deploy the City buses of Dhanbad so that we can at least have some relief before train services are resumed,” he added. “The autorickshaw fare from Sindri to Dhanbad is Rs 50, while that of local trains was just Rs 10. The journey is also very exhausting due to damaged roads,” Uma Shankar Singh said. “We reasoned that the Jharkhand government is planning to open schools, and may also open colleges thereafter. This would increase the difficulties of college-goers as Sindri does not have post-graduation institutes, and the students have to travel to Dhanbad. Over a hundred students, many of them girls, depend on local train services and will have to face a lot of difficulties without them,” another member of the delegation said. The passenger train facility, which was launched way back in 1982, used to make three ferries between Dhanbad and Sindri everyday, was the most convenient source of transport for hundreds of students, government officials, daily wage earners and  traders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||‘Energy efficient’ railway divisions save Rs 1.22 cr||Energy conservation measures adopted in two South Eastern Railway (SER) divisions of Ranchi and Chakradharpur have led to a saving of Rs 1.22 crore. SER, which observed National Energy Conservation Week from December 8 to December 14 to promote awareness among its staff, opted for use of LED lamps in a major way at stations, service buildings, quarters, streetlights in railway areas. For making its energy conservation measures effective, banners and posters were been put up at various railway stations, including Ranchi, Tatanagar, Hatia, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. Seminars and counselling sessions were organised at railway colonies to make people conversant with various ways and means of energy saving. Energy-efficient microwave ovens and induction ovens were suggested to those residing in railway colonies. The focus was on saving energy in domestic appliances i.e. through use of LED bulbs of 5, 7 and 9 watt as per location in place of incandescent lamps or CFL, use of LED tube lights of 18 watt in place of 40 watt, use of five-star rated curling fan, refrigerator, LED TV, geyser, inverter, AC etc. "The entire energy conservation programme has been initiated by the electrical department under the able guidance of Rahul Gautam, principal chief electrical engineer," said an SER spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Former athlete to return Arjuna award to protest farm laws||Former athlete Bagicha Singh has joined the list of nationally feted sportspersons who have decided to return their awards in protest against the government not acceding to the demands of protesting farmers. Singh, an Arjuna awardee who recently retired as senior manager of the Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur, said he was anguished at the plight of farmers in Punjab and that the Narendra Modi government had brought in an anti-farmer law which was not going to benefit anyone. “The government is helping corporates and leaving farmers to their own fate. I am a son of a farmer and I am very angry over the new laws which are in utter disregard to the farmers. Farmers in Punjab are not even getting the required price of their produce. I will return my Arjuna Award (won in 1987) in protest against the government’s new farm laws,” said Singh, Singh, who retired from service on June 30, and now lives with his family in Chandigarh. Singh, who lived in Jamshedpur for 38 years and was the coach of the Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre, was supposed to join the farmers march to Delhi. “I could not join the march because of a back problem. Several other national awardees in Punjab have also decided to return their honours,” he said over telephone from Chandigarh. According to him, the national awardees were stopped by security forces when they went to return the honour to President Ram Nath Kovind. “I would join the group (of national awardees) the next time they go to return their award,” Singh, a fine athlete of his time, added. The farmers are protesting against the three new farm laws – Farmers’ Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act – which came into then effect following the approval of President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chas Municipal Corporation installs app-enabled help desk for residents to file complaints||In an innovative step, to solve the day-to-day problems of residents, Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) has brought a special kind of app-enabled help desk kiosk, using which complaints lodged by people will land directly on WhatsApp of concerned authorities. The complainant will also receive a receipt mentioning their complaint number instantly. This help desk is the first of its kind installed in the CMC office on Wednesday, if proves successful, it would be lodged in block offices and other government offices. “This user-friendly help desk kiosk, roughly costs around Rs 60,000, is app-based. It is developed by Wipenex IT software. There is a tab installed in it, which helps in collecting detail and sending it immediately to the authorities. The mobile phone numbers of the officials of different departments are loaded in the app which instantly collects the complaint letter and delivers it in their WhatsApp. This app is created by CMC with the help of local youths,” said Shashi Prakash Jha, CEO of CMC. The kiosk was inaugurated by DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh in the small function at CMC office, Chas. The installation of the kiosk is the brainchild of Singh which was brought to reality by Jha and his team. Jha said, “During Covid-19 days they were facing huge problems related to sanitization and received complaint letters of residents. Then the idea got generated, that there should be some tool which facilitates paper-less receiving of complaints with full transparency.” “This help desk would help in speedy disposal of complaints, unlike the old way of submission of complaints which was very time-consuming. Earlier complaint letter reached the concerned authority in several days making rounds in different tables of babus in the office. In this digital era, this help desk will not only saves time but also makes the process transparent and effective,” he added. Jha said, “There were other apps and tools working in a similar line, but this concept is totally different. The residents only have to stand in front of this help desk and by pressing a button, their face and complaint letter get captured. The software installed in it will directly send their complaint letter to the WhatsApp of the concerned authorities. We have allotted different time slots for separate departments for receiving complaints.” CMC is working to install few more such help desks in its five zonal offices which were opened recently to address grievances of the residents. DC said that they are going to install it in all the block officers across the district. “The complaints of many people will be executed through this app.  Complainants will also be rewarded, including the employees and officials who have done better work in the execution of the application received online,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools allowed to reopen for classes 10 to 12||Regular classes for students of standard 10 to standard 12 will reopen with immediate effect, while online classes for junior students would continue, the state government decided after a special meeting of the home, prisons and disaster management department chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online soon after the meeting, Gupta said the government had also decided to pay compensation of Rs1 lakh to the kin of all victims of road accidents in Jharkhand irrespective of their economic status, caste, community and gender. “This is the first time that any government in Jharkhand has taken such an initiative for the victims of road accidents. The only eligibility criteria to benefit from the scheme is to be a resident of Jharkhand,” said Gupta. While the government decided to resume regular classes for students of higher secondary classes, it decided to keep swimming pools, parks and movie theaters closed until further notice, the minister said. All educational institutions have remained closed since March due to the nationwide lockdown enforced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Gradually, the government decided to reopen malls, restaurants, bars and clubs, but schools remained closed. The government on Tuesday increased the cap on the number of attendees in weddings and other ceremonies. “Wedding ceremonies in open air can have 300 guests, while such ceremonies held in indoor banquets will be allowed to have 200 guests,” said Gupta. Earlier, the government had set an upper limit of 200 guests in wedding ceremonies. Besides, a maximum of 200 people will now be allowed to visit places of worship across Jharkhand. Regular classes at all medical colleges, dental colleges, nursing colleges and government-run training institutes will resume with immediate effect, said Gupta, adding that online classes would also continue. The chief minister also urged corporate houses to make contributions under CSR to aid the state’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Reviewing the work of the home, prisons and disaster management department at the project building here, the chief minister was informed that Central Coalfield (CCL) had contributed Rs 20 crore to support Jharkhand’s fight against the global pandemic. Citing CCL’s example, Hemant asked other corporate houses to make similar contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Villagers’ call to scrap Ranchi Master Plan 2037||Over 400 tribal people from villages adjoining the Jharkhand capital took out a protest march in the city on Tuesday seeking scrapping of the Ranchi Master Plan 2037. The protesters marched towards the Ranchi Municipal Corporation office and submitted a memorandum addressed to the town commissioner seeking scrapping of the master plan. The villagers assembled in the city under the banner of organisations such as Adivasi Adhikar Manch, the Ranchi branch of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, Ek Soch and Ranchi Master Plan Birodh Sangharsh Samiti. The master plan aims at developing Ranchi as a big city with better amenities and infrastructure like wider roads, improved transportation, green spaces and affordable accommodation. But residents of about 120 villages surrounding Ranchi have objected to it their villages spread over six blocks of the district are covered by the plan and their land may be required to be acquired for execution of the plan. “The villagers have been served with notices asking them to lodge objections, if they have any, latest by December 31,” said Prafulla Linda of Adivasi Adhikar Manch. Those notices were “surprisingly written in English, a language most of the tribal villagers cannot read”, he added. “The master plan was passed without any discussion in the state Assembly,” said Aloka Kujur, another activist. She added that the master plan should have been passed by the gram sabhas concerned and the Tribal Advisory Committee before being taken up in the Assembly. “We also object to violation of the provisions of the land acquisition laws that mandate seeking approval of gram sabhas before initiating land acquisition in a scheduled area,” she said, explaining the reason behind their objection to the master plan. “Those areas of Ranchi district are mentioned in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution and there is no legal provision for establishing any urban civic body in those areas,” the memorandum said, calling the move illegal. “Since those are scheduled areas, the approval of gram sabhas is a must in case any land acquisition is to be done in those villages,” Kujur emphasised, adding no such approval was taken before passing the master plan. The Jharkhand Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Rules, 2015, also specifies that the consent of gram sabhas is required in such cases. It also specifies that the quorum of a gram sabha meeting consenting to land acquisition must be one-third of the total members present provided one-third of the total women members attend it. “In the name of so-called development, Ranchi master plan is actually an attempt to dislodge the tribals from their homes for settling the outsiders,” the memorandum alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
