17-12-2020||Calcutta||Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta||Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, said during Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta on Wednesday: “The People’s Liberation Army of China has carried out infrastructure development activities, including development of defenses, opposite two points in Arunachal Pradesh. We are taking reciprocal actions to meet emerging challenges.” Lt Gen Chauhan was presiding over the Vijay Diwas celebrations at Fort William, commemorating the victory of Indian armed forces and Mukti Bahini over Pakistani forces in the 1971 war, that led to the birth of Bangladesh. Wreaths were laid at Vijay Smarak by representatives of the three services — army, navy and air force — along with veterans from the tri-services and members of a Bangladeshi delegation. This year, a 72-member delegation from Bangladesh, led by Md Ali Ashraf, the chairman of the Parliament Committee on Government Assurance in Bangladesh, attended the programme. Senior army officers overseeing developments along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh said most of the infrastructure development by the People’s Liberation Army of China was related to roads and tracks, which have been built to carry out patrolling. The People’s Liberation Army of China, he said, wants to move into those areas that are inaccessible. “They have tried developing some kind of model villages next to the border areas, where they are trying to settle down the nomadic Tibetan population,” Lt Gen Chauhan said. “This, though, is their internal matter.” He added: “The deployment along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh is different from the eyeball-to-eyeball kind of contact we have with the Pakistanis along the Line of Control.... The Indian army is fully prepared to meet any challenges.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Rs 2 lakh compensation for baby’s death||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday asked Eco Hospital in Barasat to pay Rs 2 lakh to a family in compensation for being negligent towards a newborn. An attendant who was looking after the newborn in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) told the commission in a written statement that she had called the on-duty nurse when the baby was crying but the nurse did not turn up. “We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh in compensation to the baby’s parents. We cannot say definitively why the baby died because no post-mortem was done, but we found the conduct of the paramedical staff such as ayah and nurses negligent,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The baby was born on November 4 and passed away the next morning. “The ayah said she informed the nurse that the baby was perspiring and crying, but the nurse told her to wipe the sweat off the baby’s face and switch on the fan. The nurse did not visit the baby,” said Banerjee. “Besides, the CCTV footage showed there were attempts to feed the baby in a supine position.” When the commission sought to know when the post-mortem was not performed, the hospital said they had advised the baby’s family verbally to conduct a post-mortem but they did not agree. Metro tried calling two numbers collected from the internet to reach the hospital, but the calls did not go through. The commission on Wednesday asked Ruby General Hospital to return Rs 50,000 to the family of a 63-year-old man who was treated for Covid. The man was admitted to the hospital on October 21. The patient’s family alleged that the bed charges were high and they had to pay Rs 81,478 after the insurance company refused to foot the entire bill. “We found the bed charges high. The rates of some pathology tests were high, too. The hospital also did not offer the patient any discount on medicines and consumables, which we had asked private hospitals to offer to Covid patients,” said Banerjee. The hospital’s representative told the commission they were helping the patient’s family get the amount the insurance company did not pay. “We have said the patient party will pay the hospital the money (Rs 50,000) if they get reimbursement from the insurance company,” Banerjee said. ILS Dum Dum was asked to offer a discount of Rs 25,000 to the family of a 69-year-old man who was treated for Covid. The commission also found rates of some pathology tests to be exorbitant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea to raise Calcutta bus fares||With the price of diesel at Rs 77.44 and passengers still few, the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates on Wednesday demanded a revision of bus fares. “The government had set up an expert committee to look into the revision of fares some time back. But several months later, there has been no word about the revision,” said Tapan Bandyopadhayay of the council. Despite suburban train services resuming, these bus owners said there hadn’t been any considerable rise in the number of passengers. The spiralling price of fuel has only added to their pain, the bus owners said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Air hostess among 3 dead in accidents||A 20-year-old air hostess died in a road accident near Vivekananda Setu while returning home with a friend on his scooter on Tuesday night. Police said Rittika Majumdar, 20, and Debaditya Singh, 21, were wearing helmets. They were returning home after buying shoes for Debaditya, an engineering student in Chennai. The scooter was plying along Kidderpore Road when it lost control and skidded near 11 Furlong Gate, not far from Vivekananda Setu. Rittika and Debaditya both were flung off and they fell on the road. A vehicle that was just behind the scooter ran over Rittika, an officer of the traffic department said. She died on the spot. Both were taken to a hospital in Howrah, from where Debaditya was discharged after treatment. Rittika was from Belur, while Debaditya is a resident of Chatterjeehat in Howrah. The identity of the vehicle that hit Rittika could not be ascertained till Wednesday night. “There were no CCTV cameras at the spot. We will request Howrah police to let us check the footage of CCTV cameras at the Vivekananda Setu toll plaza and in nearby areas,” said an officer of the city police. Two other fatal accidents were reported from the city between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. A 25-year-old youth, who was allegedly riding a motorcycle without a helmet, lost control of the vehicle and hit a lamp post along Belvedere Road around 11.30pm on Tuesday. “Joy Kishore Sharma suffered multiple injuries and was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead,” said an officer of Alipore police station. The pedestrian escaped with minor injuries. The other accident happened on Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Wednesday. Sayan Dandopat, 19, a resident of East Putiyari, was returning home when his two-wheeler apparently skidded and rammed into the median divider around 4.30am. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he died. The police said a preliminary investigation suggested he was not wearing a helmet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University allots rooms at Technology Bhavan for classes  ||Jadavpur University has decided to provide additional rooms to three science departments in the Technology Bhavan for conducting undergraduate and postgraduate classes. The extra rooms will help the authorities follow the Covid protocols once in-person classes resume. The move follows a letter by the head of the physics department to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das on November 26, in which he had said that in the absence of additional space, “it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation” once on-campus classes resume. An official of the university said the space problem was discussed between the heads of the seven science departments and the VC on Monday. And it has been decided that additional space will be given in the newly-constructed Technology Bhavan that stands opposite the alumni association office. The official said two rooms each for the physics, chemistry and mathematics departments would be allotted as of now in the building that came up in 2019. “We are going to provide rooms on the fourth floor of the building. Let the heads decide whether labs could be also carved out of the rooms,” said an official. These three departments have a large number of students, he said. “The load will be shared as the classes can be split between the UG science building, PG science building and the Technology Bhavan.” The requirements of the four other science departments will be met in phases, an official said. A teacher of the physics department said: “For the 45 students studying each in MSc first year and MSc second year, there are two classrooms and three rooms which serve as labs.” The crunch of space is so acute that four to five students work on a single instrument, standing in close proximity. Benches have been stacked up so that as many as 45 students can be accommodated in a room. The situation is equally bad in the chemistry and mathematics departments, which have 41 and 70 students at the masters’ level, respectively. The seats are almost double at the undergraduate level. This had forced the heads of the seven science departments to write to the VC on December 2. “We request the administration to take the necessary steps to enhance the infrastructural facilities as we have been experiencing difficulties in running our undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years.” The university’s space committee, which was tasked by the VC to find space for the departments, identified the building where rooms have been allotted to the three departments. “We are addressing the issue of space crunch in the science departments to the maximum possible extent,” said VC Suranjan Das. A member of the committee said the building was developed, among others, to house the Centre of Sophisticated Analytical Instrument Facilities (SAIF). In November 2018, the university had been identified by the Centre’s department of science and technology as one of the four SAIF centres. “The university did not appear on the final list,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Panic calls’ from students amid uncertainty over boards||Uncertainty regarding board exams and the manner in which they will be conducted have become a cause for concern, especially for Class XII students, several heads of schools said. In at least two institutions, counsellors and teachers have received “panic calls” from students. When and how the exams will be held and whether they will be able to attend practical classes before the boards are some of the queries students are asking their teachers. If students have to keep up a momentum in their studies, they need a date, a principal said. “In the absence of this, it is difficult for them to stay focused.” “Even for the academically bright, the pressure and uncertainty make them break. It tells on their performance and attitude. Even though they are good in studies, their confidence begins to crack. The nine months at home have made it worse,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. “The students are also asking when they will be able to do the practicals,” said Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. By this time in other years, the students know when the board exams will begin and end and they have a schedule to follow. All of this has been upset by the Covid pandemic. The anxiety has been generated by the uncertainty because no one knows what is in store, said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. “It is very hard to sustain that level of motivation. If board exams start in February or May, how can the preparations remain the same?” she wondered. Ireland said by this time every year, students are in “top gear”. To keep up that pace in their studies for weeks and months without a date can take a toll on them mentally and physically, he said. “A deadline helps them plan their studies. Since that is missing, they are getting worked up,” said Joeeta Basu, who teaches economics to classes X and XII. Class XII students are worried about college. “We are receiving calls from students and parents regarding board exams and though we try to tackle it, the pressure is there. The Class XII students are under more pressure because they are thinking about the time after the exams,” said Anil Jha, senior coordinator at an ISC school. Many students have already applied to foreign universities and some of them have got conditional offers. “I have got conditional offers from a few universities in the UK, but the final offer will depend on the board results. Usually, their intake begins in August and September and the concern is whether we will be able to join in time,” said Class XII student Siddhanth Gupta. “In the initial stage of the lockdown, we felt we would get more time to study but now this more time has landed us in a state of uncertainty,” he said. Academics and teachers feel colleges, both in India and abroad, will make considerations because this is a worldwide phenomenon. But they agreed that thestudents’ ap prehensions were valid. “The students are anxious about their college admissions. Though as academics we think colleges will consider, anxiety for individual students does not get reduced because it is a question of their future,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. A long gap between syllabuses being completed and the board exams might result in students “slackening”, some teachers fear. “The postponement of board exams is also lulling some of them into a false sense of security,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. In at least two city schools, counsellors and teachers have been speaking to Class X and XII students to allay their fears. “Our counsellor is speaking to the students to calm them about the boards and to answer their queries to help reduce their anxiety,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Some senior Calcutta doctors still Covid-shy||A year into the pandemic, a section of senior doctors at government hospitals is still reluctant to be at the bedside of Covid patients, a tendency that at least two members of the government’s Covid monitoring team said was affecting treatment. The team members, who are visiting hospitals in Calcutta and districts, including government medical colleges, said the problem of senior doctors avoiding Covid patients still existed at many units, though on a much lesser scale compared with initial days of the pandemic. The members, all of whom are doctors, said the condition of many patients would not have turned critical had experienced doctors monitored them better. The team recently sent several reports to the state health department stating that senior doctors were reluctant to be at Covid patients’ bedside. “The issue has again recently come to our knowledge. We have asked the senior doctors of the monitoring team to visit Covid wards and see the condition of patients and whether their condition is being monitored properly,” a senior health department official said on Wednesday. A senior doctor, who is part of the monitoring team, said he had recently visited the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, where he had asked senior doctors, along with the medical superintendent and the principal, to accompany him to the wards. “But senior doctors refrained from visiting the Covid general ward or the critical care unit,” said the doctor. “We could see the management of some patients was not done properly because only junior doctors were physically examining them.” Manju Banerjee, the principal of the medical college, denied the allegation. “At our hospital, all senior doctors are examining patients at the bedside. There is no problem in patient management,” Banerjee said. Another member of the monitoring team said he had seen a similar reluctance among senior doctors at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. Suhrita Paul, the principal of the medical college, denied any negligence in Covid treatment. “I don’t know about other hospitals, but in our hospital senior doctors are examining patients,” she said. The problem exists at other medical colleges, too, the member of the monitoring team said. “Junior doctors at several hospitals told me their seniors were not physically examining patients. They are giving advice based on the parameters juniors are recording,” he said. A doctor, who is part of the Covid management team at a private hospital in Calcutta, said it was important for experienced doctors to physically examine a patient to detect small signs that could prevent the condition from turning critical. “Pulmonary embolism, clotting of blood in the pulmonary artery that can lead to stroke, is common among Covid patients. An experienced doctor can pick up the early signs of stroke and that can lead to better management of the patient,” the doctor said. Some Covid patients suffer from diabetic ketoacidosis, a serious complication of diabetes that occurs when the body produces high levels of blood acids called ketones. According to doctors, the condition develops when the body can’t produce enough insulin. “There is a typical breathing pattern by which we can say the patient is in an early stage of diabetic ketoacidosis and management can start immediately. A not so experienced eye might miss the sign,” said the doctor. A member of the state health department’s monitoring team said that at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, they had seen the condition of several patients with diabetic ketoacidosis had turned critical. “These patients need to be given a high amount of fluids as they lose body fluid and electrolyte. But if no senior doctor is attending to the patient, the intake amount of fluid might not be accurate,” the member pointed out. A junior doctor at a state-run Covid hospital in Calcutta described how senior doctors were refraining from seeing patients closely. “The senior doctors, who are around 60 or above, are seeing patients in the emergency ward or the outpatient department. In the emergency ward, they are examining the parameters like oxygen saturation and then doing the paperwork for admission. For this they need not go close to the patient,” said the doctor. “At OPD, too, they are seating several feet away from the patients.” According to the doctor, at the ward or critical care unit, senior young doctors and their juniors are intubating Covid patients and managing them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||App cab driver robs passenger in Calcutta||A woman who had hired an app cab last Saturday saw the driver speed away with her bag containing cash, which she had withdrawn from an ATM during the trip, while she was taking out other belongings from the boot. The app cab driver, identified as Ramashish Kumar, 24, was arrested on Tuesday evening based on the woman’s complaint. Police said Jyoti Sharma, 32, had hired the app cab from Chandni Chowk to travel home to the Regent Park area. On the way she withdrew money from an ATM kiosk near the Rashbehari gurudwara. “The driver saw the passenger withdraw money from an ATM and was looking for an opportunity to steal her wallet. When she reached her destination, the passenger stepped out to retrieve her belongings from the boot, leaving her bag and a water bottle on the rear seat of the car. The driver took advantage of the situation and sped away,” said an officer of Regent Park police station. Sharma ran after the car and alerted passers-by, but Kumar sped away. Apart from Rs 10,000, the bag contained Sharma’s identity documents, including her Aadhaar card. Armed with the registration number and other details of the car, the police launched a search for the accused and tracked him down to Deshapran Sashmal Road, near MR Bangur Hospital, on Tuesday evening. The police found Sharma’s Aadhaar card in the driver’s wallet and Rs 3,600 was found in the dashboard. Kumar, the police said, was originally from Gaya in Bihar and was staying in Tangra. Senior officers said it was best not to leave any personal belongings inside a hired vehicle while stepping out even for a few minutes. “Since the vehicle in this case was an app cab and details of the vehicle and the driver were available, it was comparatively easier to track it down. Things get complicated when similar incidents happen in yellow cabs and complainants fail to provide the vehicles’ registration numbers,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Water supply alert for south Calcutta||Water supply to large parts of south Calcutta, including Bhowanipore, Kalighat, Gariahat, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala, will be suspended from 10am on Saturday as the Garden Reach water treatment plant will be shut down for upkeep, Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. The supply will resume on Sunday morning, the officials said. Maheshtala and Budge Budge, in South 24-Parganas, will be affected, too, as they get their daily potable water from the Garden Reach plant. The CMC goes for one of two shutdowns of water supply every year to repair leaks or for general maintenance. This is the first time since the pandemic hit in March that the Garden Reach network will be shut down, CMC engineers said. The Tallah network, which supplies water to the entire north Calcutta and parts of central and south Calcutta and Bidhanangar, faced a similar shutdown last month to repair a leak. An engineer said portions of southern suburbs, especially along EM Bypass, that receive water from the Dhapa water treatment plant will not be affected. A statement issued by the CMC mentioned that Garden Reach, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Behala, Maheshtala and Budge Budge will not receive water from 10am on Saturday. “Parts of Bhowanipore and Kalighat will also be impacted,” said a CMC engineer. All places in boroughs X (Tollygunge, Jadavpur, Golf Green, Jodhpur Park and Dhakuria), XI (Garia, NSC Bose Road, Ranikuthi and Bansdroni), XIV (Behala) and XV (Garden Reach) will be impacted, the statement said. Parts of boroughs VIII (Ballygunge and Gariahat), IX (Alipore, Chetla and Kidderpore), XII (Kasba and Garfa) and XVI (Joka) will be affected, the statement said. A senior CMC engineer said the shutdown was necessary to undertake repairs as well as maintenance work. “There are several booster pumping stations in the Garden Reach water supply network. The motors and pumps in these stations, as well as in the Garden Reach water treatment plant, work throughout the year. They need some break for maintenance. Suspension of water supply for some hours allows the maintenance work,” the engineer said. “We will also replace the valves, which help regulate water supply, in 60-inch diameter water transmission lines. These are high diameter water pipes and called transmission main lines. In some places we will also connect two such main transmission lines during Saturday’s shutdown,” said the engineer. Linking two lines makes the water supply network more integrated, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Business|| IKEA to open its second Indian store in Navi Mumbai on Dec 18||Ikea, the world's largest furniture retailer from Sweden, on Thursday said it will open its second store in the country in Navi Mumbai on Friday. The new store is its first big format store in Maharashtra, spanning over 5.3 lakh sq ft and situated near the Turbhe local railway station and stocks over 7,000 home furnishing products. Peter Betzel, CEO and chief sustainability officer at Ikea - India told reporters that Mumbai is the first omnichannel market for them. We remain invested and committed to India and stand for the long-term, he said at conference call announcing the store launch. IKEA in an official statement said that the safety of customers and co-workers is its first priority. “To provide a safe shopping experience during COVID times, it is taking a number of extra precautions from its global best practices and relevant learnings from its Hyderabad operations. To ensure good social distancing, IKEA will initially have a cap on the number of visitors to the store through prior registration on its website, by which customers will be allotted a day and time slot to visit the store. The company is putting together a whole process that will be released soon to the public,” said the statement. The Navi Mumbai store will house the largest children's area 'Sm land' in Ikea globally, along with one of its largest 1,000-seater restaurants with almost 100 per cent locally-sourced food range, the company said. Betzel reiterated Ikea's planned investment of Rs 6,000 crore by 2030, by when it aims to meet 25 million people in Maharashtra. The new store will provide over 6,000 jobs, of which 50 per cent will be women. Ikea India opened its first retail store in Hyderabad in August 2018, followed by online stores in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune. It will open two smaller format stores in Mumbai in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies for fifth straight session, ends at fresh peak||The equity benchmark Sensex on Thursday rallied for the fifth straight session and jumped 224 points to end at a fresh peak, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, TCS and Reliance Industries amid persistent foreign fund inflows and positive global cues. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 46,992.57, the 30-share BSE index settled 223.88 points or 0.48 per cent higher at 46,890.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 58 points or 0.42 per cent to a new closing high of 13,740.70. It hit a lifetime peak of 13,773.25 during the day.HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Tech Mahindra and L&T. On the other hand, ONGC, Maruti, Tata Steel, HUL, Bajaj Auto and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. “Domestic equities remained upbeat and recorded fresh highs. A dovish tone of Federal Reserve along with assurance of continuing asset purchase program until the economy makes substantial progress bolstered investors’ sentiment,” said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Better prospects of earnings recovery, dismal interest rate scenario and strong FPI participation led markets to see record highs, he noted. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,981.77 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. “As underlying strengths of the market remain intact, we expect the market to remain buoyant in the near to medium term. Further, excess liquidity situation globally is expected to sustain for the medium term, which will continue to lend support to equities,” he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.51 per cent to USD 51.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Sensex makes new intra-day records amid positive global markets||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty surged higher in early trade on Thursday, after scaling fresh intra-day records, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows and largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 46,778.51 in the morning session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 32.27 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 46,698.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 11 points or 0.08 per cent to 13,693.70. It hit a high of 13,713.55 in early trade. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC. On the other hand, ITC, HCL Tech, L&T, HUL and SBI were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 403.29 points or 0.87 per cent higher at 46,666.46, while the NSE Nifty climbed 114.85 points or 0.85 per cent to 13,682.70 -- record closing for both the benchmarks. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,981.77 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities are looking flat at the moment mainly on soft cues from Asian markets, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that better prospects of earning recovery, dismal interest rate scenario and strong FPIs participation led markets to see record highs. “As underlying strengths of the market remain intact, we expect the market to remain buoyant in the near to medium term. However, a visible slowdown in diesel sales, volumes in digital transactions and credit card spends post festival and rise in input prices may be threats for earnings rebound. This along with rich valuation might not result in a broad-based rally in the subsequent period,” he stated. “US equities finished mostly higher after the Federal Reserve maintained its dovish tone and reassured to maintain ultra-low interest rates and continuous asset purchase until the economy makes substantial progress,” Modi said. “Now investors will focus upon progress on fiscal stimulus, which appears to be happening shortly. This may determine the Santa rally ahead of Christmas,” he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.86 per cent higher at USD 51.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Deadline extended for state reforms||The finance ministry has extended the deadline till February 15 for states to implement reforms like the one-nation one-ration card and for those in the power sector aiming to become eligible for additional borrowing in the current fiscal, a release said. The Centre in May had decided to raise the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP, over and above the 3 per cent limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. However, states were required to complete four specific reforms — one-nation, one-ration card, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms — by December 31, 2020, to get the benefits. “The department of expenditure has extended the deadline for the states to complete citizen centric reforms in various sectors. Now, if the recommendation from the nodal ministry concerned regarding implementation of the reform is received by February 15, 2021, the state will be eligible for reform-linked benefits,” the finance ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Equity benchmarks race to new peaks for fourth straight session||Equity benchmarks raced to new peaks for the fourth straight session on Wednesday as participants took note of continuously improving macroeconomic indicators and positive trends in the global markets. The BSE Sensex settled 403.29 points, or 0.87 per cent, higher at 46666.46, while the NSE Nifty climbed 114.85 points, or 0.85 per cent, to 13682.70 — a record closing for both the benchmarks. Both the indices also marked their all-time intra-day highs of 46704.97 and 13692.35, respectively. In the Sensex pack, HDFC, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Titan, TCS and Mahindra and Mahindra were the prominent gainers, advancing up to 3.11 per cent. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, UltraTech Cement, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech were among the major laggards, skidding up to 1.09 per cent. Asian bourses closed broadly higher amid hopes that Covid-19 vaccines and economic stimulus by governments around the world will revive economic growth. European equities surged to 10-month highs on prospects of a Brexit trade deal and expectations of a swift rollout of the coronavirus vaccination. P-notes Investments through participatory notes (P-notes) in the Indian capital market surged to a 27-month high of Rs 83,114 crore at November-end from Rs 78,686 crore at October-end, driven by continued liquidity and improvement in second quarter corporate earnings. This was the highest level of investment since August 2018, when fund inflow through this route stood at Rs 84,647 crore. P-notes are issued by registered foreign portfolio investors to overseas investors who wish to be part of the Indian stock market without registering themselves directly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Govt invites proposals to set up electronic chip manufacturing units||The government has invited proposals from entities to set up electronic chip manufacturing units in the country and even acquire any company making semiconductors overseas. The expression of interest floated by the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) on Tuesday said the government is keen to incentivise and attract investment in setting up semiconductor fabrication units in India. “The Meity invites expressions of interest (EoI) from companies/consortia desirous of setting up/expanding existing semiconductor wafer/device fabrication (FAB) facilities in India or acquisition of semiconductor FABs outside India,” the EoI document said. Meity has fixed January 31, 2021 as the last date for submitting the proposal. The government plans to use the proposals to formulate a scheme for setting up or expansion of existing semiconductor plants in the country, according to the document. Meity said the need to set up semiconductor plants assumes significance in view of the fact that India is poised to increase its share in global manufacturing of mobile phones, IT hardware, automotive electronics, industrial electronics, medical electronics, IoT and other devices in the near future as it aspires to have $400 billion of electronics manufacturing by the year 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Govt approves subsidy of Rs 3,500 crore to sugar mills||The government on Wednesday approved a subsidy of Rs 3,500 crore to sugar mills for the export of 60 lakh tonnes of the sweetener during the ongoing marketing year 2020-21 as part of its efforts to help them clear outstanding dues to sugarcane farmers. Briefing the media after the meeting, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the subsidy at the rate of Rs 6 per kg for the current year, much lower than about Rs 10.50 per kg in the 2019-20 marketing year keeping in view the favourable international prices. Javadekar said both the “sugar industry as well as the sugarcane farmers are in crisis” because of high domestic production in the last two-three years. This year too production is expected to be 310 lakh tonnes against the annual demand of 260 lakh tonnes. The allocation of Rs 3,500 crore for exports of 6 million tonnes translates into a subsidy of Rs 5,833 per tonne, which is lower than the industry’s expectation of Rs 8,000 crore and last year’s subsidy of Rs 10,448 crore. The subsidy helped India export a record 5.7 million tonnes of sugar in the 2019-20 season, which ended in September. Despite the lower subsidy, India could export 6 million tonnes of sugar as prices have risen in the world market, said Abinash Verma, the director-general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association. “The drop in sugar production from Thailand gives an opportunity for India to export to their traditional markets like Indonesia and Malaysia,” Verma said. Sugar output in Thailand, the world’s second-largest exporter after Brazil, is expected to fall to the lowest level in a decade as drought hit cane plantation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Sebi relaxes profitability criteria for mutual funds sponsors||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday relaxed the profitability criteria for the sponsors of mutual funds apart from ringfencing the assets and liabilities of mutual fund schemes. The market regulator also did away with the minimum promoters’ contribution and the subsequent lock-in requirements for issuers making a  a follow-on public offering (FPO). These decisions were taken at its board meeting on Wednesday. It also approved new shareholding norms for listed entities who go through the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP). In a bid to facilitate innovation and expansion in the mutual fund sector, Sebi eased the rules with regard to the eligibility of a sponsor who wishes to set up a mutual fund. It said that entities that are not fulfilling the profitability criteria at the time of making an application will also be eligible to sponsor a mutual fund. At present, sponsors have to meet various requirements. The entity should have a clean track record. It should show profit after depreciation, interest and tax in three out of the immediately preceding five years, including the fifth year. Sebi has now relaxed this requirement of having profits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Govt to auction 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum across seven frequency bands||The government will auction 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum by March across seven frequency bands but not the much coveted 5G spectrum — at an aggregate base price of Rs 3.92 lakh crore as the Narendra Modi-government looks to boost its revenues left dry by the pandemic. The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the sale, the first in four years. The telecom ministry plans to issue a notice to invite bids in December and hold the sales by March, telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the meeting. In Union Budget 2020-21, the government had targeted revenues of Rs 1.33 lakh crore from telecommunication services, which include spectrum auction proceeds, licensing fees and other receipts. Successful bidders might have to pay the entire amount in one go or pay 25 percent to 50 percent upfront and the remaining amount in 16 equated annual instalments, after a moratorium of two years. They will have to pay 3 per cent of the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) excluding wireline services as spectrum usage charges. “While the government has addressed the requirement for more spectrum, lower reserve prices would have provided additional resources for network expansion to the operators. High reserve prices in past auctions have resulted in large amounts of spectrum remaining unsold,”  S.P. Kochhar, director-general, Cellular Operators Association of India,  said. The cabinet also gave its approval to  set up a national security committee to list “trusted and not trusted sources” of telecom vendors and devices. The committee will be headed by deputy national security adviser and will comprise all stakeholders. Analysts said the bidding would be muted in most of the bands as the  operators would mainly be renewing their existing spectrum. In Reliance Jio, spectrum across 12 to 14 circles in the 800Mhz band will expire from July. Jio shares some the spectrum of Anil Ambani's Reliance Communications. Bharti Airtel with 29 crore subscribers and Vodafone Idea with around 28 crore subscribers will see less expensive airwaves, mostly in the 1,800 MHz band, expire across eight circles each from July 2021 onwards. Both the operators have backup airwaves in most of these service areas. Telecom analyst Mahesh Uppal said “I believe the lower reserve price is still high. However, companies need the spectrum and so will bid to a limited extent to replenish the part of the spectrum that will run out in the coming months.” “Expect much of the bidding in the 800 Mhz and 1800 Mhz… in other bands there would be muted bidding depending on the operators needs,” Ankit Jain, telecom analyst with Icra, said. The auction will be for spectrum in 700MHz, 800MHz, 900MHz, 1800MHz, 2100MHz, 2300MHz and 2500MHz frequency bands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Diesel sales down 5% in first half of December ||Diesel sales fell 5.2 per cent in the first half of December year-on-year, preliminary data from state-run fuel retailers showed on Wednesday, signalling that industrial growth in India has not yet reached pre-Covid-19 levels. Diesel consumption, a key parameter linked to economic growth and which accounts for about 40 per cent of the overall refined fuel sales, fell to 2.8 million tonnes in the first half of the month. Gasoline sales rose by an annual 9.5 per cent during the first half of the month to 1.05 million tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Fiat to set up largest digital hub in Hyderabad||Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) on Wednesday said it will invest $150 million (around Rs 1,103 crore) to set up a global digital hub in Hyderabad. Named FCA ICT India, it will be the company’s largest digital hub outside North America. FCA ICT India will create nearly 1,000 jobs by the end of 2021. The digital hub will develop products and concepts that will define the future of mobility at FCA. It will focus on building strategic competencies in niche technology areas such as connected vehicle programmes, artificial intelligence, data accelerators and cloud technologies, among others. “Our goal is to build an innovation powerhouse that harnesses the intelligence enabled by data to build exciting new products and services,” said Mamatha Chamarthi, chief information officer, FCA, North America and Asia Pacific. FCA has presence in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, with headquarters in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||The pandemic did not dampen Aditya Mittal's spirit for India operation expansion ||Covid19 has failed to dampen the spirit of Aditya Mittal, president and chief financial officer of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel maker. A year after steering his father’s dream to set foot in India with the top dollar buy of Essar Steel, Mittal said the “long term potential” of the business remained intact despite the “unparalleled challenges” of the pandemic. In a letter to the employees of AM/NS (ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel) India, as Essar Steel has now been christened, after completing a year of concluding the Rs 42,000 crore acquisition, Mittal set target for gradual expansion of the capacity while loading up on the inbuilt technology prowess of the parent ArcelorMittal, to make grades of steel hitherto not produced in India. “Covid has in no way dampened the longterm potential we see for AM/NS India,” Mittal’s letter to the employees on Wednesday read. He may have reason to be hopeful as the company posted its best ever monthly production, 6.2 lakh tonne, at Hazira in November. “…our longterm production intentions to reach between 12 and 15 million tonnes of annual production still stand. In the shortterm, the focus will be on debottlenecking our existing operations so we can increase annual production to around 8.5 million tonnes,” Mittal, who is the chairman of AM/NS India, wrote. The acquisition capped the decade long wait of Lakshmi Niwas Mittal, Aditya’s father, to have a meaningful presence in the country where he was born and brought up. Essar’s erstwhile owners, the Ruia brothers, posed every challenge possible to the insolvency process which ran for two and half years. If the acquisition itself was daunting, the first full year of operation was no less. India went to the strictest lockdown in the world, threatening continuity of the business and the already fragile economy. But Mittal pointed out that within six weeks after lockdown, which began on March 25, operation at Hazira, Gujarat plant, came back to full capacity by mid May, filling him with optimism for the future. A report by rating and research agency ICRA said the steel sector witnessed strong revival in the second quarter and the momentum is expected to strengthen further in the second half of 2021. Steelmakers are going to witness the best ever quarterly result in the past several years, the report noted, forecasting that demand contraction for the alloy would be 11 per cent, compared to 22 per cent predicted in April. Mittal said there would be opportunities to tap into ArcelorMittal’s global R&D to produce high grade steel in India. “From a commercial perspective, we plan to develop our downstream capabilities, improve our capacity to produce higheradded value auto products as well as introducing other highvalue products from the ArcelorMittal range. This is an area where ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India can really benefit from its parent companies, ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel. When it comes to technological prowess, innovation and R&D, I truly believe our capabilities are unmatched in the global steel industry,” he wrote. Even though Mittal did not mention, there are at least two pending puzzles that the company must resolve. It plans to secure the raw material logistic, taking control of the adjacent port at Hazira, which is under the control of the Ruias, and also secure the iron ore slurry pipeline at Paradip in Odisha. Resolutions to these critical assets will shape the contour of the future expansion of AM/NS India going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||House panel pitches for automobile GST cut||The auto sector needs a focused stimulus package, including a 10 per cent cut in GST rate and financial incentives in the scrappage policy, a parliamentary panel report has said. The automotive sector suffered Rs 2,300-crore loss per day and an estimated job loss of about 3.45 lakh because of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns. The cost of BS-VI vehicles is expected to be higher by 10-15 per cent because of the upgraded technology. The panel is of the view that cutting the GST rate to 18 per cent  from 28 per cent will bring down the cost of vehicles substantially, creating more demand for newer vehicles. The increased sales because of the GST rate cut will cover up the loss in revenue. Further, the panel suggested provisions for financial incentives in the scrappage policy to encourage end users to discard their old vehicles and buy new cars. Meanwhile, the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India has said the auto component industry has seen a year-on-year growth decline of 34 per cent in the first half of 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||India on US watch list for currency rigging||The outgoing Trump Administration today labelled Vietnam and Switzerland as currency manipulators  and named India among 10 nations that have been placed on a monitoring list that will subject their currency practices and macroeconomic policies to close scrutiny by the US authorities and the International Monetary Fund. The US Treasury report, titled "Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Policies of Major Trading Partners of the United States", accused Vietnam and Switzerland for the first time of improperly intervening in the foreign exchange markets and set the stage for a major confrontation with the two trading partners. The two nations will now have to enter into negotiations with the United States and the International Monetary Fund to address the situation. This is the third time that the Trump administration has taken the fairly unusual step of labelling a country as a currency manipulator. It applied the label to China in 2019  the first time since 1994  while the two countries were negotiating a trade deal. The administration later dropped the official designation but the Chinese yuan has remained on the Treasury's list of currencies it is monitoring. Besides India, the countries that figure in the monitoring list are China, Japan, South Korea, Germany, Italy, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Thailand. Taiwan and Thailand have been named for the first time along with India. "The US Treasury is...concerned by certain economies raising the scale and persistence of foreign exchange intervention to resist appreciation of their currencies," the report said. The report said a number of countries had conducted foreign exchange market intervention in a "persistent, onesided manner" that exceeded the Treasury's criteria that were devised pursuant to the US Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act 2015. "These actions occurred mostly during a period of dollar weakness as countries sought to limit appreciations of their currencies," it said. The report named four major trading partners  Vietnam, Switzerland, India and Singapore that had intervened in the foreign exchange market "in a sustained, asymmetric manner" over the four quarters through June 2020. Of these, Vietnam and Switzerland exceeded two other objective criteria established by the US Treasury to identify potentially unfair currency practices or excessive external imbalances which would weigh on US growth or harm US workers or firms. India met two of the three criteria: it had a material current account surplus and engaged in persistent, onesided intervention over the reporting period. Ananth Narayan Professor, SP Jain Institute of Management and Research told The Telegraph that the development was not surprising since the Reserve Bank had purchased lot of dollars over the last few months and, in this fiscal year, it has been well over $ 90 billion. Moreover, India also had a trade surplus with the US. An economy meeting two of the three criteria in the 2015 Act is placed on the monitoring list. Once on the List, an economy will remain there for at least two consecutive reports to help ensure that any improvement in performance versus the criteria is durable and is not due to temporary factors, the US Treasury report said. As a further measure, the US Administration will add and retain on the monitoring list any major U.S. trading partner that accounts for a large and disproportionate share of the overall US trade deficit even if that economy has not met two of the three criteria from the 2015 Act. Currency manipulation labels are supposed to set off talks with the United States and can involve input from the International Monetary Fund. If the concerns of the Treasury Department are not resolved, the United States could impose an array of penalties including tariffs. Why India? The US Treasury report said the Reserve Bank of India had purchased foreign exchange on net in 10 of the 12 months through June 2020, with net intervention (both spot and forward intervention) reaching $64 billion, or 2.4 per cent of GDP. While purchases slowed during the onset of the pandemic, and the RBI engaged in net sales in March 2020, the RBI’s net purchases again accelerated in mid 2020 as portfolio inflows resumed and foreign direct investment remained strong. "These purchases have led to a rapid rise in (India's) total reserves that are now well in excess of standard reserve adequacy benchmarks. As of June 2020, foreign currency reserves stood at $466 billion, equal to 4.4 times gross shortterm external debt. Reserves have continued to grow in recent months, reaching $502 billion in September 2020 as purchases accelerated further in July and August," the report added. The report added that after depreciating 3.4 per cent against the dollar in the second half of 2019, the rupee depreciated an additional 5.5 per cent during the first half of 2020. The rupee weakened 6.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent on a nominal and real effective basis, respectively, over the four quarters through June 2020. "The rupee has diverged somewhat from peer currencies, however, amid RBI intervention," it added. The report went on to prescribe a course of action to India's monetary authorities. "The (Indian) authorities should allow the exchange rate to move to reflect economic fundamentals and limit foreign exchange intervention to circumstances of disorderly market conditions. India can also leverage the recovery period to pursue structural reforms that will open its market further to foreign investment and trade, including foreign portfolio investment in Indian sovereign and subsovereign bonds, thereby fostering stronger longterm growth. (With inputs from The New York Times)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||India||Don’t fall prey to ‘lies’ of Opposition on new farm laws: Agri Min||Accusing the Congress and other opposition parties of spreading falsehood about the new farm laws, union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday appealed to the agitating farmers not to fall prey to these “white lies” and said the Centre was ready to address all their concerns. In an apparent attack on the left parties, the minister said they were still speaking the language they used in 1962 when India went to war with China. The minister, in an eight-page open letter to farmers, said the Modi-government was committed to their welfare and stressed that the new legislations were aimed at benefiting small and marginal farmers. Assuring that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue and the existing mandi system will be strengthened, the minister appealed to the farmers to dismiss “white lies being spread by politically motivated people”. Tomar, who is leading the negotiation with about 40 farmer unions along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, asserted that there were no provisions in these laws for corporate firms to take control of farmers’ lands. “Many farmers’ unions have supported farm laws. But some farmer groups have created confusion. Being an agriculture minister, it is my duty to remove misconceptions and address concerns of every farmer. It is also my duty to expose the conspiracy being hatched around Delhi and present the truth and facts before you,” he said in the letter. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi’s borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. At least five rounds of formal talks have been held between three Union ministers and 40 farmer unions to break the deadlock. The unions, however, are demanding complete roll back of the central laws. Last week, the Centre had sent a proposal to these unions, stating that it would give a written assurance that the MSP system will remain and also redress their other key concerns. In the open letter, Tomar highlighted that the government in the last six years has taken various measures to boost farmers' income and make the agriculture sector profitable, including cash transfers under the PM-KISAN scheme and Rs 1 lakh crore agri-infrastructure fund. Stating that about 80 per cent of Indian farmers are small with landholdings of 1-2 acres, Tomar said these three laws will benefit them as it gives them freedom to sell their produce outside the APMC mandis. “It is imperative to understand the conspiracy being hatched by some political parties and organisations. It is unfortunate for the country that some intellectuals, claiming to be neutral, are shamelessly speaking contrary to their earlier positions,” he said. Tomar said he wondered how the Congress government, which did not implement the Swaminathan panel report for 8 years, has started talking about welfare of farmers. He said the Congress in its election manifesto had talked about providing alternative avenues for the sale of farm produce. He also attacked the AAP and Akali Dal for change of their stance with regard to reform in the agriculture marketing system. Tomar also criticised some farmer unions, who had earlier welcomed these new laws but now have joined the protests. The minister cautioned the farmers about the entry of people and organisations that have nothing to do with farming and are “trying to spread anarchy and fuel discontent”. Such elements, he said, were taking advantage of the farm agitation to pressurise the government to release people accused of spreading violence from prison. He said some people even desecrated the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the name of farmers’ protest. The minister said people should understand the motives of those persons who are asking consumers to boycott products of domestic companies at a time when the country was moving towards becoming self-reliant following the government’s call for ‘vocal for local’. Tomar said the people who stopped trains from carrying supplies for army personnel deployed in Leh and Ladakh cannot be called as farmers. The government had to spend taxpayers' money on transporting supplies to the army through air and other modes, he added. Farmers should ponder what was the aim when they started the agitation and what is being talked about now, he said. “Through this letter, I appeal to farmers with folded hands not to fall prey to any falsehood and think on a factual basis only,” the minister said, while asserting that these new laws would lay the foundation of a new chapter to strengthen farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
17-12-2020||India||JD(U) likely to contest at least 75 seats in Bengal||Bihar Chief Minister’s Janata Dal (United) is looking forward to contesting a large number of seats at the upcoming Bengal polls, where its ally BJP has high stakes, the party asserted on Thursday. JD(U) national general secretary Ghulam Rasool Baliyavi said that the party unit in Bengal wants to contest in at least 75 seats and the number may go up, if the leadership is approved. Election to the 294-seat Bengal Assembly is expected to be held in April-May next year. The BJP, which had put forward an excellent show in the Lok Sabha polls last year, has been looking to overthrow the Mamata Banerjee government. “We have contested assembly elections in West Bengal in the past. We would like to do so this time also. Our party has carried out massive membership drives in districts such as Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia and Bankura,” Baliyavi said. He said the party was hopeful of doing well in places which have a high percentage of people hailing from Bihar, and claimed that the good governance of Nitish Kumar has created a buzz in the neighbouring state. The JD(U) has been maintaining that its alliance with the BJP was confined to Bihar. The party has fought in states like Karnataka and Gujarat without a tie-up with the BJP, which is in power. In BJP-rule Arunachal Pradesh, the JD(U) is the main opposition party. Similarly in Jharkhand, where BJP lost power last year, the JD(U) had contested separately. However, the JD(U) fought the Delhi assembly polls earlier this year in alliance with the BJP. Addressing a query on these lines, Baliyavi said, “I am of the opinion that the BJP should think in terms of taking Nitish Kumar along. If it chooses otherwise, then every party has the right to expand its own base.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||Kejriwal tears up copies of farm laws in Delhi Assembly||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday tore up copies of the three contentious farm laws in the legislative assembly, against which tens of thousands of farmers are protesting near the national capital. He said that he cannot betray the farmers. Addressing the Delhi Assembly, the AAP chief accused the BJP of bringing in the legislations for their own electoral funding and not for farmers. “I am pained that I have to do this. I did not intend to, but I cannot betray the farmers of my country who have been sleeping on the streets in the cold when the temperature is just 2 degrees Celsius,” Kejriwal said as he tore up the copies of the three laws. “I am a citizen of this country first, a chief minister later. This assembly rejects the three laws and appeals to the central government to meet the demands of farmers,” he said. The chief minister further asked the government when it will “wake up”, and said 20 farmers had already died in the protest. Kejriwal said the Centre should not be under the impression that the farmers will simply return to their homes. In 1907, a farmers' protest had continued for nine months till the British rulers repealed some laws, he said. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it would put together a panel, which may include experts like P Sainath and representatives of the government and farmers' bodies to look for the resolution of the deadlock over the statutes. “We acknowledge the right of farmers to protest but it has to be non-violent,” the bench, comprising justices SA Bobde, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||SC says farmers have right to carry out protests||Acknowledging the right of the farmers to carry out non-violent protests, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it was thinking of setting up an “impartial and independent” committee of agricultural experts and farmers unions to remove the deadlock over the three contentious farm laws. A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said it would put together a panel, which may include experts like P Sainath and representatives of the government and farmers' bodies to look for the resolution of the deadlock over the statutes. “We acknowledge the right of farmers to protest but it has to be non-violent,” the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. In a hearing conducted via video conferencing, the top court said the purpose of staging protest can be achieved if the farmers and the government will hold talks and "we wish to facilitate that". “We will not decide the validity of law today. The only thing which we will decide is the issue of protest and the right to move freely,” the bench observed in the ongoing hearing. The farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws at the borders of the national capital entered its fourth week on Thursday amid a cold wave in Delhi. Thousands of farmers, camping at the border points of the city have stuck to their demand of repealing the new laws. The apex court on Wednesday told the Centre that its talks with the farmers’ unions have “not worked apparently” and were bound to fail. However, the protesting leaders dismissed the SC’s suggestion of forming the panel as no solution. There was disruption of traffic movement on key routes in the national capital on Thursday, the 22nd day of the farmers' protest to demand for the repeal of the three new agri marketing laws. The top court on Wednesday also issued notices to the Centre and eight farmers’ organisations. The farmers’ organisations issued with notices are the BKU (Rakesh Tikait faction), BKU Sidhupur (Jagjeet Singh Dallewal), BKU Rajewal (Balbeer Singh Rajewal), BKU Lakhowal (Harinder Singh Lakhowal), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (Kulwant Singh Sandhu), BKU Dakaunda (Buta Singh Burjgill), BKU Doaba (Manjit Singh Rai), and Kul Hind Kisan Federation (Prem Singh Bhangu). The bench has been hearing two petitions moved by law student Rishabh Sharma and advocate G.S. Mani. While Sharma has sought eviction of the farmers massed on Delhi’s borders citing the hardship to commuters, Mani has requested quashing of the new farm laws as illegal and an immediate resolution of the dispute. Petitioner Sharma, the law student, has argued that blocking public roads is illegal and violates the recent Supreme Court judgment relating to the Shaheen Bagh protest in Delhi against the new citizenship regime. The apex court had ruled that protests that block roads are illegal and such demonstrations can be held only at designated sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||Kerala startup Vydyuthi Energy Services signs agreement with UN agency||For the first time, a Kerala-based women startup, which helps in identifying energy-efficient drivers and adopting viable action plans, has signed an agreement with United Nations Women's Empowerment Principles. Thiruvananthapuram-based Vydyuthi Energy Services (VES) has signed the pact. Out of the 170 companies from India which had signed for United Nations Women's Empowerment Principles, 64 are from the private sector, a company statement said here. VES is the 65th company from India and the first from Kerala to enter into such a pact with the UN. Kerala is already in the top list of Niti Aayog for implementing the United Nations Women's Empowerment Principles. The Women's Empowerment Principles offer practical guidance to business and the private sector on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. With the signing of the agreement, VES would establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality, treat all women and men fairly at work, respect and support human rights and non-discrimination, ensure the health, safety and well- being of all women and men workers and promote education among several other things, it said. VES was established by an NRI, Anoop Babu, who has vast experience in the renewable energy sector and involved in multinational projects in various countries including the Gulf. After research for various years, Anoop Babu started his dream project and his mother Indira Babu, who is the co-founder, was appointed as the managing director. A consultancy-cum-project management institution, VES aims at empowerment of women ensures that all the key positions are held by women. Sudha Kumari, a retired engineer at Kerala State Electricity Board Energy Efficiency Department, is the business head of VES. Kokila Vijyakumar, operations head, and Vaani Vijay, who has vast knowledge in the energy sector, are also holding key positions, the statement added. VES offers consulting, training, R&D in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy, power quality assessment, E-Mobility, climate change, energy audit, project management and carbon accounting. It is the first recognised institution in Kerala which provides certified technical training in green energy with the cooperation of Delhi-based CII-ITC Centre for Excellence for Sustainable Development. VES has given technical support in green energy projects for various schools and engineering colleges. VES aims at establishing a 'Kerala Model' in the green energy sector, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||UP govt loses battle against Kafeel Khan in SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it will not interfere with the verdict of the Allahabad High Court, which had quashed Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention under the National Security Act (NSA). The court had ordered his immediate release. A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde termed the judgement as very good, while it was hearing the Uttar Pradesh government’s plea challenging the September 1 verdict of the HC. “We will not interfere in the judgement. However, the observation will not impact any other proceedings,” the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, told the apex court that the high court’s decision acquits Khan in the criminal proceedings. “Criminal cases will be decided on their own merits,” the bench said. Kafeel Khan took to Twitter on Thursday and thanked everyone who supported him. "And thank to everyone across globe who prayed for me ," he wrote. He had hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur's Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several children died due to a lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later. In its September 1 verdict, the high court had ordered Khan’s immediate release, saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The high court had said that the Aligarh district magistrate, who had passed the order for Khan's detention, did a “selective reading” of his speech, “ignoring its true intent”. The high court had allowed the petition filed by Khan's mother, Nuzhat Parveen, and said the detention order by the district magistrate was illegal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||India signs seven deals with Bangladesh amid upswing in relations||India and Bangladesh on Thursday sealed seven pacts amid their rapidly growing ties, to expand cooperation in several areas. They also restored a cross-border rail link, which was operational till 1965. In a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, the countries vowed to restore the Chilahati-Haldibari railway link and signed the pacts providing for cooperation in areas of hydrocarbons, agriculture and textiles among others. Modi and Hasina jointly inaugurated a digital exhibition on Bangladesh's founder Mujibur Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi in an effort to celebrate the life and legacies of the two iconic leaders. The Chilahati-Haldibari rail track inauguration is expected to better the connectivity between Assam and Bengal from Bangladesh. It was part of the broad gauge main route from Kolkata to Siliguri till 1965. In his initial statements, Modi said Bangladesh is a key pillar of India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy and it has been an important priority for him to strengthen ties between the two countries. “We feel proud to celebrate 'Bijoy Dibosh' with you to mark Bangladesh's historic victory over anti-liberation forces,” Modi said, adding that the ties between India and Bangladesh have remained good despite the coronavirus pandemic. “It has been a challenging year due to the epidemic. But it is a matter of satisfaction that India and Bangladesh had good cooperation in this difficult time,” the prime minister said. “We are also having good cooperation in the field of vaccines. We will also take special care of your needs in this regard,” he said about the coronavirus vaccine. Modi also thanked Hasina for inviting him to visit Bangladesh next year. “Thank you for the invitation to visit Bangladesh next year. It would be a matter of pride for me to pay tribute to Bangabandhu with you. Bangladesh is a major pillar of our 'Neighbourhood First' policy,” he said. Hasina in her remarks called India a “true friend”. “I pay deep homage to the three million martyrs who laid down their lives. I pay tribute to the members of the Indian armed forces martyred in the war and to their families. I pay my gratitude to the government and the people of India who extended their whole hearted support for the cause of our nation,” she said. The ties between India and Bangladesh have witnessed an upswing in the last few years. Both sides have scaled up trade and economic engagement besides implementing a number of connectivity and infrastructure projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||SC to pass judgement over contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra on Dec 18||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it will pronounce its order on Friday on a batch of petitions seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court. The pleas came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan which heard the submissions of advocate Nishant R Katneshwarkar, who appeared for one of the petitioners and claimed that Kamra had posted several tweets scandalous to the judiciary. "All these tweets are scandalous and we had sought consent from the attorney general," Katneshwarkar told the bench, which also comprised justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. He read out the letter of Attorney General K K Venugopal, who had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra. The bench asked the lawyer not to read the alleged contemptuous tweets of the comic artist in the open court, saying they have already gone through Venugopal's letter on the issue. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. One of the petitions have been filed by a law student, Shrirang Katneshwarkar, who has claimed that Kamra had started publishing tweets on November 11, when the top court was hearing the appeal of journalist Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting his plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment to suicide case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||Cold winds continue in Delhi, cold day conditions at certain places||Despite clear skies and lots of sunshine, the minimum temperature remained close to four degrees Celsius in most parts of the national capital on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees Celsius as frosty winds from the western Himalayas continued to sweep across Delhi. The Ayanagar and Ridge weather stations recorded minimum temperatures of 3.8 degrees Celsius and 3.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 18 degrees Celsius, the IMD said, predicting 'cold day' conditions at a few places. The IMD had declared a cold wave in Delhi on Tuesday as icy winds blowing from snow-covered western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature is likely to remain around five degrees Celsius till Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the western Himalayas recorded widespread snowfall due to strong western disturbances and now frosty winds have been blowing towards the plains, bringing the mercury down. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. "However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day," Srivastava said. A "cold day" is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is 4.4 degrees Celsius below normal. The air quality was recorded in the "poor" category. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 248 at 11 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 262 on Wednesday and 230 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||Ayodhya Masjid blueprint to be revealed on Saturday||The foundation of the mosque at Ayodhya to replace the Babri Masjid will be laid on Republic Day on the five-acre land allotted, while its blueprint will be revealed on Saturday, members of the Trust formed for its construction said. “The Trust chose January 26, 2021 for laying the foundation stone of the Ayodhya mosque as on this day our Constitution came into effect over seven decades ago. Our Constitution is based on pluralism, which is the leitmotif of our mosque project,” Athar Hussain, secretary of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), said. The Sunni Waqf Board created the IICF six months ago and tasked it with building the mosque. As finalised by chief architect Professor SM Akhtar, the blueprint of the mosque will be revealed on December 19. It includes a multi-speciality hospital, a community kitchen and a library as parts. “The mosque will have a capacity to hold 2,000 namazis at a time, and the structure will be round-shaped,” Akhtar told PTI. The Supreme Court on November 9 last year had paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple at the disputed Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid site at Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a ‘prominent’ place in the town in Uttar Pradesh. The UP government allotted a five-acre land in Dhannipur village in Sohaval Tehsil of Ayodhya. “The new mosque will be bigger than Babri Masjid, but won't be a lookalike of the structure. The hospital will take centre stage in the complex. It will serve humanity in the true spirit of Islam as taught by the Prophet in his last sermon 1,400 years ago,” Akhtar said. “The hospital won't be a usual concrete structure but will be in sync with the architecture of the mosque, replete with calligraphy and Islamic symbols. It will house a 300-bed speciality unit, where doctors will work with missionary zeal to provide free treatment to the ailing,” he said, adding, “The mosque will be self efficient for power as it is designed based on solar energy and a natural temperature maintenance system.” “When we talk about the hospital project at Dhannipur, one thing is sure that it will be a multi speciality hospital,” Hussain said. “The community kitchen will serve good quality meals twice a day to cater to the needs of nourishment of the poor people living nearby,” he added. “We can establish a nursing and paramedic college to provide human resources to the hospital. We can manage doctors from local resources from Faizabad, and for specialised needs in terms of critical surgeries, we have a group of doctor friends in prominent government and private institutions who want to offer their services,” he said. “We are looking forward to corporate funding for the hospital. There are many donors who are willing to contribute when we have 80 G approval. After that, we will go for FCRA and seek foreign funds from Muslims of Indian origin,” the IICF secretary added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest enters Day 22, disruption of traffic continues||The farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws at the borders of the national capital has entered its fourth week on Thursday amid a cold wave in Delhi. Thousands of farmers, camping at the border points of the city have stuck to their demand of repealing the new laws, while the Supreme Court advised to form a committee to resolve the deadlock. The apex court on Wednesday told the Centre that its talks with the farmers’ unions have “not worked apparently” and were bound to fail. However, the protesting leaders dismissed the SC’s suggestion of forming the panel as no solution. There was disruption of traffic movement on key routes in the national capital on Thursday, the 22nd day of the farmers' protest to demand for the repeal of the three new agri marketing laws. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh borders are closed, said the police. “Commuters have been advised to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders, while traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road,” they said. They also asked to avoid the Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44. Those travelling to Haryana can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders, the police said. Gazipur border also remains closed for traffic coming from Gaziabad to Delhi. Commuters have been advised to take alternate routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara and Bhopra borders, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-483
17-12-2020||India||India reports less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day||India reported 24,010 new cases of Covid-19 being reported in a day as the caseload rose to 99.56 lakh, while the recovery load surged to 94.89 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total number of cases increased to 99,56,557 as the death toll mounted to 1,44,451 with 355 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 94,89,740 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.31 per cent,while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload of coronavirus remained below four lakh for the eleventh consecutive day, with 3,22,366 people being affected from the disease at the moment. This comprises  3.24 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 15,78,05,240 samples have been tested up to December 16 with 11,58,960 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Scientists hoping to harness convalescent plasma to fight Covid||A medical trial in Calcutta and others in India and around the world suggest antibody-rich blood plasma from patients who’ve recovered from Covid-19 can be used to combat the virus and, if administered early, keep people out of intensive care. The Calcutta study was based on 80 patients at the West Bengal state-run ID&BG Hospital that took place between end-May and end-October. Crucially, it found administering plasma therapy produced “significant immediate mitigation of hypoxia (when oxygen falls to dangerously low levels), reduction in the hospital stay as well as survival benefits” in severely ill COVID-19 patients with Acute Respiratory Disease Syndrome (ARDs). “It is a therapy that works” in many cases, says Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Ganguly led the convalescent plasma therapy study which was conducted by the ID&BG Hospital, under a joint initiative of the Centre of Scientific Research (CSIR) and the West Bengal government. The central hope is that antibody therapy could stop mild Covid from turning severe. While vaccines now are being approved for Covid, it will be months before many people are able to get them and, in the meantime, scientists are hoping to harness the immune system’s natural response to viral invaders. The study shows “plasma will provide antibodies that will prevent the virus from infecting cells … (and that) other proteins also are circulating which we think are also playing a role in the recovery,” he says. Those patients the therapy benefited were aged below 67 years, said the study. The Calcutta findings got a shoutout tweet from Dr Arturo Casadevall, chairman of the immunology department at the US Johns Hopkins School of Public Health and who has been a big advocate of the use of convalescent plasma therapy to treat Covid. Casadevall has been running trials that indicate convalescent plasma is most useful in preventing the onset of severe illness or to prevent symptoms completely than as a cure for Covid when it reaches an advanced stage. “Early use is associated with the best outcome,” he says. Convalescent plasma therapy involves extracting antibodies from the blood of recovered Covid patients and injecting it into coronavirus patients to combat the virus and also into people at risk of contracting the illness. The low-cost therapy itself is a century-old one used before the emergence of antibiotics made convalescent plasma largely obsolete. It won the Nobel Prize in 1901 for curing diphtheria in children. In recent years, doctors have used plasma to treat Ebola, SARS and MERS when nothing else worked. The beauty of convalescent plasma treatment is that its use “requires no research or development,” as it “relies on standard blood-banking practices,” says Casadavell. While vaccines should confer long-lasting immunity by triggering the recipient to create their own antibodies, receiving antibodies would only get temporary Covid immunity. Privately run Max Super Speciality Hospital also has just published a study on patients in the intensive care unit that were administered plasma therapy and which showed “mortality was significantly lower in the plasma group.” That study focused on late-stage Covid patients -- some 694 patients who were admitted to the intensive care unit. Of these, 333 were given plasma with the best supportive care and the remaining 361 received the best supportive care only. That study found that the mortality rate in Covid patients administered plasma was 25.5 per cent against 33.2 per cent among those who did not receive the plasma. Unlike some other studies, this found good outcomes in relatively late usage of plasma therapy. This benefit of reduced mortality was most seen in those aged 60 to 74 years -- 26.7 per cent versus 43.0 per cent. Women in this age group seemed to benefit especially from plasma treatment. There was also a “significant difference” in mortality observed in patients with one comorbidity (22.3 per cent against 36.5 per cent). Moreover, patients on ventilators had significantly lower mortality rates in the plasma group, 37.2 per cent against 49.3 per cent in the non-plasma group. The plasma effect was particularly marked for patients who were on mechanical ventilation. The death rate in the plasma group was 63.9 per cent against 82.9 per cent for those in the non-plasma group. These findings conflict with the conclusions of an ICMR double-blind trial that involved 433 participants. The study covered 39 hospitals across India. ICMR reported convalescent plasma was “not associated with a reduction in progress to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality… we did not find any benefit from convalescent plasma being administered within three days of symptom onset in Covid-19.” In its study, the ICMR noted some possible drawbacks including the fact that most of the donors only had mild Covid and that it could not measure the antibody levels in the convalescent plasma before giving it to patients because reliable tests for antibody measurement weren’t available when the trial began. The ICMR researchers noted that those people who had severe Covid were reluctant to return to the hospital to donate plasma. “This has major implications for obvious operational reasons in the scaling up of convalescent plasma treatment for Covid-19 not only in India but also globally,” the ICMR said. A US study suggests that 30 per cent of documented Covid patients are not making enough antibodies to qualify for plasma donation as they have mild cases. Ultimately, some researchers say while plasma might be useful right now, in the long-run, it might be more advantageous to identify the best antibodies to Covid, then synthesise them in labs. These are known as "monoclonal antibodies" and they are being developed by biotech firms including Regeneron and Eli Lilly. US President Trump received a drug produced by Regeneron. High levels of antibodies in the donated plasma are seen by Casadevall, the Johns Hopkins immunologist, and other researchers as being critical to plasma therapy being effective. High antibody levels occur in people who have had a fairly severe bout of Covid-19. Secondly, in patients treated early, mortality rates are lowest when the plasma contains high antibody levels. The mortality rates are highest in patients who received low antibody plasma, and somewhere around the middle when levels of antibody are in the intermediate range. Recovered patients can become donors after three-to-four weeks of testing negative. The ICMR said in a later statement later that a potential donor for convalescent plasma should have sufficient concentration of neutralising antibodies before giving it to patients In Kuwait, meanwhile, an observational study found significant reductions in mortality with high antibody convalescent plasma if it is given within 24 hours of hospital admission. Another study carried out in the Bronx in New York City found that plasma recipients suffering from severe Covid-19 had a four-fold lower mortality rate at day 28 of the disease. A further double-blind study in Argentina funded by The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation of 160 elderly subjects over the age of 64 found that administration of high-antibody convalescent plasma against Covid to mildly ill infected seniors within 72 hours of mild Covid symptoms reduced the virus’s progression. Meanwhile, early findings of a US study, which enrolled more than 35,000 patients, found that quickly administering so-called convalescent plasma had a marked effect on mortality for patients with severe cases of Covid-19. Those who received transfusions within three days of diagnosis had a seven-day death rate of 8.7 per cent, while patients who got plasma after four or more days had a mortality rate of 11.9 per cent in the study, run by the Mayo Clinic. The study enrolled a high proportion of critically ill patients, with about 52 per cent in intensive care units and 28 per cent requiring mechanical help to breathe. In this study, researchers also found that the quality of the plasma infusion had an effect on patient outcomes, as those who got infusions that were particularly rich with antibodies fared better overall. While doctors like best to rely on randomised control studies, observational trials also can be useful. The efficacy of penicillin is an example of a drug accepted without randomised trials. “In this kind of treatment, there will be some who respond and some who don’t,” says Ganguly. “There’s a need to categorise them and how to recognise parameters of a responder,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Supreme Court to form panel on farmers' agitation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to form a committee to resolve the farmers’ agitation, saying the government’s negotiations would “again fail” and the dispute would “soon become a national issue” if allowed to fester. After taking on itself the responsibility to broker a possible settlement, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde listed the matter for urgent hearing on Thursday. It issued notices to the Centre and eight farmers’ organisations. Earlier, when solicitor-general Tushar Mehta suggested that senior ministers were holding talks “regularly” and insinuated that the farmers’ stand was opaque, Justice Bobde cut him short. “Your talks will again fail…. It seems the government may not be able to work out a solution. The issue will soon become a national issue,” he said. Tens of thousands of farmers have besieged Delhi’s borders in protest against three new farm laws that they say would deprive them of the minimum support price and leave them to be exploited by big companies. The farmers’ organisations issued with notices are the BKU (Rakesh Tikait faction), BKU Sidhupur (Jagjeet Singh Dallewal), BKU Rajewal (Balbeer Singh Rajewal), BKU Lakhowal (Harinder Singh Lakhowal), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (Kulwant Singh Sandhu), BKU Dakaunda (Buta Singh Burjgill), BKU Doaba (Manjit Singh Rai), and Kul Hind Kisan Federation (Prem Singh Bhangu). Other farmers’ organisations can also apply to be impleaded in the matter. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, passed the directions on two petitions moved by law student Rishabh Sharma and advocate G.S. Mani. While Sharma has sought eviction of the farmers massed on Delhi’s borders citing the hardship to commuters, Mani has requested quashing of the new farm laws as illegal and an immediate resolution of the dispute. Justice Bobde told Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre, that the petitions were “ill-conceived”, yet the court would like to constitute a committee as the talks held by the government so far had failed. “The petitions seem to be ill-conceived. The only party before us is you (the Centre) — who has blocked the road is you, (the) government,” Justice Bobde remarked in a lighter vein. Mehta said it was not the government but the farmers who had blocked the roads. “We have been holding talks regularly, but their (agitators’) approach is ‘either repeal the act or don’t repeal it’. It is either yes or no,” he said. “The ministers of agriculture, home and other senior ministers had discussed with them but they have turned their backs on us.” While the government has offered to amend the contentious laws, the farmers have stood firm on their demand for wholesale repeal. Justice Bobde, saying the talks were likely to fail again, added: “Mr Mehta, what we are planning to do is form a committee to resolve the issue. It will have members from the farmers’ organisations and government of India. There can be representations from others….” To a query from the bench, Mehta said that as far as he knew, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) was at the forefront of the protests. The court asked him to furnish details of the various groups involved in the agitation so that notices could be issued to them. Mehta then furnished a list of organisations. Petitioner Sharma, the law student, has argued that blocking public roads is illegal and violates the recent Supreme Court judgment relating to the Shaheen Bagh protest in Delhi against the new citizenship regime. The apex court had ruled that protests that block roads are illegal and such demonstrations can be held only at designated sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Women in yellow dupattas say 'This is war, prime minister'||The women are gathered in a group, clapping to keep the beat as one of them leads with a boli (couplet). The telltale signs say it could be a Punjabi wedding but the lyrics don’t mock-attack the in-laws. Main chaa wich paaya dudh, Modi ne chhed leyaa hun juddh. Ji, tussi ki piyonge. Chorus: Ik cup chaa. (I have added milk to tea, Modi has now started a war. Tell me, what will you have? Chorus: One cup of tea.) Neither is the venue the lit-up home of a bride or groom; it is a protest site of farmers on the road. The women are turned out in yellow dupattas invoking the revolutionary Bhagat Singh, and their message is for the Prime Minister: “This is war.” Chalo Dilli nu chaliye, othhe laa daiyye dharna, Modi ne kanoon banaye, assaan e kanoon nahiyo jarna, chahe Modi aaje …assaan nahiyo darna, chalo Dilli chaliye, jaake Modi nu gheriye…. (Come, let’s go to Delhi, let’s sit on a dharna there, Modi has made laws, we won’t let the laws stand, let Modi come… we won’t fear, let’s go to Delhi, let’s gherao Modi.) This sounds like a protest song but the singer shimmers in bright silk and gota (gold lace), dressed for a wedding, as are the men and women around, who are breaking into laughter at the tweaking of the lyrics of a popular number for the performance. The mandatory cheering and dancing that accompanies a baraat on its way to bring home the bride are making their presence felt but the message again is for the Prime Minister: “We won’t let the laws stand.” Protest and celebration have dovetailed — as good a yardstick as any to measure the depth of the farmers’ movement standing at Delhi’s door. Ask any child in Punjab what the protests are about and the reply comes without hesitation: “Modi is trying to rob us of our rights and our land.” They are speaking from the knowledge that comes from listening in to conversations of elders as children are wont to do. “Modiji, we are Jatt, Jatts give their lives for their land, don’t you try to take our land from us,” a chubby little girl warns in a video that went viral sometime ago. That the government has in its talks now offered to bring “clarity” in the law on contract farming and bar confiscation of land suggests this is being recognised as a real fear. What videos circulating on social media reveal is that the farm laws are dominating everyday conversation in Punjab, and that the opinion against them is overwhelming and that it is informed. Until recently, few experts have highlighted that the laws deny the farmers the right to legal recourse for a breach in contract, directing them to bureaucrats instead of civil courts. But in bites to television reporters milling about the protest sites many a farmer has pointed this out and asked if government officials can be expected to rule against an Ambani or an Adani or any other powerful corporate house. Modi and his government say the laws are pro-farmer. They ask farmers not to be “misled” by the Opposition, by “Khalistanis”, by “Maoists”, by the “Tukde Tukde gang”. The woman in the yellow dupatta sings: “Main chaa wich paaie elaichi, Modi di chalan ni deni chalaki. Ji, tussi ki piyonge?” (I have put cardamom in the tea, we won’t let Modi’s cunning succeed. What will you have?) Laughing, the women around her chorus: “Ik cup chaa.” On a wedding video that made it to television news, an announcement is heard: the shagun (cash gift) that guests give the newlyweds will be sent to the farmers’ protest. Sportspersons, singers, academics, writers, veterans, a crop scientist, politicians and faceless multitudes have rallied behind the farmers to contribute in any way they can — with their voice, with cash, with rations and woollens, or with seva (voluntary service) that could mean cooking or cleaning or doing the laundry at the site, offering health check-ups, or simply making and sending batches of pinni (laddu) for them from home. The tractor trailers parked for miles on the highway outside heavily barricaded Delhi are for everyone to see, but behind these unseen is the will of the entire state. Another video, another child, who starts respectfully with a “Sat Sri Akal, Modiji” and introduces herself as Seerat Kaur before she chides the Prime Minister: “Modiji, you asked us to clap and we clapped. You asked us to bang thalis and we banged thalis. You asked us to light diyas and candles, and we lit those. Corona can’t even be seen, but in spite of that we did what you told us. Now all these farmers are sitting in the cold outside Delhi, and everyone can see them, why don’t you then do what is needed to solve the problem?” The protest outside Delhi is not Punjab’s alone. There are tens of thousands of farmers from Haryana, thousands from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and many have travelled from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and other corners of the country even in the absence of regular trains. But it is a protest led by Punjab, whose livelihood and way of life revolves around farming. After two months of agitating in vain at home, the state’s farmers piled rations and blankets onto tractor trailers and set out for Delhi in the last week of November. “Dilli Chalo.” Farmers from Haryana were quick to follow, and now there are participants from many parts of India. Ask how long they will sit on dharna, and the assured refrain is: “We have enough food. We have brought supplies to last six months and more are coming.” It is this that the protesters, proud farmers, are fighting to save: food security. If there is one dominating visual of this protest, it is that of the langar. Dal and vegetables and roti cooking in huge utensils, pakodas and jalebis being fried, people eating, tea being served, including some to the policemen manning the barricades to keep the protesters out of Delhi. There is enough food for everyone. And there is more. A langar of chaat and golgappas sponsored by one village, of pizzas started by other villages, of Maggi that was a hit with kids, of cashews and raisins sent by a supporter, and a langar of peanuts offered by one frail and elderly farmer. Where are the resources for these coming from, the trolls ask? No, India’s farmers don’t need funding from Pakistan or China to eat pizza. The resources come from the same place as those for the langars the gurdwaras ran for the countless migrant labourers left starving by the sudden lockdown in March. The same langars that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had acknowledged at the time. Those community kitchens were fuelled by the sense of religious duty to feed the hungry and by empathy for those less fortunate. The langars at Delhi’s border now are powered by the farmers themselves, by their families and friends, by neighbours and fellow villagers, by the community they are a part of, the gurdwaras that they give a share of every harvest to. How long will you be here, a BBC journalist asks a mother who has left her children with her in-laws as she and her husband joined the protests. “As long as Modi Sahab wants us to be here,” she laughs. “It is for him to decide how long he wants to keep people on the roads. There are seven-year-olds here and those above 90, in the cold.” Night temperature in Delhi is now touching 5 degrees Celsius and on the highway, it would be lower. Those that can, sleep in their covered tractor trailers or underneath them. But there are many who sleep in the open, with just a blanket, and little to shield against rain when it comes as it did in a light spell last week. The assertion, “We would rather die than go back without repeal of the laws,” is not an empty refrain. At least 15 protesters have died in 20 days. The farmers know what they are up against. That they are turning road dividers on the highway into kitchen gardens, planting onions, coriander, spinach and other vegetables, is proof they know this is going to be a long haul. A few kilometres from where the farmers are camped, in the heart of Delhi, stands Sis Ganj Sahib. The gurdwara was built at the site where Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Sikh guru, was beheaded on Aurangzeb’s orders for resisting religious persecution of the Sikhs and the Hindus. Sis translates as head. The anniversary of his martyrdom is this week. Days after that it will be time for the Shaheedi Jor Mela in Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib, where lakhs gather every year to remember the martyrdom of the two younger sons of the 10th Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh, and be inspired by it. The boys, both under 10, had refused to be converted by force and were entombed alive. Had the farmers who led the march on Delhi not been at the protests now, many would have been heading to Fatehgarh Sahib with their children and grandchildren to ensure another generation learns the lesson of valour and sacrifice and of resistance against persecution, and grows up with the conviction that each one should be able to take on a lakh and a quarter in the battle for justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||India slips two notches in latest Human Development Index||India has slipped two notches, to 131st place, in the latest Human Development Index (HDI) rankings published by the United Nations Development Programme although most of its neighbours have improved their scores. The Human Development Report 2020 has placed India in the 131st position among 189 countries, down from the 129th last year. Bhutan, ranked 134th last year, has leapfrogged India to the 129th spot. The HDI measures achievements in life expectancy, education and per capita income. The report found that India’s gross national income per capita had fallen to $6,681 (Rs 4.9 lakh) in 2019 from $6,829 (Rs 5.03 lakh) in 2018 on the basis of purchasing power parity (PPP). The PPP is a measurement for prices in different countries in terms of the purchasing power of the currency for specific goods. Nepal has risen from 147th last year to 142nd, Bangladesh from 135th to 133rd and Afghanistan from 170th to 169th. Like India, Pakistan has slipped two notches from 152nd last year, while Sri Lanka has climbed down one spot to 72nd. China continues at 85th. Among Brics countries, Russia is 52nd while Brazil is ranked 84th. Norway tops the HDI list, followed by Ireland and Switzerland. Atul Sood, professor at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), attributed India’s poor ranking to its growth-oriented policy that lacks specific focus on social-sector outcomes. “In India, there is a thinking that economic growth will automatically result in social development. The global experience suggests the reverse. Growth does not automatically percolate down to ensure development in education, health or gender. Other countries, particularly our neighbours like Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, laid specific emphasis on social-sector outcomes,” Sood said. He said there should be higher investment in education and health. But in India, the government is gradually withdrawing from public education and health systems, Sood felt. The government expects the private sector to take the lead role in providing health and education, he said. “The slide in global ranking is proof that private investment is unlikely to deliver gains in the social sector,” Sood said. After two decades of progress, the number of people affected by hunger has been increasing since the low of 628 million in 2014. In 2019, the number was 688 million, up 60 million in only five years, the UNDP report said. Estimates for 2020, including the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, range from 780 million people affected by hunger to 829 million. By 2030, a total of 900 million people could be undernourished. In 2019, two billion people were moderately or severely food insecure, 367 million more than in 2014, according to the UNDP. The report attributed the food insecurity to stagnant or deteriorating economic conditions, weak positions in global value chains and large inequalities in the distribution of income, assets and resources. The report also underlined the effects of climate change. In 2019, some 25 million people worldwide were internally displaced because of natural hazards. Disasters continued to trigger most new displacements in 2020. Cyclone Amphan hit India and Bangladesh, driving the largest single displacement event in the first half of the year and triggering 3.3 million pre-emptive evacuations, the report said. Some estimates indicate that 1 billion people worldwide could face forced displacement by 2050. The number of people vulnerable to permanent sea-level rise is estimated to increase from 110 million now to more than 200 million by 2100, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||When India’s virus trains rolled||The crowds surged through the gates, fought their way up the stairs of the 160-year-old station, poured across the platforms and engulfed the trains. It was May 5, around 10am. Surat was beastly hot, 41°C. Thousands of migrant labourers were frantic to leave — loom operators, diamond polishers, mechanics, truck drivers, cooks, cleaners, the backbone of Surat’s economy. Two of them were Rabindra and Prafulla Behera, brothers and textile workers, who had arrived in Surat a decade ago in search of opportunity and were now fleeing disease and death. Rabindra stepped aboard carrying a bag stuffed with chapatis. His older brother, Prafulla, clattered in behind, dragging a plastic suitcase packed with pencils, toys, lipstick for his wife and 13 dresses for his girls. “You really think we should be doing this?” Prafulla asked. “What else are we going to do?” Rabindra said. “We have nothing to eat and our money’s out.” They were among tens of millions of migrant workers stranded without work or food after Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a national coronavirus lockdown in March. By spring and summer, these workers were so desperate that the government provided emergency trains to carry them back to their home villages. The trains were called Shramik Specials, because shramik means “labourer” in Hindi. But they became the virus trains. India has now reported more coronavirus cases than any country besides the US. And it has become clear that the special trains operated by the government to ease suffering — and to counteract a disastrous lack of lockdown planning — instead played a significant role in spreading the coronavirus into almost every corner of the country. The trains became contagion zones: every passenger was supposed to be screened for Covid-19 before boarding but few if any were tested. Social distancing, if promised, was nonexistent, as men pressed into passenger cars for journeys that could last days. Then the trains disgorged passengers into distant villages, in regions that before had few if any coronavirus cases. One of those places was Ganjam, a lush, rural district on the Bay of Bengal, where the Behera brothers disembarked after their crowded trip from Surat. Untouched by the virus, Ganjam soon became one of India’s most heavily infected rural districts after the migrants started returning. Many people in Ganjam’s villages had no idea what coronavirus symptoms were — until people around them started dying. “There was a very direct correlation between the active Covid cases and the trains,” said Keerthi Vasan V., a district-level civil servant in Ganjam. “It was obvious that the returnees brought the virus.” The tragic irony is that Modi’s lockdown inadvertently unlocked an exodus of tens of millions. His government and especially his Covid-19 task force, dominated by upper-caste Hindus, never adequately contemplated how shutting down the economy and quarantining 1.3 billion people would introduce desperation, then panic and then chaos for millions of migrant workers at the heart of Indian industry. A top economic adviser to Modi, Sanjeev Sanyal, confirmed that the administration had been aware of the risks posed by moving people from urban hot spots to rural areas but said that the situation had been managed “quite well”. Railroad officials also insist that the trains were the safest way to get migrant workers home. “India has done extraordinarily well in managing the spread of disease compared to some of the materially most advanced countries of the world,” said D.J. Narain, a railway ministry spokesperson In all, the government organised 4,621 Shramik Specials, moving more than 6 million people. As they poured out of India’s cities, which were becoming hot spots, many returnees dragged the virus with them, yet they kept coming. Surat, an industrial hub, saw more than half a million workers leave on the trains. “It felt like doomsday,” said Ram Singhasan, a ticket collector. “When you saw how many people were thronged outside, it looked like the end of the world was coming.”  On March 24, at 8pm, Modi hit the lockdown switch. In a televised address, he ordered the entire nation to stay inside their homes for three weeks — starting in four hours. The decision was pure Modi: sudden, dramatic and firm, like when he abruptly wiped out nearly 90 per cent of the country’s currency bills in 2016, a bolt-from-the-blue measure that he said was necessary to fight corruption but proved economically devastating. Prafulla and Rabindra Behera had just finished a dinner of rice, lentils and potatoes, their usual fare. They lived in squalid, bare rooms in Surat’s industrial zone, sleeping wall to wall on the floor with a half dozen other labourers. Within minutes of Modi’s address, they started getting calls. “Everyone was thinking the same: This will be over soon and somehow we’ll pass the days,” Rabindra said. At the time, India had fewer than 600 known virus cases. Many experts have criticised Modi’s government for overlooking the plight of migrant labourers, who suddenly had no work, no income and no support network in the cities. The government’s Covid-19 task force lacked migrant specialists and was hardly representative of India. Of its 21 members, only two were women and the rest were largely upper-caste men. Many of the migrant labourers came from lower castes and economically underprivileged backgrounds. Harsh Vardhan, Union health minister, responded by saying that “not even in our wildest imaginations do we think about the caste” and that the task force’s members had been chosen for their “competence, capabilities and intellectual abilities”. Modi’s lockdown closed all public transport, and immediately, some migrants began walking hundreds of miles, desperate to return to their home villages, where living was cheaper and they could find family support. After Modi declared a second lockdown in mid-April, the stream of migrants turned into a humanitarian disaster. Tens of millions poured out of the cities, and India’s airwaves were dominated by horrific scenes of migrants and their families dying along the roads, from thirst, heat, hunger and exhaustion. In New Delhi, railroad officials concluded there was no way to stop the migrants, said Arun Kumar, the head of the railroad police. “And we knew that one day or another, we would have to carry them,” he said. The country’s railroads ferried more than 8 billion passengers a year before the pandemic, traversing a network of 42,253 miles of track, enough to go around the earth nearly twice. It’s one of the world’s busiest train networks, the blood vessels of this country. Pressure was growing on Modi to use it. Naveen Patnaik, the chief minister of Odisha, which includes Ganjam, said he spoke to Modi about the plight of migrants. “I knew that in this chronic situation that they would want to come home,” Patnaik said. The trains, he said, were the answer, but he emphasised that the key thing would be to bring back the workers “gradually”. In Surat, the Behera brothers were down to their last bag of rice. They could not work — the factories were closed. But they weren’t allowed to leave the city, where virus cases were beginning to surge. “We were trapped,” Rabindra said. On May 1, Labour Day, the railways ministry made a grand announcement: Shramik Specials. Routes were drawn up from Surat, Mumbai, Chennai, New Delhi, Ahmedabad and other cities deep into rural areas. But Prafulla Behera, 39, was reluctant to get on a train. There was no work back in Ganjam — that’s why he had left in the first place. Prafulla was respected back home, known to be both strong and affectionate. He never complained about having four daughters, even though just about everyone in the village wants sons. His younger brother, Rabindra, 32, usually did what Prafulla asked. But this time, Rabindra pushed back. “If we’re going to die,” Rabindra said, “we should die at home.” The Behera brothers rode for 27 hours across the width of India, about a thousand miles, in a second-class, non-air-conditioned train packed to capacity. The heat seemed to be getting to Prafulla. During the journey, he complained of having a fever. They stepped off in Ganjam on May 6, around 1pm, exhausted and dehydrated, among the first wave of migrants to return. Far from any major city, Ganjam is a socially conservative, underdeveloped district with endless rice fields, empty beaches and a long tradition of its people pulling for each other. Initially, the news that loved ones were coming home was greeted with excitement. “There was no fear,” said Santosh Kumar Padhy, a block chairman. “The villagers were planning welcome ceremonies.” Ganjam’s officials hurriedly converted hundreds of schools into quarantine centres, drafted a work force of 10,000 people and adapted their freight train station to handle the Shramik Specials, which were longer than typical passenger trains. The Beheras were told they would quarantine for 21 days at a centre and each was given a toothbrush, a slice of soap, a bucket to wash with and a thin sheet to sleep on. But the next morning, Prafulla awoke with a splitting headache. A doctor didn’t think he had coronavirus but suggested, as a precaution, that he be moved into the courtyard, away from the other men. The following morning, Prafulla could barely breathe and called his wife on his cellphone. “Come and bring the girls,” he whispered. “I need to see you.” An hour later, he was dead. A subsequent test revealed that Prafulla Behera was Ganjam’s first coronavirus death. Across the district, people began falling sick. The first dedicated Covid-19 hospital, with fewer than 60 intensive care beds, quickly filled; patients had to be laid out on the floors. Testing was still relatively low but when authorities zeroed in on suspected carriers they found high positivity rates. After Prafulla’s death, Rabindra and six other men who had travelled with him were tested. Six out of seven tested positive. But the Shramik Specials kept coming — four, five, six, sometimes 16 a day, each carrying as many as 2,000 migrants, many from Surat. Across India, state leaders were under pressure from voters urging them to rescue stranded family members. Yet some recognised that the trains could mean trouble. “It will lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases,” predicted Mamata Banerjee,  Bengal’s chief minister, in late May. “Who will take the responsibility then?” A group of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, submitted a scientific paper in May, which was published a few months later, predicting that virus cases in Bihar would jump by 800 per cent when migrants returned. In New Delhi, health officials warned against packing the trains. There was no way to test most passengers. India was performing about 70,000 tests a day in early May, far fewer than the number of migrants lined up on train platforms some mornings. Passengers were supposed to undergo temperature checks with laser thermometers. Middle seats were supposed to be empty for social distancing. But in Ganjam, trains arrived “more than 100 per cent” full, said Vijay Amruta Kulange, Ganjam’s collector. Ganjam, with a population of around 3.5 million, was absorbing as many as 20,000 migrants a day and didn’t have enough schools to hold everyone. At one overcrowded centre, migrants mutinied, smashing light bulbs and jamming toilets with plastic bottles, trying to be freed. To open up more space, the authorities dropped the quarantine period from 21 days to seven. At the district’s first Covid-19 hospital, Dr. Umashankar Mishra said that at one point, the oxygen supply for 200 patients came within 15 minutes of running out. Mishra called the suppliers in a panic, only to learn that the truck carrying the oxygen cylinders was stuck at a railroad crossing. “I never felt so bad in my life,” Dr Mishra recalled. When the truck finally arrived, Dr Mishra bear-hugged one cylinder and waddled into intensive care. If the truck had arrived any later, he said, “it would have been a massacre”. Workers at the quarantine centres were among the first to get infected. An entire group of cooks in Konkarada village came down with body aches. “We thought it was from working too hard,” said Bonita Pradhan, one of the cooks. She tested positive, as did nine out of 10 of the other cooks. A broader survey in Konkarada found that 80 out of 100 people were coronavirus positive. Across India, the same crisis unfolded: poor communities, with few hospitals, witnessed sharp spikes in infections weeks after the Shramik Specials arrived. “For the virus to reach villages, it needed a carrier, a speedy one,” said Thekkekara Jacob John, a senior virologist in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. “Then came the migrants, and particularly those who travelled by train. They wreaked havoc, wherever they went, unintentionally.” In two rural districts in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, infections surged and are now above 40,000 cases, more than twice India’s per capita average. Similar surges were reported in states such as Nagaland, Bihar, Assam and, especially, in Chhattisgarh. “Eighty per cent of deaths and infections have happened in the rural areas after the arrival of the migrants,” said Tribhuwaneshwar Saran Singh Deo, a minister in Chhattisgarh’s state government. “The first mistake the central policymakers made was not checking the migrants at the station where they started from. The second was to open the flood gates all at once.” In Bihar, state health officials said returning migrants were responsible for 70 per cent of the first wave of infections. “The quarantine centres turned into coronavirus hubs,” said Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary, a Bihar health official. “If asymptomatic patients would leave the centre without getting detected, the cases would shoot up in areas where they lived.” By the end of June, dozens of villages in Ganjam had been sealed off. Residents were ordered to stay inside. Police officers patrolled the silent lanes. Taxis were converted into ambulances. Volunteers sewed masks, cooked food and answered help calls. At the quarantine centres, schoolteachers led yoga classes. The whole district was mobilised and straining. “Imagine people are coming at 2 or 3 in the night, you receive them, register them, give them their kits, arrange where they will be staying. Doing all this, one gets tired,” admitted Naba Krishna Jena, an officer in the Ganjam government. “So when the crowd grew so big, compromises happened. And because of those compromises, the infections happened and spread.” The trains finally stopped coming to Ganjam on June 30. By then, officials had raised the quarantine period back to 14 days and opened other Covid hospitals but the outbreak was already out of control. In late June, Simanchal Satapathy, a popular teacher who became a champion for the rights of the migrants at the quarantine centre that he oversaw, was admitted to a hospital but misdiagnosed three times: first with malaria, then pneumonia, then tuberculosis. It wasn’t until a week after Satapathy, 26, came down with a high fever that he was tested for coronavirus. He was positive and soon died. “I used to cradle him as a baby,” said his uncle, Pradeep Kumar Satapathy, breaking down. “We had no idea he had Covid.” Ganjam’s caseload peaked in August and, overall, the district has reported 22,000 cases and 320 deaths, roughly the national average, according to Mishra, the physician who ran its Covid-19 hospital. Kulange, the district collector, said Ganjam would have recorded “single-digit cases” had the migrants not come back. “It was clear cut,” he said. Most cases in Ganjam caused only mild symptoms and did not require hospitalisation. But no one is certain of the district’s real death toll, just as that figure remains a mystery across the country. India has reported far fewer virus deaths per capita than many western nations, but experts caution that 80 per cent of all deaths in the country are not medically certified. Patnaik, Odisha’s chief minister, said the Modi administration should have run the trains “in a more humane way” and before infections became so rampant in the cities. But he, too, agreed that once the migration started, it was impossible to stop. “This being a free country, I don’t think there was any way of controlling it,” he said. Railroad officials said they had worked their hardest to safely transport 6.3 million people “in the most trying circumstances”. Asked to respond to the data showing that the virus had spread rapidly in many districts after the trains arrived, Narain, the railroad spokesperson, said much was still unknown about Covid-19 and “correlation of every kind is not necessarily causation”. Vardhan, the Union health minister, said that the Modi administration had started the trains as soon as it could, given that states needed time to prepare quarantine centres first. Opposition politicians have pushed for a parliamentary inquiry into the government’s handling of the pandemic but members of Modi’s BJP have blocked them. In October, the Supreme Court dismissed a lawsuit calling for an independent investigation. In Ganjam, the scars are still fresh. The home where Satapathy, the teacher, lived with his parents is now deserted. After he was told that his son had died, Satapathy’s father went to the market, paid off his debts and came home with a rope. He hanged himself from a tree. Satapathy’s mother also killed herself. She was found hanging from a ceiling fan. Rabindra Behera eventually returned to Surat, by train. His brother had been right: there was no work in Ganjam. And now Prafulla Behera’s widow and four daughters have no one to support them. The plastic suitcase that Prafulla brought home, packed with gifts, was destroyed at the quarantine centre. His daughters never got their 13 dresses. New York Times News Service This article is from Behind the Curve, a New York Times series that examines the missteps, misunderstandings and missed warning signals that allowed Covid-19 to spread around the world||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech vaccine generates 'robust' immune responses||A homegrown candidate vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has generated “robust” immune responses, including high levels of neutralising antibodies, against the novel coronavirus, government and industry researchers said on Wednesday. In their first scientific paper on human clinical trials of their candidate vaccine, the researchers have also described observing possible hints of immune memory responses critical for long-term efficacy triggered by all three formulations they tested. These early results do not permit assessment of the vaccine’s efficacy in protecting people from the coronavirus infection but had guided India’s drug regulatory agency’s decision to approve the efficacy trials that started last month and seek to enrol around 26,000 volunteers. In the safety and immunogenicity study, 375 volunteers were divided into four groups — 100 each in three groups who received different formulations of the candidate vaccine, and 75 in a placebo group who received dummy jabs. The researchers observed antibody responses in 83 per cent, 88 per cent and 92 per cent of volunteers who had received two doses of the vaccine. Six per cent of those on placebo too developed antibodies likely because they picked up natural infections during the trial. The study also detected neutralising antibodies that block the virus in significant proportions of the volunteers, the 24-member research team from Bharat Biotech, the Indian Council of Medical Research and hospitals that participated in the clinical trials said. “The vaccine was well-tolerated in all the dose groups with no vaccine-related serious adverse events,” the researchers said in their paper posted on an online archive for preprints but not peer-reviewed yet. One volunteer developed coronavirus disease but, the researchers said, the event was analysed and determined as “not causally associated with the vaccine”. Bharat Biotech is among three vaccine makers that have applied to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory agency, for emergency use authorisation of their candidate vaccines. The Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India, and the US-based Pfizer have also applied for emergency use authorisation. While Bharat Biotech is currently conducting its efficacy trials at multiple sites across India, the AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines have been shown as effective in clinical trials in other countries. A CDSCO panel reviewing the applications had last week asked the Serum Institute to update its immunogenicity data from India and the UK and submit the outcome of AstraZeneca’s application for similar approval with the UK regulatory authority. The panel asked Bharat Biotech to submit safety and efficacy data from its ongoing clinical trial. Medical experts believe the CDSCO panel is likely to wait for regulatory approval of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the UK, the vaccine’s home country, before granting an approval in India. Bharat Biotech has a current capacity to produce 150 million doses per year but could increase the capacity to 500 million doses if required. The Serum Institute has a current capacity of 70 million doses per month, of which it can make available half for use within India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Congress highlights Modi response to China on Vijay Diwas||The Congress on Wednesday used Vijay Diwas — the day Pakistan was defeated by India in the 1971 war — to question the BJP’s claim of monopoly over nationalism and the perception about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s robust leadership. The party’s top leadership ran a carefully crafted campaign on social media to send out a message that nationalism and patriotism can’t rest on narrow partisan politics and the leadership’s strength should be judged on facts instead of hollow rhetoric. They compared Indira Gandhi’s decisive response to the crisis in 1971 despite firm American intervention in favour of Pakistan with Modi’s handling of the Chinese intrusions, hoping that the younger generation would try to take a holistic perspective of what a robust leadership is all about. The Modi government also launched year-long celebrations with the 50th year of Vijay Diwas beginning on Wednesday. Although Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra threw only subtle hints about the difference in the attitudes of the two leaders — Indira and Modi — other leaders explicitly dwelt on the subject, apart from hundreds of analytical messages posted by the Congress on its Twitter handle. Rahul tweeted: “I bow to the valour of the Indian Army and congratulate the countrymen on the historic victory of India over Pakistan in 1971. This is a story of that time when India’s neighbours acknowledged the strength of India’s Prime Minister and feared violating our borders.” Congress veteran and former finance minister P. Chidambaram, however, spoke freely, saying: “India acted as a responsible power to protect peace in South Asia. That was true nationalism. There were no exaggerated claims, no boast. We have to compare the way this (1971) war was conducted then and the battle cries raised today. Today, India is not even willing to name the country which has encroached into our territory.” Chidambaram added: “Everyday, China strengthens its position on the borders and (we hear) only claims that India is matching in strength. No one is sure, there is no transparency, no information. It is a good time to look back 49 years ago to recall how a truly patriotic war effort must be conducted by leaders of this country. Let’s spare a moment to remember those brave soldiers, especially those who laid down their lives or were injured.” Modi not only took personal credit for the Balakot surgical strike, a much smaller event in comparison, by using such expressions like “Modi ne mara”, but also hijacked the entire 2019 parliamentary election using that triumphant war rhetoric. Congress leaders on Wednesday didn’t refer to the Balakot strike, the outcome of which is still not clear, and focused on the Chinese intrusions instead. Senior leader Pramod Tewari said: “China is threatening us, encroaching upon our land. Our brave soldiers would have taught them a lesson had there been a strong leader like Indira Gandhi.” At the Congress’s official briefing also, spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “While we owe it to our brave soldiers, the strong and decisive leadership of Indira Gandhi is needed to ensure that enemies are scared of India and actions are taken in national interest without fear, despite interventions by big global powers. China has today occupied our land and we are in denial. If today’s leadership demonstrates even a fraction of the courage shown by Indira Gandhi, our soldiers can teach the encroachers a lesson.” Many other leaders like Mallikarjun Kharge, Shashi Tharoor and Salman Khurshid posted videos to talk about the great victory that gave birth to a new nation — Bangladesh — and argued that previous leaders didn’t use the valour of soldiers for personal publicity and electoral campaigns. The party also used the occasion to deal with jingoistic nationalism, trying to give a correct perspective of history and meaning of patriotism in a democracy. A message posted by the Congress said: “Patriotism is nothing if not an unconditional devotion towards our fellow beings. Isn’t prioritising the needs of the people the purpose of democracy? Isn’t ensuring their safety, security and prosperity the meaning of true nationalism? Isn’t serving fellow citizens with true devotion and dedication an essential quality of real patriots?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||JEE'21 to be held in 13 languages, including English, Hindi and Bengali||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main will be held in 13 languages, including English, Hindi and Bengali, in 2021 and students will get four chances to take the test. The scores will be used to decide admission to BTech courses in most national-level institutions. According to an information bulletin issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Wednesday, the question papers will be available in English, Hindi, Urdu, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Gujarati, Tamil and Telugu. In 2020, the test was conducted in English, Hindi and Gujarati. The language options have been added in sync with the government’s proposed policy to start BTech courses in local languages at IITs and NITs. The government has proposed to create similar language options for JEE Advanced, the test conducted by IITs for selecting students for their BTech courses. The top 2.5 lakh scorers of JEE Main are eligible to appear for JEE Advanced. In JEE Main 2021, the regional language option will be available for students taking the test in the respective state where the language is spoken. Students will be able to take the test in English, Hindi or Urdu at any centre across the country. JEE Main has two papers — the first is meant for students seeking admission into BTech courses while the second is for those who want to pursue BArchitecture or BPlanning. The NTA, which has been conducted JEE Main since 2019, had been holding the test twice a year. In 2021, Paper 1 (BTech) of JEE Main will be held four times — in February, March, April and May. Students will have the option to appear all four times and the best score will be considered for ranking. Paper 2 (BArchitecture or Bplanning) will continue to be held twice a year, in February and May. The question papers will have two sections, 20 multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and 10 questions whose answers are to be filled in as a numerical value. Among the 10 questions, the students will have to answer five questions. The 20 MCQs are compulsory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers firm on call for repealing new farm laws||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Wednesday said any panel such as the one the Supreme Court planned to set up to resolve the farmers’ agitation would be useful only after the three new farm laws were withdrawn. The apex court had earlier in the day set in motion efforts to form the committee, issuing notices to the Centre and eight farmers’ organisations. But having decided at the outset against moving court for repeal of the farm laws, the protesting unions appeared wary of the proposal. However, the farmers lauded the court’s remarks on the government’s handling of the agitation as a “moral victory”. “Your talks will again fail…. It seems the government may not be able to work out a solution,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre. “SC-advised committee will be useful only after withdrawal of the acts. SC advice to government is a moral victory for farmers,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the Dilli Chalo call that led to the farmers’ siege of Delhi’s borders. According to the All India Kisan Sabha, an AIKSCC constituent, the government had itself suggested such a panel during the December 1 talks with the farmers, who had unanimously rejected it saying nothing less than repeal of the three laws was acceptable. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, another AIKSCC member, tweeted: “The SC can and must decide on the constitutionality of the 3 farm acts. But it is not for the judiciary to decide on the feasibility and desirability of these laws. That’s between the farmers and their elected leaders. SC monitored negotiation would be a wrong path.” Earlier in the morning, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — the platform under which the protests are going on — had sent a written response to the Centre on the amendments the government had proposed to the contentious laws last week. The letter to agriculture secretary Vivek Agrawal came after ministers began making a meal of the farmer organisations’ failure to respond to the offer in writing. In the letter, Darshan Pal of the SKM said: “We had rejected your offer received on December 9 because it was just a written version of what had been offered by you and rejected by the farmer organisations during the meeting of December 5. “Since we had already made our position clear, we did not give a written response. We also wish that you stop vilifying the farmers’ protest and holding parallel discussions with other farmer organisations.” The “other farmer organisations” referred to in the letter are those that agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has been meeting regularly over the past few days to show there is support for the three laws. The farmers’ organisations have decided to set up a social media platform of their own to counter the narrative being pushed by the BJP’s famed “IT cell” and the fake news and propaganda being peddled against the agitation. Also, with the media attention waning, the farmers felt a need for a platform where they could post information to mobilise opinion and mount pressure on the government — much in the “atmanirbhar” (self-reliant) spirit the Narendra Modi government has been plugging. The siege of the Singhu border witnessed a suicide on Wednesday. Baba Ram Singh, 65, regarded as a “sant”, is said to have shot himself in the evening and been declared dead on arrival at a hospital. He was from Karnal in Haryana. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal said Ram Singh was a saint who had dedicated his life to public service. “He said in his suicide note that he cannot see the pain of farmers sitting on the roads,” Sirsa said in a video message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-484
17-12-2020||India||Kerala’s ruling Left beats Congress, BJP and smear campaign||Kerala’s ruling Left on Wednesday dominated the local body polls months before the Assembly elections, basing its campaign on its performance in the face of an Opposition smear campaign that rode on financial controversies involving people close to senior Marxist leaders. The Left Democratic Front retained the Kozhikode, Kollam, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram corporations and wrested the coveted Kochi corporation from the Congress-led United Democratic Front, which retained Kannur alone among the six larger civic bodies. In an election fought with a verve more typical of Assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the Left won significant victories in both rural and urban constituencies, upsetting the Congress in many strongholds. In Thiruvananthapuram, the Left win spoiled an upbeat BJP’s dream of getting its own mayor to receive Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he comes campaigning ahead of next summer’s Assembly polls. Overall, the BJP marginally improved its performance — with the 2018 Sabarimala agitation appearing to pay off — but its avowed hopes of emerging as a force in Kerala were dashed. State BJP president K. Surendran had on Saturday predicted his party would win at least 61 of the Thiruvananthapuram corporation’s 100 seats. But the BJP ended up with 34 against the Left’s 51, while the UDF mustered just 10. For the Left, the icing on the cake were the convincing wins in central districts such as Kottayam and Idukki, where new ally Kerala Congress (Mani) helped it dislodge the UDF. For the first time in 25 years, the LDF won the Puthupally municipality, considered the pocket borough of Congress veteran Oommen Chandy; Ward 14 at Thriperunthura in Alappuzha, turf of leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala; and Ward 11 at Azhiyur village panchayat in Kozhikode, home to Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran. By 9pm, the Left had won or led in 514 of the 941 village panchayats, 108 of the 152 block panchayats, 10 of the 14 district panchayats, 35 of the 86 municipalities and 5 of the 6 city corporations. In 2015, the Left had won 549 village panchayats, 90 block panchayats, 7 district panchayats, 44 municipalities and 4 corporations. The UDF made some gains, winning or leading in 375 village panchayats (up from 365 last time) and 45 municipalities (up from 41), but lost ground in the block panchayats with 44 (down from 61), district panchayats with 4 (down from 7), and corporations with 1 (down from 2). The NDA’s massive campaign brought it 23 village panchayats (up from 13) and 2 municipalities (up from 1). Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the victory reflected the people’s approval of the state government’s responses to natural disasters like floods, landslides, the Nipah outbreak and the Covid-19 pandemic. He hailed the “people’s response to the Opposition campaign to destroy the state and its welfare projects”. “The Opposition, including the Right wing, and the central investigating agencies had come together with that specific aim,” Vijayan told a news conference. Among the controversies the UDF and NDA campaigns had flagged was a gold-smuggling case in which a senior CMO official was arrested, a bribery scandal involving a housing scheme for the flood-hit, and the arrest of the son of the then CPM state secretary in a money-laundering case linked to a drug bust in Bangalore. While the Left government had won widespread praise for its initial handling of the Covid-19 outbreak, a spurt in cases after the Onam festival had allowed the Opposition to accuse it of lowering its guard. Vijayan cited the “coming together of UDF and communal forces” as one reason for the Congress-led alliance’s defeat. The UDF had an electoral understanding with the Welfare Party of India, political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami. The Left had also accused its rival coalition of aligning with the BJP to target the government. Ramachandran, the state Congress president, put up a brave face and lauded the party’s “good show” in some places. Chennithala claimed the party’s “foundation” was intact and played down the importance of local body polls. “The LDF has won all but one (2010) local body elections, but we have gone on to win the Assembly polls in the past,” he said. The BJP retained the Palakkad municipality, where it always wielded influence, and wrested the Pandalam municipality from the LDF. Pandalam was the launch pad of the BJP’s 2018 agitation against the state government decision to implement a Supreme Court verdict that lifted an age bar on women at the Sabarimala temple. The BJP won from 18 of Pandalam’s 33 wards, up from 7 wards in 2015. But the Thiruvananthapuram defeat seemed to rankle with state BJP chief Surendran, who blamed “the unholy alliance” between the UDF and the Left.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar announces slew of sops, including free Covid vaccine||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced a slew of sops, including free coronavirus vaccine and 20 lakh jobs for the people, in what is being seen as an effort to counter the disquiet and opposition against him. The sops also have a distinct influence of Janata Dal United ally BJP. A cow species development institute would be also established in the state to conserve the indigenous cow species, a database of migrant workers would be prepared at the panchayat level, and efforts would be made in cooperation with the central government to set a “minimum support price (MSP)” for pulses. The decisions were taken at the first cabinet meeting of the new National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state chaired by Nitish on Tuesday evening after the allocation of departments to the ministers last month. “Free vaccination will be carried out in the entire state to protect the people from corona after its vaccine becomes available,” said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary, cabinet secretariat department. Free coronavirus vaccine was the poll promise of the BJP and was one of the main points in its manifesto for the Assembly elections held in October–November. However, the promise had run into rough weather when sources said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the country, circumvented a question by Nitish on who would bear the cost of the vaccine. Modi is said to have asked to let the vaccine come first. The cost of providing free Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar, which has a population of around 11 crore, will run into thousands of crores of rupees. There is still not a word about who would bear the expenditure, though the decision has been bracketed under the state health department. “Now that free vaccine is a cabinet decision, it indicates that the state government will bear its cost. Financially, it is going to be an unnerving situation because Bihar is a low revenue state dependent mostly on the taxes shared by the Centre. The state coffers are virtually empty since the pandemic unfolded,” a senior state government official told The Telegraph. It is also unclear whether the entire population of Bihar would be vaccinated or some targeted sections would be given the vaccine doses. Central government officials have already made it clear that it has never said about vaccinating the entire population of the country and the decision would be taken on the basis of scientific analysis. The cabinet decision to create “more than 20 lakh employment opportunities in government and non-government sectors” is again a step towards the fulfilment of the NDA poll promise made to counter leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s promise of 10 lakh government jobs in the first cabinet meeting if he came to power. However, the state government has not set any deadline for the jobs or the manner they would be created. They form a part of Nitish’s “seven resolves for a developed Bihar — 2” that would be completed by the next Assembly elections in 2025. The first part of the “seven resolves” had the timeframe of 2015 to 2020. The fresh set of seven resolves include empowerment of the youth, women empowerment, irrigation for every farm, clean and developed villages, clean and developed cities, easy connectivity, and additional health facilities for all, including animal health. Meanwhile, the RJD said the state government’s decision to provide 20 lakh jobs was just a “jumla” (rhetoric) in the light of Tejashwi’s promise. It also alleged that the decision would end up like the earlier employment schemes brought by the state government. Tejashwi attacked the Nitish-led government on the completion of its first month without any concrete achievement. He gave the government a month’s time to take effective steps. “We are giving a month to this new government, which has come to power through hustle, to fulfil the demands of crores of unemployed, students and farmers; control the corruption spread in every nook and corner of the state and take solid steps to curb crime,” Tejashwi tweeted on Wednesday. RJD sources said that the party is considering launching a statewide agitation to press the government to implement its election promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||India||5-year-old was raped and murdered: SIT report to Orissa High Court||The special investigation team constituted to probe the alleged kidnapping and murder of a five-year-old from Nayagarh district on Wednesday submitted its report to Orissa High Court. According to sources, the report claims the girl was raped before being killed. Stains of semen were found on her clothes during scientific examination, it said. Sources said the report confirmed the involvement of residents of the girl’s native village, in the crime. Former director-general of police Sanjeev Marik said, “The report indicates that the accused had a vengeful mindset. The SIT will certainly go for DNA matching of villagers.” The SIT has also identified the accused, according to sources, raising question marks over the efficiency and impartiality of local police. The SIT was constituted by the state government following allegations that higher education minister Arun Sahoo is shielding those involved in the crime. On July 14, the five-year-old was allegedly kidnapped while playing near her house. A fortnight later her body was found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. Her parents alleged that since those involved in the crime were close to Sahoo, the police were not taking action in the matter. As the local police failed to initiate any action, her parents attempted suicide by setting themselves ablaze in front of the Assembly on November 24. The state BJP on Wednesday announced a padayatra from December 20 from Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar to Jadupur, 120km away, to demand justice for the girl. State BJP president Samir Mohanty said: “In the last two years, 5,503 children have gone missing in Odisha. This is unfortunate and alarming. We will fight till girl’s family gets justice.” “The state government has failed to provide security to women and girls. Nearly 5,000 children have gone missing in the last two years but the police have failed to arrest the accused involved in such heinous crimes,” said state BJP women’s wing chief Smruti Patnaik. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights is also inquiring into the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||India||Asaduddin Owaisi seals tie-up for 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls||Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM, fresh from his success in the Bihar Assembly elections, has tied up with a former BJP ally for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls. Owaisi and Om Prakash Rajbhar, the leader of the Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) who was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government but is now a trenchant critic of the BJP, met in Lucknow on Wednesday and later announced the alliance. “It was clearly a political meeting with the hope of making some difference in Uttar Pradesh in the next elections. We and many other smaller parties are going to contest against the BJP together,” Rajbhar told reporters. The SBSP has four MLAs in the 403-member House. “We are excited after our successful entry in the Bihar elections and are trying to spread our base in Uttar Pradesh too. An alliance of smaller parties would leave a positive impact on the people-centric politics of the heartland,” said Owaisi, whose party won five seats in Bihar. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) does not have any MLAs in Uttar Pradesh. Later, Owaisi also met Shivpal Yadav, who has formed the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) after being thrown out of the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party. Shivpal is the only MLA of his party. Rajbhar, an OBC leader, wields influence in over 25 Assembly seats in east Uttar Pradesh. Shivpal doesn’t have any substantial hold outside Jaswantnagar, which he represents in the Assembly. Owaisi can hope to eat into the Samajwadi Party’s Muslim vote base in over 50 seats of west Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi walks out of defence panel meet||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday walked out of a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defence when his demand for a discussion on substantive issues such as the Chinese intrusions and how to strengthen India’s security on the borders was stonewalled by the BJP members. The Congress leader had intervened to question wastage of time on debating issues such as uniforms instead of critical concerns but was shouted down by the BJP members. As the chairman of the committee, BJP leader Jual Oram, did not allow Rahul to speak on other issues, he and other Congress members walked out. The meeting, after discussing uniforms for one-and-a-half hours, ended abruptly. The trouble started when BJP MP Devender Paul Vats raised the issue of changes in uniform, calling for uniformity and parity in the rank and names of all the wings — the army, navy and the air force — so there is no confusion. This was mentioned when officers, led by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, were making a presentation on how military service branches in the US and other countries had uniforms that made it easy to distinguish between various ranks. Rahul intervened to ask why politicians had to decide on uniforms and ranks as these should best be left to the armed forces themselves. The chairman of the committee asked them not to speak on subjects not being discussed. But Rahul insisted that General Rawat clarify whether the armed forces were not competent to decide these matters on their own. Sources said the Congress members were not allowed to speak, leading to the walkout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||India||SC asks Centre to transfer Andhra Pradesh HC Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended to the Centre the transfer of Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari, days after chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy complained to the Chief Justice of India about the state’s top judiciary. Justice Maheshwari has been recommended for transfer to Sikkim High Court as its chief justice. The Andhra Pradesh chief minister had on October 6 taken the unprecedented step of writing to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde alleging that the state high court was being used to “destabilise and topple” his democratically elected government. In the same letter, Jagan had alleged that Supreme Court judge Justice N.V. Ramana, the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India, had favoured the chief minister’s political rival and Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu and the judge’s daughters had purchased land under questionable circumstances in Amravati before the site was chosen for the new Andhra capital. The same day, October 6, Jagan had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss Andhra affairs. Apart from CJI Bobde, Justices Ramana, R.F. Nariman, U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar are part of the five-judge collegium. The collegium headed by CJI Bobde, in its meeting held on December 14, also recommended the elevation of five high court judges as chief justices of different high courts. Justice Dr S. Muralidhar, a notification transferring whom to Punjab and Haryana High Court close to midnight of February 26 had created a controversy, is among those promoted. Justice Muralidhar has been recommended to be elevated as chief justice of Orissa High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-485
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Stormy Mamata battles tempest ahead of Bengal polls||Mamata Banerjee was Thursday waging a hardy battle with the Modi government that demanded three of her IPS officers on central deputation against her will, and another with mutinous TMC leaders led by a regional satrap seeking to thwart her bid for a third term in office. As the West Bengal chief minister was busy containing the fallout of an internecine feud in her TMC following a rebellion by a redoubtable Suvendu Adhikari, the Centre shot off a fresh letter to her government to immediately relieve three IPS officers for central deputation. Suitably provoked, a combative Banerjee dubbed the move “unconstitutional and unacceptable” and a “brazen attempt to control the state machinery by proxy”, escalating tensions between the state and the Centre. The Centre’s missive came on a day when Suvendu Adhikari, considered a leader with mass appeal that any TMC leader could have after Mamata, quit the party, amid intense speculation about his joining the BJP at Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally in East Midnapore on Saturday. Adhikari, the face of the Nandigram movement against the Left Front government’s land acquisition policy for rapid industrialisation, had aided Banerjee’s rise to power in 2011 when she decimated the Left and the Congress. The assembly polls in 2016 were a breeze for the tempestuous leader, who now appears bracing for a storm. Five days after the West Bengal government said it will not relieve the three IPS officers, the Centre sent a fresh missive on Thursday, asking the state to immediately release them so they could take up their new assignments. In a communication to the West Bengal chief secretary, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said, according to the IPS cadre rules, the Centre prevails over a state government in case of any dispute between the two. Quoting the rules, the MHA noted in case of any disagreement between the central and the state governments, the “state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government”. The three officers ‑ Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal) ‑ were responsible for the security of BJP chief J P Nadda during his December 9-10 visit to the politically volatile state. The Centre wants them shifted account of alleged dereliction of duty that led to an attack on Nadda’s convoy in Diamond Harbour constituency of TMC MP and Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. Several vehicles in the convoy were damaged and BJP leaders received injuries in the attack. A livid Banerjee responded with expected anger. “This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's unconstitutional & completely unacceptable!” she said. “GoI’s (Government of India) order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State's objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954,” Banerjee tweeted. In its letter, the home ministry insisted that in accordance with the IPS cadre rules, the Centre prevails over the state in case of a dispute. However, Banerjee recalcitrantly asserted in another tweet, “We wouldnt allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist & undemocratic forces.” Adhikari, a two-term MLA and twice Lok Sabha member, meanwhile, resigned from the primary membership of the party. “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect,” Adhikari wrote. Ending his two-decade-old association with the party, the political heavyweight thanked Banerjee for opportunities she gave him, and said would he will always value the time he spent as its member. Adhikari had resigned as a member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and from several other posts that he held last month. A seasoned politician that he is, Adhikari delayed his resignation from the state assembly and the TMC, all the while testing the political waters. On Wednesday night, he held a closed-door meeting with several disgruntled TMC leaders, including Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari and senior MP Sunil Mandal. Tiwari, an MLA from Pandebeshwar constituency who recently slammed the state government for allegedly depriving the industrial town of central funds for “political reasons”, resigned as the chairman of the Board of Administrators of Asansol Municipal Corporation on Thursday afternoon. Senior TMC leader Diptangshu Choudhary, who, too, was present at the meeting, has also quit as South Bengal State Transport Corporation chairman. As an abrasive Banerjee claimed only those not wedded to TMC’s ideology and concerned about not getting party tickets were jumping the ship, the BJP claimed it was the “beginning of the end” for West Bengal's ruling party which will now “collapse like a house of cards”. Hailing Adhikari's decision, BJP national vice president Mukul Roy claimed that “this is the beginning of the end of the ruling party which will now collapse like a house of cards”. “We will welcome Suvendu with open arms,” he said. “The day Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the state cabinet, I had said I would be happy if he leaves the TMC and joins the BJP. Today, he has left the party. We will be happy to welcome him,” Roy said. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are sitting TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha constituencies respectively. Another brother is an MLA and heads the local municipal body. The family wields considerable influence over at least 40-45 assembly seats in Paschim Medinipur, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum ‑ mainly in the Junglemahal region ‑ and some areas in the Muslim-dominated Murshidabad district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Deputy Election Commissioner oversees poll preparations in Bengal||Amid high-pitched political campaigns for next year's battle of ballots in West Bengal, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain on Thursday held hectic parleys with district officials to review poll preparedness across the state. Sources close to the chief electoral officer in Bengal said Jain, who arrived in the city on Wednesday night, will be interacting with government officials over the next two days. He is also likely to coordinate with health officials to find out about the Covid-19 safety measures that need to be put in place during the poll process. The opposition BJP had earlier claimed that free and fair polls cannot be held under the state administration and sought the deployment of central forces in the run-up to the elections. The ruling TMC quashed the claim and said the saffron party would keep looking for such excuses as it would need them to justify its electoral reverses later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||MHA asks Bengal to relieve IPS officers, Mamata hits back||The Centre on Thursday asked the Bengal government to immediately relieve the three IPS officers who have been transferred to the central deputation, officials said. It said that all of them had been given new assignments, added the officials. In a communication to the chief secretary of Bengal, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that as per the cadre rules of IPS, the Centre’s decision carries more weight than that of the state in case of a dispute. The MHA added that the three IPS officers in question were already tasked with new assignments and they should be released immediately. Bholanath Pandey has been appointed as SP in the Bureau of Police Research and Development, Praveen Tripathi as DIG in the Sashastra Seema Bal and Rajeev Mishra as IG in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the official said. The Bengal director general of police has also received a copy of the communication. Lashing out at the Centre over the decision, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she would not bow down before ‘expansionist’ and ‘undemocratic’ forces. In a series of tweets, Mamata said that it was a deliberate attempt by the Centre to encroach upon the state's jurisdiction and demoralise the serving officers in West Bengal. “This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's unconstitutional and completely unacceptable,” she said. “GoI's (Government of India) order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State's objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954," Mamata tweeted. “We wouldn't allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces,” the chief minister tweeted. The Home Ministry directed the three IPS officers to join in central deputation for their alleged dereliction of duties following the attack on the convoy of BJP president JP Nadda last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari resigns from TMC, others follow suit||Just a day after quitting as a member of Bengla’s Legislative Assembly, rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the primary membership of the Trinamul Congress, sources said. According to them, the senior leader wrote to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee apprising her of his decision to resign from the party's primary membership. “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect,” Adhikari wrote. Ending his two-decade-old association with the party, the former TMC heavyweight thanked Mamata for the opportunities given to him, and said would he would always value the time he spent as its member. Adhikari on Wednesday had stepped down from his role at the Bengal Legislative Assembly, a month after he quit as a state minister. The 50-year-old, an MLA of Nandigram constituency in Purba Medinipur district, is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state or earlier. He had submitted his resignation letter as an MLA to the Assembly secretary, party sources said. Adhikari is also scheduled to go to Delhi and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi this week, sources said. “In Delhi, he (Adhikari) is likely to meet Modiji and Amitji, besides some others in the topmost tier of the BJP leadership. He might join the BJP in Delhi on Friday itself. Or, he might return with Amitji and join in the mega rally of the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday,” a source said on Tuesday, hours after the leader addressed yet another “apolitical” event at Haldia. Hinting that a rebellion was brewing in the ruling party ahead of the assembly polls, Adhikari had on Wednesday night held a closed-door meeting with its disgruntled leaders, including Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari and senior MP Sunil Mandal, in Paschim Bardhaman district. Tiwari, an MLA from Pandebeshwar constituency who recently slammed the state government for allegedly depriving the industrial town of central funds for "political reasons", resigned as the chairman of the Board of Administrators, Asansol Municipal Corporation, on Thursday afternoon. Senior TMC leader Diptangshu Choudhary, who, too, was present at the meeting, has also tendered his resignation from the post of South Bengal State Transport Corporation chairman. “The BJP is such a party that it lacks even the basic ethics and etiquette,” Mamata told a public meeting in Cooch Behar on Wednesday. “It is surprising that they have called up even some of our senior leaders like (state president) Subrata Bakshi and (Birbhum chief) Anubrata Mondal. Leaders from Delhi had called them and had sought meetings with them. Both have declined…. This exposes the BJP’s desperation to engineer defections,” she added. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in more than 70 Assembly seats. The BJP feels Adhikari can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Tiger census through camera trapping method begins in Sundarbans||The tiger census through camera trapping method has started in West Bengal’s Sundarbans, which, according to the last estimate, was home to 96 big cats, an official said. The process of camera installation in the Sundarbans, one of the largest mangrove forests in the world, has been completed in the first phase, and the movement of big cats will be monitored for a month, he said. "We have already installed many cameras. The forest department will also put 272 more in January. Overall 1,164 cameras will be installed at 582 locations this time," Sundarbans Tiger Reserve field director Tapas Das said. Altogether 10 teams comprising 120 forest personnel are taking part in the exercise, he said on Wednesday. According to the last census, the tiger population in the Sundarbans reserve forest had increased to 96 from the previous estimate of 88. Of the 4,200 sq km area in the Sundarbans, 3,700 sq km is the habitat of big cats. Tiger estimation in the mangrove forest had traditionally been done by the pugmark method, the forest official said, adding that the last counting exercise was primarily based on camera trapping technique. The pugmark method was field-friendly, but due to some drawbacks, the Project Tiger authorities developed a new methodology for monitoring of tigers, co-predators, prey and habitat. The camera trapping technique is more reliable than the traditional method of counting pugmarks, another forest department official said. According to All India Tiger Estimation Report 2018, the country has emerged as one of the biggest and safest habitats for big cats in the world. The last four-yearly tiger census report said the population of the big cat in the country had grown from 1,411 in 2006 to 2,967 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Govt to vacate some private Covid beds as cases decline||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to release some of the beds at private hospitals requisitioned for treatment of Covid-19 patients as the number of active cases have steadily declined in Bengal over the past one month or so, said a senior state government official. “Now the total numbers of active cases are coming down gradually and rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are also going down. Under these present circumstances, it has been decided that these beds of private hospitals requisitioned by government may be released in phases,” reads an order issued by the director of health services. According to sources, in the first phase, the state government is set to release 748 beds in total out of 1,448 beds requisitioned at 13 hospitals spread across eight districts. These beds include critical care beds, high dependency beds and general beds. Although the state government decided to reduce Covid beds in rural districts, it is still cautious about the beds in Calcutta as the city is still reporting highest number of daily cases in the state. That is why the state government decided to release only 100 general beds at KPC Medical College and Hospital and retain 710 beds at private hospitals. “The number of active cases has comedown to 20,000-odd these days from 38,000-odd in the last week of October. The state decided to release some beds as the private hospitals can admit non-Covid patients to the beds to be released by the government,” said an official. The state government has made it clear that these beds could be requisitioned again if situation demands by issuing a three-day’s notice. According to senior government officials, the decision would release some of the pressure on the state exchequer. “So, far, the state has spent more than Rs 10 crore to requisition beds at private hospitals. If some of the beds could be released, the pressure on the struggling exchequer would be eased,” said a source. The state government has also decided to close down some of the safe homes, which were set up at private establishments, because of lack of patients. “Nowadays, over 90 per cent patients are either asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. Such patients are preferring home isolation. So, most of the beds at the safe homes are lying unused,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||AIIMS Kalyani set for January start||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Kalyani is all set to become functional in January new year, when it will launch an OPD with at least eight departments with preparations to offer services to a limited number of patients. Alongside, efforts are also made to launch the in-patient service on a small scale in four departments which are projected to be operative in full capacity only by September next year. AIIMS Kalyani’s executive director Ramji Singh told The Telegraph on Tuesday that out-patients would be offered service in general medicine, paediatrics, surgery, obstetrics-gynaecology, ophthalmology, ENT, dermatology and psychiatry “for the time being”. However, owing to limited faculty strength, only a restricted number of outpatients will be registered every day until the full-fledged outpatient department (OPD) is formally inaugurated in April next year following all central directives. AIIMS Kalyani will offer medical services in at least 40 departments, of which OPD services will be offered in at least 17 until they become completely operational in conjunction with super specialty services. “The OPD is now our top priority. Apart from launching patient services, we need this to be operative since it will help students get exposure to clinical education,” Singh said. Sources at the AIIMS said preparations for launching the OPD had been hindered during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. It is being further delayed reportedly owing to non-arrival of equipment and furniture as shipments sent by Centre’s supervising organisation, HSCC Limited, had been stranded by road blockades by farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. “We are hopeful that the equipment and furniture will arrive soon so that we can complete the set-up to begin the OPD service”, Ramji Singh said. Singh also confirmed efforts to launch the IPD service. “The process of launching the IPD will begin once the OPD is operational. Our effort is to launch limited inpatient services as early as possible, preferably before April. We have a target to begin the full fledged in-patient service by September next year,” Singh said, adding that the number of beds was yet to be ascertained so far. “Our plan is to have complete infrastructure, even for limited IPD, so that patients can be provided with all the required emergency support and never be put at risk,” he added. A process of recruitment of faculty has bee commenced at the new hospital. In the first phase, 19 faculty members had been appointed, whereas later 25 new faculties were selected and 11 of them joined. Meanwhile, a fresh recruitment drive has also been initiated. Last month, the first batch of 50 MBBS students was graduated. With the shifting of academic activities to its own campus in Basantapur, AIIMS authorities increased the seat capacity to 125 for the second batch, of which 107 students have already been admitted. Classes will begin in January, an official said. The construction of the AIIMS Kalyani had begun in 2016 on 179.82 acres of land allotted by the Bengal Government at Basantapur, which is located on the outskirts of Kalyani town, 45 km away from Calcutta and connected by NH12. Two companies were assigned to construct the campus in two phases. In the first phase, the OPD and residential buildings were constructed. The second phase work is going on and is set to meet the targeted inauguration of the entire project in September 2021. Officials of the Union health ministry and the AIIMS’ governing body are at present working in coordination with the Bengal government so that infrastructure outside the premises — like a four-lane road, bus bay and a police station — is ready in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Foresters kill leopard in self-defence||A leopard that entered the campus of Rangapani cancer hospital near here on Wednesday evening was shot dead when the animal attacked forest department employees who arrived for its tranquillisation. The big cat was believed to have strayed out of the Bagdogra forest. The animal also injured an elderly man on the hospital premises, after which a team of foresters arrived and fired a dart at it. The foresters thought the leopard became unconscious and started arrangements to net and take the animal away. However, the big cat awoke and mauled five foresters, including range officer Sanjay Dutta. They opened fire in self-defence and the leopard died on the spot. The foresters’ injuries were not serious. The carcass of the leopard was taken for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||2,293 Covid cases and 46 deaths in single day in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 2,767 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,293 infections and 46 deaths as the state’s total of active cases fell to 20,143 and the rate of cured patients rose to 94.45 per cent. The total of active cases has fallen for 51 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by nearly 46 per cent in this period. The state is now on the verge of ending the year with less than 20,000 active cases, far better than its earlier goal of sub-23,000. “This has been an exceptional period of turnaround, for nearly two months now. We are also very close to achieving our other goal of ending the year with the recovery rate of over 95,” said a minister. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 55 consecutive days, went up in the period by over seven per cent. The national rate now is 95.24 per cent. In the 51 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.88 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.74 lakh cases found during the same period. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The daily numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has close to 5.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 4.99 lakh recoveries and 9,191 deaths. With the examination of 42,256 swab samples being reported on Wednesday, the state’s total test count rose to 65.38 lakh. The tests per million people are 72,655 now. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.08 now, having improved fairly steadily from 8.27 November 20. The 46 deaths reported on Wednesday included 17 from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,714 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to 1.45 per cent at the national level. Bengal reported 19.49 per cent occupancy on 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.33 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari resigns as Trinamul MLA||On a day Suvendu Adhikari resigned as Trinamul MLA, Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP of trying to lure senior party leaders like Subrata Bakshi and Anubrata Mondal. “The BJP is such a party that it lacks even the basic ethics and etiquette,” the chief minister told a public meeting in Cooch Behar on Wednesday. “It is surprising that they have called up even some of our senior leaders like (state president) Subrata Bakshi and (Birbhum chief) Anubrata Mondal. Leaders from Delhi had called them and had sought meetings with them. Both have declined…. This exposes the BJP’s desperation to engineer defections,” Mamata added. Defections when elections are round the corner are neither new nor unusual in India. Of late, the BJP has switched focus to “persuading” rival legislators elsewhere in the country to dump their parties, topple Opposition governments and field them afresh. Over the past few years, the BJP has managed to gain control of several states despite losing the Assembly elections there, such as Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, besides attempting it in Rajasthan, in what is informally called Operation Kamal. “Now, it seems Bengal is the new market and the BJP is out there with a big shopping bag,” said a political observer. On Wednesday, former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari resigned as the Nandigram MLA. He then headed for the home of Trinamul’s Burdwan East MP, Sunil Kumar Mondal, in Panagarh where he met several loyalists, including Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari and Diptangshu Chowdhury. The meeting at Mondal’s home was seen as a precursor to several Trinamul leaders, including lawmakers, joining the BJP over the next few days. Adhikari sought to take anticipatory protection by sending a letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, seeking his intervention against possible persecution born out of political vendetta. “A large number of politicians planning to switch to a different party, going into a huddle, then involving the governor’s office... we have seen such developments frequently in other states. Now, it seems that resort politics has come to Bengal,” said a bureaucrat. With over 34 years of Left rule and decades of Left-oriented movements before that, Bengal had been immune to this trend for decades as ideological battles had been at the centre of the political discourse in the state. Left leaders like Sujan Chakraborty and Congress state president Adhir Chowdhury have been accusing Mamata of having imported the politics of defection in Bengal. “In the end, a snake charmer dies of snakebite. This was always going to be the case, sooner or later, for her (Mamata). Poetic justice,” said Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. Several Congress and Left legislators had joined Trinamul since 2011 -– more so since 2016. Trinamul had itself broken away from the Congress. Although none of the three parties would acknowledge it, there is an element of ideological compatibility among Trinamul, Congress and the Left -– which is not the case with the BJP, making it obvious that something more than political belief is acting as a catalyst for the realignment of loyalties. “There is no ideology involved in this. This is nothing but bargaining for posts,” Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said. Adhikari was an MLA from Nandigram, where a significant percentage of voters are Muslim. In his speeches since the Nandigram movement days, he had always spoken about his commitment to protecting the minorities. “He and the other leaders preparing to leave Trinamul will have to recalibrate in a big way if they are to join the BJP and fit in,” said an observer. Predictably, there is despondency in Trinamul amid the fear of large-scale defections and its likely impact on the polls, although senior leaders stated on record that they were not worried. Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee, who along with Adhikari is part of Trinamul’s seven-member apex steering committee, said it was “good riddance”. “He is over-ambitious and over-confident. He wants to be the chief minister…. We will win with or without him, because our leader is Mamata Banerjee,” said the MP. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in more than 70 Assembly seats. The BJP feels Adhikari can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers march to Raj Bhavan protesting farm laws||Around 40,000 people, mostly farmers, marched to the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on Wednesday afternoon to demand the repeal of three new farm laws by the Centre. The march was held under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a Left-backed farmer’s organisation. The rally, the organisers said, proved that the farmers’ protest was not confined to the states of Punjab and Haryana. “Today’s protest was the biggest farmers’ rally that we had organised in Bengal till now. The turnout of people from far-flung districts indicates that farmers in Bengal are worried about their future,” said Amal Halder, the state convenor of the committee. Hannan Mollah, the general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said: “At the meeting in Calcutta, farmers came from Panskura in Midnapore to Uluberia in Howrah and Gaighata in Bongaon, which proves that the protests are getting a pan-India shape,” he added. The turnout, several organisers said, was very significant as some experts had said the new laws would not affect the lives of farmers in Bengal because the structure of agri-business in the state was different from that in northern states. “But we’ve managed to convince the farmers that these bills will leave their future uncertain,” a leader said. Sukumar Manik, 42, a farmer from Panskura in East Midnapore, was in the march. Manik is a small farmer and owns around 8 acres of land. He says he currently sells his produce to the middlemen. However, he is afraid if corporate houses invest in agri-business the situation would be worse. “The big investors might give us more money than the middlemen. But the amendment in the essential commodities act allows them to hoard as much as they want. This means that they will sell my crops at a price ten times more than what I got,” Manik said. Echoing Manik’s concerns, Shashanka Mondal, 55, from Gaighata in North 24-Parganas said the new laws would leave small farmers with no work. “Why will big corporates buy crops from small farmers like me? They will need huge quantities and hence will do business with big farmers. What will we eat?” Mondal, who owns around four acres, said. A delegation on behalf of the AIKSCC went to meet the governor with a memorandum. However, since he was not in Calcutta, the letter was submitted to his office. Mollah told The Telegraph that the AIKSCC would observe December 20 as Shaheed Diwas or Martyr’s Day across the country, in memory of 30 farmers who had lost their lives during this movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata renews pledge against citizen matrix||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee repeated her pledge against the Narendra Modi government’s citizenship matrix on Wednesday to revive her support base in Cooch Behar — the district that shares border with Assam where the National Register of Citizens (NRC) had been published last year. “We will never allow the BJP to implement the NRC, CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) or the NPR (National Population Register) in Bengal. The BJP is playing divisive politics by using these tools and we will not let it happen,” Mamata told a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground here. After the publication of the NRC in Assam, its repercussions were felt in districts like Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. Hundreds of families living in these districts had expressed concern over the future of their family members who stay in Assam and could not make it to the NRC. A senior leader here pointed out that there were hundreds of women from north Bengal districts, particularly Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, who got married in Assam. Also, there are others who have roots in these districts but stay in Assam. “Many of them could not find their names in the NRC and discontentment was brewing in their families. Mamata will try to use the issue to her advantage,” he said. Mamata and state leaders of Trinamul, sources said, also passed two directives to their colleagues in Cooch Behar. First, they have been asked to work together as infighting is one of the key issues in Cooch Behar that the state leadership found tough to handle. A section of party leaders feels presence of multiple lobbies in the party was one of the reasons for the BJP’s emergence as a force in the district. Second, the district leaders have been asked to be on alert to BJP functionaries from Assam who would be deputed in north bengal. At the meeting, Mamata also tried to woo Rajbanshi voters by bringing Bangshibadan Burman to the dais. Burman, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association —  that is believed to have clout in the community — also holds posts in the development & cultural board and the language academy of Rajbanshis which were constituted by the state government. “We will support Trinamul in the Assembly elections next year. Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for us and north Bengal as a whole,” the Rajbanshi leader said in his speech. The chief minister also spoke about Nasya Sheikh— a Muslim community of the region. For the past few months, they have been demanding a development body. “If we can form so many development boards….. we can also look into this demand,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu submits letter to quit as MLA||Nandigram legislator Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday submitted his resignation as MLA in further indication of his switch from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP along with loyalists months before Assembly polls. However, the resignation letter was not handwritten by Adhikari in the presence of the Speaker and handed over directly, as mandated by rules. Adhikari is likely to visit Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah this week. The rebellious leader suddenly showed up at the Assembly building around 4pm, three hours after Speaker Biman Banerjee had left. The former minister delivered the handwritten resignation letter to officials and left. Speaker Banerjee later said he would look into the matter and act according to the rules, as the letter had neither been handwritten in his presence nor handed to him directly. “I do hereby tender my resignation from the member (sic) of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” wrote Adhikari, who turned 50 on Tuesday. Almost immediately after, he left the city to attend a meeting of several loyalists at Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal’s residence in Burdwan. Sources close to him have said he might leave for Delhi on Thursday and meet Modi, Shah and others in the top tier of the BJP leadership. It remains undecided whether Adhikari would join the BJP in Delhi or Bengal. “One thing is fairly certain, that Dada (Suvendu) would return along with Amit Shah and attend the mega rally in Midnapore on Saturday,” said a source. He also said Adhikari was likely to resign from Trinamul’s primary membership as well as he was still a general-secretary of the party and part of its seven-member apex steering committee. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, who acted as an emissary for weeks trying to retain Adhikari, said the former minister had “betrayed” the party. “He has managed an understanding with the BJP. What deal the BJP has offered him, what bargains have taken place between them, I cannot say,” said Dum Dum MP Roy. “If somebody is unable to be happy even with three key portfolios in the cabinet, if somebody is unhappy with nothing less than deputy chief minister, or the chief ministerial berth itself, then there is nothing to discuss. There is no ideology involved in this. This is nothing but bargaining for posts. The BJP must have assured him of a post he wants. Let him see what the BJP actually gives him,” he added. “Our party will continue to function the way it has.” Hailing the resignation, Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy — now a national vice-president of the BJP — said he would welcome him. “This is a big step in the history of Bengal’s mass movements,” said Roy, once known for testy ties with Adhikari while both were in Trinamul. However, Roy, too, left primarily because he couldn’t accept Mamata’s nephew being elevated while he was the de facto Number Two. While the Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in over 70 Assembly seats. The BJP believes he can decisively influence the outcome in 40-odd seats. Mamata, according to sources close to her, does not think that number is over 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Owaisi says Mamata allegations are baseless||Asaduddin Owaisi, the chief of Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), said none could buy him with money and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegations were baseless. Mamata had told a public meeting in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday: “The BJP is now bringing in a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes….. You know what happened in Bihar. This party has assembled some people here as well...The party is on BJP’s payroll. Be alert,” Mamata said. The AIMIM leader, who was in Lucknow on Wednesday, said: “No man is born who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money. Her allegations are baseless. She is restless and should be concerned about her own home. So many people from her party are going to the BJP.” The AIMIM chief also accused Mamata of “insulting” voters in Bihar. “So far you’ve only dealt with obedient Mir Jaffers and Sadiqs. You don’t like Muslims who think & speak for themselves. You’ve insulted our voters in Bihar. Remember what happened to parties in Bihar that kept blaming their failures on “vote cutters.” Muslim voters aren’t your jagir,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill leaders in Calcutta and Delhi for talks||Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, was in Calcutta, while leaders of four different hill parties were in Delhi on Wednesday to meet BJP leaders. It is safe to assume that no local political leader worth his salt is in the Darjeeling hills now. This is a clear indication that regional politics is being shaped by state and central politics, said an observer. Anit Thapa of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp is in Calcutta for an “administrative meeting” when all current discussion in Darjeeling is politics. The Tamang camp has been with the Trinamul Congress since 2017. Tamang’s bete noire Bimal Gurung who was earlier aligned with the BJP now backs Trinamul. As of today, factually, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung are with Trinamul. When Trinamul Lok Sabha candidate Amar Singh Rai lost the election in Darjeeling a year ago, the Gurung camp was with the BJP. BJP candidate Raju Bista had won the election. On Wednesday, the Tamang camp said Thapa was in Calcutta for an important meeting for administrative reasons. Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who won Darjeeling Assembly byelection on the BJP ticket by defeating Binay Tamang a year ago, told The Telegraph from Delhi: “We will be meeting the Union home minister, Amit Shah, tomorrow (Thursday).” According to Zimba, R.B. Rai, the president of the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), Akhil Bhartiya Gorkha League (ABGL) chief Pratap Khati and some other hill-based political leaders would also meet Shah. Apolitical organisations, which, too, had supported Raju Bista, however, have not yet been invited, as informed by Zimba. Observers believe hill politics is in a state of flux. “The political situation in the hills seems to be aligned between two power centres, Trinamul and the BJP, but the common feeling in the hills is that nothing has been politically concretised,” said an political observer. “Three months later, when the code of conduct will be in place during the Assembly elections, hill politics would be crystallised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-273
17-12-2020||North East||BJP in Assam eyes Assembly polls after BTC ||The ruling BJP in Assam almost turned the swearing-in ceremony of the new Bodoland Territorial Council members in Kokrajhar on Tuesday into a campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. The ruling party, which emerged as the kingmaker in the recent BTC polls by ending Bodoland People’s Front’s 17-year reign, still seemed to be in poll mode, which was evident from the speeches of cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Apart from urging the people to support the newly appointed BTC chief Pramod Boro, the two leaders slipped in what the state government intended to do in the next few months for the welfare of the people living in the council area. Assam goes to polls in April-May and the BTC has 12 Assembly seats. There are about 10 seats where Bodo voters play a significant role. The 12 seats in the BTC have been held by the BPF and will be crucial in a tight election, sources said. The announcement by Sarma that the state government has decided to set up 40 new colleges and 40 new stadiums in the BTC’s 40 constituencies, one model college each in Udalguri, Tamulpur and Chirang, a new medical college in Tamulpur, a campus of the Bodoland University in Udalguri and the commissioning of the Kokrajhar Medical College by 2022, left none in doubt that the BJP-led government was trying to extend its reach in the council. Sarma also said that the government will release Rs 750 crore of the Rs 1,500 crore promised by the Centre in the new Bodo accord signed in January for the development of the BTC under Boro. “We have also decided to properly rehabilitate all NDFB cadres. We have earmarked a rehabilitation package of Rs 60 crore,” Sarma said. He said most of the decisions were taken before the swearing-in ceremony. Sonowal, who spoke after Sarma, endorsed his cabinet colleague’s announcement, adding that Adivasi rebels who have joined the mainstream by abjuring violence will also be respectfully rehabilitated. Sonowal in his address also thanked the BJP workers and leaders of the four districts that make up the BTC for their efforts in the good showing by the party and asked them to continue in a similar vein and be the bridge between the people and the new council. He urged for peaceful existence of all communities. Both leaders said the new council will work for all sections of the population and the rights of all will be protected. During the campaign, the BJP had promised equal rights to all communities. Buying and selling of land by non-Bodo and non-tribal communities under the BTC headed by Hagrama Mohilary was a huge issue which the BJP had highlighted in all its rallies. Ashok Basumatary from Udalguri, where the BJP has done well, said the party was clearly trying to deepen its connect before the Assembly polls. “After the BTC polls and its encouraging showing, the BJP is now clearly eyeing the Assembly polls. Hence, the slew of development projects,” he said. The arrival of BJP’s Assam minder Baijayant Panda here on Wednesday also made it evident that the party has started preparation for the Assembly polls. Panda took part in several events, exhorting party workers to work 24x7 to achieve the BJP’s 100-seat target in Assam which has 126 seats. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah will be also visiting Assam on December 26, barring last-minute changes, to take stock of the BJP’s preparations for the Assembly polls, besides attending government functions. The seat-sharing with ally AGP will figure in the discussions. The BJP is laying a lot of emphasis on winning Bengal and retaining Assam in next year’s polls, they said. Five newly elected BTC members were sworn in on Tuesday. They are Boro as chief executive member, Gobinda Chandra Basumatary, a former militant leader, as the deputy CEM, and the BJP’s Gautam Das and Diganta Baruah and the GSP’s Ghanashyam Das as executive members. The oath of office was administered by chief secretary Jishnu Baruah. Boro promised a responsive, fair and transparent administration and to work as a team to serve all sections of people in the BTC and to transform it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
17-12-2020||North East||Jamiat Ulama to contest Assam's decision to convert madrasas||The Assam State Jamiat Ulama has decided to legally challenge Dispur’s decision to convert all government-run madrasas into regular schools from the 2021-22 academic session. The state Jamiat decision was taken at a four-hour meeting held at the Garigaon madrasa here on Tuesday following Monday’s announcement by education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma that the word “madrasa” will be removed from government-run madrasas along with theological courses from April 1, 2021. In effect, there will be no high madrasa exam from 2022. High madrasas are equivalent to high schools (Classes IX and X) and are under the Board of Secondary Education, Assam. The state government will table a bill to this effect during the winter session of the Assembly from December 28. Hafiz Bashir Ahmed Qasimi, general secretary of the state Jamiat, told The Telegraph that they will challenge the government’s decision if it brings in an ordinance or a new act. “At the same time we will also request the government to modernise madrasa education instead of shutting them down,” Qasimi said. The Assam unit of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind is an influential organisation of scholars playing a key role in the social and political life of the Muslims as well as the country. On the contention of the minister that the government wants education to be secular, Qasimi said the Quran is not only about religion. “It is high standard literature. The madrasa syllabus can be modernised,” he said. As part of the government decision, the State Madrassa Education Board, Assam, which looks after pre-senior madrasas, senior madrasas, Arabic colleges and title madrasas, will be also dissolved after declaration of results of the examinations conducted in 2021-22. The state government has, however, made it clear that its decision will have no impact on private madrasas which can carry on with their activities. A Jamiat delegation on Wednesday met chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and submitted a memorandum seeking a probe into allegations made against the Ajmal Trust about receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror groups. “...If the Ajmal Foundation is indulging in any irregularities we invite you to install an inquiry to find the real truth... Such baseless allegations and fabricated allegations should not be allowed to spread, polluting the welfare activities being carried out by the Ajmal Foundation...,” the memorandum said. It urged Sonowal, also the home minister, to stop “such propaganda and reactionary activities” that are creating a bitter atmosphere in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
17-12-2020||Opinion||All the same: madrasa, Sanskrit tols||The multiple connotations of the word ‘secularism’ sometimes contradict one another — in effect even if not semantically. The Assam government has decided to repeal the laws regarding state-run madrasas and Sanskrit tols and turn madrasas into regular high schools. Theological subjects will be withdrawn; only Arabic will continue to be taught as a language. Tols, however, will pass to the Kumar Bhaskar Varma Sanskrit and Ancient Studies University as research centres for Indian civilization, culture and nationalism. The reason announced for the decision is secularism. The Assam government cannot be faulted: in the S.R. Bommai versus Union of India case of 1994, the Supreme Court had pronounced that state-owned educational institutions were prohibited from imparting religious instruction. But it has to be asked why there were state laws permitting madrasas under the government’s auspices that must be repealed now. Were they constitutional? Or does the definition of secularism chosen by Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government now wish to ignore Articles 28, 29 and 30 of the Constitution that permit — however confusingly — government aid for minority education? Since privately-run madrasas have so far escaped the state government’s passion for its favoured secularism, it may be a stretch to criticize its decision as communally biased. What cannot be denied is differential treatment. Even if it is possible to overlook the assumption that tols impart religious education — the BJP may be unaware of Sanskrit literature, aesthetics and philosophy — it seems strange that they should graduate into centres for Indian civilizational studies. Assam promises to be the first to have degrees on this subject. Sceptics may see in the government’s desire to appear even-handed a deeper purpose: propagating one-sided views of Indian culture and nationalism. The education minister clarified there would be no history. Naturally: history would overturn BJP-directed ideas of civilization. In the S.R. Bommai case, the Supreme Court had also said that politics and religion cannot be mixed. More pointedly, it said that when the Constitution requires the State to be secular in thought and action, it applies to political parties as well. Indian secularism is far from simple. That is indicated by the constitutional provisions for the education of religious and linguistic minorities. But it is no surprise that a BJP-led government would decide to be secular in its chosen way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Different wheels: Calcutta cyclists ask to be permitted on roads again||Sir — In a much-needed step, organizations of cyclists and cycling enthusiasts recently wrote to the police commissioner of Calcutta, requesting permission to allow bicycles to ply all roads in the city. Earlier this month, Calcutta police had launched a drive to prevent cyclists from moving in thoroughfares. While law enforcement is right to fear an increase in road accidents if cycles are allowed on all roads, many people post-Covid have opted out of public transportation altogether and solely rely on cycles to get to work. Transport policies should be updated to reflect the needs of the people. Arun Chatterjee,Calcutta Wrong move Sir — It is quite unfortunate that the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is hoping to make inroads into Bengal in the upcoming assembly elections, is woefully clueless about the history of the state and its icons (“Alien address”, Dec 11). The official Twitter handle of the state unit of the BJP had recently announced, quite erroneously, that Visva-Bharati and not Jorasanko was the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore. Although the tweet was later removed, this faux pas is unforgivable. The ruling Trinamul Congress has rightly asserted that the BJP is ignorant of the rich cultural heritage of Bengal. No matter how much the BJP continues to allude to luminaries like Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore or Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar in its election speeches, the saffron party’s understanding of the history of the state is shallow at best. The BJP’s linkages with the Bharatiya Jana Sangh may enable it to invoke the legacy of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, but the fact remains that Bengal’s political trajectory has long been progressive rather than ideologically conservative. Citing incorrect facts about revered Bengalis will not yield political dividends either. Regrettably, several TMC leaders, too, have failed to carry forth the political and cultural lineage of Bengal with the dignity it demands. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — As the BJP continues to attempt to invoke the legacy of Rabindranath Tagore to endear itself to the Bengali voter, I am reminded of the quote by Kabiguru where he says, “Patriotism can’t be our final spiritual shelter... I will never allow patriotism to triumph over humanity as long as I live”. The BJP has time and again failed to prioritize humanity over patriotic fervour. It is thus surprising that the saffron party would venerate a figure whose ideals stood in complete opposition to those of the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The BJP’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of statehood, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens or the arbitrary arrest of civil rights activists would have all been staunchly criticized by Tagore. Unlike the BJP, Tagore’s idea of nationalism was rooted in brotherhood and secularism. It is of utmost importance that the BJP understands the principles and ideals that Tagore stood for before paying homage to the great man. Whether it was the party president, J.P. Nadda, who had mistakenly referred to Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace or if it was a slip on the part of the IT cell is ultimately irrelevant. Such mistakes only go on to further strengthen the Opposition’s assertion that the BJP lacks a cultural and political understanding of Bengal. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Ever since the BJP won 18 seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general elections, it has become evident that the party intends to win the next assembly elections. However, in spite of its ambitions, the party remains unable to grasp the political pulse of Bengal. It must understand that the TMC was able to dethrone the Left owing to a combination of appropriate timing and charismatic leadership. Mamata Banerjee, no matter her shortcomings, is one of the tallest mass leaders to emerge from Bengal. The BJP does not have a figure who can match the chief minister’s popularity. The BJS might have been founded by a Bengali, but that is too flimsy a pretext on which to entice voters in the state. The BJP might succeed in increasing its vote share in the 2021 assembly elections, but it will take much more to truly replace the TMC as the ruling party in Bengal. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — As the campaigning for the 2021 assembly polls heats up, it has become abundantly clear that the BJP is trying to draw the people of Bengal into the larger Hindutva fold. While progressives would like to think that Bengal, which can boast of a long leftist legacy and has been home to secular-humanist icons like Rabindranath Tagore and Lalon Fakir, would be able to ward off the onslaught of rabid Hinduism, it is far from the truth. The growing popularity of the BJP amongst Bengalis indicates that unless the TMC, the Congress and the Left parties come together, the BJP might just win the assembly elections. Abhirup Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Hungry India: layered and complex||A step backward can reverse years of progress. Such a threat looms large over India’s efforts to tackle malnutrition. Data from the latest National Family Health Survey reveal that in the last four years the share of stunted, wasted and underweight children in India has increased in the majority of the states and Union territories that were surveyed. Even states like Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, which had made progress earlier, have registered a stark rise in stunting. Interestingly, some of these states have also experienced an increase in obesity among children under the age of five. This apparent contradiction seems to highlight a deeper problem — accessibility to and affordability and awareness of nutrition remain uneven across socio-economic constituencies. This has resulted in a dual burden: India has the highest number of obese children in the world after China; a recent national survey also found a drastic reduction in the intake of food among such marginalized communities as Dalits, tribal people and backward classes on account of diminished household income during the lockdown. Laws alone cannot resolve this crisis. Stunting and wasting are on the rise in spite of the existence of the National Food Security Act and a public distribution system that has a wide reach. Policy interventions are wanting; this perhaps explains the regression. The PDS infrastructure remains porous, mired in irregularities like leakages, corruption and the diversion of subsidized foodgrains for profiteering. There is also the problem of exclusion. A number of needy citizens, particularly from the underprivileged sections, are yet to be enrolled as beneficiaries. The lack of access to digital technology — Aadhaar linkage is mandatory for procuring foodgrains from PDS — has aggravated their plight in other ways. For instance, even though rations were doubled under the NFSA during the pandemic, economists estimate that around 100 million names have not been updated in the NFSA lists. What makes the phenomenon of hunger complex is its layered nature. Starvation or malnutrition is not caused by undernourishment alone. There is convergence with interlinked, but less conspicuous, issues such as maternal nutrition; education — research shows that educated mothers bring up healthier children; hygiene; regularized, locally sourced mid-day meals; food wastage. Governments must make the provision of foodgrains equitable for all citizens. But this will not be enough. Policy must mull the need for piecemeal measures and targeted, community-based interventions in order to tackle this growing problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||Doomsday is creeping||Most people alive today are unlikely to have experienced a single year resembling 2020, both for the rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the response to it worldwide. On the last day of last year, Chinese health officials informed the WHO about a cluster of 41 patients with a mysterious pneumonia and on December 8 this year, a 90-year-old grandmother in the United Kingdom was the first person in the world to be vaccinated against the virus. In the interim, worldwide, about a million and a half succumbed to the new virus. The current global death toll stands at about 1.6 million; about the same number of deaths are attributed to the combined effects of ambient (outdoor) and household air pollution in India annually. Air pollution causes about seven million premature deaths every year. We may or may not witness such alacrity ever again to deal with a pandemic but we now know that it is possible. A fraction of this zeal and speed directed at halting biodiversity loss since the Convention on Biological Diversity entered into force in 1993 may have changed the course of the year, 2020. At the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, the CBD was opened for signature in recognition of the fact that biological diversity was being lost at an unprecedented rate. The rate of loss of species has accelerated since then; the global rate of species extinction is already at least tens to hundreds of times higher than it has averaged over the past 10 million years. Loss of biodiversity tends to increase pathogen transmission and disease incidence. Most epidemics do not just happen; they are a result of what we do to nature. In the case of pathogens, if loss of diversity causes an increase in density of competent hosts, it will very likely increase transmission. There are at least a dozen examples of pathogens for which species loss leads to increase in total transmission. Pathogens that establish in new species do so through multiple steps, including the initial invasion into a new host known as ‘spillover’, the production of transmission stages within the new host and, finally, the establishment of the pathogen in the host population as a whole. Once spillover of the pathogen into a new host has occurred, high densities of that host species facilitate pathogen establishment and transmission within the new host. Disaster that was in the making over these stages has now manifested. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs defines slow-onset disaster “as one that does not emerge from a single, distinct event but one that emerges gradually over time, often based on a confluence of different events.” The pandemic, premature deaths due to air pollution and the impacts of climate change would all qualify as slow-onset disasters. However, a disaster is commonly understood as a situation where severe disruption occurs at scale, over a short or long period of time, causing widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own resources. It is therefore not difficult to see why we are so ill equipped to deal with slow-onset hazards and disasters despite the knowledge that these affect more people on aggregate than sudden-onset disasters do. It has to do with the way disaster is conceptualized and defined, besides lack of political attention. In India, the Disaster Management Act, 2005 defines disaster as “a catastrophe, mishap, calamity or grave occurrence in any area, arising from natural or manmade causes, or by accident or negligence which results in substantial loss of life or human suffering or damage to, and destruction of, property, or damage to, or degradation of, environment, and is of such a nature or magnitude as to be beyond the coping capacity of the community of the affected area.” Notice that ‘occurrence’ is the operative word and the terms used are characteristic of sudden-onset disasters. Under such a framing, how can response precede the sudden-onset event with grave consequences? Moreover, the specialized agencies dealing with disasters operate in a ‘fire-fighting’ mode that requires bursts of energy and action over short periods of time after which ‘everybody goes home’, but slow-onset hazards require attention over longer time frames and there is no ‘going home.’ It is also politically problematic to assign the same attention to slow-onset hazards and disasters as the sudden-onset ones since constituents do not see the creeping hazards and their impacts. It is, therefore, important that constituents make themselves aware of the creeping hazards and demand appropriate legislative and policy action. Only then will disasters be re-conceptualized and the emphasis shift from response to preparedness; but then politicians will lose their mojo of being rescuers of a hapless populace. The recent election-time promise of providing free Covid-19 vaccine is but one such instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
17-12-2020||Opinion||A new harvest||The farmers strike of 2020 as an event was a collage of multiple narratives. It tempted one to compare it to the story of the seven blind men and the elephant. As reportage, it lacked the solidity of traditional narratives. It was as if every reporter and news broadcaster, every witness, had a different reaction to the events of the week. There was consensus on only one thing. The protest this time made people nostalgic about the earlier, more legendary, protest of Mahendra Singh Tikait. That protest had an old-fashioned solidity to it. The contrast was visualized in the old portraits of leaders sitting with hookahs. They had delivered and the protest, as one observer put it, was the difference between the stolidity of the hookah and the anarchy of the cell phone. One protest created a classic linear narrative; the other almost projected a burst of distractions capturing every stereotype available. As the farmers broke through the Singhu border, the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party reacted in typical style, claiming that Khalistanis and Naxalites had invaded and infiltrated the movement. The farmer by definition became ‘anti-national’ to a regime, which idolizes the cow but treats agriculture and farming with contempt. A moment of confusion, of suspicion, triggers a moment of distraction. Bollywood enters the scene not to consolidate myth but to question the integrity of the strike. Kangana Ranaut, hungry for attention, identifies an old woman, a protester, as a professional agitator, sighted earlier at Shaheen Bagh. For once, Ranaut’s imperious petulance is subdued by the Punjabi star, Diljit Dosanjh, who demands a return to propriety. The fact that Dosanjh had donated a crore for warm clothes for the farmers added dignity and integrity to his statement. Ranaut retreats into utter confusion targeted by other stars who saw her as easy meat. But if Bollywood was only capable of distraction, the cameo role belonged to the Canadian premier, Justin Trudeau, who, speaking on Guru Nanak’s birthday, assured his Sikh constituency that he was aware of the protest raising human rights issues. The objections of the Indian government were more like clerical interjections rather than possessing the eloquence of a convincing rebuttal. On the other hand, Arvind Kejriwal created a sense of ambivalence by attacking the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh, claiming it was irresponsible to launch an agitation in the middle of the Covid crisis. Kejriwal turned full circle by meeting the protesters and even claimed that the Narendra Modi government had put him under house arrest for supporting the farmers’ struggle. The power and range of the struggle were obvious. It brings two other sets of political reactions. Firstly, Manohar Lal Khattar in next door Haryana tries to localize the struggle along with other stalwarts of the BJP. He contends, in fact presents weakly, that the struggle was one of Punjabi farmers and had nothing to do with Haryana. As the days move on, one thing is clear; the struggle is acquiring the status of a legend. Farming instead of looking insulated, isolated and divided is creating a struggle that the country’s effete Opposition envied. Statements of support pour in, visits to the farmers are publicized, but it is clear that the farmers are opposing the regime. The Opposition parties sounded like a weak chorus, almost envious that they have lost a great opportunity. The unity and plurality of the struggle are obvious. There are dozens of farming groups represented, each clear that it should be present at the negotiations. The sheer pluralism and the unity give a sense of democracy. The responses of Amit Shah and his entourage sound dour, more a Pavlovian response to a law and order problem than to a sociological and economic crisis. The BJP’s lack of imagination in handling any crisis except as a law and order problem provoked by anti-nationals is obvious. It sounds like a party that has run out of ideas. Yet more than the State with its idiotic ideas of governance, it is television media that is uncomfortable with the farmers’ strike, seeking to discredit it in various ways. When one watches certain channels, one senses that they realize that the farmers claim an integrity in the Indian subconscious that the media lack. One senses that the media are not only losing credibility but also the trust of the struggle that distances itself from such arrogance. It is almost as if the media are afraid that a bunch of rustics may take over the country and they are treating the farm leaders as country bumpkins. There is, however, one redeeming aspect. Younger journalists, many with their feet on the ground, are raising valid questions. A reporter like Anumeha Yadav pointed out that the very diversity of farming requires a gradient of policy in which marginal groups are catered to differently from the big farmers. Agriculture is a way of life invoking a range of life chances. Such a sensitive reading contrasts with the government’s blanket decision to bring corporates into agriculture. It is as if land as an emotion, a way of life, is suddenly read as real estate. The entry of corporate control into agriculture may eliminate the riches of diversity that make agriculture so life-giving and anarchic. In fact, Amitabh Kant’s alleged reaction as a technocrat in Niti Ayog sums up the tiredness with democracy that technocrats feel. Agriculture multiplies the tiredness and makes the regime impatient for blanket solutions. The farmers’ strike and its narrative have become a collective parable about livelihood and governance today. At the level of a moral fable, agriculture is still a part of the unconscious, the cultural substrate of modern India. Agriculture has credibility as a moral economy that the media lack. The media, or a section of it, found it difficult to discredit the farmer even from the narrow logic of the nation state. One also realizes policy, like politics, cannot play out as, or pretend to be, a flat land of uniformity. Its very diversity is its life. To destroy that diversity is to undermine democracy. The farmer is still annadata, a credibility that the media lack. Reading the farmers’ story of narratives contained within it, one senses that democracy and agriculture need a language of plurality, a sense of the vernacular, an idea of moral economy beyond the standard political economy to survive and innovate. The stereotyped performances of Modi and Shah show that the majoritarianism of the regime has failed democracy and agriculture as moral and political imagination. Yet an essay cannot stop at this point, not in the post-truth era. One has to realize that agriculture is beyond prices. To sustain agriculture, one has to ensure that biotechnology and the corporations do not destroy it. To ensure that, one needs not radicalism but alternative imagination. The story of the farmers’ strike has to eventually lead to alternative possibilities. Diversity becomes part of the justice of the future. Farming is not just productivity but a way of dreaming, thinking and sustaining the dreams of food. One wonders whether our media are ready for such a world. There is the bigger danger that the State might create a theatre of violence, which can erase all the issues of governance and democracy confronting it. The breakdown of agriculture might signal the breakdown of the current regime. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-102
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Arms supplier arrested in Jamshedpur’s Mango area||A 26-year-old youngster was arrested from Jamshedpur’s Mango area by the police for allegedly supplying firearms to gangsters across the city. During the raid, the police recovered six firearms, along with a large quantity of ammunition. The police had been tipped off to raid Prabir Kumar Singh’s residence on Gurudwara Road, Mango. Prabir is the younger brother of the notorious criminal Pradip Singh. The seized firearms include four country-made pistols and two pistols of 7.65 MM. Talking to the media about the arrest, senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan, revealed, “Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by deputy superintendent of police (headquarters-1) Pawan Kumar raided Prabir’s at Gurudwara Road in Mango. When we arrested him but were unable to locate any firearms at his home during the search. However, when we interrogated him at Mango thana, he gave in and accepted that he used to supply firearms to various criminals. He even revealed that he had stocked six pistols at a friend’s house in Mango itself.” Following Prabir’s revelation, the police raided his friend’s house situated on the Post Office Road in Mango, from where the ammunition was recovered. The senior SP said that Prabir's friend was unaware of the fact that the bag he had been asked to keep contained the firearms. “The police also interrogated the said friend of Prabir and let him go after it was convinced that he was not aware of the contents of the bag which he had kept at his house in good faith. But there is one more person involved in the racket,” said Vanan. According to the senior police officer, Prabir was not associated with any particular gang but would supply them firearm on demand. “We are now trying to find out the source from where Prabir would procure the firearms and ammunition. We are investigating this case, more people will be arrested,” said the police officer. According to senior sources in the police, the seized pistols would be sent to a Ranchi-based forensic lab for a ballistic test, to check if they had been used earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Baghmara and Nirsa OCs suspended||Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad, Aseem Vikrant Minz, suspended Santosh Kumar Jha, officer-in-charge of Baghmara police station, on charges of laxity of work and dereliction of duty. The suspended officer has been shunted to the police line. Notably, a host of crime incidents took place in Baghmara, particularly clashes between rival groups at the different colliery sites. The violence had a connection with the war of attrition between the Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto and his arch-rival ‑ former water resources minister Jaleshwar Mahto. Talking to The Telegraph Online Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant confirmed the suspension of Baghmara’s officer-in-charge. He said, “He has been suspended on charges of laxity in work dereliction of duty and particularly concerning the violence that took place in front of attendance office block -2 office of BCCL in Bagmara yesterday.” “The inspection conducted by senior officers revealed that the incident could have been avoided had the police stationed at the site had been better prepared,” added Minz. Nirsa OC also suspended In a related development, Dhanbad Deputy Commission, Uma Shankar Singh, recommended disciplinary action on Nirsa Police station officer-in-charge, Subhash Singh. The recommendation has been made by the DC, based on a probe conducted by a committee led by Additional District Magistrate (law and order) Chandan Kumar on the charges of forcible closure of 18 soft coke industries of Nirsa by Singh. Notably, a delegation of soft coke industry owners met the DC. During the meet, they accused Nirsa officer-in-charge of not only forcibly closing their respective units but also for having lodged an FIR against one of the soft coke industry owners when he tried to reopen the factory after the relaxation provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs. DC, Uma Shankar Singh, constituted a probe committee led by ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar, which visited Nirsa and submitted a report to him on December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Grief unites Barhi, Barkagaon blocks of Hazaribagh district||Barhi and Barkagaon blocks of Hazaribagh district are immersed in sorrow because of two unexpected tragedies that took place on Thursday. In Barhi, a four-year-old boy was crushed to death by a tractor in a field where his parents were busy working, while in the other block ‑ a 28-year-old was trampled by a herd of elephants after he walked into the forest to take a shortcut to his home. He had been alerted by the elders about the elephants, but he chose to ignore the warnings. The first tragedy took place in Sehda village, which falls under the Gondalpura panchayat of Barkagaon block. A small mistake of Jago Ganjhu(28) cost him his life. Jago was returning from a local market, when he chose to take the short cut route to his home, despite being alerted by the village elders about the elephants in the forest. But Jago chose to ignore their warnings and walked into the forest, where he was trampled to death by the elephants. With severed limbs, a badly crushed torso, his dead body was beyond recognition. At the break of dawn, the villagers managed to reach the spot. A total of 32 elephants including four calves have unleashed a reign of terror in Barkagaon for the last one week. Villagers maintained that their life had become miserable due to this herd of wild elephants which has so far damaged dozens of houses in six villages. They have also demanded compensation for Jago’s dependants and also individuals whose houses and crops have been damaged. Forest officials said that a team of experts have been called from Bankura district of West Bengal to chase the elephants away. Tractor crushes a minor on field In another incident, four-year-old Rocky Kumar was crushed to death by a tractor, while he was playing on the field, in Shahpur village, which falls under Barhi police station of the Dulmaha panchayat area. The incident took place in the afternoon when his parents and other relatives were busy in cultivation work in a nearby field. Around the same time, the tractor was engaged by the owner of a nearby field. According to eyewitnesses, the tractor driver, Mohit Pandit, after completing his work, failed to notice Rocky playing there and crushed him to death. Rocky’s grandmother Kalawati Devi has written to the police to file an FIR against Mohit, demanding swift action. Police officials maintained that they have initiated the process to lodge the FIR and start an investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Body of second trapped miner recovered at night||The body of the second trapped miner, Basia Maji, was recovered from Khudia colliery on Wednesday night confirming apprehensions that there would be no other survivor in the December 8 tragedy when the Eastern Coalfields (ECL) mine was flooded due to bore hole breach. The special rescue team of six divers from Cuttack, led by former Indian Navy officer Pranab Kumar Biswal, which entered the mine in the evening, spotted Basia’s body in the BP incline of the mine at 11.50 pm. But it took over half an hour for the team to bring it out of the mine. Later, after meeting between the colliery management and family members of Basia, held in the presence of Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and former MLA Arup Chatterjee, it was decided to offer a job to Basia’s widow Luski Manjhiain on compassionate grounds. During discussions, Chatterjee insisted that ECL provide employment to Basia’s daughter, Somani Manjhiain. But the ECL management cited rules to say that it could not provide a job on compassionate grounds to a married daughter of a deceased. Finally, both sides agreed on a job for Basia’s widow. His family will also get compensation to the tune of Rs 15 lakh. ECL’s senior manager (mine/safety) of Mugma Area Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “Although the body was brought out around 11.50 pm, negotiations with the family members, which began around midnight, concluded at 1.30am on Thursday. The body was sent for post-mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad only after that.” Sharma said mining would be resumed at Khudia colliery only after a thorough inspection by mines regulator, the Directorate General of Mines Safety. “Mining operation can be resumed only after DGMS submits a report,” he said. The two miners, Basia Maji and Manik Bauri, were among the dozen-odd miners working at the Khudia colliery on December 8 when there was a sudden flood because of a bore hole leak in an adjacent mine. All except the two were able to escape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rs 14 lakh cash, opium seized in Chatra||On a tip-off, Rajpur police on Thursday arrested two opium smugglers recovering Rs 14 lakh cash, one kilogram opium and chemicals used to make brown sugar. The two arrested were brought to the police station after which their interrogation started. However, the mastermind Pintu Dangi managed to give a slip to the police. Raid was carried on the instruction of superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha at Charu village. Police officials said after Jha received a tipoff, a raid was carried in Pintu's house at Charu village from where Rs 14 lakh cash, one kilogram opium and chemicals were recovered. However, when contacted Pintu set aside the police version and stated that the recovered cash was his earned money to construct a godown in his house for business purpose. He said that police had forcefully taken away the cash from his house. One of the arrested smugglers has been identified as Sanjay Dangi. About Pintu and Sanjay, police officials said both were in Giridih jail in a case related to smuggling of opium and got bail recently. Officer-in-charge Anil Kumar said interrogation is going on to get information about the network of this gang. He said raids are on to nab Pintu. This was the fourth big success of Chatra police in a month. The record says in a month, police has recovered opium worth Rs 80 lakh arresting 14 smugglers in a month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant wants SC/ST reservation in liquor trade||Chief minister Hemant Soren directed the department of excise and prohibition to keep a certain percentage of liquor shops reserved for SC/ST businessmen interested in running wine shops in Jharkhand. Hemant, who was chairing a review meeting, asked officials to make necessary amendments in laws related to issuing of liquor licences in order to provide members of the ST/SC community an opportunity to run liquor shops and facilitate the process by providing reservations. “The department should provide liquor trade licences to those members of the ST/SC community who are interested in running such businesses. Necessary amendments in rules should also be made to incorporate reservation for the ST/SC community,” the chief minister said. Sources from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the decision was taken in a bid to encourage members of ST/SC communities to run liquor businesses and prosper, given that the liquor trade is among the most lucrative business ventures in the country. Jharkhand, however, will not be the first state to provide a quota for the SC/ST community in liquor shops. The Karnataka government had come up with the idea of providing reservations to SC/ST businessmen in getting liquor trade licences in 2014. Besides, Jammu & Kashmir has also provided reservation to members of the SC/ST community of the state to get liquor licences. During Thursday’s meeting, excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey informed Hemant that sale of liquor till November 2020 this year had generated a revenue of Rs 1,025 crore. The Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown was responsible for major revenue loss this year as liquor shops remained closed from March 22 to May 19, he said. To facilitate the sale of liquor made with Mahua, the department is planning to launch special shops on the lines of Odisha in a bid to provide an opportunity to Mahua traders, Choubey said. These stores will only sell country liquor manufactured and bottled in Jharkhand. Hemant told officials to ensure that all liquor shops in the state displayed rate charts prominently in a bid to put a check on over-pricing. He asked officials to fill vacancies in the excise department at the earliest and employ home guards to compensate for the lack of excise constables in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa takes Round 1 lead at Tata golf ||Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa S struck a blistering 10-under-62 to take the first round lead at the Tata Steel Tour Championship being played at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses here on Thursday. Noida’s Amardeep Malik posted an impressive nine-under-63 to be placed second on Day One of the Rs 1.5 crore PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) event on Thursday. Gurugram’s Manu Gandas, Delhi-based Kshitij Naveed Kaul and Arjun Prasad and Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta were all tied in third place having shot matching scores of 64. Pre-tournament favourite Anirban Lahiri fired a 65 to occupy tied seventh along with the Chandigarh duo of Karandeep Kochhar (PGTI Order of Merit leader) and Yuvraj Singh Sandhu. In Round One, one half of the field played their 18 holes at the Beldih course while the other half played at Golmuri. Both halves of the field will switch venues in Round Two. Chikkarangappa, who began his week at Golmuri, the venue that produced the lower scores on Day One, claimed an eagle, nine birdies and a bogey. The 27-year-old reaped the benefits of using a new putter early on in his round as he sank birdie putts from a range of 10 to 15 feet on the first, fifth, sixth and seventh. After landing it within three feet on the ninth and 10th, Chikka added two more birdies to his card. The two-time winner on the Asian Development Tour (ADT) was relentless thereafter as he picked up birdie-eagle-birdie on the 11th, 12th and 13th to move to an astonishing 10-under for the day. On the 12th, he recovered well from the rough with a terrific nine-iron second shot before converting an 18-footer for eagle. The 13th saw him make another 15-feet conversion. The Asian Tour regular Chikka then found the trees on the 17th that led to his only bogey of the day. He managed to negate it with a birdie on the closing 18th. “I changed my putter this week as I was struggling to hole putts in previous events even though I was stroking it well on the greens. The new putter seems to be working for me as I holed a lot of long putts today,” Chikka said. “I’ve been in contention in all events since the tour resumed in November this year. However, I still need to convert my good starts at events into better finishes. Hopefully, with my driving, wedge-play and putting now shaping up well, I can have a good result this week. “Golmuri is more scoring among the two courses this week so I expect Beldih to throw up its own set of challenges when I play there during round two,” added Chikka, who finished a creditable second at the PGTI event in Jamshedpur in 2018. Amardeep Malik, who also played at Golmuri on Day One, came up with a flawless round. Malik was in contention in the last event in Chandigarh lying one off the lead after round three before he finished tied 16th. On Thursday he made four consecutive birdies on the front-nine and back-nine. Amardeep capitalized on all four par-5s – second, third, 11th and 12th – by picking up birdies there. He also drove the green on the par-4s fourth and 13th to set up birdies. Harendra Gupta and Arjun Prasad produced the best scores at Beldih, rounds of 64, to be tied third along with Manu Gandas and Kshitij Naveed Kaul both of whom played at Golmuri. Gupta suffered a groin injury while teeing off on the ninth but still managed to return a bogey-free card. Among the other prominent names, SSP Chawrasia, a three-time winner in Jamshedpur, and local amateur Navtez Singh were both tied 13th, having carded scores of 67. Jyoti Randhawa and Shiv Kapur were both tied 18th with scores of 68 while Gaganjeet Bhullar and Rahil Gangjee were a further shot back in tied 23rd place. Defending champion Udayan Mane of Pune shot a 71 to be tied 52nd, while Delhi’s Rashid Khan, the highest-ranked Indian in the world, posted a 72 to be tied 60th.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Lahiri and team win pro-am event of Tata golf ||Anirban Lahiri and his team won the Pro-Am event of the Tata Steel Tour Championship 2020 at Beldih golf course on Wednesday. US-based professional Lahiri, who returned to play in Jamshedpur after 13 years, had a team comprising amateurs Arjun Munda, Sanjiv Paul and Rajeev Chopra. His team total was 116. Calcutta-based professional Rahil Gangjee, who returned to play in Jamshedpur after 14 years, helped his team finish runners-up with a total of 110. Gangjee’s team comprised amateurs Tarun Daga, Prashant Maurya and Nipam Mehta. Lahiri used his experience to guide the amateurs to the win. “I feel excited to return to Jamshedpur and play golf. I enjoyed playing on Wednesday with my amateur mates,” he said. “It was my rookie season when I came to play Tata Open in 2008. And it was also my fourth event as a professional,” Lahiri added. Col. Vikramjit Singh Panag won the prize for the longest drive on hole No. 12 as it landed at a distance of 299 yards. Hamid Raza Khan won the prize for the straightest drive on hole no. 8. His shot landed one foot from the centre of the fairway. Ms Tanisha won the prize for the closest to the pin on hole no. 7. Her tee shot landed within 16 inches of the hole. Rajiv Mehta won the prize for the closest to the pin on hole No. 17. His tee shot landed within 17 feet of the hole. Lahiri (33), who has 7 international wins under his belt, said playing at the Tata Steel Tour Championship at two courses would be challenging for the golfers. “It will be really challenging, especially in the 3rd and 4th rounds. We need to take advantage of the half-an-hour break while switching courses,” Lahiri said He thanked Tata Steel for sponsoring the tournament and bringing golf back on tracks in difficult times. He also appreciated the steel major for supporting Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) in promoting the game.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ex-minister K.N. Tripathy elected Intuc national president||Senior Congress leader and former state minister K.N. Tripathy was on Thursday elected national president of Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc) at its annual general meeting held in the presence of several leaders in Ranchi. Speaking to reporters after the formal announcement, Tripathy said Intuc, the trade union wing of the Congress founded in May 1947, would continue to fight against the anti-labour policies of the Union government. “The country is passing through a difficult phase at the moment whereas farmers, labourers, and marginalised are forced to take to streets to safeguard their livelihood and rights because of wrong policies of the Union government. Intuc as a national body of a large workforce in the country will be at the forefront of this fight for the cause of our people,” he said. Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ stir against the Centre’s new laws on agriculture, which entered its 22nd day on the borders of Delhi, Tripathy said the magnitude of agitation is a testimony of the Union government’s wrong intention. “Will any sane person protest unnecessarily, fighting the extreme cold and risking lives amid the ongoing global pandemic? The government must understand that the country’s food growers have lost their patience this time,” he said. Tripathy said the Industrial Relations Code, which was passed by Parliament in September, was another example of how the Union government worked arbitrarily to favour corporate friends. The code was, reportedly, brought to replace three previous laws — the Trade Unions Act, 1926, the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. “Before enacting the law, the government never took suggestions and viewpoints of stakeholders, mainly workers’ unions or the state. It (the code) is highly tilted towards industries.” Citing a few resolutions that were passed during the two-day-long Intuc AGM  in Ranchi, Tripathy said, “Intuc has passed a resolution calling for Rs 25,000 as the minimum salary for contract workers, rejecting 100 per cent FDI, and  demanding minimum support price for agricultural produce, pension for  unorganized workers, among others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Fire in Dhanbad computer shop costs owner Rs 50 lakh ||Property worth more than Rs 50 lakh was gutted in a fire that took place in a well-known computer shop of Dhanbad on Wednesday night. The incident came to light at the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday at around 12.30 am and the fire was completely extinguished at around 3.30 am. The incident happened in Jhaharia Computers situated in Bank More area less than three km away from the Dhanbad district headquarters. Neighbours who first noticed the smoke coming out of the shop informed the shop owner, Vikash Jhajharia. He informed Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, who called the Bank More police station and district fire service at around 1.38 am. This is the second incident of fire in a computer shop of Bank More area. Last month a similar fire took place in the shop Seven Computers in Tiwari Gali under the Bank More police station area which is less than 500 meters away from Jhajharia Computers. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, the President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce,  Prabhat Surolia said, “I received a call at around 12.45 am from the owner of the computer shop Vikash Jhajharia seeking help to inform fire service and police after which I informed the fire service and police.” He also added that the fire was completely doused after a two-hour-long operation. A staff of Jhajharia Computers said, “A large number of computers, laptops and accessories were completely burnt to ashes in the fire. We are suspecting short circuit as the probable reason for the fire.” Notably, the owner of Jhajharia Computers, Vikash Jhajharia along with the three other computer traders of Bank More locality had also received an extortion call of Rs 50 lakh on their mobile phone in name of the banned organization, People’s Liberation  Front of India on November 29. Giving details of the fire fighting operation, district fire officers, Surendra Yadav said, “We received the information about the fire at around 1.38 am and immediately sent a fire tender at the site but gradually sent two more fire tenders and the fire fighting was completed in two hours.” “One of our fire tenders was stuck up in a drain situated on the roadside near the computer shop as the area is quite congested and we had to bring a crane to lift the fire tender from the drain,” informed Yadav and added that they also faced difficulty in cutting the iron shutter gate of the shop to carry out the fire fighting work. “We have yet not received any written detail about the loss estimate from the shop owner,” said Yadav and added that he himself was present at the site to supervise the fire fighting operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||MP demands early Covid shots for those in transport sector||Mahesh Poddar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Jharkhand, wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday, suggesting that those engaged in the public transport sector be included in the priority list of Covid-19 vaccination in the first phase since they were part of essential services that drive the nation’s economy. “Individuals employed in public transportation are essential actors in the nation’s economy. Be it those driving private platforms, chartered, or public taxis, buses, autos, trucks, vans, shuttles, tempos and tourist vehicles, tram, metro rail, rickshaw, or those who are train operators, sailors, airline pilots, and the attendants on board any of these vehicles, these employees are the reason why citizens across the country are able to commute seamlessly and comfortably amid the ongoing pandemic,” he wrote. Jharkhand has so far identified 1 lakh frontline workers, mostly doctors and health workers, for the first round of vaccinations. Once frontline workers are vaccinated, the state will start vaccination of senior citizens and the ones with comorbid conditions. Poddar said his appeal is a result of recent conversations he has had with some heads of top transport companies. He added that by continuing to tirelessly do their jobs, their personal health and safety, as well as that of their loved ones, were at risk. “Covid-19 being a highly contagious airborne disease their exposure to thousands of people on a daily basis exponentially multiplies that risk. Their contact with large numbers means that they have the potential to become super-spreaders of the virus,” he said. “It is with such concerns in mind that I urge you to consider prioritizing those employed in the crucial transportation sector for vaccination, once the trial and approval procedures are completed. Not only will it prevent the potential spread of the virus through these individuals who come in contact with so many people on a daily basis,” he appealed. Jharkhand, like other states of the country, has also begun the groundwork for mass immunisation, as the expected Covid-19 vaccines are currently under clinical trials and should be available for use by early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||CII Jharkhand welcomes new farm laws, lauds Centre for pushing reforms||Jharkhand State Council of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has come out in support of the three farm laws, welcoming the Union government’s decision to push for agri marketing reforms. "The reforms are aimed towards moving to a ‘One Nation, One Market’ regime. The reforms were announced under the economic package for building Atmanirbhar Bharat and the quick action in terms of approval by the Union cabinet is commendable," Sanjay Sabherwal, chairman, CII Jharkhand, said here on Thursday. He pointed out that the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 alters the agriculture marketing landscape in the country in several positive ways. "It provides dual benefits to the farmers by providing more avenues to sell their produce at better prices and also reducing their transportation costs significantly," he explained. Elaborating further Sabherwal said while competition will bring in transparent price discovery, the Act also provides for developing a price information and market intelligence mechanism for farmers’ produce and a framework for dissemination of that information. On the future of Minimum Support Price (MSP), he said, “What needs to be understood is that MSP is not a function of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act or the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (APLM) Act. Mandis only provide the physical infrastructure for facilitating the procurement operations and they will continue to do so for farmers that come to the APMC market. “While the farmers in Punjab and Haryana are largely dependent on the MSP regime it needs to be understood the reform does not intend to demolish the MSP system but provide the right perspective of markets.” Referring to the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 he said it provides a national framework on farming agreements. "The Act will help industry in terms of reducing uncertainty in the availability of farm produce while farmers will be benefited with assured prices as well as inputs and agronomic support," he said. The CII Jharkhand chairman also welcomed The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. "With the amendment in place, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes are removed from the list of essential commodities. The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply is expected to harness economies of scale and attract private sector/foreign direct investment into the agriculture sector.” On Wednesday, Tata Steel MD T. V. Narendran, who is also the president designate of CII, welcomed the reform measures in agriculture but noted how the agitation was creating supply-chain disruptions. "The ongoing agitation is leading to a disruption in the movement of goods and labour that also increases the logistics costs. These disruptions can have an impact on the green shoots of recovery we were starting to see since Covid,” he had said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: three more deaths take state toll to over 1,000 ||The Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand rose to 1,004, with at least three new fatalities  – one each from Dumka, Palamu and Hazaribag – being reported over the past 24 hours, the state health department said. Meanwhile, fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 190 people tested positive  on the day, while 180 patients recovered from the infection. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 95.20 per cent. Only three districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro– reported a double-digit-spike in cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. Ranchi reported 87 cases against 86 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 30 cases against 16 recoveries. At least 18 people were found infected in Bokaro, while 13 patients recovered from the infection there. At least eight of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection over the past 24 hours, as per government data. By the end of Wednesday, there were 759 active cases in Ranchi and 208 in East Singhbhum. All the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases. At least 1,585 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand in the last 24 hours, stated the data. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 16,769 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.64 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 45.51 lakh of them. Around 13,000 swab samples were pending for tests. Despite the three fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand remained 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.24 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in Jharkhand was 484.16 days against the national average of 288.70 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Suspected militant killed in Jharkhand’s Latehar district||A suspected militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jharkhand’s Latehar district in the wee hours of Wednesday. Palamau deputy inspector-general Rajkumar Lakra told The Telegraph that acting on a tip-off, police along with CRPF jawans started a search operation to flush out rebels in the hilly Nidra forest area of Serak panchayat under Chandwa police station. “The security personnel had information that TPC (Tritiya Prastuti Committee — a splinter group of CPI-Maoist) activists had gathered in the forest area and were planning to take part in some criminal activities. The search operation was carried out jointly by police and CRPF. In the morning the extremists started firing at the police and in retaliation the police also fired. The encounter lasted for more than an hour after which the rebels fled from the spot taking advantage of the dense forest. Later during the search operation, the police recovered the body of a rebel, an AK-47 rifle, several rounds of ammunition, Naxal literature and food items,” said Lakra. The slain rebel was identified as self-styled “sub-zonal commander” of TPC, Deepak Yadav, a native of Kasmar in Panki block of Latehar. He was released on bail from jail three months back. According to police sources, more than 200 rounds of fire was exchanged between the rebels and the security forces during the encounter. Meanwhile, security forces are continuing the search operation and long-range patrolling in the forest area to flush out the rebels till the filing of this report. “There had been reports of TPC rebels pasting posters in the area since the last week and threatening contractors to pay levy or face dire consequences. The encounter will send a strong message to the rebels and also instil faith amongst masses,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid toll past 1,000||The death toll due to Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday night though the number of active cases continued to fall. According to data released by the state government at 9pm on Tuesday, 111,931 positive cases have been detected in Jharkhand so far, out of which there are at 1,578 active cases and 1,001 patients have died. Ranchi district had the maximum number of active cases at 758, that accounted for 48 per cent of the total active cases in the state. Barring East Singhbhum that had 198 active cases on Tuesday night, the rest 22 districts had less than a hundred active cases. Of these 22 districts, four had single-digit active cases. While Pakur district had just 2 active cases, Giridih, Simdega and Jamtara districts had only 6, 9 and 10 cases respectively. The recovery rate of the state is 97.69 per cent which is better than the national rate of 95.10 per cent. The state’s mortality rate of 0.89 per cent is also less than the national rate of 1.50 per cent. “Movement of people is much more in Ranchi that is now a gateway to the state and people here are also not much careful,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), when asked about the high number of active cases in the state capital. “Despite the government imposing a fine on those found moving around without mask in public places, you will hardly find anyone with a mask at marriage functions that are being held in large numbers these days,” Kumar said to strengthen his point, adding that precaution was a must at this stage. The state government has reduced the rate of an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 to Rs 400 from the existing Rs 800, inclusive of the cost of PPE (personal protective equipment) kit and taxes. The rate has been reduced after considering the rates prevalent in some of the neighbouring states, an order from the government said. In case a laboratory collects the sample from a patient’s house, an additional collection charge of Rs 200 has, however, been allowed. The government has also specified that a symptomatic patient has to undergo the RT-PCR test even if their rapid antigen test report comes negative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rights award for jailed Stan Swamy||Father Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old jailed priest, has been selected for an award honouring the late Mukundan C. Menon, journalist and founder of the human rights organisation People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The award, which includes a cash prize of Rs 25,000 and a citation, “is in recognition of people’s struggle for democratic and human rights of Adivasis led by Father Stan Swamy”, the award organisers have written, according to sources close to the arrested Jesuit priest. Sources said the award would be sent to Swamy at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, where the Parkinsonism patient has been lodged following his arrest by the anti-terror agency NIA from his Ranchi home on October 8. The money will be sent to Bagaicha, the organisation set up by Swamy in Ranchi. Swamy is accused of Maoist links and has been arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case along with 15 other rights activists, lawyers and writers. “We were communicated about the selection of Father Stan Swamy for the award, which was instituted by the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO) in honour of Menon in 2006,” said Father David Solomon, a close associate of Swamy. “The annual award is given to human rights defenders, artists, writers and environmental activists involved in defending the rights of the people.” Menon, a human rights activist for more than 35 years, was the first general secretary of the NCHRO. “The selection was done by a jury that included J. Devika (Thiruvananthapuram), Ibnu Soud (Chennai), Amit Bhattacharya (Calcutta), N.P. Chekutty (Kozhikode) and advocate Jaya Vindhyala (Hyderabad) after considering many nominations received from across the country,” said a Ranchi-based Jesuit priest, who said he had learnt about the selection on Tuesday. Swamy has spent more than four decades campaigning for tribal rights in Jharkhand. He has questioned the authorities’ failure to implement the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulates the establishment of a Tribal Advisory Council, with exclusively tribal members, for the protection, well-being and development of tribal communities. A campaign Swamy had launched under the banner of the Jharkhand Organisation Against Uranium Radiation (Joar) had stopped the construction of a tailing pond to store uranium waste in Jadugora, East Singhbhum, which would have displaced tribal families. Swamy had continued to work for the welfare of displaced people in Bokaro, Santhal Pargana and Koderma. In 2014, he came under the state machinery’s radar after compiling and publishing a report on the plight of tribal youths falsely linked to Maoists, arrested and left to languish in jail. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and non-BJP Opposition parties have condemned Swamy’s arrest and demanded his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
