18-12-2020||Calcutta||Picture Perfect!||Train your lens on sights in your Salt Lake, New Town, Ultadanga, Bangur avenue or Keshtopur locality. Mail us your photographs with your contacts at saltlakett@gmail.com. No picture should be more thab 1.5 MB. The chosen enteries will be published and be in contention for our annual photography prizes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Boost for young talent||South Point High School The Interact Club and Nature Club of South Point High School recently organised the annual inter-school fests Udaan and Vrikkshya in association with The Telegraph Young Metro on a virtual platform. The theme for the fests this year was Mother nature and the new normal. In total, 18 online and offline events were organised for students of classes IX to XII from 10 participating schools. The online inauguration ceremony reflected on the previous years of the fest. A video recording of students from the school choir singing the school song and opening song marked the start of the event. Renowned Kathak exponent Malabika Mitra graced the occasion as the chief guest. The offline events such as Gharana (dance), Jhankar (fusion band), Picturesque (photography), MediaActive (journalism and blogging) and HoopScoop (basketball) required participants to submit video recordings of their performances a day prior to the fest. For the online events, the live performance of the participants was watched by the judges on the digital platform. Some of the online events were VerBattle (debate), Mime-time (dumb charade), S’ watch’-out (poster making), QFiesta (quiz) and A Minute to Win it! (talent show). The results of all the competitions were announced at the closing ceremony. Actor Riddhi Sen (picture left), an alumnus of the school, was present at the closing ceremony and announced the names of the winning schools. He shared some of his fond memories at the school. “This is a wonderful initiative at a time when we are missing out on social interactions. I appreciate the school’s effort. Whatever education I received from this school is not just conventional education but the teachers and the school have always supported my dream of becoming an actor,” said Riddhi. The host school was declared the overall winner but according to the tradition, they passed the title onto the first runner-up Patha Bhavan. DPS Ruby Park eventually became the first runner-up and the second runner-up position was secured jointly by M P Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and Bhavan’s Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir. “It is important for us to continue with the usual activities of the school, albeit virtually. Udaan and Vrrikshya hold a special importance in the school calendar and we were well aware of the excitement that the students enjoy organising it. Therefore, it was decided that they be guided to host the event virtually. Brain storming sessions in virtual meetings led to regular events being customised for the new normal,” said principal Rupa Sanyal  Bhattacharjee. Calcutta International School conducted an online poetry competition for the junior and senior section students recently. The theme for the online competition was This is Now, based on the pandemic and the pandemic-induced changes. The initiative not only motivated the students to exercise their creativity, but also brought forth their perception about the sudden changes in the world. The poems by the participants highlighted stark comparisons of the present with the past, the struggles humans dealt with during the lockdown and curiosity and anxiousness about the future. The competition was divided into two categories for classes VIII and below and from classes IX to XII. The school digitally released an anthology of the poems along with the artwork by the students. “Given the situation where the schoolchildren find themselves locked within the four walls of their home, unable to mingle with the friends and teachers, we thought writing poems will give them that essential platform to encapsulate their emotions and their thoughts. Hence, the poetry competition! As the principal, it gives me enormous joy to read the poems and see the spark of creativity in our students. It assures me that our students are growing up to be thoughtful citizens of the world,” said principal Munmun Nath. Come 2021, Aditya School of Sports (ASOS) will become a hub of grassroots development programmes in sports for Bengal. Be it in football, basketball, archery or shooting, the school will provide world class facilities and expert coaching from professionals in all kinds of games. Its strategic partnership with India On Track, an organisation that creates platforms for training and development of youths to help them achieve sporting excellence, will help the aspiring sportspersons get the scope to learn their game of choice from the best in the business. India On Track has acquired the rights from LaLiga Football Schools to set up and operate football-training centres in India under the brand of LaLiga Football Schools, India. It has also partnered with the National Basketball Association to set up and operate NBA Basketball School programmes across India. “Once the pandemic is over, the LaLiga Football Schools  and the NBA Basketball School programme will send foreign coaches every three months to train the young players here. This is for all our students at Aditya Academy as well as the students who want to join. We will first conduct the training programmes in our Barasat and Dum Dum compounds and then float it to other districts of Bengal. We will start some facilities in January, and once the schools reopen, we will start the full-fledged training programmes,” said Aditya Group chairman Anirban Aditya. ASOS has also tied up with Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy for shooting and Dola & Rahul Banerjee Sports Foundation for archery. Olympian shooter Joydeep Karmakar will start training the students in the Barasat facility from January. “We shall leave no stone unturned to produce champions of tomorrow. We are excited and sure that these facilities will be exploited by students to live their dreams,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Ninety eight and still going strong||So popular is he that a couple of years ago they had to carve out space from their garden and build an extra living room just to accommodate his unending guests. Even during the pandemic he gets phone calls that keep him occupied for up to three hours a day. And then of course, there is WhatsApp and Facebook. He doesn’t sound like it and certainly doesn’t look it, but on December 14, Chandrasekhar Bose of IB Block turned 98. “I got about 450 calls,” he laughs. “Many wanted to come but we discouraged them due to the pandemic. Only one friend — Gunin Chatterjee of JC Block — handed me a copper vessel through the window. He said drinking water from it will keep me healthy.” Bose likes his biryani, fish fry, jilipi and KFC and has a memory so sharp he can, in the same breath, recount incidents that happened 95 years ago as well as the trade union strike that took place last month. In fact, it is a trade union that is Bose’s heartbeat. Attracted by the Marxist philosophy from a young age, he joined the Communist Party of India in 1944. “I must be its senior-most member,” he smiles. Bose also joined Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance as clerk in 1944 and was a founder-member of the All India Insurance Employees Association in 1951. “I served as general secretary, vice-president and president of the body and am still a working committee member at the all-India level,” he says proudly. Leaves used as paper India in the 1920s was a far cry from what it is today. “We saw struggle, war, partition…” begins Bose, the third of four brothers. His father, however, had brought home a second wife who bore seven daughters and three sons. Bose grew up in places like Jessore, Khulna and Gaya, and had his share of fun. “I remember my hatey khori clearly. It happened when I was three,” smiles Bose, reminiscing. “I used taal leaf as paper, sharpened bamboo strips (konchi) as pen and dissolved coal as ink.” Memories of August 15 Bose recalls how animated Indians would get listening to the news on the radio in the early days of World War II. “Germany was advancing and Britain retreating... That was enough for us to rejoice,” he recalls. The war meant shortage of medicines, food, dhutis... After receiving industrial training Bose had wanted to start a detergent factory but the raw materials were not available due to the war. That’s what led him to join the insurance sector. “I remember August 15, 1947 clearly,” he smiles. “Most of us didn’t report for work that day. We hit the streets. Tram rides were made free and the gates of Raj Bhavan were thrown open so people could walk in, admire the interiors and even jump on the sofas, claiming ownership of the same.” But the best part about Independence Day was the ceasefire among Hindus and Muslims. “They forgot the bloodbath of a few days back and embraced one another in collective joy,” he recalls. For comrades’ cause When Bose joined the workforce, he says insurance companies didn’t play fair. Those in power would only appoint people from their own villages, there was no parity in pay structures, funds would be misappropriated… The turning point for Bose came when he witnessed a Class IV staff being humiliated and fired for no fault of his. From then on, he devoted his life to his colleagues. “The union was formed 10 years before I was born and Baba has always maintained that the union is his first child,” smiles Bose’s son Somsankar, who has now retired from CESC. “In fact, due to his activities in the union, Baba was terminated from office twice. Both times he was reinstated after agitation by the union. Baba’s marriage had been fixed long before this but due to his job instability he refused to get married till his company was nationalised in 1956 and brought under the banner of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC).” Bose retired in 1983 but remained president of the union till 1994. He remains a guiding light to the body, attending meetings, offering advice and contributing articles for their journal Insurance Worker, of which he was editor for the first 32 years. Members come to visit Bose from all over the country with gifts — petha from Agra, kalamkari lungis from Andhra Pradesh… A few years ago when Bose expressed his desire for a smartphone, grandson Suryasekhar gifted him one once he got his first job. “But it was a former union member who taught Baba to use the phone,” smiles Somsankar. “Now he uses email, social media… he has over 300 pending friend requests on Facebook as we speak!” Age is not a factor for Bose, who visited Siliguri for a meeting in 2019 and Visakhapatnam and Varanasi in 2020, before the pandemic. “My task now is to groom the next generation of leaders,” he says. Beaten with khorom One of the most important changes over the past century seems to have been in the status of women in society. Bose’s mother was married at the age of nine. And this was considered late. His aunt was married off at two! “My mother was extremely pampered in her parents’ house — they used to parade a herd of goats before her every day and she would pick which one she wanted for lunch,” he says. But all changed when she was married off. Suddenly the child would spend her days carrying heavy bronze utensils to the pond to wash, something she never had to do before. “My father had a short temper and would beat her mercilessly with his khorom (wooden slippers), sometimes resulting in miscarriage. He would beat his second wife too and any children he found at arm’s length. We would hide and cower in fear,” grimaces Bose. In a fit of rage, Bose’s father would banish his mother off to her parents’ house — sometimes for years. Bose followed his mother wherever she went. Bose penned his autobiography four years ago in which his mother’s unhappy marriage was dealt with in detail. “I contemplated whether or not to write all that but then after reading, many people have come and confessed that mine isn’t a solitary case. This was the story in most households back in the day. A woman’s identity was that she was her husband’s wife and if she displeased him, beating was the natural response.” Bose hastens to add that this wasn’t unique to India. “Have you heard of the phrase ‘rule of thumb’? It  comes from a time Englishmen were asked to beat their wives with sticks no thicker than their thumbs!” The nonagenarian is an advocate of gender equality and insists on robust participation of women at every meeting he attends. His own wife, Asoka Basu, was a strong individual in her own right. She taught at Bethune Collegiate School since the 1950s and then at Bidhannagar Government High School, BD Block, in the 80s. “She was a good Rabindrasangeet singer, a student of Subinoy Roy. I had recorded her singing and I enjoy listening to the CDs now,” Bose says. She passed away in 2016. Life in Salt Lake Bose moved from Paikpara to Salt Lake in 1998. He now lives with his son, daughter-in-law Chandana and grandson. Somsankar credits much of his father’s health to Chandana. “Till before the pandemic, we would get all his parameters checked every two months. He only has diabetes and high blood pressure and his doctors are fond of him as he is hale and hearty. My wife is very particular about his health and in fact we still haven’t allowed domestic helps back into the house to eliminate chance of Covid infection,” he says. While Bose finds Salt Lake a peaceful neighbourhood to live in, he finds many residents here to be know-it-alls. “I have been a part of welfare groups here but left when I saw they have no discipline or order,” he says. “Now I relax in the garden under the winter sun, read papers, watch TV serials but what I enjoy most is simply pondering over my past,” he smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Making hay with home delivery||Bored homemakers, out-of-work youths, crafty businessmen…. Many a resident has hopped on to the home delivery bandwagon during the pandemic. Some are making dal-bhat for senior citizens, others biriyani and pizza, or even delivering vegetables. In a world where leaving home has become a risk, these businesses are helping many trudge along while providing the owners a source of income in this uncertain economy. Business out of boredom Four homemakers had been mulling starting a business for years now but finally took the plunge this fateful year. “Our sons were in either the same school or coaching centres. We moms would drop them off at chemistry tuition in CA Block and catch up at CA Park or City Centre,” says Debarati Biswas, one of the four. When their sons graduated during the pandemic, the moms suddenly realised they had a lot of time to kill. “We started looking for options and took a franchise of Pithe Bilashi in Lake Town near the Big Ben clock tower,” she says. Well, that’s where the outlet is, but the meals are all getting home-delivered. “No one would be willing to sit at a restaurant while Covid is in the air and so it worked out fine for us,” says Debarati, busy packing off Chingri Malaicurry Patishapta and Mutton Polanno. “We are getting picnic orders too.” One not-so-fine July morning, Kalpana Mukherjee of DLF New Town Heights announced to her husband that she was starting a home delivery. “Months of doing nothing but jhadu-pocha-bartan was spreading negativity,” says the lady who has worked in the hospitality industry across the world. “I find cooking to be a stress buster and that’s what I wanted to do. My grandkids call me Ammu and so we named the venture Ammu’s Kitchen.” Kalpana started by advertising her dishes on the ladies’ WhatsApp group in the complex and now gets three or four orders every day for her parathas, Chicken Korma or Kashmiri Dum Alu. One customer orders all his meals from her. Then there is Rahul Arora, chef and owner of popular restaurants like Bon Appetit and Paranthe Wali Galli across the city, including at Salt Lake’s AD Block, where he lives. “Mine are budget restaurants that caters primarily to school and college students. With these institutions shut it’s not feasible to run them but I was going insane without being able to cook for customers,” says Rahul. But when friends started requesting him for some fancy dishes, claiming only dal-bhat outlets were delivering during the lockdown, he decided to do something about it. “I now cook cuisines you won’t get anywhere in the city — Turkish, Balinese, Javanese, Konkani — but only on Sundays. People pick it up or get it delivered and I have an upper limit of 10 orders as the meals are complex and I’m a one-man army now.” Survival strategy Bobby Halder took to delivering eggs after she lost her business in the lockdown. “I used to run a cloud kitchen and prepare meals for students and the elderly but all students left their hostels and PG accommodations and went home, leaving me high and dry,” she says. Bobby now sells eggs in Bangur Avenue and delivers to customers nearby “It was a survival strategy.”. When Santanu Dey realised footfall was dwindling in the lockdown, the fish vendor from Muchibazar near Ultadanga started an online fish, fruit and vegetable delivery system and launched an app called Barite Bazar. They have a physical store near the Bengal Chemical Metro stop too. “The fish is cut to pieces and cleaned at Muchibazar. It is then packed and supplied to households across Salt Lake, Lake Town, Kestopur, Kankurgachhi and Phoolbagan. Not all are old customers; there are many new ones who started ordering during the lockdown and became loyalists. The market has increased by more than 20 per cent,” said Dey. Waiting in the wings For some, cloud kitchens were in the pipeline for months or even years. “We have been planning Shahi Khansama for a year and a half and would have launched around Poila Baisakh but for the pandemic,” says Biswadeep Chakraborty, who along with partner Atanu Pal, has started the cloud kitchen in EC Block. “Restaurants were mushrooming till last year but our research says that 80 per cent of them downed shutters within two years due to overheads. Rent alone, in a decent location, costs up to a lakh a month. We are planning seven or eight branches of this restaurant across Bengal and most of them would be in the cloud kitchen format,” he says. Eventually Biswadeep launched the venture in time for the Pujas. Kloud Kitchen, another venture in EC Block, was to open in March but got postponed to June. “We have a chain of restaurants across the country but this is our first one in cloud format. “A chunk of our customers comprises corporate clients such as banks and they were initially scared to order food from outside. Now they are ordering in bulk and we are sending out at least 50 orders a day,” says Uday Rawal. They serve Chinese, Indian and tandoori food. Government bodies aren’t left behind either. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a wing of the panchayats and rural development department, has set up a kitchen at Mrittika Bhavan, DD Block, near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, where a canteen run by self-help group women serves food. The home delivery initiative took off during the lockdown. “We had bought six vehicles in February to roam the lanes of Salt Lake with our groceries, fish, meat and vegetables. In March, we extended the service to New Town but when the lockdown started, our minister (Subrata Mukherjee) wanted us to help the entire city. So we started taking home delivery orders from all over,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, WBCADC. “The pandemic is giving equal opportunity to all. People are not stepping out of home to go to big restaurants so the fight between big capital and small capital is being fought on a level playing field as it is all down to home delivery now. This is an opportunity for self-help groups,” he adds. The management of Rang De Basanti Dhaba has launched a cloud kitchen under a separate brandname, Curry & Crust, from a floor above its Sector V restaurant for home delivery of Indianised pizzas (Turn to Page 7 for more). Recalling the trying months of the lockdown, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, founder and CEO, Zing Restaurants, says: “Sales went down to zero at the restaurant but home delivery never stopped. Even before the pandemic, 50 per cent of our sales came from home or office delivery. We wanted to expand our offerings in this segment.” In a post-pandemic world, he points out, credibility of a brand will play a big role. “Customers are looking for hygiene and safety standards,” he says. Waiting in the wings For some, cloud kitchens were in the pipeline for months or even years. “We have been planning Shahi Khansama for a year and a half and would have launched around Poila Baisakh but for the pandemic,” says Biswadeep Chakraborty, who along with partner Atanu Pal, has started the cloud kitchen in EC Block. “Restaurants were mushrooming till last year but our research says that 80 per cent of them downed shutters within two years due to overheads. Rent alone, in a decent location, costs up to a lakh a month. We are planning seven or eight branches of this restaurant across Bengal and most of them would be in the cloud kitchen format,” he says. Eventually Biswadeep launched the venture in time for the Pujas. Kloud Kitchen, another venture in EC Block, was to open in March but got postponed to June. “We have a chain of restaurants across the country but this is our first one in cloud format. “A chunk of our customers comprises corporate clients such as banks and they were initially scared to order food from outside. Now they are ordering in bulk and we are sending out at least 50 orders a day,” says Uday Rawal. They serve Chinese, Indian and tandoori food. Government bodies aren’t left behind either. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a wing of the panchayats and rural development department, has set up a kitchen at Mrittika Bhavan, DD Block, near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, where a canteen run by self-help group women serves food. The home delivery initiative took off during the lockdown. “We had bought six vehicles in February to roam the lanes of Salt Lake with our groceries, fish, meat and vegetables. In March, we extended the service to New Town but when the lockdown started, our minister (Subrata Mukherjee) wanted us to help the entire city. So we started taking home delivery orders from all over,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, WBCADC. “The pandemic is giving equal opportunity to all. People are not stepping out of home to go to big restaurants so the fight between big capital and small capital is being fought on a level playing field as it is all down to home delivery now. This is an opportunity for self-help groups,” he adds. The management of Rang De Basanti Dhaba has launched a cloud kitchen under a separate brandname, Curry & Crust, from a floor above its Sector V restaurant for home delivery of Indianised pizzas (Turn to Page 7 for more). Recalling the trying months of the lockdown, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, founder and CEO, Zing Restaurants, says: “Sales went down to zero at the restaurant but home delivery never stopped. Even before the pandemic, 50 per cent of our sales came from home or office delivery. We wanted to expand our offerings in this segment.” In a post-pandemic world, he points out, credibility of a brand will play a big role. “Customers are looking for hygiene and safety standards,” he says. For the greater good GC Block Community Kitchen was started in May when residents, particularly senior citizens, were pleading for help. “On one hand, they suffered without cooks and on the other cooks went without jobs,” says the block’s executive committee, member Jhumpa Ghosh. “So we worked out an arrangement where a cook who lives in a garage of the block was allowed to prepare meals at the community hall. Her family helped her pack and deliver the food to residents who ordered,” says Ghosh. They now cater to nearby blocks on a regular basis and when the cook — Malina Mondal — makes biryani, orders pour in from as far as AJ Block at the other end of the township. Even after domestic helps returned to work, some residents continue with the service as it is fuss-free and eliminates the need to go shop. Indrajit Bhattacharya, a CL Block resident, had been planning a vegetable delivery business. “But the lockdown forced us to start the project prematurely, when we saw the plight of elderly. They were afraid to go to the markets and also unable to access the digital platforms of grocery apps,” he says. “My father is a food technologist and through our primary business of processing and export of seafood, we were already tied up with farmers across Bengal and Odisha,” Indrajit continues. So in April, they began Bengal Fresh Farms from which customers could order over phone and WhatsApp. Their website launches after Christmas and they are adding meat, fish, poultry etc to their list. “We are aiming for 1,000 customers per day by the end of this financial year.” Debdeep Kar is a philanthropist who supports animals and needy children. About a month back, he and a partner started a home delivery unit called Hungry Genie next to AE Market. “A chunk of the profits is going to charity,” he says. They are now serving Italian, Russian and Mexican food. “We have space for a few diners to sit and eat but most people prefer to eat at home now,” Debdeep says. Covid challenges Those like Kalpana are facing manpower shortage. “The first thing I needed for this business was containers to pack the food but nothing suitable was available online. My husband is unwell, mother is 85 and so I’m not leaving the house,” says the lady who finally found a delivery boy to transport her food as well as fetch her ingredients and containers. But Kalpana did not even have a domestic help till December, let alone someone to help out with orders. “My family forced me to get one and I agreed as I didn’t want to be fiddling with water during winter. The help now does my housekeeping as well as washing and chopping for my orders. But I am not taking anyone else so I cannot expand till the pandemic is over,” she says. Shahi Khansama is investing heavily in technology. “We shall use augmented reality to interact with customers. Anyone pointing his phone at our logo may see, for instance, a video of how his biriyani was made,” smiles Biswadeep. But the Gurgaon-based company building this technology had a setback due to the pandemic and work was stalled. Biswadeep has now signed up another company. “We were to fly to Iran to buy spices too but now that won’t be possible; we had wanted to take up stalls in Bidhannagar Mela and all the other fairs this winter but now there’s no telling if the fairs will take place at all.” Happy hearts Despite the challenges, the entrepreneurs are satisfied. “We are learning something new everyday,” smiles Debarati of Pithe Bilashi. “If one of us is unable to come to the centre now we feel restless.” Kalpana had shifted from Jal Vayu Towers to New Town Heights shortly before the lockdown so she hadn’t even had time to make new friends. “Now even if neighbours are coming to pick up the grub with masks on, at least I get to see and speak to them. Besides, I’m feeling happy and creative now,” says the lady who has also applied for a certification from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). “I might be the only home delivery joint to seek this but given my background in the hotel industry, I want to play by the book.” The experience has been liberating for Rahul too. “At one point of being a chef, you’re no longer cooking, just seasoning. Your juniors are doing the actual cooking. And if you run a popular restaurant you have to cook what sells. I made a Khow Suey after 10 years as my regular customers do not want this. But now I’m building a personal rapport with customers. A piece of me is going out with my meals,” he says. Rahul has, in fact, come to love it so much that even after his restaurants reopen he wants to hold Sunday meals on his terrace for a limited number of diners. “Home delivery may be convenient but the customer’s only interaction is with a box with a logo. Where’s the element of warmth? Being served by someone in a mask feels like someone’s out to draw your blood! That’s not how old school hospitality works,” he says. Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal govt recommended to give OBC-B status to Baishnab Bairagis||The West Bengal Commission for Other Backward Classes has recommended to the state government that the Baishnab Bairagi community be given the OBC-B status, the chairperson of the commission, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, said on Thursday. The commission held an online meeting with members of the Baishnab Bairagi community on Thursday. The community had applied to the commission for inclusion into the other backward classes (OBC) category, said Banerjee. “The commission unanimously decided in favour of sending a recommendation to the state government to include the Baishnab community in the OBC-B category,” he said. He said the OBCs were classified into two categories. Those who are socially and economically better off are in the OBC-B category and the rest are in the OBC-A category. Banerjee said the Baishnab Bairagi community would be included in the OBC-B category if the state cabinet approved the commission’s recommendation. “The government will then publish a gazette notification that will make the community a part of the OBC-B category,” he said. But it will not make all members of the community eligible for reservation in government jobs and admission to schools and colleges. They have to apply for an OBC-B certificate. If an individual fulfilled the economic and other criteria, the government will give an OBC-B certificate to that person, after which she or he will become eligible for benefits, Banerjee said. Members of the Baishnab Bairagi community mainly live in the Rampurhat subdivision of Birbhum district, Banerjee said. During the online meeting, community members from Rampurhat as well as from Murshidabad and Burdwan spoke with the commission, he added. “The Baishnab community people are very poor.... Their employment opportunities are also limited,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||State health department issues post-Covid management guidelines||Covid patients in hospital should visit a doctor for a check-up on the 14th and 28th day from discharge and then at least once every month for a year, say the guidelines for post-Covid management of patients issued by the state health department. The schedule may be altered according to a patient’s clinical condition. The guidelines, issued on Wednesday, have also suggested that people in home isolation visit a doctor within seven days of the end of their 17-day home isolation from the onset of symptoms. The guidelines have mentioned that even mild Covid-19 may lead to long-term symptoms like cough, fever and fatigue. Doctors who have been treating Covid patients said the emerging nature of the disease was one reason why people who have recovered from the infection are suggested follow-up consultations at regular intervals. They said it was still early to list all complications of Covid, which is why long-term monitoring is necessary. “Patients should follow up on the 14th & 28th day post-discharge. Then monthly for next 1 year. Follow up schedule may be altered according to patients’ clinical condition,” the guidelines said. “First follow up within one week from completion of 17 days’ home isolation”, is the recommendation for people who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms and were not admitted to hospital. The guidelines also mention some tests like blood sugar level, ECG, D-dimer (to detect any blood clot in arteries) and chest X-ray. The frequency of the tests will vary depending on the severity of the illness. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital who has been treating Covid patients since March, said the disease was not even one year old in India and regular check-up post-recovery was necessary to prevent further complications. “Many Covid patients are showing complications immediately after recovery. The disease is impacting various organs,” said Bandyopadhyay. “Covid-19 is still an emerging disease. We do not yet have enough evidence to definitively say what the long-term complications are. That is why people who have recovered need to remain under regular monitoring.” The Telegraph had on December 11 reported that there were a number of cases in the city of people suffering a cerebral stroke or cardiac arrest a few weeks or months after recovering from Covid. Doctors classified these, as well as other serious problems like infections in the brain, as some of the severe post-Covid complications. Bandyopadhyay said fibrosis of lungs, a condition marked by damage of lung tissues, had turned out to be a common post-Covid complication. A number of non-diabetic persons became diabetic following recovery. Another doctor said some Covid patients suffered from diabetic ketoacidosis, a serious complication of diabetes that occurs when the body produces high levels of blood acids called ketones. The guidelines state those who had moderate or severe illness should get a blood sugar test and chest X-ray done a month after recovery and then every six months. A doctor said it was also important for people who recuperated at home to consult a doctor after their 17 days’ home isolation ended. “No doctor could examine the person during the home isolation period. A lay person may not give due importance to a symptom, but that can turn into a major problem if neglected for a long period. It is always advisable to consult a doctor after the home isolation ends,” said the doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||March 2021 milestone for Tallah bridge ||Construction of five piers on the Shyambazar-end of the Tallah bridge and two on the Dunlop-end will be over by March 2021, the state government has decided after a recent review of the pace of work of one Calcutta’s biggest infrastructure projects in the north. PWD engineers have been accordingly briefed and a blueprint on the work to be done over the next three months has been readied. The foundation for construction of two of the six piers that will come up between railway tracks will also be over by March-end, senior officials in the know said. “There are two immediate deadlines. The first milestone will be reached by March-end. By August 2021, work worth nearly Rs 160 crore, of the total project cost of Rs 340 crore, will be completed,” said a senior PWD official. “That means that by August, roughly 40 per cent of the construction work of the Tallah bridge will be over.” The new schedule of work and the deadlines were drawn up soon after the railway sent its approval for the construction of six piers between seven pairs of railway tracks to hold a 200m-long deck slab of the bridge. The state government had in September sent a detailed proposal to the railway about how it wants to go about constructing the six pillars. The railway’s clearance is required since the Tallah structure will be a railway overbridge. A formal go-ahead from the railway reached the state government a few days back. prompting PWD officials to take stock of the work done so far in Tallah and draw up a blueprint. “We will take blocks on movement of trains of the Circular Railway in Tallah at night for the foundation work of two of the six piers that will come up on the railway land,” a PWD engineer said. The bridge will replace the one that was pulled down a few months ago following reports from engineers that it could collapse any moment. The bridge, which will be a key link of Calcutta with northern suburbs, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Beds too few at obstetrics ward of SSKM||SSKM Hospital’s gynaecology and obstetrics department has patients double its capacity, with many women sharing beds. Reasons: options for women in need of gynaecological care have shrunk as a number of government hospitals have been turned into Covid treatment centres; and a perception that SSKM is safer because Covid patients are not admitted there. Some big government hospitals in the city, such as the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital, have become dedicated Covid treatment centres or have Covid wards. “These hospitals used to handle hundreds of child births. Now, many people are wary of going there to avoid coming in contact with Covid patients,” a health department official said. SSKM has “holding wards” where patients are kept after admission. Those who test positive for Covid are shifted to hospitals that treat such patients. SSKM officials said the crush of patients in the gynaecology and obstetrics department had forced them to look for space where beds for obstetrics could be set up. The search has been necessitated by the steady rise in the number of child delivery cases at the hospital. In March, when the Covid-19 outbreak started in Bengal, SSKM’s gynaecology and obstetrics department had seen a seven per cent rise in the number of child births compared with the average pre-pandemic monthly figure. November saw almost 100 per cent rise and the authorities fear December could be even worse. The department had 110 beds. In June, another 36 were added. “We had found space on the ground floor of Woodburn Block, where we created an extension of the obstetrics ward. But that is far from enough, given the steady rise in the number of patients,” an official at SSKM said. Despite the increase in capacity, two women are at times asked to share a bed. “We will add another 24 beds, taking the total count to 170. The old outpatient department of the ophthalmology unit was defunct and we were planning to set up an eye bank there. But given the situation, we have to create a temporary gynaecology and obstetrics ward of 24 beds there. The facility will become operational by next week,” said the official. However, a doctor of the department said that even the latest addition would be inadequate. “We used to perform around 500 child deliveries every month. In November, there were 939,” said the doctor. The pressure on the department increased further after suburban trains resumed on November 11. The SSKM authorities and health department officials cite unavailability of beds in other hospitals amid the pandemic as the primary reason for the rush of patients to SSKM. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital used to handle hundreds of child births every month. “MR Bangur hospital has been turned into a Covid hospital. A large number of women from south Calcutta and southern fringes would deliver babies at MR Bangur,” said an official of the health department. An official of MR Bangur hospital said doctors of the gynaecology and obstetrics department had been shifted to Baghajatin State General Hospital, where they are mostly handling OPD patients. Calcutta Medical College would handle about 12,000 child births a year on an average, catering to patients mostly from central and north Calcutta. The hospital has 800 beds dedicated for Covid patients. The NRS Medical College and Hospital has 110 beds dedicated for Covid. “Many people are scared of going to these hospitals, fearing they would be infected with the coronavirus,” a health department official said. Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and Sishu Sadan Hospital in Hazra had to stop admissions intermittently as several of its doctors contracted Covid, health department officials said. Rehana Khatun, from Park Circus, had queued up at SSKM’s gynaecology and obstetrics OPD on Thursday. Asked why she did not go to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, which was nearer home, the woman said: “SSKM is a better hospital and also there are no Covid patients here.” “The footfall at the OPDs of SSKM is near normal, around 10,000 every day. Before the pandemic, it used to be around 11,000 daily. The OPD turnout is almost back to normal because SSKM is a non-Covid hospital,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Milder strain of dengue a mercy in Covid-hit year||More than 200 people have been affected by dengue in Salt Lake and parts of Rajarhat from January till mid-December, senior officials of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. According to the civic body’s records, last year the figure of people suffering from dengue had crossed 1,300 by this time. Over 20 men and women had died and several hundred were affected by the vector-borne disease in the past three years, the civic records showed. The superintendent of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Partha Pratim Guha pointed out that the severity of the dengue outbreak was “less than one-tenth of last year”. The reason, he said, was the prevalence of a milder strain of the virus this year. “We have to send aliquots from our dengue positive cases to the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) for genetic mapping. According to their report, it is the mildest type that is prevalent this year. It is neither too virulent nor predominant. The nature of the disease is such that any one strain appears in an environment at a time. It is a huge relief that we are not having to battle dengue side by side with Covid-19 infections. Had any of the other three types of dengue manifested itself this year, we would have been in a soup,” Guha explained. The flip side is the apprehension of a more severe strain next year. Though the dengue season is on its way out, the civic authorities are not taking it easy. Pranay Kumar Ray, a member of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who holds the health portfolio, said that they were taking a variety of measures to ensure that dengue cases did not rise given the current pandemic situation. According to him, they have tweaked the strategy of fighting dengue and have nearly put a stop to fogging, a practice where mosquito repellents are sprayed from a gun mounted on the back of rickshaw vans. This has been done keeping in mind that there might be Covid-19 patients inside a locality and airborne chemicals might make it difficult for them to breathe. On Tuesday, corporation workers used boats to spray larvicide in the waters of the Kestopur Canal. A three-man team rowed up and down the canal near Baisakhi to spray larvicide. According to Ray, the civic health teams are conducting sanitisation drives and spraying disinfectants across all the wards to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A separate set of health workers on the other hand is spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door visits across all the 41 wards to check whether there is any accumulation of fresh water in any of the multistoried buildings or standalone house premises. “We have been requesting all residents to ensure that there is no accumulation of stagnant water on the rooftop of their houses and on the house premises,” said another civic official. Several private nursing homes and hospitals in and around Salt Lake said that they had a regular stream of dengue patients but fatalities have not been reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal boys to take field in Argentine colours||At 11.35am GMT on Thursday, a consignment of 26 Argentina football jerseys landed at Heathrow airport all the way from Calcutta. Tracking its progress online was a bunch of Bengalis in London. On Saturday, they would put on the colours of La Albiceleste and take the field in memory of Diego Maradona. The emotions that the talismanic footballer’s death have ignited in the community in Blighty will result in a match defying biting cold and Covid-19 fears. “We’ll start at 3pm, half an hour before sunset. The temperature would be around 5 degrees Celsius then,” said Pratik Dutta, who had the jerseys flown over from the Maidan market. The two teams will be named Boca Juniors (Argentina) and Napoli (Italy), in a nod to the two club teams Maradona served with passion and distinction. “Their jerseys proved difficult to source and our memories are linked more to the Argentina colours. So we settled for the home and away jerseys of the 2018 World Cup,” said Dutta, who saw Maradona from the Salt Lake stadium gallery in 2008. “I got passes as we used to play in FD Park in Salt Lake, close to Subhas Chakraborty’s house.” The then sports minister had organised Maradona’s tour. A trophy, engraved with the words Diego Maradona Tribute Cup, has reached Srijit Bhaumick’s house in Hayes. Both Srijit and Pratik are 1986-born and missed seeing Maradona in his prime. “But I had him in my life because of my brother, a fan. Our room was full of posters, football video cassettes and sports magazines.” In the squads will also be seniors like Sourav Niyogi and Suranjan Som, the president and vice-president respectively of Bengal Heritage Foundation, the umbrella under which the match will be held. “Like most Calcuttans, we were introduced to live international football — and Maradona — through the 1986 World Cup. He is an integral part of our childhood,” said Som. Which is why when they met on Zoom after Maradona’s shock demise, everyone wanted to pay a tribute. “Initially we thought of a football quiz. But Srijit insisted on a match. Others were hesitant because of the cold, but later came around,” said Niyogi. The Goals Gilette Corner, a practice facility in west London, was booked. Covid cast a shadow on the match earlier this week when London  was put under a stricter lockdown. “We are in Tier III now. Though organised outdoor sports has been allowed, only the players can attend. We also had to reduce the size of the squads.” Now it is down to 13 in each team. Since not everyone is in shape, the match will be a 50-minute affair. “Some of us will take turns, letting the young Turks carry on full time,” said Niyogi, who has started running daily. To compensate for the reduced participation, the prize distribution will occasion a virtual meet on December 22, an evening bound to be soaked in football nostalgia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CU sets domicile term for admission to a BTech seat||An engineering aspirant intending to take part in the decentralised counselling for admission to a BTech seat under Calcutta University has to be domiciled in Bengal. CU introduced the condition in the notification issued on Wednesday announcing counselling for 89 of the 237 BTech seats that have remained vacant after centralised counselling by the JEE board. The notification signed by Amit Roy, the secretary of the faculty council of engineering and technology, says: “Participating candidates must be domicile of West Bengal. Domicile of other states shall not be eligible.” A CU official said the university had not set any such condition in the centralised counselling. But from the time Jadavpur University had introduced the domicile clause last year for admission to BTech courses, CU had been under pressure from a section of teachers and students to do the same. Submission of online applications for admission started on December 16 and will go on till December 21. Candidates whose names figure on the state JEE merit list will be admitted in order of merit. A member of the CU’s faculty council for engineering and technology faculty said the criteria that need to be fulfilled to become eligible for domicile quota seats would be the same as what was spelt out in the information bulletin of JEE 2019. “Only those candidates will be treated as domicile of West Bengal who are either, a) residing in West Bengal continuously for at least for 10 (ten) years as on 31.12.2018; b) whose parent (s)is/ are permanent resident(s) of West Bengal having permanent addresses within the State of West Bengal,’’ the rules read. The four-year BTech programme was introduced at CU in 2015. Until 2019, the engineering seats for students in the state-funded university were open for students from all states. “The rationale for the reservation is that students from Bengal were being outnumbered by candidates from other states in engineering courses. The same rationale was cited while introducing the quota in JU last year,’’ said an official of CU. When asked why the university did not introduce the domicile clause when the JEE board had started centralised counselling in August, the official said another section of teachers opposed the domicile quota on the ground that an established university should not be shutting its doors on deserving students in the name of reservation. “A domicile quota in my opinion will erode the institute’s regional diversity, which is an extension of a university’s inclusiveness,” said a teacher of computer science and engineering known for his opposition to reservation. Sources said the higher education department sought to know from CU in August whether the university had introduced the domicile quota at the time of centralised counselling. “The university could not resist the pressure anymore and settled for the domicile quota months before the Assembly elections. The department had overruled legal constraints cited by the JEE board in implementing the domicile policy for engineering courses at Jadavpur University from 2019,’’ said another teacher. Sources on the campus said the dean of engineering and technology faculty council has convened a meeting on December 22 with the heads of the departments and on agenda is how to introduce the domicile quota during the centralised counselling in 2021. The notification says the dates of counselling for the 89 vacant seats will be announced later. CU’s vacancy figure last year was 50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Forum holds health camps||The New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum has started a Sunday camp to be held over the next two months to bring doctors and pathology labs closer to residents across the township. The first camp took place last week in DB Block next to the Newtown School. Coming Sunday, there will be one at Jal Vayu Towers and another in DA Park, that will also cater to residents of Balaka Abasan. New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum will be holding more than 10 health camps across the three action areas in December and January. “The elderly are scared to visit hospitals now so we are bringing specialists from as many disciplines as possible and holding the camps in open-air parks,” said joint convenor of the forum Samir Gupta. A total of 12 camps will be held, with more than one on some Sundays, he added. The first camp, at DB Block, was inaugurated by psychiatrist Kedar Ranjan Banerjee, a resident of AL Block, New Town. “This is the first camp of its kind here and it was desperately needed. Sixty people have enrolled but even more and coming,” said Amit Kumar Basu, secretary of DB Block Welfare Association. “Not everyone can afford private healthcare and there have been times when our residents could not even find someone to fix a saline on them.” Rudrasish Banerjee, a resident of the block, had come with his mother mainly for her eye check-up. “We live in a big city but healthcare here is minimal. We are glad something like this is happening,” he said. Besides eye care, there was ECG, blood pressure and sugar tests, and consultation with doctor and dietician. “More than half the patients getting their blood test done today didn’t even know they had high blood sugar,” said Amit Singh, from Metropolis Health Care Chinar Park, who was doing the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CMC brings property tax waiver letter at defaulter doorstep||Civic officials have started reaching out to house owners with letters of intimation informing residents about their pending property taxes and requesting them to submit an application by December 31 for waiver of interest and penalty. Since the roll-out of the waiver scheme on October 1, this is the first time civic officials are going door to door to hand over the letter of intimation, which would otherwise be sent by post to the defaulters. With just about a fortnight left to submit the waiver application, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they were trying to offer a “gentle reminder” to defaulters so that they could avail themselves of the benefits. Property tax defaulters together owe the CMC Rs 2,500 crore. “A demand notice will be issued immediately on receipt of the waiver application. The person concerned can then pay the amount either in full or in instalments within the specified dates and get full or partial waiver,” said an official of the CMC’s assessment department. Over the last few days officials from each ward have started visiting houses and apartments with letters of intimations, along with a pamphlet for each defaulter where details of the waiver scheme are printed on one side and the format for application seeking waiver on the other. The letter of intimation has details of the amount left unpaid till March 31 this year and the cumulative amount due to the CMC with interest and penalty. Forms are available both online and offline and can be submitted online or at any of the CMC’s common collection centres or any of its e-Calcutta citizen service centres. Bills can be collected online or at these centres. There are 20 such centres in the city. By applying for the waiver scheme, a defaulter would just have to pay the principal amount if it is paid within February 28, 2021. The waiver on penalty will be 99 per cent and that on the interest 60 per cent if the amount is paid by March 31, 2021. “For housing complexes or apartments with a considerable number of defaulters we are even prepared to accept cheques if they want to pay collectively,” said the official. “The associations or the committees will fix a date and inform us when an official will go and receive the cheques before handing over receipts.” The outreach programme comes around a time when the state is learnt to be preparing to hold the civic elections in Calcutta by end-March. Ahead of the elections, the state government wants to wrap up the process of recovering as much as possible the outstanding amount from property tax in Calcutta, officials in the know said. “There are several housing complexes and apartments where the amount due on property tax ranges between Rs 16 lakh and Rs 25 lakh,” said an official. “Even if half the amount is recovered through this waiver scheme, it would be quite an amount.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CC Block clinic starts with resident doctors ||So out of reach have doctors become during the pandemic that residents themselves are now trying to create makeshift platforms to bring doctors closer to patients. Newtown CC Block Residents’ Welfare Association has struck an arrangement with resident doctors who have agreed to tend to patients in the common space on the ground floor of one of their co-operative buildings. Open-air venue The makeshift clinic is at Need Co-operative Housing Society, housed at CC 45, in Street 245. A nearby landmark would be Biswa Bangla Gate. A table, a chair and a makeshift bed for inspection have been set up in an area cordoned off with curtains. “I am a child specialist but during the pandemic I have been getting calls to treat adults too. They have nowhere to go as all doctors have been refusing them,” said Atanu Banerjee, one of the doctors who will be sitting at the clinic. “I myself am a senior citizen but have gone on house visits and even tended to patients sitting outside medicine shops.” Banerjee then spoke to the block association to start the clinic. “We had long wanted to start something like this but seeing people’s helplessness during the lockdown accelerated the process,” said vice-president of the association Biman Samaddar. “New Town looks like a rich man’s abode from afar but what about labourers? The doctor’s fee paid by a rich man is often the monthly income of labourers.” Other resident doctors who will be chipping in are Asok Mukherjee and Subrata Dey. “I’m currently a resident of Shyambazar but have a house being built in CC Block,” said the head of the cardiothoracic surgery department at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. While he supports the initiative, he has arranged for his junior colleague, Subhajit Sharma, to come here regularly. “The incidence of heart attack itself has reached pandemic proportions in our state but most patients of high blood pressure don’t even know what they suffer from,” said Dey. “If clinics like this can get them to check their sugar and pressure, it could save lives.” There was also Himangshu Sekhar Patra, a physician who wants to help but is unable to do so at the moment. “My hospital is in Howrah and commuting takes time. We are overworked and after wearing two masks the entire day I am left with a bad headache and no energy to volunteer. I shall consider lending a hand after the pandemic,” he said. Secretary of the association Atanu Mahapatra said the clinic would be functional four to five days a week with details to be finalised soon. Some more doctors are keen to join the movement. “While we are calling this initiative Charitable Doctors’ Clinic we have not made it free as it would then not be taken seriously. The fee for residents is Rs 300 and that for labourers, caretakers and other needy people is Rs 50,” he said. Also present was the state-level assistant secretary of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha, Sourav Chakrabarti. He cited how once everyone was flocking to a village in Maslandapur for a supposed miracle cure for all diseases — mud and water. “We tested the concoction, found it dangerous for consumption and tried to break the congregation. We  faced massive backlash and despite all our logic and reasoning, the mob had one question that had us hanging our heads in shame: ‘Will you take responsibility for our health?’ Our country spends a miniscule amount on health and there is a desperate need for such clinics to bail out needy patients,” Chakrabarti said. The first patient at the clinic, on Sunday, was three-year-old Avipsa Sen, who had stomach ache. “We have our backs against the wall whenever my daughter falls ill,” said her mother Archana, the wife of a caretaker in a nearby building. “I have to cycle to far-off places in search of a doctor with Avipsa tied to the rear seat so she doesn’t fall off.” “Instead of waiting for the government to come up with a solution, it’s good that the association started this,” said Avijit Roychoudhury, chairman of the co-operative, where the clinic has come up.  Eventually they want to shift the setup to some other permanent space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Celebrating Satyajit Ray’s centenary||Satyajit Ray would have evolved his own style of filmmaking had he lived to make films for the Internet age, felt speakers at the Bengal Club Library Event celebrating Ray’s centenary in an online adda. The master of the big screen had made telefilms like Sadgati and Pikoo and would not have minded making films for OTT platforms, they said. OTT platforms or over-the-top streaming services are offered to the viewer directly via the Internet. Talking about the multifaceted Renaissance man, who was at once a children’s storyteller, a film director, an illustrator and a music director, filmmaker Goutam Ghose said: “Ray belonged to a Bengal Renaissance family where everyone had a scientific bent of mind but practised the arts. He loved to travel and whenever he wrote about a place he would write about its geographical location along with its art and culture. Bengalis learnt a lot about Jaisalmer from his Sonar Kella.” After the death of Sukumar Ray, the family went through a lot of upheaval but Ray’s mother Suprava Ray did everything to nourish young Ray’s mind, including sending him to Visva-Bharati to be with Rabindranath Tagore. “Notations of Beethoven, Bach were his bedtime readings,” said Ghose. About the writer Ray, son Sandip said: “Though he wrote Feluda, Professor Sonku for children, he got letters and phone calls from his adult readers more than children. And he also made more money writing Feluda, Professor Sanku and Tarini Khuro stories than he did by making films.” He imbibed his characters with a Bangaliana and yet rooted them in an internationalism that was also reflected in himself. Just as Professor Sanku would wear western clothes for his international conferences, so would Ray wear jackets and scarves at international film festivals. But he would be found in khaddar dhuti panjabi at home in Calcutta, pointed out Aparna Sen who played Mrinmoyee in Samapti. Talking about how she bagged the role, Sen said: “Manik kaka came to our house when I was 11 years old. It was my sister’s birthday and I was in a skirt. He was then looking to cast someone for Aparna in Apur Sansar and he had one look at me and said ‘Na, e bodo chhoto’ (she is too young).” Conjecturing what Ray would have done had he not made films, Ghose said he would have been a symphony composer. Sen thought he would have been a great painter. A student till his last day, he would eagerly learn anything that was new to him. In his kheror khata for Sadgati, he would practice writing the Devnagri script, said Ghose. Dhritiman Chatterjee was the actor Ray found very easy to work with. When Chatterjee shot for Pratidwandi, his shots were approved at one go with no retakes, said Sandip. Ray had spent an hour with Chatterjee before deciding to cast him for Pratidwandi. “In that one hour, we discussed everything, from films to politics. He watched me very closely all the time,” recounted Chatterjee. While rounding up the session, every panelist agreed that they missed the presence of Soumitra Chatterjee in this adda to celebrate Ray’s centenary. “He should have been here with us,” said Ghose, lamenting how his death had brought a pall of gloom on Bengalis collectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Global pizza gets a desi twist||The tandoor is the new birthplace of the pizza. Sauce has made way for curry. And oregano flakes have been replaced by a mix of masala-roasted jeera, kasuri methi etc. Welcome to a desi version of the archetypal Italian flatbread with toppings. The Rang De Basanti kitchen, known for its north Indian specialities, has diversified into pizza-making and a new cloud kitchen in Sector V has been christened Curry & Crust: Tandoori Pizza, keeping both its core competence and its new venture in focus. In keeping with post-pandemic trends, it is a delivery-only brand. The offerings, which are the result of experiments carried out over a month and half, are what the man behind the brand, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, calls “globalised pizza”. “Indian curries are our strength so we thought why not marry it with another popular dish? Our pizzas are targeted at global sensibilities but carry the comfort and familiarity of home,” says the founder and chief executive officer of Zing Restaurants, which owns both the brands. Maheshwari, who started his career as a sandwich maker at Subway, where he worked part-time for three years during his undergraduate studies in Rochester, New York, hit upon the idea of thickening the curry that is the soul of north Indian gravy dishes and using it in place of sauce on a flatbread. The range of desi toppings — keema masala to chicken tikka — followed. Currently the menu has nine standalone offerings. “Take our Kadhai Chicken Tandoori Pizza. The flatbread base has been reworked. On it, we have used kadai gravy as the sauce base. On top of it, mozzarella and cheddar cheese have been spread with capsicum, onion and tomatoes. Once the Kadhai Chicken pieces are added, the pizza goes straight into — not the oven but — the tandoor,” said chef Somir Das. And it tastes fine! They have even devised their desi version of garlic bread — lasoon naan! The most popular vegetarian pizza on the menu is a corn and saag one (picture left). Here spinach is blanched and tossed with corn as the topping alongside the cheese. There are options in pav bhaji and paneer too. “Yesterday, we were trying out fish and chips as toppings. The possibilities are endless,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Blooming flowers bring much peace and joy||One can only imagine how tough the lockdown has been for Nimai Chand Gupta, a 79-year-old widower who has had to live much of this year all by himself. What kept him going, perhaps, was a hobby he picked up two or three years ago — gardening. Without help, he is unable to do much of the heavy lifting and doubts if his blooms this winter will be as abundant as before but if they keep him happy, they will have done enough. After March, I left Salt Lake all of four times, each time to bid the final goodbye to a loved one. Then, in September, my full-time domestic help of 10 years left. Now I am all alone. In such a bleak scenario I am turning to my plants. I have done up my front yard, backyard, drive way and terrace but each has its own pros and cons. The front yard, though a small patch, is fertile. It grows Spinach, Coriander, Mustard, Radish, Bitter Gourd, Chichinge… I used to have flowers here too but they would get stolen. The backyard is deprived of sunlight ever since some construction was done in a neighbour’s house. It has Neem, Banana, Lemon but the trees never bear fruit. Why, I have two Papaya trees of the same age — one in front and one at the back. The one in front has grown to a height of two storeys whereas the one at the back is just waist-high! A Mango tree in the backyard receives sunlight on one side and early this year, only that side had filled with little Mangoes. Along came Amphan and brought them all down. My domestic help made pickle out of it but I can’t stand pickle. I usually carry it to the US when I visit my sons but there’s no telling when that will happen now. I usually gift lots of vegetables to neighbours but even that had to be stopped due to Covid. So I alone ate the Brinjal, Palong Shak, Pui Shak and Lady’s Finger that grew here. I have always kept busy with plays, quizzes, debates or simply by helping out in the neighbourhood so social distancing is difficult for me. I’m killing time in the garden as much as I can. I’m preparing for Dahlias, Chrysanthemums and Marigolds this winter but it’s not easy dragging sacks of soil or lifting heavy buckets with my back and knee ache. Flowers bring me much peace and joy. Earlier this month, a Hibiscus bloomed in the terrace that was yellow with a deep pink centre. It was so beautiful that it made my day. The doctor has asked me to walk five miles daily so I wear my Fitbit smart watch and walk on the terrace and driveway, counting my steps and looking at the lovely flowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cyclists meet traffic cop at Lalbazar||A group of cyclists met the deputy commissioner (traffic) of Calcutta police at Lalbazar on Thursday and reiterated their demand that cycles be allowed on all roads in the city, some of those present at the meeting said. The police have banned cycling on arterial roads of Calcutta. Cyclists were allowed on arterial roads after the Covid outbreak started in March because many people were forced to cycle to work and other places in the absence of public transport. But recently the police launched a drive to stop cyclists on arterial roads. Sources have said that over time this would be followed by prosecution. Metro reported on Wednesday that cyclists and cycling enthusiasts had written to Calcutta’s police commissioner with an appeal that bicycles be allowed on all city roads. “After we wrote to the police commissioner, we were asked to meet the deputy commissioner (traffic). During Thursday’s meeting, we told him that the restriction on cycles should go. Cycles should be allowed on all roads. We told him how many cities across the world are promoting cycling,” said Gargi Maitra, a member of Bengal Clean Air Network. Several cyclists have said that riding bicycles has become a necessity for many now, especially the poor. During the pandemic, people can avoid crowded public transport by cycling to work. “We are not talking about recreational cycling. We are talking about cycling for need, cycling as a safe mode of transport during the pandemic,” a cyclist said. Raghu Jana, the convener of Kolkata Cycle Samaj, a platform for cycle owners and cycling enthusiasts, said the police should stop imposing fines on cyclists for riding on arterial roads. “I told the deputy commissioner that the police should not fine people for riding bicycles on roads. Fine only if a cyclist violates a traffic rule,” said Jana. Rupesh Kumar, the deputy commissioner (traffic), told Metro: “I met them (cyclists) and listened to what they had to say.” The cyclists also referred to the annual phenomenon of poor air quality in the city in winter and stressed the urgent need to reduce tailpipe emissions. “Cycles are a good alternative to vehicles powered by diesel and petrol. Cycles do not pollute the air. Cycles take less space than cars but move more people,” one of them said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Of blooms and thorns||Unusual shapes, a wide range of sizes, varied textures and beautiful blooms — cacti are and other succulents are a category like no other. They are hardy plants and grow readily in deserts as well in Salt Lake. There are innumerable kinds of cacti are and other succulents in the wild and today we shall find out about some under the Echinopsis head. This robust species ranges in shape from globular to tall and columnar, with flowers and spines that differ greatly in size and colour. This diversity is due to the current amalgamation into one genus of the former genera Echinopsis, Lobivia, Pseudolobivia, Soehrensia and Trichocereus, which originated in countries such as Chile, Argentina, Ecuador and Peru. About 150 species of this group include night-flowering plants that have several flushes of summer blooms as well as others that flower erratically in the daytime from spring to summer lasting one or two days. The round fruits of this species are generally green. Most cacti of this group can be grown without much care. Amongst 100 species of this group are names like Echinopsis densispina, oxygona and backebergii. Let us look at the brief description of some of them below. Echinopsis Forty-Niner: Like all Echinopsis hybrids, this pleasant-looking cactus was developed to create a more handsome and larger body. It was also meant to produce flowers of a more vivid colour. Its bright golden blooms open at dusk, at intervals throughout spring and summer, and fade after 24 hours. Their necks can be up to nine or 10 inches long. This sun-loving globular plant is very robust. Echinopsis Mammilosa: This small cactus produces flowers when only three inches in diameter. It opens on summer nights and again, lasts for about 24 hours.  Protect this plant from unsightly scarring and grow it in the full sun. Echinopsis Marsoneri: Often the shape and spine of this cactus vary. In summer, short-necked flowers which are gold with a red throat appear on the sides of the stem. This cactus remains happy with sun or shade. The spectacular black-throated flowers of this species are the main attraction. It has long been known as Lobivia. The stems cluster to form a small group that in habitat is almost buried, particularly in the spring when the heads are flush with the ground and difficult to see. There are various flower colours of this type including yellow, red and orange. The Marsoneri grows better in northern Argentina, high in the mountains where it is very cold. As such it will survive in very cold weather if kept dry. The large roots store water to help it survive. Propagation will be better done by cutting, which can be easily rooted. Echinopsis Chamaecereus: This is also known as Peanut Cactus. This small slender plant has very short, white spines and spreads rapidly to form a cluster of creeping candle-like stems. It flowers profusely, producing funnel shaped blooms, which open fully in the sun during late spring or early summer. The small berries are spiny. The plant prefers slight shade and is easily grown from offsets. The columnist, patron of Bidhannagar, expired earlier this year. This is his last column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Business||Markets extend winning run to 6th session||Extending its winning run to the sixth session, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 70 points to end at a new record on Friday following gains in Infosys, ICICI Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries. After opening at its lifetime intra-day high of 47,026.02, the 30-share BSE index pared some gains to finish at 46,960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,760.55 -- its new closing record. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, SBI, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech, Titan and Asian Paints. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Maruti and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered from the day's low in tandem with recovery in banking stocks, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Record foreign fund flows remain as a key driving force for the market. Strong prospects of earnings recovery, satisfactory progress on vaccination along with consistent improvement in recovery rate from COVID-19 cases, weak dollar and depressed interest rate scenario continue to act as key tailwinds for Indian equities to attract FPI flows," he added. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 2,355.25 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.35 per cent to USD 51.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sensex opens at record high, turns choppy in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a choppy note on Friday as profit-booking emerged at fresh highs in early trade amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After opening at its lifetime intra-day high of 47,026.02, the 30-share BSE index pared the gains to trade 141.30 points or 0.30 per cent lower at 46,749.04. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.90 points or 0.33 per cent to 13,695.80. It hit a high of 13,713.55 in early trade. It touched an intra-day high of 13,771.45. ONGC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Infosys, HCL Tech, TCS, Nestle India and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 223.88 points or 0.48 per cent up at 46,890.34 -- its new closing record. NSE Nifty also rose 58 points or 0.42 per cent to a new closing high of 13,740.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,355.25 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. According to traders, profit-booking has emerged at higher levels. Domestic equities continue to look firm and resilient. A record FPIs flows remain a key driving force for the market, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Strong prospects of an earnings recovery, satisfactory progress on vaccination along with consistent improvement in recovery rate from COVID-19 cases, weak dollar and depressed interest rate scenario continue to act as key tailwinds for Indian equities to attract FPIs flows," he noted. Going forward, while markets continue to look buoyant on its underlying strengths, rich valuations and rise in input costs may act as key threats for a broad-based rally, he added. US markets finished at record highs as Congressional leaders look close to finalising fiscal stimulus to support businesses and individuals hit by a resurgence of COVID-19, he said. He further stated that the dollar index slipped below from the 90 level, which continues to bode well for emerging markets including India. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 51.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Cautiously optimistic about 2021: Pawan Munjal||Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO of Hero MotoCorp, was cautiously optimistic about emerging from the clutches of the pandemic in 2021. At an interactive session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, Munjal in conversation with Suhel Seth, MD and founder, Counselage India, said the process of emergence from the pandemic could take a few months. “Everyone wants to get into 2021. But don’t forget, for now, coronavirus is also travelling with us into 2021. We have started seeing a vaccine now.. This is going to be a process of some months,” Munjal said. He added that the pandemic has offered an opportunity for businesses to work hard and grow. Citing his own company’s performance, Munjal said Hero MotoCorp has seen the best ever month of October since 1985 when the company started. He added that there was highest production, sales and dispatch. "My mantra in the company was don't let this opportunity go to waste. Personally I am optimistic that 2021 will be a good year for the country," he said. Munjal said that innovation and technology will be a key driver going forward and he cited the example of Ather Energy, an electric scooter manufacturing starup where Hero Motocorp has invested. He also said that despite passage of 10 years since parting ways from Honda, Hero has continued to grow and has even partnered with Harley Davidson in India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Government to invest $60bn to create gas infrastructure ||Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the government has planned a $60-billion investment to create gas infrastructure in the country till 2024, and the share of gas in the energy mix is expected to rise to 15 per cent by 2030. At present, gas accounts for 6 per cent in the country’s total energy mix. Speaking at Assocham Foundation Day Week 2020, the minister said, “We have envisaged a spend of $60 billion in creating gas infrastructure till 2024, including for pipelines, LNG terminals and CGD networks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Gadkari cautions steelmakers against profiteering ||Cautioning against profiteering by steel makers, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention towards a 55 per cent hike in steel prices by players during the past six months, making projects unviable. The road transport, highways and MSME minister also said if the players failed to curb the practice, the government will have to change policies and encourage alternative technologies in projects. Addressing the Assocham Foundation Week on ‘national infrastructure pipeline critical for economic revival across sectors’, Gadkari also said a GPS system for tolling is on the anvil in which toll payments will be deducted automatically on the distance traversed. “There has been a 55 per cent hike in steel prices in the past six months. I have written to the PM and steel minister (Dharmendra Pradhan) for a decision on this,” Gadkari, who earlier warned cement makers against cartelling, said. He also said a long-term policy is needed for it as the prices hiked did not match raw material and labour rates. “A long-term policy is needed for steel and cement manufactures... a uniform policy,” he said and added that had the price hike been in the range of 15-20 per cent, it could have been justified but it was abysmally high. “They can enhance productivity and earn profit. Else, projects will become unviable,” he said and elaborated that steel and cement accounted for 40 per cent of the project cost. The minister said that alternatives are being explored for steel such as Malaysian and Singapore technology and added that earlier, when cement makers started profiteering, he had to stop 100 per cent concrete roadbuilding and revert to the bitumen model. “This kind of attitude by players is not good for infrastructure and real estate,” he said. The minister also said the GPS-based system will be introduced for toll collection with Russian expertise where the toll amount will be deducted from the commuter account or e-wallet on the basis of distance traversed. This will be rolled out within two years, he said. He also exuded confidence that toll collection will reach Rs 1.34 lakh crore in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sitharaman pairs farm laws with economic reforms of 1991||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman likened the introduction of farm laws and labour codes with the economic reforms of 1991, alluding to how adversities can bring out new opportunities. While crediting the then Congress government for opening up the economy, she reminded how the balance of payments crisis had necessitated the “big step forward” in 1991, to underscore how Prime Minister Modi in 2020 is bringing in new reforms when the world is reeling under the pandemic. “The PM never let go of an opportunity. Even now during the pandemic, when industry is trying what best to do to reset themselves in the changed environment, he didn’t miss out the opportunity to do the big reform of the agri sector and introduction of labour code,” Sitharaman said while addressing the annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Speaking on a web platform from New Delhi, the finance minister admitted that no amount of intervention would be enough to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the industry during the pandemic even as she outlined the steps taken by her government in providing incentives to industries. “Capital expenditure from public sector undertakings, especially for infrastructure, will be kept up,” she assured the members of the ICC, now headed by Keventer chairman Mayank Jalan. In his opening remarks, RP-SG chairman Sanjiv Goenka suggested the government should extend the deadline for completing new projects beyond March 2023 by 6-9 months to enable them to avail the tax rate of 15 per cent . He also suggested surplus land with PSUs should be made available for setting up new industries. She also assured that the Centre will continue with public expenditure with greater pace in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Tata Motors to buy out partner stake in Tata Marcopolo Motors||Tata Motors is buying out its partner’s stake in bus joint venture Tata Marcopolo Motors (TMML) for around Rs 100 crore. “After a successful venture in India and as a consequence of its refreshed business strategy, Marcopolo S.A. has decided to exit the JV and offered to sell its 49 per cent shareholding in the JV to the company,” Tata Motors said in a communication to the bourses on Thursday. Consequently, the homegrown auto company and Marcopolo SA have entered into a share purchase agreement where the Tatas will purchase the balance 49 per cent shareholding in TMML for a cash consideration of Rs 99.96 crore, it added. The joint venture had posted a net profit of almost Rs 21 crore on a turnover of Rs 651 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. The transaction will see Tata Motors purchasing 8.33 crore shares for a consideration of Rs 12 per share aggregating to Rs 99.96 crore. The acquisition is expected to be completed by February 28 next year. After this transaction, TMML will become the wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Motors. Further, all technologies pertaining to existing bus body products manufactured will continue to vest with TMML. Tata Marcopolo Motors is a 51:49 JV formed in 2006 between Tata Motors and Marcopolo S.A., one of the largest bus and coach manufacturers globally. The company said since its incorporation, the JV has introduced several innovative design and concepts helping redefine the premium bus body segment in India. The JV has manufacturing facilities in Dharwad and Lucknow where it builds bus bodies on chassis supplied Tata Motors. These buses are marketed by the company under the “Starbus” and “Starbus Ultra” brands. Tata Motors said that as part of the transition, Marcopolo S.A. will continue to license the “Marcopolo” trademarks to TMML for a minimum of three years with a non-compete provision. The company, Marcopolo S.A. and TMML, intend to maintain an open channel for future collaboration opportunities around bus body designs and technical consulting services, Tata Motors said. Shares of Tata Motors on Thursday ended lower 0.47 per cent at Rs 181.65 in the BSE, resulting in a market cap of over Rs 51,000 crore. Since its 52 week low of Rs 63.60 hit on March, the shares have risen almost 186 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sebi suggestes relaxations in norms to encourage listing of start-ups||Markets regulator Sebi on Thursday said it has suggested relaxations in norms to encourage listing of start-ups, including reducing the holding period for pre-issue capital and allowing discretionary allotment to all eligible investors. The changes have been proposed to the framework for listing on Innovators Growth Platform, Sebi said. Other proposals include providing differential voting rights (DVR) to promoters, retaining superior voting rights (SR) for existing institutional investors holding over 10 per cent of capital, and easing delisting requirements as well as takeover norms. The market regulator has issued a consultation paper in this regard and sought suggestions from the public till January 11. Sebi has suggested reducing the period of holding of 25 per cent of pre-issue capital of the issuer company by eligible investors to one year from the current norm of two years. On the lines of provisions for listing of companies on the main board, Sebi has proposed that “up to 60 per cent portion of the issue size may be allocated on a discretionary basis, prior to issue opening, to all eligible investors... provided there will be a lock in of 30 days on such shares.” Issuer companies seeking listing under IGP should be allowed to issue DVR and SR equity shares to promoters and founders, Sebi suggested. The market regulator also proposed that there should be continuation of special rights such as board seat and veto or affirmative voting rights for existing institutional investors holding in excess of 10 per cent of capital. Another proposal is to exempt Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) Category II investors from post issue lock-in requirement of six months, subject to certain conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||SC reserves verdict on loan moratorium petitions ||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions seeking extension of moratorium which ended on August 31 till March 31, 2021 and waiver of interests during the moratorium period. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, which heard the arguments over several days, have concluded the  hearings and will pronounce the verdict in the next few days. On Thursday, senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava, appearing for some of the business houses, said: “The government and the RBI have come up with measures for small borrowers (for loans up to 2 crores) on which I made submissions regarding discrimination. They have shown nothing on record to prove why this was done.” He said 26 sectors were severely impacted yet the government has not done anything substantial for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court reserves verdict on Cyrus Mistry ||The Supreme Court on Thursday concluded the seven-day marathon hearing of rival arguments on the  appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019, directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The NCLAT order was subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court in January this year. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian after hearing the concluding arguments reserved its verdict which is expected to be pronounced after January 2, 2021. Resuming his Wednesday’s arguments, senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for the SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) group told the court that Cyrus Mistry’s removal in 2016 was illegal and even Farida Kambhata refused to vote in favor of ouster of Mistry, while another board member abstained himself from voting in favour of Mistry’s departure. Divan said three directors who voted for Mistry’s ouster were yet to even undergo an induction programme. “There was a complete pervasive violation of Articles of Association, Companies Act and principles of corporate governance went for a toss. Duty and  good faith of directors should be towards all shareholders, not a few,” he remarked. Justice Bobde asked: “Did Mistry knew he would be removed ?” to which Divan responded saying “No, it was complete ambush.” Divan said  Mistry’s performance was recognised by over 50 directors of Tata Group companies yet he was removed as executive chairman abruptly. Mistry had succeeded Ratan Tata as chairman of Tata Sons in 2012 but was ousted four years later. The top court on May 29 had issued notices to Tata Sons and others on a cross-appeal filed by Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd. Tata Sons had earlier told thetop court that it was not a “two-group company” and there was no “quasi-partnership” between it and Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd. Tata Sons had made the averments in an affidavit filed in the apex court while responding to the cross-appeal filed by Cyrus Investments seeking the removal of alleged anomalies in the NCLAT order for getting representation on the TSPL’s board in proportion to the stakes held by his family. Mistry had also filed an affidavit to the apex court saying  Tata Group had an adjusted net loss of Rs 13,000 crore in 2019 — the worst losses in three decades. In his reply to the Tatas' petition challenging his reinstatement by the NCLAT last December, Mistry had also demanded that group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata should reimburse all the expenses to Tata Sons since his departure in December 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||RBI to step off the pedal on aggressive dollar purchases||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to step off the pedal on aggressive dollar purchases after the US Treasury Department put the country on a currency manipulator watchlist along with nine other nations. Analysts said the RBI was already stuffed with sufficient forex reserves to cover one year of import giving it the leeway to follow a hands-off policy in the currency market. On Wednesday, the US had put India in its monitoring list of currency manipulating countries. Its report said that India met two of the three criteria of having a material current account surplus and engaging in persistent, one-sided intervention over the reporting period. There is no official word yet from the RBI to the sharp observations by the US which clubbed India with Vietnam, Switzerland and Singapore for "intervening in the foreign exchange market in a sustained, asymmetric manner”. The RBI has often maintained that it does not target a particular level of the rupee and that its intervention in the markets is to only curb undue volatility in the exchange rate. It remains to be seen how the Indian government responds and deals with the Biden administration to get its name off the list. In his statement after the MPC meeting ended on December 4, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the apex bank has been taking measures for dampening volatility and enabling orderly evolution of the exchange rate in consonance with underlying domestic fundamentals. “Mindful of the consequences of these actions for domestic liquidity and inflation, the injections of liquidity through forex interventions are being sterilised by absorptions through the reverse repo,” he added. Its intervention came as India has seen a deluge of dollars from portfolio inflows and other sources. For instance, Reliance Industries has alone raised more than $25 billion in its digital services and organised retail business from various investors. On the other hand, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have ploughed Rs 1.54 lakh crore into equities so far during this calendar year. The Treasury report also comes at a time the American dollar is forecast to remain weak as investors turn their attention to riskier assets from amid countries starting to administer the coronavirus vaccine, the global economy recovering and expectations of a stimulus in the US. The currency is near two-year lows and the dollar index which measures the greenback against a basket of currencies also fell below 90 to 89.94 for the first time since April 2018. The US index is calculated as a geometrical average based on its six constituent currencies: the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss franc. It is a geometric average, rather than an arithmetical average, because each currency is multiplied by its respective percentage weight. However, it did not have much impact on the rupee in Thursday’s trade. The currency ended just one paisa lower at 73.59 against the greenback amid a firm trend in the domestic equity markets. At the inter-bank forex market, the local unit opened at 73.52 against the dollar and witnessed an intra-day high of 73.39 and a low of 73.59. It finally ended at 73.59 against the American currency, registering a fall of one paisa over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||Investors make beeline for Bectors' share sale||The initial public offering (IPO) of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities on Thursday became the most sought after issue in three years as investors made a beeline for the share sale. The IPO was subscribed 198 times as it received bids for 2,62,10,42,200 shares against 1,32,36,211 shares on offer, according to data available with the NSE. At the lower end of the price band, the value of these bids comes to around Rs 75,000 crore. The price band for the share sale was set at Rs 286-288 per share and the offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. On its last day of subscription, the offering saw bids from high net worth individuals coming in at over 652 times, while it was 178 times in the case of qualified institutional buyers and over 29.50 times from retail investors. Its investor interest also beat that of Burger King which was subscribed more than 156 times. The company is present in the premium and mid-premium biscuits segment and the premium bakery segment. It manufactures and markets a range of biscuits such as cookies, creams, crackers, digestives and glucose under its flagship brand “Mrs. Bector’s Cremica”. It also makes bakery products that include breads, buns, pizza bases and cakes under its brand “English Oven”. Shares of Jubilant Foodworks jumped to a record high after the operator of Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts announced its foray into the biryani business, betting on the popularity of the rice-based dish among Indian diners. The food service company will sell biryani under the brand Ekdum!, with prices starting from Rs 99, it said in a filing to the stock exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the share hit a new 52-week high of Rs 2927.50, a rise of 9.43 per cent over its previous close. Though the counter gave up some of its gains, it closed at Rs 2,803.75, which was around Rs 128.55 or 4.81 per cent higher over the previous close. It now has a market share of over Rs 37,000 crore. Meanwhile, shares of Burger King witnessed a two-sided movement as it surged another 10 per cent on Thursday to an intra-day high of Rs 219.15. However, profit taking came in and the share settled at 179.35, a fall of almost 10 per cent. Jubliant Foodworks said in order to drive convenience and ease of ordering, Ekdum! will offer an easy-to-use app, mobile and desktop website. It will initially start with three restaurants in Gurgaon for delivery, takeaway and dine-in, with more restaurants planned to be opened in the national capital region over the next few months. “We are confident that Ekdum!, with its sharp and differentiated proposition will create a strong position for itself in the market,” chairman Shyam S. Bhartia said while speaking at the launch of the new brand. Jubilant Foodworks has a network of 1,264 Domino’s Pizza restaurants across 281 cities and also has the exclusive rights to develop and operate Domino’s Pizza brand in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. The company also has exclusive rights for developing and operating Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants in India and has 26 Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants across 8 cities in the country. Shares of Burger King, which have been sizzling in the bourses since its listing, witnessed a two-sided movement as it surged another 10 per cent on Thursday to an intra-day high of Rs 219.15. However, profit taking came in and the share settled at 179.35, a fall of almost 10 per cent over the previous close. There was also good news in the IPO segment with investors making a beeline for the share sale of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities. The initial public offer (IPO) was subscribed198 times so far on the last day of subscription on Thursday. On Tuesday, the issue was oversubscribed within a few hours of opening. This is the second IPO after Burger King to have received such a good response. It received bids for 2,62,10,42,200 shares against 1,32,36,211 shares on offer, as per data available with the NSE. The offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. The price band for the share sale has been fixed at Rs 286-288 per share. Brokerages like Angel Broking had asked investors to subscribe to the issue. “`We believe that there is a good possibility of listing gains given the lower valuations compared with other listed peers. Further, considering attractive valuation and strong future growth prospects in packaged biscuits we recommend a ‘subscribe’ rating to this IPO for the long term,” its analysts had said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||India||Punjab CM ridicules Kejriwal as a ‘big fraud’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ridiculed his counterpart Arvind Kejriwal on Friday over his alleged double standards over the farm laws, a day after the Delhi Assembly passed a resolution against the legislations and the AAP leader tore up its copies. Singh described Kejriwal's act as "theatrics" as the Delhi government had given approval to the "black farm laws" by notifying one of them last month, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party leader was indulging in "petty politics" now. "This shows Kejriwal and the AAP have a different face for the people, with totally contrarian intentions hidden inside," the Congress leader said, calling the Delhi chief minister a "big fraud". Singh termed both the AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal a "bunch of hypocrites whose double standards on the farm laws had exposed their lack of commitment to the farmers". "The AAP and Akali Dal MLAs never say what they mean, and vice versa," Singh said in an informal interaction with the media in Mohali after the launch of the second phase of 'Punjab Smart Connect Scheme', where smartphones were distributed to another 80,000 Class 12 students of government schools. According to Singh, the AAP and the Akali Dal legislators extended support when the state government passed bills in the Assembly to negate the Centre's farm laws, but both the parties changed their tune to "suit" their political interests. "And now, in a bid to exploit the farmers' agitation, they have again done a U-turn on the issue and are projecting themselves as the messiahs of the farmers, whose interests both parties had been instrumental in pawning off to the BJP," he said. "While SAD was party to the introduction of the farm ordinances in the first place, the AAP government in Delhi had been quick to implement one of the draconian laws," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||India, China resume talks on border situation at eastern Ladakh||India and China on Friday resumed their diplomatic talks over the standoff at easten Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and agreed to continue working towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points. At a meeting held virtually, both sides agreed that the next round of talks should be done soon so that troops can be disengaged completely in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) said. The talks were held under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. “The two sides agreed that based on the guidance provided by senior leaders and the agreements reached between the two Foreign Ministers and Special Representatives, they would continue to work towards ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector at the earliest,” it said in a statement. “The two sides noted that the seventh and eighth rounds of senior commanders meetings held on October 12 and November 6 respectively had in-depth discussions in this regard and that these discussions had also contributed to ensuring stability on the ground,” the MEA said. It said India and China agreed to maintain close consultations at the diplomatic and military level. “They agreed that the next round of senior commanders meeting should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity,” it said. The meeting comes a day after India on Thursday hoped to hold a discussion with China to agree on a mutually acceptable solution for the complete disengagement of their troops. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few months to resolve the standoff. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said the two sides continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels and these discussions have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other's positions. “It is our expectation that the further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” he said. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Rajnath points at changing nature of war ||Apparently referring to the impact of social media in conflicts between nations, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said the reach of the mobile phone now was bigger than that of a missile. Addressing the annual Military Literature Festival here, Singh warned that different kinds of security threats may emerge in the future This event is important from another point of view, he said through video conference. "As times change, the nature of threats and wars is also changing. In the future, other security-related issues may come before us. He added that conflicts are gradually becoming comprehensive in the manner never imagined earlier. Possibly alluding to the power of social media and mobile apps, he said, Today the range (marak Kshamta) of mobile has crossed even the reach of a missile, he said. He added that the enemy can now reach people even without crossing any borders and urged everyone to play the role of a soldier. We should remain alive to these dangers and save ourselves from wrong and misleading information and save others too, and festivals like this can play a key role in this, he said, urging literary figures to make use of their talent to the full for this. The defence minister did not specifically refer to China. But in recent months, since the standoff between the two sides began at the Line of Actual Control, India has banned several Chinese mobile apps, citing concerns related to national security and privacy. These included popular TikTok and WeChat apps. Singh said this year's edition of the festival was special as the country is observing the 50th year of 1971 India-Pakistan War. He also said there are many veterans around who fought that war and urged the youth to learn from them. The defence minister said war games played on mobile phones were no match to their real-life experiences. Singh said he was scheduled to participate in last year's edition of MLF but could not come to Chandigarh due to a Parliament session. But he had kept himself regularly updated on the festival events, including book releases and panel discussions, the minister said. All these events give a close insight to the people, especially the youth, into military life, he said. He said the festival also gave common people a better understanding of the functioning of the armed forces and instilled patriotic spirit in the youth. Punjab for decades has been the land of the brave and it is only natural that such festivals started from here. The festival is also a tribute to those warriors who gave up everything for the nation's sake, he said. Earlier, Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore and former Jammu and Kashmir Governor N N Vohra also spoke. The annual event is a joint initiative of the Punjab Government and the armed forces. It is ending on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Farm laws were long overdue, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the new agricultural laws brought by his government have not come overnight, but were long overdue and insisted that the existing regime of support price for farm produce will continue. Political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers demanded such agri reforms for long, he said and attacked the Opposition for misleading cultivators on the issue of MSP (minimum support price) and APMCs. Opposition parties, when in power, sat over the Swaminathan committee report for years, but the BJP-led government implemented its recommendations in the interest of farmers, said the PM as the ongoing protests by cultivators outside Delhi entered the 23rd day. The new agriculture laws have not come overnight but political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers have demanded them for a long time, Modi said in a virtual address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh. "The new agriculture laws have not come overnight but political parties, agriculture experts and progressive farmers have demanded it for a long time. "In the last 20-22 years, the Center and the state governments have deliberated on these agriculture reforms in detail. Farmer bodies, agriculture scientists and farmers too were continuously demanding them," he said. "In fact, farmers should seek answers from those opposing them now as to why they advocated these farm laws in their manifestos for getting their votes, but never fulfilled the promise. It was not their priority," Modi said. "Their problem is how Modi has done it. Why Modi should get credit for it. Give credit to your manifesto and not to me. I just want the progress of farmers, but stop misleading them on the issue," he added. "If you see their manifestos, you will find that today's reforms are not different from what they had promised," the prime minister said. "You are using farmers' shoulders to fire at the government," he said, hitting out at the opposition. "We are asking them again and again to point out problems in the new farm laws, but they don't have any answer. Those who have lost their political space in the country are misleading farmers that they will lose their lands," he said. "I wish to expose these political parties now. The report of the Swaminathan committee is an example. When the report came, they sat on it for eight years. "Farmers were agitating for it, but they were not bothered. As they didn't want to pay farmers more, they sat on the report," Modi alleged. "Our government treated farmers as "annadata" (one who provides food) and implemented the Swaminathan committee report. We have given 1.5 times more MSP than the cost of production," the prime minister added. "Two years ago it was promised that loans will be waived, but farmers of Madhya Pradesh know better than me how many farmers got benefit in reality. In Rajasthan, farmers are still waiting for the loan waiver," he said, attacking the Congress which rules in Rajasthan and was in power in MP until March this year. As to the fear that MSP for crops will be done away with, the prime minister said, "Our government is so serious about MSP that it announces it for crops even before sowing. "Over six months have passed since the implementation of the new agriculture laws, and crops were purchased at MSP even during the coronavirus pandemic and in the same mandis (APMC markets) where farmers used to sell (earlier). "No sane person will accept that MSP will be scrapped." "Nothing will be a bigger lie and conspiracy than this," Modi said, assuring that MSP for crops will continue. "Those opposing the farm laws were also spreading lies about Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs)," the prime minister said. Under the new law farmers are free to sell the produce in the existing APMC mandis if they get more price, he said. "Not a single mandi was closed in the last six months. In fact, the government is spending Rs 500 crore on their modernization," the prime minister said. Referring to the new law on contracts between private entities and farmers, he said such agreements existed earlier too. The new law makes such agreements more binding on private entities, and they can not run away from their commitment to the farmer even if they suffer a loss, Modi said. He will address the farmers again on December 25 on the issue, the PM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||CBI files charge sheet against all four accused in Hathras case||The Central Bureau of Investigation filed a charge sheet on Friday against all four accused in the alleged gang rape and murder case of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, officials said. The top investigation agency invoked charges of gang rape and murder against accused Sandeep, Luvkush, Ravi and Ramu, their lawyer told reporters outside the local court in Hathras. The court has taken cognisance of the matter, he added. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped by the four accused from an “upper caste” community in Hathras on September 14. She later died on September 29 while undergoing treatment at the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. The matter came to national attention all the way more when the police handling the case cremated her body in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out :as per the wishes of the family”. According to officials, the CBI looked into the role of the four accused men who are in judicial custody. They were also put through different forensic tests at the Forensic Science Laboratory in Gandhinagar, they said. The CBI investigators had also met doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, where the victim was treated after the alleged gangrape on September 14, they said. The Yogi Adityanath Government had faced a lot of flak for the case which was later transferred to the CBI. The CBI had constituted a team to probe the incident and handed over the probe to its Ghaziabad unit. The team has already recorded statements of family members of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||SC grants interim protection to Bengal BJP leaders facing criminal charges||The Supreme Court on Friday approved interim protection to five Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including Mukul Roy and MPs Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arjun Singh, in criminal cases lodged against them in Bengal. The top court directed the state police not to take any coercive action against them. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought response from the Bengal government pertaining to five separate pleas filed by the BJP leaders, alleging that the election-bound state had imposed criminal cases to defer them from political activities. It said that the interim protection from coercive action will continue till the next date of hearing. The top court posted the batch of pleas for further hearing in the second week of January. Besides Roy, Vijayvargiya and Singh, two other BJP leaders Sourav Singh and Pawan Kumar Singh have moved the apex court for protection in cases lodged against them in the state. While granting protection to these five leaders, the bench directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to submit in a sealed cover a report regarding alleged scuffle between TMC workers and security staff of Bengal BJP leader Kabir Shankar Bose, who has filed a separate plea in the apex court. During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for petitioner Arjun Singh said that 64 criminal cases have been filed against the BJP leader in 2019 after he had joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaving Trinmul Congress. “I am an MP and these cases have been filed after I left TMC”, Rohatgi said, adding, “The first case against Arjun Singh was registered on March 24, 2019 after he left the TMC .” Vijayvargiya's counsel told the bench that the BJP leader is an MP from Madhya Pradesh and false cases have been lodged against him in Bengal. “I am an MP from Madhya Pradesh and just because I am going to Bengal due to some party works, false cases have been filed against me,” Vijayvargiya's counsel said. The BJP leaders have also sought investigation by an independent agency into the cases registered against them in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Twitter to relaunch verification policy from January 20||Twitter on Friday said it will relaunch its account verification process from January 20, whereby active and authentic user accounts can sport the "blue verified badge". The enforcement of the new process will also see the microblogging platform removing the verified badge from inactive and incomplete accounts. In November, Twitter had announced that it will relaunch its account verification process in early 2021 and had asked the public to share feedback between November 24 and December 8 on a draft of its new verification policy. The company had paused its public verification programme three years ago, after getting feedback that it felt arbitrary and confusing to many people. "In the two weeks during our public feedback period, we received more than 22,000 survey responses and learned so much about how we can improve our policy... We'll begin enforcing this policy on January 20, 2021, which is also when we'll begin automatically removing the verified badge from inactive and incomplete accounts," Twitter said in a blogpost. It added that this new policy will lay the foundation for future improvements by defining what verification means, who is eligible for verification and why some accounts might lose verification "to ensure the program is more equitable". Twitter said based on the feedback, it has updated some areas of its verification policy. The social media platform has updated its definition to no longer require a profile bio or header image, updated its references to Wikipedia to better align with the encyclopedias' published standards for notability and article quality, and clarified the titles of the 'News' category to include 'News and Journalists' and the 'Sports' category to include 'Sports and esports' to be more inclusive. Twitter has also added a reference in its 'Entertainment' category to more clearly include digital content creators. "We heard feedback that measuring the minimum follower count requirement on a per-country basis wasn't always the right approach, so we've updated this to be on a per-region basis to make our follower count requirements less susceptible to spam and more equitable across geographies," it said. Users will be able to access the self-serve application process through the Account Settings page on the web and in-app. The process will include asking applicants to select a category for their verified status and confirming their identity via links and other supporting materials. "We plan to use both automated and human review processes to ensure that we are reviewing applications thoughtfully and in a timely manner. We also plan to give people the option to share demographic information after completing the new verification application so that we can better measure and improve the equity of our verification process," it added. Twitter said it has started rolling out profile labels for political candidates, government accounts and state-affiliated media. "In addition to the changes we're making as we re-introduce verification, we're also working on new ways to designate different account types, starting with automated accounts and memorial accounts," it said. Twitter noted that many people had suggested it add categories for verification including academics, scientists and religious leaders and that it plans to explore adding dedicated categories for these to the policy sometime next year. On removal of the badge from inactive and incomplete accounts, Twitter said it defines a complete account as one that has either a verified email address or phone number, a profile image, and a display name. "If your account is at risk of losing its verified badge, you'll receive an automated email and an in-app notification informing you of what changes need to avoid automatic removal of your blue verified badge. As long as you make those changes before January 20, 2021, your account will not lose its badge," it said. Twitter added that it is not planning to automatically remove the verified badge from inactive accounts of people who are no longer living, and is working on building a way to memorialise these accounts in 2021. "Under our policy, we may also remove verification from accounts that are found to be in severe or repeated violation of the Twitter Rules. We will continue to evaluate such accounts on a case-by-case basis, and will make improvements in 2021 on the relationship between enforcement of our rules and verification," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India|| Covid vaccination to be voluntary, confirms health ministry||Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary, the Union Health Ministry has said while underlining that the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries. The ministry further stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of the past history of infection with Covid-19 as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. It also said that a protective level of antibodies generally develops two weeks after receiving the second dose. The ministry listed a series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday night and responded to questions like if taking a vaccine was mandatory, how long does it take for the antibodies to develop and if it was necessary for a Covid recovered person to take the vaccine. "Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers," the ministry said in response to a question on if it is mandatory to take the shot. The ministry said that vaccine trials are under different stages of finalisation. The government is geared to launch a vaccine for Covid-19 soon, it said. Six vaccines- one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, second one developed by Zydus Cadila, the third one by Gennova, Oxford vaccine, the trial of which is conducted by Serum Institute of India, Sputnik V vaccine which is being manufactured by Dr Reddy's Lab, Hyderabad, in collaboration with Russia's Gamaleya National Centre and the sixth one manufactured by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, in collaboration with MIT, USA are undergoing clinical trials in India. On whether a vaccine will be safe as it is being tested and introduced in a short span of time and what can be the possible side-effects, the ministry said vaccines will be introduced in the country only after the regulatory bodies clear it based on its safety and efficacy. "Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced only when the safety is proven. As is true for other vaccines, the common side effects in some individuals could be a mild fever, pain, etc., at the site of injection," the ministry said in the FAQs. It said states have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery. Two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken by an individual to complete the vaccination schedule, it stated. The ministry said anyone taking medicines for illnesses like cancer, diabetes, hypertension etc., can take the Covid-19 vaccine as persons with one or more of these comorbid conditions are considered high-risk category and they need to get the vaccination. In response to a question on whether the vaccine will be given to everyone simultaneously, the ministry said that based on the potential availability of vaccines, the government has selected priority groups to be vaccinated as they are at higher risk. In the initial phase, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to the priority group- health care and front-line workers. The 50 plus age group may also begin early based on vaccine availability. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number regarding the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries, the ministry said in the FAQs. On why healthcare providers and frontline workers are being chosen for receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said the government has prioritised the most at-risk/high risk groups which will get the vaccine first. Healthcare providers have led the battle against Covid-19 from the front. The government wants them to be able to continue your work, without the fear of risk associated with the virus. "Therefore, healthcare and frontline workers are among the first group of people to be vaccinated," it said. The ministry said registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination for Covid-19. Only after registration the information on the session site to visit and time will be shared. Following online registration, the beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number on the due date, place and time of vaccination. ID with Photo such as driving license, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, PAN Card, passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, passport Pension Document, service identity card issued to employees by Central/ State Govt./ Public Limited Companies and voter ID may be produced at the time of registration. On getting a due dose of vaccine, the beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number. After all doses of vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary, the ministry said. On preventive measures and precautions, the ministry said, "We request you to rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. "Inform the nearest health authorities/ANM/ASHA in case you feel any discomfort or uneasiness subsequently. Remember to continue following key Covid Appropriate Behaviours like wearing of mask, maintaining hand sanitization and physical distance," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
18-12-2020||India||Fire safety audit must for all dedicated Covid hospitals, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday directed all the states to carry out a fire safety audit of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the country to prevent fire incidents in medical institutions. The apex court also directed dedicated COVID-19 hospitals to take a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department within four weeks and said that failure to do so will invite punitive action. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that those hospitals, whose fire NOC has expired, will have to get it renewed within four weeks. The bench, also comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said that issue of political rallies and observance of COVID-19 guidelines will be looked into by the Election Commission. The apex court had earlier taken cognisance of a fire incident in a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot in which several patients had died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||SC issues show-cause notice to comedian Kunal Kamra, comic artist Rachita Taneja ||The Supreme Court issued show-cause notices to stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja on Friday for their alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah sought response from both in six weeks on the notices issued in two separate cases. It, however, exempted them from personal appearances in the cases. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was a time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The attorney general had also given consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against Taneja, stating that the caricatures posted by her on social media were intended to denigrate the Supreme Court and lower its authority in the eyes of the public. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. The top court had reserved its order on Thursday on a batch of pleas seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra and Taneja. During the hearing on Thursday, advocate Nishant R Katneshwarkar, who appeared for one of the petitioners, claimed that Kamra had posted several tweets scandalous to the judiciary. In the plea against Taneja, senior advocate P S Narasimha and advocate Namit Saxena appeared for law student Aditya Kashyap seeking contempt action against the cartoonist. Kashyap had said the petition highlighted three particularly outrageous and contemptuous posts that were crafted, posted and shared by Taneja through her social media handles (@sanitarypanels) on various platforms with the malicious intent of scandalising and lowering the authority of the apex court and to prejudice and interfere with the due course of judicial proceedings. The plea has sought a direction that Taneja is restrained from publishing contemptuous posts on social media that scandalise and undermine the authority of the top court. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. They have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea has alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||India's Covid tally on the verge of touching one crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 99.79 lakh with 22,890 new infections being reported in a day, while total recoveries crossed the 95 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Friday. With 338 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,44,789, while the total COVID-19 cases mounted to 99,79,447, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95,20,827, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.40 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below four lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 3,13,831 active cases in the country which comprise 3.14 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,89,18,646 samples have been tested so far with 11,13,406 samples being tested on Thursday. The 338 new fatalities include 65 from Maharashtra, 44 from West Bengal, 35 from Delhi and 27 from Kerala. Total 1,44,789 deaths reported so far in the country include 48,499 from Maharashtra followed by 11,981 from Karnataka, 11,942 from Tamil Nadu, 10,182 from Delhi, 9,235 from West Bengal, 8,136 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,069 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,150 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Centre encroaching on rights of states, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday accused the Centre of blatantly interfering in the Bengal administration, saying its move to transfer police officers in the state was an "assault" on federalism. The TMC government in Bengal led by Mamata Banerjee is strongly opposing the Centre's move to send three IPS officers, who were involved in the security of BJP chief J P Nadda during his recent visit to Bengal, on central deputation. "I condemn the Centre's blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilize," Kejriwal tweeted. The three IPS officers were responsible for the security of Nadda whose convoy was attacked during his recent visit to the state scheduled for Assembly polls in 2021. The Centre wants them shifted on account of alleged dereliction of duty that led to the attack on Nadda's convoy in Diamond Harbour constituency of TMC MP and Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee. The Bengal Chief Minister has slammed the Centre saying the move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It's "unconstitutional" and completely unacceptable, she has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Unjust laws will face massive protests: Chidambaram||When a massive number of people think that a law is unjust, there will be massive protests, P. Chidambaram told the Supreme Court on Thursday. “Remember what happened in the US against the Vietnam war, in Paris.... Farmers have not blocked the roads. The farmers only wanted to march to Delhi in a peaceful manner. We must see who has stopped them. It is the police who have blocked them,” said Chidambaram, appearing for the Punjab government in the farmers’ case. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said: “The question whether a mob should be allowed into the city or not is a question best left to the police and not the court. We don’t have the infrastructure.” Chidambaram interjected to say: “This is not a mob but farmers.” The CJI clarified: “I didn’t use the word ‘mob’ in the Chicago sense.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Centre to Supreme Court: No assurance on farm laws||The Centre on Thursday refused to assure the Supreme Court that it would not implement the three new farm laws till the bench had heard all the parties, setting up an exchange on who was being adamant. Any such assurance would encourage the “adamant” farmers to avoid talking to the government, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal said. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde retorted: “They (farmers) may say you (the government) are adamant.” The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, made it clear it would not “interfere with the protest” and that “at this stage the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment”. It, however, stressed that while the entire country sympathised with the farmers, the protests should be non-violent and not cause any inconvenience to the public. When senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Delhi resident Janeshwar who wants the farmers evicted, kept harping on the city’s roads being blocked, Justice Bobde asked him sharply whether the protesters had blocked, or threatened to block, “the entire city”. The court said that although it would go into recess from the weekend and reopen only on January 4, the parties would be free to approach any vacation bench in between. In particular, it said, the various farmers’ unions could present their views on the composition of the committee the court wants to appoint to resolve the issue. The court clarified that it would not at the moment decide the validity of the new farm laws but focus on resolving the dispute through the proposed committee. “We won’t decide on the validity of the law…. We will first decide on the right of citizens to freely move across India,” the bench said. The court is considering two petitions demanding eviction of the farmers from Delhi’s borders on the ground of their blockade causing hardship to residents, and a third seeking repeal of the farm laws. “Mr Attorney-general, will you assure the court that you will not implement the law, till we hear all…. We are not staying the law but you can just say that no action will be taken,” Justice Bobde said. “No, that is not possible because then the farmers will not come for discussion,” Venugopal said. The Chief Justice said: “It (the assurance) is to enable the discussion.... We don’t think they (farmers) will accept your (government’s) conclusions. Let the committee decide. We have observed that you have not been successful in negotiations.” Last week, the apex court had rapped the Centre for continuing construction and tree relocations for the Central Vista project despite the matter being under its scrutiny, saying: “Some deference should be shown to the court.” A give and take on the issue of the right to protest versus citizens’ right to life took place between the bench and Salve, who was appearing also for the states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, whose borders with Delhi have been besieged by the farmers. Salve insisted that the blockade was affecting “our right to life” and had raised the prices of fruits and vegetables, and that the farmers’ arrival in “droves” had increased the risk of Covid-19 infection. “We are making it clear, we recognise the fundamental right to protest against law, but it shouldn’t result in damage to anyone else’s life,” the Chief Justice said. “We will not interfere in it (the protest) but the manner of protest is something we will look into. We will ask the Centre in what way the manner of protest can be altered.” Salve conjured up gory possibilities, saying the agitators must in writing own responsibility for anything untoward, such as the burning of a taxpayer’s car or destruction of public or private property. But Justice Bobde recalled that a fine Bombay High Court had imposed on the Shiv Sena after an unruly protest had not yet been recovered. “We cannot make them give deposits with the government before the protest,” he said. As Salve held forth on Delhi’s roads being blocked, the CJI asked: “Is the entire city, and entry routes blocked? Don’t gloss over this point, have they said they’ll block all roads to Delhi?” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta and Venugopal intervened to say the farmers had blocked all the entry points to Delhi. Advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government, denied any blockade in the capital. He alleged the Centre was making “mischievous submissions” without affidavits. The Centre had made BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Haryana respondents in the case but not the Delhi or Punjab governments. The court order later underlined that according to the farmers, “the roads are blocked by the police in order to prevent the entries of the protesters/farmers to the city of Delhi”. Justice Bobde said the court wanted the committee to include independent experts like journalist P. Sainath, who has written on rural matters, poverty and inequality, apart from farmer leaders and government representatives. Appearing for Congress-ruled Punjab, former Union minister and senior advocate P. Chidambaram said the state had “no objection to a committee of eminent people having a dialogue between farmers and the Centre”. The court’s written order said: “We clarify that this court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law. “We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police. “The writ petitions challenging the said laws have been filed before this court and will be decided in due course. In order to bring about an effective solution to the present stalemate between the protesters and the Government of India, we consider it appropriate in the interests of justice to constitute a committee comprising of independent and impartial persons including experts in the field of agriculture for the purpose. This may not be possible without hearing all the necessary parties. “The pendency of these matters will not prevent the parties from resolving the issue amicably.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi writes to Lok Sabha Speaker seeking intervention||Rahul Gandhi has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla about the functioning of parliamentary standing committees, seeking his intervention to ensure that agendas are fixed according to these panels’ roles and objectives. Sources said Rahul had decided to write the letter after Wednesday’s experience at a meeting of the standing committee on defence, where the army brass were made to discuss the colours and designs of uniforms instead of critical concerns relating to national security and strategic affairs. Rahul is said to have expressed dismay at time being wasted on matters that could have been decided by the defence forces themselves. Sources said Rahul’s letter urged the Speaker to ensure that the discussions and presentations held in the committee “are in consonance with the role and objective of the institution”. Regretting that committee chairman and BJP member Jual Oram had not allowed him to speak, the Congress MP entreated the Speaker to protect the right of elected members to express their views at the panel meetings. A member of the committee on defence said that at Wednesday’s meeting, Rahul had said: “Our job is to discuss critical national security matters of a strategic nature.” He had contended that the topic and the nature of the presentation did not do justice to the category and level of discussion expected in the committee. Rahul is said to have raised these points in the letter to the Speaker as well, expressing “dismay” at the content of the discussion and the way the meeting was conducted. Proceedings of the department-related standing committees and other parliamentary panels are kept confidential so that the members do not feel compelled to blindly follow the party line at the discussions. Although the members are not expected to speak to the media about the proceedings at the meetings, it is not exceptional for information, particularly relating to conflicts along party lines, to be leaked. Wednesday’s incident was widely reported although Rahul did not speak to the media about it. A source said Rahul had underlined in his letter that the standing committee on defence, being the premier interface between the defence forces and elected representatives, is meant to provide legislative oversight for the policies and decisions of the defence ministry. He has told the Speaker he feels disturbed that the panel chairman got the Chief of the Defence Staff and the leaderships of the army, navy and air force, who have important matters to deal with, to spend an entire afternoon explaining the colours and types of uniforms and insignia worn by the various ranks. Congress sources said the committee chairman had asked the members before the meeting to suggest matters they thought were important enough for discussion. Since Rahul was in his constituency, Wayanad, on the date of the last meeting, he had written to the chairman suggesting these issues for discussion: “1. Our strategy against China’s aggressive posture on our northern border in coordination with Pakistan. 2. Our response to China’s reusable autonomous armed drones and unmanned systems strategy, its approach to information warfare and its rocket, strategic force and space capabilities. 3. The inter-governmental agreement on the purchase of Rafale warplanes.” While the government’s reluctance to discuss details of the Chinese intrusion with Opposition members has been obvious, accepting Rahul’s demand to reopen the Rafale debate too would be out of the question for the ruling dispensation. The committee chairman fixed military uniforms as the agenda for Wednesday’s discussion. Congress members, who thought the border situation was too serious to be ignored, were further outraged when they realised the presentation would not be on the logistics or procurement of uniforms but on their colour and design. Rahul has reaffirmed his concern in the letter to the Speaker, stating: “You are aware that we are currently facing a serious national security challenge on our borders and that China has forcibly occupied our territory and martyred 20 of our soldiers. There are many critical matters to discuss at a time like this.” A panel member recalled what Rahul had said at the meeting: “The officers in the room are the best strategic minds the country has and it is disrespectful to their tremendous skills and experience to make them do a presentation to us on the types of uniforms and badges our forces wear.” Rahul insisted that it was not the committee’s place to tell the armed forces what to wear. “India’s defence forces are independent institutions and what they wear is their decision to make, in accordance with their history, traditions and practice,” he had said. Rahul has now explained to the Speaker how Oram disallowed him from speaking despite support for him from other members. He has written that he had to quietly leave the room when he was not allowed to speak despite several requests. The chairman had firmly said: “Aap nahin bolenge (You will not speak).” On Thursday, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar accused Rahul of having no respect for constitutional procedures, claiming he had attended only two of the 14 meetings of the standing committee on defence. “Rahul Gandhi should know that Parliament’s standing committee is not a place to protest. We strongly condemn his move to walk out,” Javadekar said. “In the last one-and-a-half years, Rahul Gandhi has attended only two of its 14 meetings,” Javadekar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Direct khap participation to swell farmer ranks||The heads of all the 15 khaps or traditional sub-caste councils in western Uttar Pradesh set off for Delhi’s Ghazipur border on Thursday afternoon with about 100 supporters each to join the farmers’ dharna against the three new farm laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the khaps had been sending food, cots and other essentials for the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, but he had now asked them to join in directly. “Their direct participation means a lot to us. Each khap leader has a following of over 10 lakh people. Let the government imagine what will happen if they and all their followers descend on Delhi’s borders,” Tikait said. Each khap represents a gotra (clan or patriline) within the farmer-dominated Jat community. The khaps command immense clout in the villages and, despite lacking legal authority, continue to discharge their traditional responsibility of settling disputes or issuing diktats on community matters. Some among the 84 khaps in western Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana have earned notoriety as kangaroo courts by ordering murders of inter-caste or intra-gotra couples or banning western clothes and mobile phones for women. The 15 khap leaders of western Uttar Pradesh, all aged above 60, arrived at Baraut in Baghpat district on Thursday morning and held a meeting till afternoon, chalking out their strategy. Among them were Naresh Tikait who heads the Baliyan khap, Chaudhary Virendra Singh (Latiyan khap), Baba Surajmal (Battisa khap) and Surendra Singh (Desh khap). They then set off on the 150km journey to the Ghazipur border along the Meerut-Delhi highway in separate convoys of tractors, tractor trailers and cars. They expect to reach the Ghazipur border, near Noida, on Friday, Virendra Singh said. “Lakhs of people want to join us. We’ll halt in several villages on our way to ask them to wait for the next round of instructions,” he said. “Currently, there are only 100 people with each khap leader. The others eager to travel to Delhi’s borders will do so when the government uses force against us.” He added: “We request the government to repeal the new farm laws instead of irritating us.” Sources said the khap members and others accompanying the khap chiefs were from 150 villages. Ravindra Dauraliya, BKU divisional (Meerut) president, said: “We are arranging food, blankets and everything else the khap leaders and their followers need for a comfortable stay at the dharna site. They (khap leaders) are highly respected in their areas and need special attention.” He said the police had put up barricades at several places to disrupt the khap leaders’ journey but added that they would make it to the Ghazipur border “at any cost”. The khap panchayats have also decided to block all the highways connecting Uttar Pradesh with Uttarakhand and Delhi on December 19 to mount pressure on the government to repeal the new farm laws. Rakesh Tikait, who is on dharna at the Ghazipur border, said: “The way the Centre is trying to divide the farmers by sending its people to infiltrate our protest and create confusion is a clear indication that our demand will not be accepted easily. That’s why we requested the khap leaders to join the movement directly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Farm bills: Govt replays hardsell and suspicions||The government, which has hit a stone wall of resistance from the farmers’ unions, on Thursday switched to a direct appeal to the peasantry with an eight-page open letter from agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The letter repeated all the official claims about the benefits of the three contentious farm laws and the conspiracy theories about the ongoing protest that is gathering steam. The open letter, released after a meeting of the BJP leadership and senior ministers at the party headquarters on Thursday afternoon, appears to be an attempt to ensure that more farmers do not join the protest by telling them that the union leaders are being misled by political parties and also disruptive forces who are not interested in the welfare of the country. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court had decided to form a committee to resolve the farmers’ agitation, saying the government’s negotiations would “again fail” and the dispute would “soon become a national issue” if allowed to fester. Tomar sought to play the nationalism card by reminding farmers that the protests were happening at a time when soldiers were dealing with heightened tensions on the Leh-Ladakh border. He said that because of the protests, supplies were being forced to be ferried to the forces by air. However, the fact is that because snow blocks mountain passes to Ladakh for at least four months every winter, the military had already moved over thousands of tonnes of supplies to the area by September itself. A Reuters report of September 16 had quoted the chief of staff of the army’s 14 Corps, Maj. Gen. Arvind Kapoor as stating: “All the supplies that we need have already been pushed to wherever they are required.” While alleging that certain farmers’ organisations have been misled by a web of lies woven by Opposition parties, Tomar also said that the government was constantly talking to the unions to address their concerns. Though both sides have been open to talks, there has been no official contact between them for a week now. Without referring to any specific corporate house or product, Tomar has also commented on the farmers’ call to boycott telecom provider Jio, alleging that there was a hidden agenda in the protest action at a time when the nation was working for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” and being “vocal for local”. Hours later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted Tomar’s letter and urged all farmers to read it. Soon, further evidence emerged that the government has gone into a messaging overdrive. Its publicity arm, the Press Information Bureau, sent out bulk emails of two booklets — one on the special relationship the Modi government has with Sikhs and another on “Putting Farmers First” — to journalists. Both the booklets have been in circulation for over a week now. Ten economists who work on agricultural policy have written a letter to Tomar, echoing the demand for repeal of the three farm laws. “We do believe that improvements and changes are required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, but the reforms brought by these Acts do not serve that purpose. They are based on wrong assumptions and claims about why farmers are unable to get remunerative prices, about farmers not having freedom to sell wherever they like under the previously existing laws, and about regulated markets not being in the farmers’ interests,” the letter said. Detailing their reasons, the economists said amending a few clauses of the three laws would not be sufficient to address the concerns of the farmers, calling for a repeal followed by wider discussions with all stakeholders on the measures needed for equitable and sustainable growth of the sector. The protesting farmers are sticking to their guns despite the bitter cold, demoralising deaths of protesters and the efforts being made by the government to stop further mobilisation.  In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the call for the “Dilli Chalo” protest action, said: “The central government is coming up with new spins every day to discredit and denigrate the very people who have elected it and given it the right to govern. “This is unacceptable in democratic India. The grammar of democratic governance must be articulated by the government and constitutional institutions like courts exist for checks and balances, not as replacement of the obligations to be performed by the political executive,” the statement said. The farmers’ unions refused to comment on the Supreme Court’s observations in the case, maintaining that they would speak only after consulting their lawyers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: Castro keeps company, so does Gorky||Protesting farmers, who have been holding fort at the Singhu border for over 20 days, are keeping monotony and boredom at bay by adding new books to their reading list — day after day.  For many, it is a newfound love. Thirty-two-year-old Harbans Singh, who has been camping for the past one week, said he can’t recall the last time he had picked up a book for reading. His reasons for doing it now: “to keep tempers down” and “to get inspired by the greats”. “There are many like me who have started reading books during the protest only. Currently, I am reading Punjab Tera ki Banu by novelist Jaswant Singh Kanwal. I look forward to finishing this one and reading another soon,” said Singh, who hails from Barnala district in Punjab and has come with his friends to protest. “Someone suggested a book on Fidel Castro. Kehnde hai bahut bada krantikari si woh (They say he was a great revolutionary),” he said. Several books are seen at the protest site, including biographies of revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh, Che Guevara and Vladimir Lenin in English, Hindi and Punjabi as well. There are also books on farmers’ distress, Punjab’s rich history and on the teachings of Sikh Gurus who stood for national integration, peace, brotherhood and communal harmony.  Cashing on these new tribe of readers, some small-time book stalls have also sprung up at the protest site. Gargi, a Delhi-based publication house, is happily surprised to find some business for its books in a venue like this. “They all are curious and have too many questions in their mind. Some of these books try to give them answers, others provide food for thought for more questions,” said Kamal Joshi, a volunteer working at Gargi Publications. “The fact they are at throwaway prices, and available in Hindi and Punjabi languages as well are also some of the reasons why protesters are keen on buying these books,” he added. Their books include a Hindi quarterly magazine Kisaan, Hindi translation of Russian writer Maxim Gorky’s novel The Mother — which is a story about revolutionary factory workers — and a 24-page booklet on the three contentious farm laws costing only Rs 5. Gurmeet Sandhu, 55, a farmer from Karnal district of Haryana, said he has read the booklet on farm laws and plans to send “50 copies” of the booklet to his village and spread the word. “This book explains the laws in detail. I am now 100 per cent sure that these laws are not at all in favour of farmers. I want more people to read it and will distribute it to more and more people,” said Sandhu, who has been part of the protest since November 28. A makeshift library at the border, run by PhD students from Punjab, welcomes visitors with a telling banner reading: “Udhta Nahi, Padhta Punjab”. With over 900 books already issued from their total stock of 1,300, the organisers are overwhelmed by the response and plan to replenish the stocks soon. “Our purpose to have this library here is to educate farmers about the issues. They can come here, get the book and form an opinion about what is right and what is wrong themselves. This way they would protest peacefully and not fall for any wrong information,” said Kiran Preet Singh from Jangi Library. Books finding major tractions in the library are: Pehla Adhyapak, the Hindi translation of Russian author Chingiz Aitmatov’s story about a teacher who took on the responsibility to educate the children from poor families in his community, Sikh Rajneeti and Shaheed Jaswant Singh Khalra: Soch, Sangharsh te Shahadat by author Ajmer Singh. Just adjacent to the library is an ongoing poster exhibition by student organisation Bhagat Singh Chatra Ekta Manch. The exhibition, which also provides stationery required to make posters, is becoming another go-to place for protesting farmers to try their hand at poster-making.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-481
18-12-2020||India||Kunal Kamra contempt decision on Friday||The Supreme Court will on Friday pronounce its verdict on a batch of petitions seeking contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja for alleged contemptuous remarks against the top court and the Chief Justice of India. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah on Thursday, after briefly hearing arguments on behalf of the petitioners, reserved its verdict and said it would pronounce orders on Friday as to whether Kamra and Taneja can be prosecuted for contempt or not. In the case of Kamra, the plea for contempt has been initiated by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar, who appeared for the law student, told the court that far from being remorseful, Kamra had chosen to launch personal attacks on the CJI. He did not read out Kamra’s tweets against the CJI and said it would not be proper to do so in open court. “Even after someone pointed out that he would be liable for contempt, he (Kamra) says, ‘You mean contempt of joke?’ He’s comparing the Supreme Court to a joke,” the counsel told the court. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the principal law officer of the government, had earlier granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra over his various tweets on the Supreme Court in November after the top court granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, Venugopal had said in response to a request for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. The impugned tweets by Kamra had said, “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. He had also tweeted a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a BJP flag having replaced the Tricolour. While refusing to withdraw the tweets, Kamra had made an objectionable hand gesture while referring to the CJI. The bench also heard senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, appearing for another law student who has sought contempt proceedings against cartoonist Taneja for three of her art works allegedly implying that the Supreme Court was hand-in-glove with the BJP. One of the cartoons related to Republic TV’s Goswami, the other alluding a link between the Supreme Court and the Sangh parivar and the other on the Ayodhya dispute.  Narasimha said: “…The tweets… (are) intended to scandalise the court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Prison plot whiff in Babar Qadri's murder||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested three men in connection with the murder of lawyer Babar Qadri, the investigations revealing that the conspiracy to kill him might have been hatched in Srinagar central jail. Police sources said two prisoners lodged at the jail were being questioned following a tip-off by three Srinagar youths arrested recently in connection with Qadri’s killing. The September killing of Qadri, 40, a frequent participant in TV debates, had kicked up a storm, more so because pro-India and pro-azaadi voices used to dub him an agent of the other side. He was a strong advocate of azaadi but faced criticism from the camp for fiercely opposing Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani and former High Court Bar Association president Mian Qayoom, a separatist ideologue. A special investigation team is probing the lawyer’s killing. The police have said he was killed by militants, but Qadri’s father has questioned the claim. The Srinagar police chief  said the probe was still underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Modi reaches out to Sharif||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote a letter to PML-N supremo Nawaz Sharif last month, extending “heartfelt condolences” to Pakistan’s former premier over his mother’s death on November 22, a Pakistani media report said on Thursday. The letter was forwarded to Sharif’s daughter and Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice-president Maryam Nawaz by the Indian High Commission in Islamabad last week with a request to be conveyed to her father, who has been residing in London since last year, Dawn newspaper reported. In the letter dated November 27, Prime Minister Modi conveyed his “heartfelt condolences” to Sharif over his mother’s death. “Dear Mian Sahib, I am deeply saddened to learn about the demise of your mother Begum Shamim Akhtar on November 22 in London. My heartfelt condolences are with you in this hour of intense grief,” Modi wrote in the letter, which was also released by the PML-N on Thursday. Modi recalled his interaction with Sharif’s mother during his brief surprise visit to Lahore in 2015, saying: “Her simplicity and warmth was indeed very touching.” “In this moment of profound grief, I pray to the Almighty to bestow strength upon you and your family to bear this irreparable loss,” he added. In a separate letter sent to Maryam on December 11 at her Lahore residence, Indian Charge d’Affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia requested her to convey the condolence message to Nawaz in London, the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Bihar man lynched on suspicion of cattle theft||A young man belonging to the minority community was bludgeoned to death on the outskirts of Patna on the charge of cattle theft, bringing back the spectre of mob lynching that had stopped in the run-up to the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. Seven suspects have been arrested. The incident happened at Phulwarisharif, a satellite town of Patna, during the small hours of Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Muhammad Alamgir, 32. Alamgir, who had been living in a slum, was allegedly caught untying a buffalo from the cattle shed of Srikant Rai around 3am. An accomplice of Alamgir managed to escape. “Srikant heard some noise in his cattle shed and saw two men trying to untie one of his 12 buffaloes. He raised the alarm and several people surrounded the place,” a resident said. Alamgir was thrashed for several hours till someone informed the police, who took him to hospital. He died there in the afternoon. “The police told us that he was beaten to death while trying to steal cattle. I don’t believe this,” Alamgir’s mother Noorjahan Khatoon said. The police said Alamgir had previously gone to jail on the allegation of cattle theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Yoga drive with eye on Olympics||Five years after introducing International Yoga Day, India wants to gift the world championships in yogasanas — a mix of traditional and choreographed yoga movements — promising medals and titles and career and revenue opportunities. The Centre on Thursday announced its plans to promote yogasana championships through “formal recognition”, structured sports events and scoring rules with the long-term goal of introducing such championships in the Olympic Games. The Union ministries for sports and ayurveda, yoga, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) said they planned to organise the first national individual championship event for traditional yogasanas to be conducted in the virtual mode in February 2021. District-level, state, national and world championship events are also proposed during 2021, Ayush ministry secretary Rajesh Kotecha said. The plans also envisage telecasting the championships through leagues, shows and competitions to “generate revenue for self-financing”, he said. He said the Ayush ministry had already prepared documentation for rules, regulations and syllabus for yogasana competitions and proposed automated scoring rules to introduce objectivity and processes for the certification of coaches, referees and judges. The proposed championships would cover traditional, artistic, individual, group and rhythmic yogasanas across multiple categories and be open for men and women competing for 51 medals, Kotecha said. Yogasana leagues would help create fresh career opportunities for performers and practitioners, he said. A national yoga sports federation has helped formulate the list of compulsory and optional yogasanas for inclusion in the championships. “We’ve included traditional yogasanas as well as various artistic forms of yogasanas that have evolved on their own,” said Ishwar Basavaraddi, director of the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi, and president of the national federation. “Practitioners may combine multiple asanas into choreographed performances with music,” said Basavaraddi whose institute has developed several such artistic and group yogasanas some of which combine yoga movements with ballet and other dance forms. Sports minister Kiren Rijiju announced plans to include yogasana events in university games and the national games. “The aim and objective of any sport is to be included in the Olympics — this is a beginning of a long journey,” Rijiju said. “We will have to make it a very proper, authentic and well-accepted form of sport. That is why the technicalities are to be given a very professional touch.” The United Nations accepted a proposal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 to mark an annual International Yoga Day, the first of which was observed on June 21, 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Teesta hint after Modi-Hasina virtual summit||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Thursday stressed the need for an early resolution on sharing of Teesta waters — pending since 2011 because of opposition from Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee — during her virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fact that Hasina broached the issue during the dialogue, a Bangladeshi source said, indicated Dhaka’s growing restlessness with the delay in sealing the deal on water sharing, an emotive subject in the neighbouring country. The source added that the joint statement after the summit dialogue bore hints that the wait would be over soon. “Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina highlighted the need for early signing of an interim agreement for sharing of the Teesta waters, as agreed upon by both the governments in 2011. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated India’s sincere commitment and continued efforts of the Government of India in that regard,” said the joint statement. It added that the two leaders also underscored the need for an early conclusion of the framework of an interim agreement on sharing waters of six rivers that flow through both countries — the Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dharla and the Dudhkumar. Modi’s commitment about sharing of Teesta waters — and that of the other rivers — assumes significance as Mamata had been resisting the agreement citing the problem of water shortage in parts of north Bengal. The Bengal chief minister had often argued that she was opposed to water sharing to protect the farmers of north Bengal. “Bengal is heading for polls in six months and north Bengal is the key focus of the BJP…. The fact that the Prime Minister still reiterated his commitment makes it clear that Delhi is determined to seal the deal without bothering much about how Mamata reacts to it,” said an observer. While domestic politics is important for the BJP, which has trained its eyes on Bengal, there is little doubt that Delhi is also keen on keeping Dhaka in good humour as Hasina has been one of the trusted friends of India in the sub-continent. Not just did Modi make the right noises about the Teesta, he also tried to win the hearts of Bangladeshis with his comments on another issue on which Dhaka has repeatedly sought greater cooperation from India. During the virtual summit, Hasina said her country expected to see India, a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, assist in the repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar. The Hasina government is taking care of over 1.1 million Rohingya refugees for over three years, but it is keen on repatriating them to neighbouring Myanmar from where they were forced to flee due to religious persecution. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the generosity of Bangladesh in sheltering and providing humanitarian assistance to the 1.1 million forcibly displaced persons from the Rakhine State of Myanmar. Both Prime Ministers reiterated the importance of their safe, speedy and sustainable return,” said the joint statement issued by the Indian external affairs ministry after the summit. Modi’s comments on the two issues, sources in Delhi and Dhaka said, would further boost the India-Bangladesh relations. Modi greeted Hasina in Bengali on the occasion of Bijoy Dibos or Victory Day before going on to describe Bangladesh as an important pillar of India’s “neighbourhood first” policy. Modi also accepted Hasina’s invitation to visit Dhaka in March 2021 to take part in centenary celebrations of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. “Next year, India and Bangladesh will jointly commemorate Mujib Borsho and 50 years of establishment of our diplomatic ties. I look forward to visiting Dhaka for paying my homage to the life and ideals of Bangabandhu,” Modi tweeted after the meeting. During the virtual summit, Modi expressed satisfaction at bilateral cooperation amid the Covid-19 pandemic and assured Hasina that vaccines would be made available to Bangladesh besides offering a partnership in vaccine production. The two countries signed seven agreements on Thursday for cooperation in the hydrocarbons sector, agriculture and textiles, high impact community development projects to be carried out by India, trans-border elephant conservation, supply of equipment for improving garbage disposal in Barishal, and creation of a forum of CEOs. In a major boost to connectivity between the two counties, Modi and Hasina relaunched a trans-border rail route between Chilahati and Bengal’s Haldibari, which has been inoperative for almost 55 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Allahabad High Court order to free Kafeel good: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with the Allahabad High Court verdict quashing the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) and ordered his immediate release, saying it was “a good judgement”. “We will not interfere in the judgment. However, the observation will not impact any other proceedings,” said the bench comprising Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. The bench was hearing the Uttar Pradesh government’s plea challenging the high court’s September 1 verdict. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, told the bench that the observation made by the high court exonerates Khan in the criminal proceedings. “Criminal cases will be decided on their own merits,” the bench observed. Khan had hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several children died because of the lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later. A state government probe cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the state. Khan had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children. In its September 1 verdict, the high court had quashed Khan’s detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests didn’t promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The high court had said the Aligarh district magistrate, who had passed the order for Khan’s detention, did a “selective reading” of his speech, “ignoring its true intent”. The high court had allowed the petition filed by Khan’s mother, Nuzhat Parveen, and said the detention order by the district magistrate was illegal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to begin interactions with senior Congress leaders||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will begin her interactions with senior leaders from December 19 to finalise the future course of action ahead of the much-awaited organisational elections, including the appointment of the new party president. Sources said senior leaders, including some from the so-called group of 23, will be called for discussion on the measures needed to be taken for resolving the leadership issue. Sonia had stopped personal interactions because of Covid-19 and even the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting was held through videoconference. Her meeting with party veteran Kamal Nath a few days ago was the first in this exercise of resolving the leadership question. While there has been no indication so far of Rahul Gandhi’s willingness to return as the party president, leaders close to him insist that is a certainty not open to dispute. But this understanding is not reflected in informal discussions with other senior leaders who are still in dark about the future leadership. A clearer picture will emerge only after Sonia completes her discussions with senior leaders. While there is a demand for election to the CWC as per the party constitution, the revival of Parliament Board — the key decision-making body — has also been suggested by many. Asked if they had been invited for talks, one of the Group-23 leaders told The Telegraph, “We haven’t received any call. But why our meeting Soniaji should generate so much curiosity? She is our leader and we have strong personal and political bonding. There is no rift whatsoever at the personal level even if we have some differences over political issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||India||Modi to be chief guest at AMU centenary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations on December 22 of Aligarh Muslim University, where police had brutalised students protesting against the Centre’s new citizenship regime last year. The programme, where education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will also be present, will be held online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tariq Mansoor, the vice-chancellor of AMU, told reporters: “The Prime Minister has accepted our request to address the opening function on December 22. Minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal will also attend the event. It will send a good message to the members of AMU living across the world.” “We hope to develop the university so that its students keep growing in their endeavours. Every person should rise above party politics and attend the programme,” he added. “The outreach of the university during this historical year will also immensely help in its growth and development, and in the placement of our students in private and public sectors,” Prof. Mansoor said. He appealed to the university community to put in all efforts to make the event a success and requested staff members, students, alumni and AMU well-wishers for their active participation.  Earlier this month, the university had announced that President Ram Nath Kovind was expected to be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations. The change of chief guest appears to be a last-minute move, AMU sources said. The students are yet to officially react to the choice of chief guest. A former union leader said on condition of anonymity that they did not agree in principle to inviting Modi to the event. AMU students have been opposed to several of the Modi government’s decisions, including the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The university had also witnessed protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. In December last year, police and paramilitary forces had barged into the campus and assaulted protesting students, including inside the library. Many students had suffered injuries. The security forces had also been accused of firing tear gas, rubber bullets and stun grenades. Students had organised a dharna for many days against the VC for allowing the police to enter the campus. Shafey Kidwai, the chairman of the mass communication department of AMU, told The Telegraph over the phone on Thursday that the Prime Minister would also launch a postal stamp to commemorate the beginning of the centenary year. “The PM has given his consent to attend the programme. It would be a year-long celebration in which the President will participate sometime in March next year,” Kidwai said. Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College became Aligarh Muslim University on December 1, 1920, following a gazette notification. AMU was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 that year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-482
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Mukul Roy accuses TMC of indulging in vindictive politics against political opponents ||BJP national vice president Mukul Roy on Friday blamed the Trinamool Congress of slapping multiple false cases against the saffron party leaders who had earlier quit TMC and charged it of pursuing vindictive politics against political opponents. Roy told reporters here that when he or Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh were in the TMC fold there were no cases against them. "But ever since Arjun and I joined BJP, 55 cases were slapped against me and over 65 against him (Singh). Arjun's son too has been charged with false cases after he joined politics," Roy told newspersons here. "This (TMC) is a vindictive government which will be defeated in the next assembly election," he said. Singh was present at the interaction. To a question, Roy welcomed the Supreme Court order on Friday granting interim protection to five BJP leaders, including himself, Singh and Kailash Vijayvargiya in criminal cases lodged against them in Bengal and directing the state police not to take any coercive action. "We hail the Supreme Court order, We know the truth will prevail," he said. Welcoming several panchayat members from Paschim Medinipur district who switched over from TMC to BJP, Roy said many of them are from the minority community. "It shows people of different communities and faiths are uniting in Bengal under BJP to remove the undemocratic TMC government." He claimed that the ruling TMC will not be able to secure more than 100 out of the total 295 seats in the 2021 state polls with its leaders at different levels and ordinary activists quitting the party in droves. He, however, did not want to comment if Barrackpore MLA Silbhadra Dutta, who quit TMC Friday will join BJP. Asked to comment on reservations expressed by Asansol MP and Union Minister Babul Supriyo about TMC MLA and former chief of Asansol Municipal Corporation joining the BJP, Roy wondered why the media highlighted such issues and hinted it was not a serious one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Shilbhadra Dutta should have consulted us before leaving: TMC||Hours after Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta quit the party, the Trinamul Congress said that he should have reached out to the leadership over his grievances rather than just resigning. Speaking to reporters at Calcutta, Firhad hakim, senior TMC leader and minister, said he was shocked at Dutta’s resignation. “Being a senior leader, Dutta should have approached the top leadership if he had any grievances. What I know is that Dutta had some issues with a section of local party leaders. Can it be a reason good enough to sever all ties in the present situation,” Hakim said. “I can only say that Dutta was liked by ‘Didi’ (Mamata Banerjee) and their relation was beyond politics. We all know what she did during his serious ailment,” he added. TMC district president of North 24 Parganas, Jyotipriyo Mallick said TMC is like a banyan tree, which will not be affected with a few leaves falling off as it is deeply entrenched in the lives of the people of Bengal. “Our leader is Mamata Banerjee and she always has the backing of the masses,” he said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh called the ruling party a sinking ship and said nobody, who has self-respect, would remain in the party. “Only its supremo (Mamata Banerjee) and her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) will be left in the party along with a handful of their supporters,” he said. Ghosh said Dutta and former minister Suvendu Adhikari are welcome to join the BJP along with other TMC leaders who have quit the party. Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh of the BJP urged Dutta to join his party and claimed, “Shilbhadra-da was not being allowed to work in the Trinamul Congress.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Another MLA quits TMC as Amit Shah is to visit Bengal ||In a third jolt to the Trinamul Congress within 24 hours, Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta resigned from the party on Friday. Dutta, a two-term MLA, said he has sent the resignation letter to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee by email, triggering speculations that he may join a long list of party leaders who have either joined the BJP or is willing to, ahead of the assembly elections, likely in March-April. “I think that I am unfit in the party in the present scenario. But, I will not resign as an MLA,” he told reporters. “Why should I resign as an MLA? I have won by people's votes. If I go (resign) away, where will they go,” he added. The move comes within a day after party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari left the TMC, and following his suit, Pandabeswar MLA and Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari resigned too. While all the rebel leaders are speculated to be joining the BJP, Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to visit Bengal for two days. The minister will arrive in Calcutta on Friday night to take stock of the BJP's affairs in the state as the assembly elections draw near. Shah, after staying the night at a Calcutta hotel, will meet NIA officials the next morning. “On Saturday morning, he has a scheduled meeting with NIA officials. Then he will visit Swami Vivekanada's residence in north Calcutta to pay tributes,” a BJP leader said. “Later, Shah will travel to Midnapore where he will pay tributes to revolutionary Khudiram Bose and offer puja at two temples,” he said. After this, he will visit a farmer's home for lunch, followed by a public rally at the Midnapore College ground. “There are chances that several TMC leaders will join the party at this rally. After the rally, he will return to Calcutta and hold meetings with state leaders and take stock of the organisation,” the saffron party leader said. On Sunday, the home minister will visit the Visva- Bharati university in Shantiniketan, and lead a roadshow at Bolpur. Thereafter, he will hold a press conference and leave for Delhi. Shah’s visit comes in the backdrop of growing animosity between the Centre and the state with the Home Ministry asking the West Bengal government to immediately relieve its three IPS officers for central deputation, provoking a combative Mamata Banerjee to brand the move as “unconstitutional and unacceptable”. Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday said he has not accepted the resignation of Trinamul Congress MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation. He said that it does not conform to the provisions of the Constitution and the rules of the House. Banerjee also noted that the senior TMC leader did not hand over the resignation letter to him personally. The speaker further added that he had no clue if the “resignation is voluntary and genuine”. “Unless and until I am satisfied that the resignation is voluntary and genuine, it is not possible for me to accept the same in the light of the provisions of the Constitution of India and the rules of procedure and conduct of business in West Bengal Legislative Assembly,” the Speaker told reporters. Adhikari submitted his resignation letter as an MLA at the Assembly secretariat on December 16, a month after he quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet as minister. The Speaker was not present in the House at that time. Banerjee further said that Adhikari has been asked to appear before him personally in his chamber on December 21 to make his submission in the matter. “I do hereby tender my resignation from the member (sic) of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” wrote Adhikari in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta quits TMC||Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta resigned from the Trinamool Congress on Friday in the third major exit from the party in the last 24 hours. Dutta, a two-term MLA, said he has sent the resignation letter to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee by email, triggering speculations that he may join a long list of party leaders who have either joined the BJP or is willing to ahead of the assembly elections, likely in March-April. "I think that I am unfit in the party in the present scenario. But, I will not resign as an MLA," he told reporters. "Why should I resign as an MLA? I have won by people's votes. If I go (resign) away, where will they go?" he added. Over the last few months, Dutta has been vocal about his opposition to election strategist Prashant Kishor and the way he was handling party affairs. Dutta, once a Mukul Roy loyalist when the BJP leader was in Trinamool Congress, has also spoken against a section of the party's leadership. In a jolt to the TMC ahead of the assembly elections, heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari quit the party on Thursday after giving up his cabinet portfolios in the state government and resigning as an MLA. Hailing Adhikari, Pandabeswar MLA and Asansol civic body chief Jitendra Tiwari also quit the party, amid speculations that they may switch over to the BJP. Former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee too has announced that he would leave the party and join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill team meets Centre on promises ||A delegation of BJP alliance partners from Darjeeling, along with BJP national secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, met Union minister of state home G. Kishan Reddy in Delhi on Thursday on the progress made in the BJP's 2019 election manifesto on two key demands, that of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities and finding a permanent political solution in the hills. The delegation included BJP MP Raju Bista and his party colleagues, and representatives of the GNLF, CPRM, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League, Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha and Sumeti Mukti Morcha. These are the parties which had supported Bista during the last Lok Sabha election with the exception of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha which is now supporting Trinamul. After the meeting, Reddy tweeted: “…It was reiterated to the delegation, of our govt’s commitment to transform the region to one of the most prosperous, progressive & peaceful region in India, and informed them of the steps we have taken & progress made towards fulfilling the Sankalp Patra commitments we have made to the people here.” Bista in a written statement after the meeting added: “Hon’ble Reddy ji...assured the delegation that, the government on its part has been sincerely working towards the inclusion of left-out Gorkha tribes at the earliest.” Bista also said that finding a permanent political solution of the hills was “top priority” for the Centre. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA from the GNLF who won the bypoll on a BJP ticket, said the meeting “was truthful.” “We realised that the issues that the Centre discussed in earlier meetings (with Bimal Gurung faction) were not in consonance with what had been told to the public,” said Zimba, this assertion hinting at a move to discredit Gurung. The Centre’s assurance this time suggests that unlike in the past it would be a make-or-break situation for the BJP in the hills. The BJP won both Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Assembly seats last year but many believe that if the BJP fails to deliver anything concrete the advantage would be lost in the Bengal polls. Past promises of the BJP-led government have not yielded much for the hills. An RTI query had revealed that the Office of the Registrar General of India, under the home ministry, had not warmed up to the demand for including the 11 hill communities in the ST list. Despite this, there were purported video statements of Union ministers that the tribal status could be granted any day. It has not happened yet. Observers believe that while  BJP is still in a strong footing at the moment in the hills, failure to come up with concrete steps to readdress the two issues promised in the election manifesto could put the saffron party on a sticky wicket. “It would not take a moment for the BJP to lose all its support base from the hills. If no concrete steps are taken, NDA’s current allies would not think twice about charting a separate course. The next three months are crucial for the BJP and hill politics,” said an observer, adding “only meetings and assurances won’t help the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah attempts to connect with Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah will visit places associated with Bengal’s three leading icons — Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose — during his two-day visit to the state in a bid to establish the saffron camp’s connect with Bengali culture and tradition while countering the Trinamul Congress’s concerted effort to label the BJP as a party of “outsiders”. “Amitji will visit the ancestral house of Swami Vivekananda in Calcutta and Khudiram Bose in Midnapore on December 19. On December 20, he will visit Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva-Bharati University in Bolpur’s Santiniketan,” a state BJP leader said. Shah, who has decided to lead the electoral fight in Bengal almost as a personal project, doesn’t want to give Trinamul any room for criticism when it comes to establishing the BJP’s Bengali credentials. Hence, the decision to pay tribute to the three icons is part of a well thought-out strategy, the BJP leader said. According to Shah’s official itinerary, he will spend 30 minutes each at the residences of Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose. However, at Santiniketan — where he will pay floral tributes to a chair once used by Tagore in Visva-Bharati — Shah will participate in a series of programmes spanning over an hour and 45 minutes. Sources in the BJP said senior leaders had realised “one cannot be enough Bengali, if that person doesn’t connect with Tagore”, and that was why Shah would spend almost two hours on the varsity campus. “Recently, our social media cell made a faux pas when they tweeted that Tagore was born at Visva-Bharati and had attributed it to our national president J.P. Nadda. Trinamul made a major issue of it,” a member of the party’s youth wing pointed out. “We believe Amitji’s Visva-Bharati tour will undo the damage,” the BJP’s youth wing leader added. A university official said Shah would also meet vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty during his visit to Santiniketan. A section in the BJP said while attending a road-show in Santiniketan, Shah was likely to address the issue of rampage on the varsity campus over the building of a boundary wall to fence the Pous Mela ground on August 17. The under-construction wall was pulled down and university property bulldozed by a mob led by Trinamul’s Dubrajpur legislator Naresh Bauri. “The visit of Amitji is important as Trinamul-backed goons had vandalised the gate of the university and ransacked the campus. The incident had exposed Trinamul’s attitude towards Rabindranath Tagore, while they were trying to establish the BJP as an anti-Bengali party,” said former MP and BJP leader Anupam Hazra. During his upcoming visit, Shah will continue with his lunch politics and is scheduled to have food at the residences of two marginal families. In Midnapore, he will have lunch at a farmer’s home at Belijuri village, while in Birbhum, he will sit down for food with a family of minstrels (bauls) in Santiniketan. Shah is also scheduled to visit multiple temples during his tour and hold meetings with senior members of the state BJP leadership. In the aftermath of the December 10 “attack” on Nadda’s convoy during his visit to Diamond Harbour, BJP leaders want Shah’s two-day trip to pass off peacefully. A BJP leader said that “volunteers” — at least a thousand each for Midnapore and Bolpur — would be deployed along the road that Shah would take in both the places. “We can’t take risks after what happened to our national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy at Diamond Harbour,” said Samit Kumar Das, the party’s chief for West Midnapore district. He added that the volunteers would stand amongst the crowd to ensure that Shah’s convoy covered the route without a hitch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Chilahati-Haldibari rail route reopens after 55 years||A goods train crossed the Indo-Bangla border to reach Haldibari station in Cooch Behar amid loud cheers on Thursday, as this rail route between India and Bangladesh reopened after a gap of 55 years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina in a virtual bilateral summit inaugurated the service that had been a longstanding demand of north Bengal. The route — only for goods trains for now — was opened a day after both countries celebrated Vijay Diwas to mark the victory of Indian forces over Pakistan troops during the Bangladesh liberation war of 1971. While Modi stressed strengthening bilateral relations with Bangladesh, Hasina underscored the need to work together to help the economies of both nations. “I believe both the countries further integrate our economies by taking advantage of the available synergies. Our ongoing connectivity initiatives are working as catalysts in this regard. A prime example is resumption of the Chilahati-Haldibari rail route which we will inaugurate today (Thursday),” Hasina said at the virtual summit. Sources in Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) — the route falls under this railway zone — said this was the fifth rail route to connect India with Bangladesh. The existing four, all of which connect various stations of Bengal, are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol. Only the Calcutta-Dhaka Maitree Express on Gede-Darshana ferries passengers, the rest are all goods trains on these routes. Since morning, hundreds of Haldibari residents came to the station to see the historic event. At 11am, as the two Prime Ministers inaugurated the route, a goods train with 30 empty wagons and two guard rooms departed from Chilahati to head for Haldibari. There were two each loco pilots, assistant loco pilots and guards on board the train. It reached the zero point where officials of the Border Security Force (BSF) and Customs carried out the checking. The train then chugged into Haldibari station where people rejoiced. Many enthusiastically clicked pictures of the decorated loco while many others clapped and welcomed the train. Officials of NFR welcomed the Bangladesh Railway staff. After some time, the train returned to Chilahati. “It is a dream come true. Much earlier, trains used to run between Calcutta and Haldibari through this route but the service came to a halt during the India-Pakistan war of 1965. We have waited for long for the train route to reopen. It finally happened,” said Azizul Haque Sarkar, a Haldibari resident. Another resident, Rupa Chowdhury, said this route could save commuters time to reach Calcutta from north Bengal and the Northeast. “Right now, we must travel over 600km to reach Calcutta by train. If passenger trains bound for Calcutta move through Bangladesh, we need to travel only 450km or so,” Rupa said. In October this year, a news release issued by Bangladesh press information department had stated that its government was also mulling introduction of passenger train services between Dhaka and Siliguri. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal surpasses 5 lakh Covid recoveries||Bengal on Thursday went past 5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries and a recovery rate of 94.56 per cent. The total active case count went below 20,000, back almost to where it was on July 28, 142 days ago. With 2,747 more recoveries on Thursday, the total recovery count rose to nearly 5.02 lakh, 17 days after going past the 4.5 lakh mark. “The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries took 137 days (since the first infection was detected on March 17). We have been achieving the recent 50,000 recoveries in 12 to 17 days,” said a minister. The state now has 5.3 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.02 recoveries and 9,235 deaths. Bengal on Thursday logged 2,245 new infections and 44 deaths, 10 of which were from Calcutta. The state’s total active case count fell to 19,597, a decline of 52 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by over 47 per cent in this period. “Our goal was to end the year with less than 23,000 active cases. Now we are already below 20,000… we are back to where we were nearly five months ago,” the minister said, praising the post-Puja turnaround. In these 52 days, the state has recorded over 1.91 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.76 lakh cases found. The recovery rate has risen for 56 consecutive days. The national rate now is 95.4 per cent. Of the total deaths, 7,751, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November proved the efficacy of the court’s instructions. With 42,473 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count rose to 65.81 lakh, at 73,127 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.06 now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 18.71 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.35 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||35 students test Covid positive in IISER||Thirty-five students of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER)-Calcutta’s Mohanpur campus near Kalyani in Nadia have been detected Covid positive during a mass RT-PCR test. The outbreak has prompted authorities to shut down the institute till December 28. Five faculty members who reside on campus also tested positive and are in isolation. The teachers paid for their tests. The infected students — all asymptomatic, said IISER’s dean of students’ affairs Balaram Mukhopadhyay — have been quarantined in the visitor’s complex under the supervision of the institute’s medical unit. The institution’s authorities will conduct random Covid tests on 25 per cent of its students every month starting January till the time the pandemic is effectively over. Mass RT-PCR tests were conducted on 530 students, including 443 hostel inmates, with the support of the institute’s students’ affairs council and Covid volunteers in collaboration with a diagnostic facility. “Conducting random tests on students on a rotational basis has become necessary to avert a possible outbreak of Covid,” IISER’s dean of students’ affairs Mukhopadhyay said. A few Covid infections reported among students early in December led the IISER administration to conduct the mass Covid test on campus. Entry to the research complex has also been restricted and only a few students are allowed to enter to maintain live stocks. Even the dining facility at the canteen has been replaced with takeaway food packets. The IISER, which in a student-friendly gesture had waived off part of the semester fees and provided laptops and data packs to its less privileged students for ease in online learning, also indicated that resumption of physical classes would not be possible before March. The authorities have asked first-year students to stay at home and join online classes from January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||EC for daily reports on law & order in Bengal from now on||Deputy election commissioner, Sudip Jain, who is on a five-day visit to Bengal, expressed concern over the prevailing law and order in the state and asked district magistrates and police superintendents to file daily reports from now on. The move, officials said, is unprecedented as the Election Commission usually seeks daily reports on law and order once the polls are declared. “In 2016, the DMs were asked to file daily reports after elections were declared on March 5. The move to seek daily reports from now onwards suggests the EC is concerned about law and order,” said a senior government official. Jain, who held meetings with the DMS and SPs of south Bengal districts and top government officials at a city hotel on Thursday, made it clear that the authorities should ensure that all the candidates got an equal chance to campaign in the run up to the polls. “It is clear the EC has taken note of the complaints lodged by Opposition parties during the last panchayat and civic polls. That is why the poll panel is trying to initiate all required steps to ensure free and fair Assembly polls,” said a source in the chief electoral officer’s office. Jain also asked the DMs to ensure that an error-free electoral list was published to avoid any kind of troubles during the polls. The revised electoral roll is set to be published on January 15 and the EC is trying to ensure that all applications to enroll names and delete bogus voters are entertained, sources said. “Jain asked the top officials to deploy enough number of booth level officers to ensure that activities related to electoral roll is carried out without any trouble,” said a source. Sources also said the EC laid stress on identifying sensitive booths right away so that a proper mapping of the sensitive booths could be done before the polls. “The poll panel laid stress on the issue as deployment of forces would depend on the number of sensitive booths and areas,” said a DM. Jain also met representatives of political parties where Opposition leaders complained about the law and order in the state. The Trinamul Congress lodged a complaint against the BJP with Jain for attacking the chief minister in an obscene way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Convoy attack: Fresh fireworks in IPS row||The Union home ministry on Thursday posted three Bengal-cadre IPS officers on central deputation, ignoring the state government’s objections. The central ministry asked the state to release the three officers immediately in the latest salvo in a standoff that started when stones were thrown at some cars in the convoy of BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Bengal last week. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee refused to yield ground, describing the Centre’s order as “a colourable exercise of power” and “blatant misuse of an emergency provision of the IPS cadre rule”. The Union ministry sent a fresh letter informing the Bengal government of the three officers’ new responsibilities. The letter said the state had to adhere to the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, on the posting of the officers. The rule says that “in case of any disagreement, the central government’s decision shall prevail”. The Union home ministry has informed the state that Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour police district) will be posted as SP, Bureau of Police Research and Development; Rajeev Mishra (ADG, south Bengal) will be posted as IG, ITBP, while Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) will be posted as DIG of the SSB, a source said. The three IPS officers were responsible for ensuring security of Nadda when the cars in the convoy were attacked. The IPS officers were directly in charge of the areas where the incident took place, the sources said. “As punishment, they have been recalled and posted on central deputation for five years,” said a joint secretary in the home ministry. Mamata tweeted: “The Government of India’s order of central deputation for the serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the state’s objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS cadre rule, 1954.” The chief minister pointed out that the move was initiated by the Centre to put IAS and IPS officers in Bengal. “We wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces,” Mamata tweeted. Senior government officials said that the state government did not indicate its next course of action till late in the evening. “It is likely to write another letter to the Union home ministry expressing its inability to release the officers. Till now, there is no plan to move court,” a source said on Thursday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Congress to start work on pact with Left||The Congress minder for Bengal Jitin Prasada told the state leadership on Thursday to go ahead with work on formalising the alliance with the Left, including seat-sharing. Prasada was at a meeting here where state party leaders sought a formal go-ahead from the high command for the alliance with the Left in the run-up to Bengal elections. According to sources present in a meeting with him, Prasada urged the state leadership not to wait for the formal approval — which, according to him, was only a matter of time. Prasada is currently in Calcutta on his first visit since assuming charge as the party’s Bengal minder. He met the chiefs of various committees and other senior office-bearers during the day, before going into a huddle with the election committee headed by state party president Adhir Chowdhury. A senior Congress MLA said every leader spoke in favour of the alliance with the Left. “Outside of three districts, our party has no scope of putting up a decent fight on its own,” the MLA said. A party veteran said Prasada promised that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi would devote a lot of time to Bengal in the next few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Viswa-Bharati students voice Shah misgivings ||Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Santiniketan on December 20 has run into opposition by a section of Viswa-Bharati students, who have written to vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty reminding him that the ideology and activities of the BJP leader and his party went against the anti-fascist principles of the varsity’s founder Rabindranath Tagore. “In has been the history of Santiniketan to raise its voice against fascist aggression. Rabindranath himself had been the face in the fight against fascism…He was on the side of Romain Rolland against the fascism of Hitler-Mussolini…Today in that Santiniketan, (a person like) Amit Shah is going to set foot…he is the leading face of a force that is trying to impose fascism in the country... We as students of the varsity are strongly opposing his visit and participation in a various varsity’s programme,” the letter written to the vice-chancellor by the Visva-Bharati Student’s Unity, a platform of several Left-wing students ’unions, states. “We appeal to our VC and other officials not to welcome this kind of person (Shah) to Santiniketan and tarnish the ideology of Rabindranath and Santiniketan,” the students’ appealed through the letter. Falguni Pan, a students’ leader of the platform, said: “Shah has no right to visit Visva-Bharati as it is a place associated with Rabindranath who had always stood against fascism. On the other hand, Shah represents a party that believes in divisive agenda and has taken several anti-people steps, including farm laws and citizenship matrix. So we have written to the VC asking him to stop the visit of such a person to the campus.” Students across the country have been taking part in protests against the Narendra Modi government’s policies since December last year. They have taken part in protests to voice their opposition to issues ranging from the citizenship matrix to the farm laws. The students also reminded the VC that a BJP leader had proposed to replace the National Anthem written by Tagore. “Shah’s visit to Santiniketan is nothing but political drama. If he sticks to his plan, we will stage a protest against his visit,” said SFI leader Somnath Sow, who is a member of the Visva-Bharati Student’s Unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Resignation a day keeps Suvendu pot boiling||Suvendu Adhikari tendered his resignation from the Trinamul Congress on Thursday amid suggestions that he and his loyalists would join the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah in the state on Saturday. The rebellious former member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet wrote to her, thanking her for the “challenges and opportunities” afforded to him during his two-decade association with the party. With the resignation, Adhikari also stepped down as general-secretary of the party and from its seven-member apex steering committee. Adhikari’s resignation from the party came a day after his resignation as Nandigram MLA and 20 days after he stepped down as minister. Adhikari loyalist and Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari also quit the party on Thursday. A source close to Adhikari said the former minister was trying hard to engineer a slew of desertions. “Five MPs, 20-odd MLAs and hundreds of elected representatives from the panchayat and civic bodies are likely to leave in days. Hundreds of organisational office-bearers of the party will also leave with him,” added the source, adding it was “just the tip of the iceberg”. Besides obvious names such as Trinamul’s Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal, at least 13 MLAs from East and West Midnapore, and five from North and South 24-Parganas would leave within days, the source added. Through Thursday, resignations kept pouring in from various tiers of the party in the districts, as Adhikari loyalists felt emboldened to step forward. Also, Adhikari would not go to Delhi this week, contrary to what was being said earlier. “He will first join the BJP, possibly at Amit Shah’s Midnapore event on Saturday, and go to Delhi to meet the Prime Minister,” said the source, adding that Adhikari’s followers were arranging for 50,000 people from his home district East Midnapore alone for the the Shah event. The Adhikari camp believes he holds sway in over 70 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP believes he can influence 40-odd seats and Mamata, according to sources close to her, not more than 20. A Trinamul MP, until recently part of the party’s talks with him, said Adhikari was trying to achieve an “exodus” allegedly at the BJP’s behest. “That is what this tediously long build-up was part of… Suvendu clearly has cunning advisors and is looking to generate the bandwagon effect,” said the MP, referring to the psychological phenomenon in which people do something because others are doing it, irrespective of their own beliefs. “A reason for this is the recent change in the BJP’s stand, enforced by Shah, on Trinamul-deserters. Now they are willing to welcome anybody from Trinamul, other than Mamata Banerjee and her nephew,” he added. Adhikari attended an “apolitical” event in East Midnapore on Thursday, shortly before scoffing at Speaker Biman Banerjee’s decision against accepting or rejecting his resignation from the Assembly on technical grounds. The BJP is visibly jubilant at the turn of events but guarded in its formal response. “With these developments, it does appear that Suvendu Adhikari might join the BJP,” said the party’s state unit chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh. “Though there’s still time till Saturday and we can’t confirm unless he says something, it does look like that he’ll join us in the presence of Amit Shah. Anyone who wants to bring true change in Bengal is welcome in the BJP,” he added in a marked departure from his stand of sidelining newcomers. On record, Trinamul tried putting up a brave face. “Trinamul Congress is a very big party. Its fate is not determined by a handful of people…. Suvendu or some others leaving could be a big deal for the media, but it does not matter to the party, its workers and its supporters,” said Subrata Mukherjee, minister and party vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP ‘seizes’ overloaded trucks on NH12||Ranaghat BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar on Thursday got police in Nadia’s Santipur to seize and book a dozen trucks plying on NH12, which connects south Bengal to the state’s northern districts, with overloaded consignment. Sarkar was on his way to a BJP programme in Nadia’s Gangnapur around 11am on Thursday when he was caught in a massive traffic jam on the highway near Santipur. When he found that slow-moving overloaded trucks, which were travelling from Jharkhand’s Pakur to Calcutta with stone chips, were the reason for the traffic snarl, he got down from his car and intercepted a few of those vehicles. Seeing their MP in action, local BJP workers also joined him. Sarkar called the police to the spot and got the trucks booked for overloading. “The police were not performing their duty and I had to act in public interest. Travelling on NH12, particularly between Santipur and Jagulia, has become a nightmare because of the callous approach of the police that allows truckers to ply overloaded vehicles on the route. The nexus between the police and truckers is damaging the roads,” Sarkar said. Sources said after intercepting five trucks, Sarkar called Santipur police who seized a few more trucks and charged them. Political observers said given the evolving situation in the state in the run up to the Assembly elections, it was significant the police responded with such alacrity to the call of a BJP MP and seized 12 stone chips-laden trucks and charged them for overloading. “I was shocked to see overloaded trucks crawling on the NH12 bypass. The overloaded trucks were damaging the highway but there were no cops to act against them. While the road is getting damaged, the police look the other way and earn from the truckers,” Sarkar said. Senior officers of Ranaghat police district preferred to remain tight-lipped about the MP’s allegations and intervention. However, a police officer claimed that traffic congestion on NH12 was largely because of poor road condition. “We regularly file cases for overloading but trucks ply slowly on the stretch because it is filled with craters and drivers are afraid that vehicles could overturn,” the cop said. Earlier on Wednesday night, Sarkar got caught in a jam on Santipur bypass of NH12 while returning home. An overloaded vehicle had broken down and it led to the traffic congestion on the highway. Sarkar got out of his car and created a passage with the help of his security personnel to move forward. Sarkar alleged that the police were missing from action despite the chaos on the highway. Although several commuters welcomed the MP’s initiative, the Trinamul leadership in Nadia dubbed it as a “road show” to grab people’s attention. A PWD engineer said that overloading increased stress on the road and damage set in early.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest over tea wages||Workers of Makrapara tea estate in Alipurduar district skipped work on Wednesday and worked for only an hour on Thursday as protest against the delay on the part of the management to clear their wages. Since September, workers of the garden — 441 in all — did not get wages. On Thursday, workers protested under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union in the presence of Mannalal Jain, union vice-president. The garden’s manager gave in writing to Jain that September wages would be credited to workers’ bank accounts by afternoon and October’s by December 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu impact in north Bengal||A number of Trinamul leaders and functionaries at different rungs in north Bengal either resigned from posts, quit the party or threatened to do so on Thursday following Trinamul stalwart Subhendu Adhikari parting ways months before the crucial state elections. In Malda, five presidents of “anchal committees” (panchayat level committees) in Bamangola block of the district tendered their resignations, expressing ire over Trinamul's functioning. Tafiur Rahaman, Manik Mahato, Narayan Mandal, Shyamal Mandal and Sakeb Hansda, who used to head the committees in five panchayats, said they sent their resignation letters to Mausam Benazir Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief. “For past few months, some leaders in district and state level have been neglecting those working in the grassroots. No heed is paid to our suggestions and there is always an attempt to impose decisions without consulting us,” said one among the five. None has cut ties with Trinamul so far. District leaders, when asked on the issue, said it would not affect the organisational base of the party. “We believe they took such a decision as some of their political aspirations were not met with,” said a leader. In Siliguri, Dipankar Arora, a former secretary of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, severed ties with the party. “I am a follower of Suvendu Adhikari. As he walked out of Trinamul, I too made the decision,” Arora said. In Cooch Behar, Nitish Ranjan Sarkar, a district vice-president of Trinamul Youth Congress, said he was an Adhikari loyalist and flayed the party’s election strategist Prashant Kishor. “It is because of Prashant Kishor and his team that leaders are feeling sidelined. I want to make it clear that I am a loyalist of Suvendu Adhikari. If required, I am ready to quit the party,” said Sarkar. In the past 24 hours, Sarkar is the second Trinamul leader to fume against the party. On Wednesday, Bhusan Singh, chairperson of the board of administrators of Cooch Behar municipality, alleged that district leaders ignored him at Mamata Banerjee’s rally at Rashmela Ground. “I felt humiliated. If district leaders want, I am ready to quit the party,” Singh had said. The BJP said this was the start of Trinamul’s erosion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-271
18-12-2020||West Bengal||Deb urges Mamata for TMC panel in Darjeeling||State tourism minister and Trinamul leader Gautam Deb on Thursday urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to form a full-fledged district committee of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district unit. Deb, who held a meeting with the chief minister at Uttarkanya before she left for Calcutta, said a comprehensive committee will help speed up organisation work and consolidate support base across the district. Deb is also party’s coordinator in the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. As of now, the district committee only has the president, coordinators and spokespersons. After the meeting, Deb said: “We discussed many issues related to the region's development. Apart from that, I also requested our party supremo (Mamata) to form a full-fledged district committee for the smooth functioning of our party.” Party insiders said along with other districts of the region, Trinamul is focusing on Darjeeling district, particularly because both factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are with the party. Electorally, it has not done well in recent years. Trinamul managed to win only one Assembly seat, Siliguri, back in 2011 in Darjeeling district. “As far as winning elections is concerned, Trinamul is yet to stamp its presence in Darjeeling district. Other than winning the Siliguri Assembly seat once, the only other success the party could get in the district is a majority at the Mirik Municipality (in 2017). But this time, the situation has changed as Bimal Gurung is supporting Trinamul and it is obvious that the party will try to perform better in the district,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-272
18-12-2020||North East||New party to stick to Accord on citizenship||The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), the newly floated regional party backed by the All Assam Students Union and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, on Thursday not only appointed its first president but also spelt out its political roadmap, including an assurance to protect the rights of those accepted as Indian citizens in accordance with the 1985 Assam Accord. Former AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi was appointed the first president of the AJP at its well-attended first political convention held at Sivasagar Boarding Field in Upper Assam. In his presidential address, the 40-year-old Lurinjyoti, a masters in mathematics and education from Dibrugarh University, made it clear that those who have come to Assam between 1951 and 1971 have nothing to fear since they have been accepted as Indians under the Assam Accord. The Accord had fixed March 24, 1971, as the date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners staying in Assam. The Accord was the culmination of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners. Lurinjyoti’s announcement is significant because there is a demand from certain groups to make 1951 as the cut-off date for protection of the Assamese people after the final National Register of Citizens (NRC) was published on August 31, 2019. Over 19 lakh applicants were left out of the register. The final NRC, updated on the basis of the 1951 NRC and the voter list before March 24, 1971, is yet to be notified. The AJP was formed in September because it was the “desire” of the people to have a strong regional party in the wake the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the “anti-Assam’ and “unconstitutional” Citizenship Amendment Act. The AASU and AJYCP leadership were present at the convention. Those opposing the CAA see the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), the state’s leading regional party formed after the Accord with the backing of the AASU and the Asom Gana Sangram Parishad, as “doing the bidding” of the BJP instead of “upholding” the interests of Assam, especially on the CAA. The role of the AGP, an ally of the BJP, spurred the formation of the AJP. The new party on Thursday projected itself as the only regional alternative in the 2021 Assembly polls by indirectly attacking the AGP as a betrayer. The CAA makes it easy to secure Indian citizenship for non-Muslims who had entered the country till 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Most in  Assam see the CAA as a threat to their culture and identity because the state has already taken the burden of those who came before March 24, 1971. Lurinjyoti said that those who came before March 24, 1971, should not live in fear and confusion. “Some people try to create confusion and fear among this section but they have nothing to fear. Since they have been accepted as Indian citizens, they will enjoy their rights. We are for peaceful existence of all communities. The AJP is for a strong, secular and inclusive regionalism that will work for the all-round development of Assam and protection of its culture and identity. We will surely form the next government, a government of Assam’s dreams,” he said. Adip Phukan, who was appointed as AJP vice-president, and spokesperson Ziaur Rahman told The Telegraph that since these people have been accepted as Indian citizens as per the 1985 Accord, it will be the bounden duty of the party to ensure their rights. The announcement, political watchers said, may take the AJP closer to the Bengali-speaking as well as the Hindi-speaking populations, especially those who feel threatened by the “shifting” citizenship cut-off date. They said it may impact the Congress and the AIUDF “eyeing” the Muslim votes and the ruling BJP “banking” on the Bengali Hindu and Hindi speakers’ votes in 2021. Lurinjyoti, one of the leading faces of the anti-CAA movement in Assam last year, appealed to the people to be part of the AJP’s journey to secure their political, economic, linguistic and cultural rights. “We are in for the long haul. 2021 is not our goal. For us, it will be Assam first and forever,” he said, referring to the AJP’s slogan. The two-day political convention of the AJP was not short of political messaging. Apart from allaying fears on the citizenship issue, the event was held at Sivasagar, the capital of the Ahom dynasty. Its founder Chaolung Sukapha is referred to as the architect of “Bor Asom” (greater Assam). Lurinjyoti invoked Sukapha in his speech and also sought the release of all anti-CAA activists, including Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti leader Akhil Gogoi. The KMSS has also floated a regional party, Raijor Dal. The AJP and Lurinjyoti’s support for Akhil, arrested over a year ago during the anti-CAA protests, is also seen as a move to get all anti-BJP voters behind the regional forces. Lurinjyoti, as well as former chief ministers Tarun Gogoi and Hiteswar Saikia, all belong to the influential Ahom community which plays a decisive role in Assam politics.  Other announcements made by the AJP leadership:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
18-12-2020||North East||Nod to Rs 6,700 crore Northeast power scheme||The Centre on Wednesday approved a Rs 6,700 crore scheme for the improvement of Northeast’s power sector. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the revised cost of Rs 6,700 crore for the North Eastern Region Power System Improvement Project (NERPSIP). The project had been initially approved in December 2014 as a central sector plan scheme of the power ministry. The move aims at fuelling the economic development of the region through strengthening of the intra-state power transmission and distribution system. The project will be implemented through PowerGrid, a public sector unit under the power ministry, in association with six beneficiary states — Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Tripura — and is targeted to be commissioned by December 2021, an official statement said. The development comes close on the heels of a three-day visit by a power ministry delegation to take stock of the hydel projects being implemented in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. The team was led by power secretary Sanjeev Nandan Sahai and included NHPC chairman and managing director A.K. Singh, PowerGrid CMD K. Sreekant and Neepco CMD V.K. Singh. The team said the projects must be supported by a robust infrastructure of transmission lines. The project is being funded with assistance from the World Bank and the Centre through the power ministry on a 50:50 basis. However, the capacity building component of Rs 89 crore will be entirely funded by the Centre. Implementation of this scheme will create a reliable power grid and improve the states’ connectivity to the upcoming load centres, and extend the benefits of grid-connected power to all categories of consumers in the Northeast. It will increase the per capita power consumption of these states besides contributing to the overall economic development. The project will be owned and maintained by the respective states after its completion. “Implementing agencies are hiring a considerable number of local manpower during their construction work, generating a lot of employment for skilled and unskilled manpower in the region. Additional manpower will be required for operation & maintenance of these newly-created assets as per standard norms, generating considerable additional employment opportunities in the region,” the statement said. An official had told The Telegraph that the power secretary had been planning to undertake a visit for some time but could not because of last-minute hitches. “We are sure it is going to be a very useful visit because he will get to know the ground situation which will help in taking sound and timely decisions. We are sure it will help to expedite the power development projects. Though we have huge potential, we have not been able to harness the same because of reasons such as inhospitable climatic conditions, remote location and inaccessibility, ultimately leading to lesser industrialisation,” the official had said. The Northeast generates about 4,000MW of power with state-owned companies contributing over 1,053MW, central PSUs over 2,788 MW and private companies about 130MW. The Northeast’s education sector also received a boost with the World Bank approving a $68 million project to “enhance the governance” of schools across Nagaland as well as to “improve teaching practices and learning environments” in select schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
18-12-2020||Opinion||Distant goal: correcting gender imbalance||India’s goal of correcting its gender imbalance seems to have grown more distant. The National Family Health Survey has found that a number of states that had made progress in terms of the sex ratio at birth have now posted discouraging figures. Out of the 22 states surveyed thus far, eight have registered a significant decline in their sex ratios. These include Kerala, Meghalaya, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, all of which had posted gains in the last NFHS. Kerala had been the second best performer after Punjab in the NFHS-4, clocking a gain of 122 points by bolstering its sex ratio at birth from 925 in the third survey in 2005-2006 to 1,047 in the fourth in 2015-2016. Meghalaya, too, had progressed by 102 points in the last NFHS. The latest findings indicate a clear failure on the part of seemingly gender-forward states to maintain their momentum in correcting skewed sex ratios. With Kerala being India’s most literate state — its literacy rate stands at 96.2 per cent — it can no longer be taken for granted that an educated society will naturally oppose gender-related discrimination and crime. To what are such drastic declines owed? One significant reason is institutional oversight, which is augmented by the hostile societal attitudes towards girl children in India who are commonly aborted because of a marked preference for boys. The Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act — enacted in 1994, amended in 2003 and strictly implemented in 2011 — was meant to prevent selective abortion by banning prenatal sex determination, but it has not helped in improving the sex ratio. Several loopholes persist. The stipulations for purchasing point-of-care ultrasound scans are understandably stringent, but this hinders their availability in rural areas, which forces patients to go to distant urban facilities, resulting in delayed diagnoses and added medical expenses. Radiologists have also pointed out that the law does not clearly mention how to dispose of old ultrasound machines, which are often reused for sex determination. There is a shocking gap between intent and implementation in governmental efforts to prevent the deaths of girl children. The goals of the Centre’s flagship Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme are noble, but last year the Narendra Modi-led government conceded in Parliament that almost 56 per cent of the funds for the scheme had been spent on advertising, with no impact assessment being conducted. Filling the legislative, medical and societal gaps is only part of the challenge. Affirmative action must be accompanied by political will to raise public awareness as well as bolster women’s agency over their own bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Speak up: Parliament winter session scrapped||Sir — The decision to scrap the winter session of Parliament citing the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason, without building a consensus among party leaders, bears testimony to the utter contempt of the Narendra Modi-led government for the norms of Parliament — the highest democratic forum to deliberate on burning national issues and seek answers from the government (“Govt scraps winter session”, Dec 16). It also reinforces the strongly held belief that this government is becoming more authoritarian by the day. The move poses a threat to the democratic process. At a time when farmers have launched a peaceful and well-coordinated agitation, sitting in thousands in Delhi against the newly enacted, contentious farm bills, one would have expected a democratically elected government to carry out the session for a full-fledged debate on these laws. When all social and political activities have nearly returned to normalcy — this includes holding political rallies with even the prime minister himself addressing big gatherings for the recently held elections in Bihar — the ground for not holding the winter session of Parliament is unconvincing. The truth is that the government is afraid of facing Parliament. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — Yet another autocratic move — the cancellation of the winter session of Parliament — in what the prime minister hails as the ‘mother of democracy’ on the pretext of contagion lays bare the real intention of the government, which is hell-bent on passing decisions through brute majority. The government’s firm stand in the face of the steep agitation of farmers is contradictory to the principles of deliberative democracy. The Central Vista project, which would cost the exchequer a huge amount of money at the time of a raging pandemic and looming economic recession, might cost us even more dearly in the future. The fragmented and self-centred Opposition, too, cannot gain any serious traction either inside or outside the House. When the cry for help of the masses is left unheard, it heralds the death of democracy and the emergence of neo-fascism. We, the people, must act sooner rather than later in order to shore up the old house of democracy built on the cornerstone of free-spirited debate instead of celebrating the foundation-laying ceremony for either a new House or a temple. Satabdi Dutta,Burdwan Sir — The scrapping of the winter session of Parliament is not a good idea. It might not have been too difficult to conduct the session for a few hundred members with appropriate safety measures. Just as the government is allowing social life to function almost normally, the government would also be expected to run business as usual. Many important issues of national importance are waiting for in-depth deliberation at the highest forum of democracy — the dwindling economy, the loss of jobs and farmers’ protests, to mention a few. While performing the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Parliament building, the prime minister recalled how he had bowed to the House in reverence on his first entry and how all the aspirations and successes of the people are encapsulated in the Parliament building. Only the proper functioning of the House would attribute sense to his words. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — It is astonishing that while the rest of India is functioning digitally — let alone adults working from home, even children are studying online — the top servicemen of the country could simply excuse themselves from convening the most decisive meetings of the nation on the pretext of the threat of contagion from assembly. Do parliamentarians not have internet connection that would allow them to hold a video conference? That would be unfortunate given that the prime minister keenly endorses the digital services. Meher Sharma,Delhi Treat better Sir — The Supreme Court’s ruling that homoeopathic medicine cannot be sold as cure for Covid-19 is welcome. During these distressing times, many untested cures are being promoted. ‘Ayush’ practitioners often claim to treat a range of medical conditions and insist that their patients discontinue allopathic medicine. The ayurveda philosophy attracts many people because of its links to Hindu traditions. Homoeopathy, which is popular in India, is under critical evaluation in many countries because its effects are questionable. All such dubious claims should be disallowed. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Giant leap Sir — China has recently been stepping up its space programme. This week, a Chinese lunar capsule returned to earth with fresh samples of rock and debris from the moon for the first time in 44 years — the Soviet Union was the last to have undertaken this mission in 1976. The study of this material could reveal hitherto unknown facets about the history of the moon. This is indeed a giant step forward in the domain of astronomy. In the midst of the pandemic — the coronavirus originated in China — this is quite a feat. If one nation can make such progress while battling a new disease, there is hope for other countries too. Shailaja Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Justice, again: Tablighi acquittal||Years ago, India’s premier investigating agency had earned the epithet, ‘caged parrot’, from the highest court of the land. The Central Bureau of Investigation, evidently, is not short of company inside this metaphorical enclosure. While acquitting 36 foreigners who had been accused of flouting Covid-19 protocols while ‘participating’ in a religious congregation organized by the Tablighi Jamaat in March, a metropolitan court in Delhi not only criticized the failure of the prosecution to prove that the accused were present at the said event but also — in a most damaging observation — acknowledged the possibility of the police picking up these individuals with the malicious intention of implicating them under the directions of the Union home ministry. The strings that make India’s investigation agencies dance seem to have bobbed up to the surface, yet again. Incidentally, in August, charges had been dropped against eight other accused after the court found ‘no prima facie evidence’ against them either: they are among those who had — courageously — agreed to stand trial in India after 900 other foreign delegates opted to plead guilty as part of a plea bargain. These acquittals are important because they expose the hollowness of the campaign that had been directed against the Tablighi Jamaat and, by extension, India’s Muslims who, the propaganda alleged, were instrumental in the spread of the contagion in India. Perhaps the smear campaign had been necessitated to conceal the bungling of the authorities in the first place. The assembly had been allowed to take place even though there was evidence that the pandemic was surging around the world and in India. Some of the participants hailed from nations with rising Covid burdens but their screening was lax. The investigators seem to have taken their cue from their political masters, some of whom played a crucial role in fanning the communal fire, describing members of the Jamaat as ‘terrorists’ and ‘human bombs’. The consequences were ugly: the disparaging comments worsened the strain on India’s inclusive social fabric and magnified the sufferings of minorities. It was the judiciary, once again, that stepped up to contain the poisoning. The Bombay High Court expressed its displeasure against this selective targeting and asked for the damage to be repaired. The latest verdict would strengthen the case for an apology and accountability from the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Life story: I hurt, therefore I exist||This is not the happiest note to end the year on. But the year has not been kind to me, or anyone, either. One of the most debilitating experiences in the last few months has been my encounter with the System, which is now Authority upgraded to the Network. It is not a coincidence that the Network is often called the System, but here I am talking about State machinery. The System is invisible, but reveals itself to you when you approach it through an institution. The more vulnerable you are, the more terrifying it is. It holds absolute power over you, and during the pandemic, absolute+. The System eliminated my mother, for a while, even though she was right there, breathing, living, talking, in front of it. Her experience was particularly hurtful, since she has been paralyzed for years and cannot move on her own. I had wanted my mother’s bank to issue her life certificate for the continuation of her pension. She cannot sign her name any more and uses her left thumb impression. She could not get an Aadhaar card because the System then could not organize a home visit by officials for her. Technology does not improve access. Not then, not now. Technology, for her, bars access. A number of phone calls made to the branch where my mother banks did not produce any answer. An online search led me to no other number and I called the bank helpline. I do not think the young lady I spoke to had any intention of understanding my mother’s problem. When other banks are organizing video calls for their senior customers, I was told that my mother had to visit her bank in person. So I bundled her off in my car to the bank. She sat in the car, as it is not possible to carry her inside, and I went in. But I was told that she cannot submit her life certificate application as her details were no longer there in the System: both her photograph and her thumb impression had been erased. She would have to submit all her ID papers and a doctor’s certificate saying that she is only capable of using her left thumb impression for her account to get reactivated. “It is the System,” the official said. But could the bank not see that she was alive? She was there, she was disabled and great pains had been taken to bring her to the bank. She was in pain because she was alive. I hurt, therefore I exist? “It is the System,” the official said. It would not recognise her till Ireturned with the doctor’s certificate. Certainly not her problems. The System has no room for disability. But the official could just come out and collect her thumb impression and take her photograph on behalf of the bank? No, the System did not permit it. Random thoughts crossed through my mind. Was the Unknowable, All-Powerful System the same as the one manifesting itself on the small screen in front of the official? How — quite inappropriate and morbid though this was — Behula and Sabitri must have felt carrying the bodies of Lakhindar and Satyaban respectively. Even more morbid — how my mother’s situation was like that of Kadambini, the young woman in Tagore’s short story, who had to die to prove that she had been alive. Because she could not walk, come to the bank herself and sign her name, Ma had fallen through the cracks of the System and disappeared. She did not exist any more. Only perfect paperwork could revive her, but nothing was promised clearly. I had no idea how long this would go on and how many more visits Ma would have to make. I must have been looking terrible by this time, because of the mixture of rage and helplessness at my inability to explain to the bank the fact of my mother’s life. The official underwent a change of mind, went out with me, and collected Ma’s thumb impression. The life certificate application was accepted. She was not able to withdraw any money. For that the paperwork would have to come through. But at least I had been able to prove she was alive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Opinion||Making history||As the year limps to its close — not with a bang, but a whimper — and the scale and extent of the devastation caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus gradually become apparent, even as the first vaccines have begun to be administered in countries across the globe, there seems to be unanimity about only one thing — that 2020 will go down as a defining year in human history, and future chroniclers will have much grist for their analytic mills as they try to make sense of what happened and, maybe more crucially, what could have but did not happen, in these last twelve months. The archives that future historians will sift through in the years to come, in physical and digital forms, have already started to take on vast proportions, and it seems unlikely that there will ever be a consensus about the causes, effects, and efforts to combat the virus undertaken by individuals, institutions, nation states, and multinational entities. Much will depend, of course, on when humanity as a whole is able to live with the virus, in much the same way in which it has become accustomed to live with other viruses (the human immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS springs most readily to mind in this context). If we are able to effectively eradicate the virus (as we did with smallpox) or contain it (polio), then Covid-19 is something our descendants will encounter as a minor footnote in our history. If, on the other hand, as some have predicted, the virus mutates, multiplies, and continues to disrupt lives then there is no predicting where this particular story will end. These thoughts were prompted by three recent events, each of which has the potential to take on wider and deeper historical importance, and one of proven historical significance which is approaching the half-century mark. The three recent events are, in chronological order, the demonetization of November 8, 2016; the widespread agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act passed by the Indian Parliament on December 11, 2019; and the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the capital city that began on the 25th of last month. The half-century-old event is the defeat of the Pakistani forces through the combined efforts of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and India’s armed forces on December 16, 1971. I had the great good fortune to be present at a ‘Vijay Diwas’ (‘Victory Day’) celebration held on December 16 this year to commemorate the birth of Bangladesh, where former mukti joddhas (Bangladeshi freedom fighters), retired soldiers from Bangladesh’s and India’s armed forces who had served during the Liberation War of 1971, and civilians who had played important roles before, during, and after the war were present to share their thoughts and experiences. As I listened to the matter-of-fact accounts of these senior citizens, narrating events their younger selves had participated in (one former lieutenant of the Pakistani army recounted his defection to the Bangladeshi side, and how the resulting death sentence awarded to him in court-martial has still not been rescinded; an Indian journalist spoke of finding himself under fire whilst climbing a hill only to realize it was coming from friendly Indian troops; retired soldiers from both countries described how country boats and cycle rickshaws had helped the advance of Indian forces in various theatres of war in Bangladesh; a former mukti joddha-turned-Bangladeshi army commander reminisced of how young Bangladeshis fought the Pakistani army with whatever they could lay their hands on, from bamboo stakes to antiquated 303 rifles; the anecdotes were as various as they were fascinating), one thing became apparent: from March 26, 1971, when Sheikh Mujibur Rahman formally declared Bangladesh free of Pakistani rule, a date celebrated as Bangladesh’s Independence Day, till December 16 of the same year, it was by no means certain to those engaged in the struggle for liberation that their efforts would, in fact, bear fruit, their dreams transform into reality. International opinion was not always favourable either: five days into the war, a December 8, 1971 headline in The New York Times reported the United Nations urging truce, by 104 votes to 11, and calling for the withdrawal of all troops from what was still officially East Pakistan to the rest of the world. Had the UN resolution been heeded, it is likely that the birth of Bangladesh would have been significantly delayed, leading to further bloodshed and genocide. Now, of course, we look upon the struggle and its outcome as something close to inevitable, and Bangladesh as a fait accompli even in 1971, but hindsight is always twenty-twenty. No such inevitability adheres to the three recent events I have listed above, nor is there anything inevitable about the way in which the current pandemic will play out; these are all, so to speak, works-in-progress. The tides of history have still not abated enough for us to be able to discern the forces that have created and shaped these phenomena, nor can we forecast how humanity will perceive them in a few years’ (or decades’) time. Commentators (this writer included) have made predictions on the effects of demonetization that have not been borne out by subsequent events; and both the anti-CAA and anti-farm-bills agitations are far from over — trying to gauge their outcomes now is as likely to be perceived as foolish as prescient by later chroniclers. We cannot even be sure of just how these events will be judged by the future. Will these three events become brief endnotes to the larger narrative of a world laid to waste by a deadly pandemic? Or will they be seen as defining events in the narrative of our nation? What will their relationship be interpreted as when considered in relation to the growing authoritarianism of this particular nation state? How will the protests be mapped against the many other events taking place in India and the world at this time — the significance of which may not even have registered with us thus far? These are well-nigh impossible questions to answer, and I am sure there are several others which we do not even know quite how to frame at this moment. In a 1963 speech to the overseas correspondents of the weekly, Newsweek, in London, Phil Graham, the publisher (and later co-owner) of The Washington Post, had spoken of the “inescapably impossible task of providing every week a first rough draft of history that will never really be completed about a world we can never really understand.” Despite the impossibility of making this first rough draft of history, and the perhaps ultimate incomprehensibility of the world in which we exist, we are all inextricably chained to the space-time matrix we were born into, and in which we live, love, grow, experience, and feel. All that we can do is strive to understand our times, and our selves, as best we can, even if we are doomed to fail in this task. Despite its seeming futility, we can, and we must, make an account of our lives and times, not so much for us, here and now, as for posterity; we have no option but to keep adding to the archive. The analysis and the interpretation of this archive remain a task for our descendants. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel earns Rs 550 cr by selling waste it generated ||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is earning more than Rs 550 crore revenue annually by selling its solid wastes. Apart from earning this huge amount, the company is also saving around Rs 250-280 crore yearly by recycling or reusing these wastes again in the production process. These solid wastes are generated in different units inside the plant during the steel making process. The net sale of the BSL in 2019-20 is Rs 13,212 crore, of which about Rs 550 crore was made by selling its waste in the open market. The BSL, who claimed to have been utilising 98.12 per cent of its generated solid waste has won the prestigious Greentech Environment Excellence Award 2020 in “Recycling and Waste Management” Category this year. Greentech Environment Awards 2020 is presented in recognition of responsible, innovative practices and initiatives towards achieving sustainable goals. The credit for the accolade goes to the vision of director in-charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash and his team of Environment Control Department (ECD), which has developed a potential market by attracting prospective buyers for its various solid wastes in the past couple of years. They termed these solid wastes as ‘by-product’. The solid waste market in Bokaro is growing fast, as companies from different parts of India and abroad is now looking for it. There are eight different kinds of solid wastes generated in the BSL plant, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). These are BF Slag, LD Slag, waste refractories, Ferric Oxide, ESP (RMP) dust, BF flue dust, mill scale and coke breeze. Of its BF slag is a hot product and LD slag is being developed. Apart from these two, BSL also gets good earnings from the sale of waste refractories, Ferric Oxide and ESP (RMP) dust. Apart from these five, rest three are reused fully by BSL in its own production. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “In a year 2508056.93 (25 lakh) tonnes of solid waste is generated in BSL. Its utilisation always remains challenging for the company, but now we are doing it well. Unlike dumping these solid wastes, BSL's effort for its utilisation for past decade now yielding fruits with our 98.12 per cent annually generated wastes are being utilised one way or other. In 2019-20, against the sale of 12.1 lakh tonne of solid waste by BSL, around Rs 550 crore revenue was earned.” Waste arising in steel plants always remains a concern for pollution watchdogs which pushes companies for its effective utilisation and only available solution. Dhan added, “Of the total generated solid wastes in a year, 12,41,726.11 (12.4 lakh) tonnes are either recycled or reused. And, 12,19,193.82 (12.1 lakh) tonnes were sold yearly, which brought good revenue to the company and 47,137 tonnes were being dumped.” Meanwhile, BSL management is also working on a major plan to reutilise the earlier dumped tonnes of solid waste in its peripheries. The presentation on effective recycling and waste management of BSL, made before the jury of Greentech Environment Award, by the head of the department, ECD of BSL, Navin Prakash Srivastava and assistant general manager of ECD, Nitesh Ranjan has impressed them. The jury member consisted of ex-chief factory inspector, ex-MD Canara bank, ex-director, ONGC, and other eminent personalities. “Based on the application filed and presentation given in front of the jury, BSL has been declared the winner of ‘Greentech Environment Award 2020’,” said Dhan. The award will be presented during the “20th Annual Greentech Environment Summit” scheduled on February 12 at Mahabalipuram.  Concerted efforts of Bokaro Steel Plant in waste utilisation and improvement in environmental performance parameters helped BSL in achieving this glory. On this achievement, director in-charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash congratulated the entire BSL fraternity and especially Navin Prakash Srivastava and his team for the accolade, and reaffirmed Bokaro Steel’s commitment to sustainable development and environment conservation. These are the new avenues where BSL’s generated solid waste is utilised:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Khairbani garbage treatment plant likely to be cancelled amid protests||The ambitious solid waste treatment plant at Khairbani village of Saraikela’s Govindpur panchayat is likely to fall through as locals protested strongly on Friday against its construction. The project was already stalled since 2013 for the same reason. Protesters on Friday demonstrated in front of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee office at Sakchi against the project and imposed a ‘Janata Curfew’ at its site in Khairbani. Over 500 agitators, under the banner of Gram Sabha Khairbani, Samutola, demonstrated in front of the office of the committee after a team of the civic body had inspected the site of the proposed solid waste treatment plant at Khairbani on Tuesday. Protesters equipped with bows and arrows carried out an hour-long demonstration as they beat their traditional drums. They also submitted a memorandum to the civic body's special officer, Krishna Kumar. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee has been making attempts to get the ambitious project executed for seven years but faces strong resistance by the local residents who think once the project gets through in their locality, the environment will be polluted. The executing agency of the project had raised the boundary wall at the project site, but had to stop work after the residents of Khairbani had resorted to violent protest against the project in 2013. In the memorandum, Rakesh Hembram, president of the protesting outfit mentioned that when the residents of Khairbani are opposed to any solid waste treatment project there, they why did the civic body send a team to the place for inspection again. “We, the residents of Khairbani will no way allow the district administration to set up any solid waste treatment plant there. The project site spread over 34 acres of land is now being developed as a forest stretch. Any kind of initiative by the administration for the proposed project at Khairbani will be protested violently. The project will be dropped immediately,” Hembram said in the memorandum. Demka Soy, another key leader of the outfit present during Friday’s demonstration said that from Friday, they will impose a ‘Janata Curfew’ at the project site. “We are imposing ‘Janata Curfew’ surrounding the project site. Our men will be keeping guard of the area with bows and arrows. If any official from the JNAC is spotted at the project site, he or she will have to face dire consequences,” he said. Krishna Kumar could not be contacted for comments. However, a senior official of the civic committee confirmed the demonstration by the protesters on Friday. “We had planned to resume the construction work at the proposed solid waste treatment plant in Khairbani. A team of the JNAC had, therefore, visited the site on Tuesday following which the local residents demonstrated in front of the office, protesting against the project. It appears that the proposed solid waste treatment plant will not come up at Khairbani given the situation there,” he said requesting anonymity. It had been envisaged that solid wastes accumulated from civic body areas in Jamshedpur, Mango, Jugsalai and adjoining Adityapur municipal corporation will be treated at the Khairbani plant, about 15 kms away from the heart of the city, thus getting rid of the municipal garbage of the steel city and Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Red Cross to resume OPD services||The outpatient department service of Dhanbad Red Cross Society lying suspended since more than seven years would soon be resumed. This was decided during a meeting of Dhanbad Red Cross society management committee held on Thursday under the chairmanship of Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh at district collectorate during which several other decisions to revive the Red Cross Society including increasing its membership by manifolds was taken. The meeting attended by sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad; additional district magistrate (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar; Red Cross secretary, Kushlendra Kumar and others also decided to develop the website as well as a Twitter account of the society at the earliest in order to facilitate the online submission of forms for membership and its approval. During the meeting, it was also decided to ensure increasing the funding of the society by establishing coordination with office bearers of the different trade bodies like Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, private coal excavators working on behalf of BCCL, etc. “The fund will be used to carry out the welfare activities conducted by Red Cross Society like distribution of tricycle and other aids to physically challenged persons besides monetary help to persons suffering from various serious medical complications,” said Dhanbad Red Cross Society secretary, Kaushlendra Kumar and added that a host of welfare activities like rendering services to armed forces in war days and also to the people during disasters, cyclone, flood, drought are also conducted. Three ambulance services including one cardiac ambulance and two general ambulances are also provided by the Dhanbad Red Cross Society on no loss/no profit basis to common people and besides this regular blood donation camps are also organised at the behest of Red Cross Society. Notably, a similar decision to increase the membership of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society was also taken during an executive committee of the society held on August 1, 2019. The membership forms were made available at different shops, commercial establishment, etc. after which membership increased to some extent. The meeting while taking the decision to re-launch the OPD service in Red Cross Society building near Golf Ground stressed on launching the facility of gynaecologist, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist on priority basis with some of the members of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society. Notably, the OPD service of Red Cross Society was launched in 2013 in association with Dhanbad unit of Indian Medical Association but the service later discontinued due to several reasons including lack of awareness among the common people about the OPD service and very few patients turning up at the OPD Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Panchayat tenures over next month, state mulls interim measures||Over 4,000 panchayat bodies in Jharkhand will be dissolved next month for having completed their five-year terms, the state panchayati raj director, Aditya Ranjan, announced on Friday. In letters to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, Ranjan has said that once tenures of panchayat bodies end, powers of elected representatives would also cease. “The government will soon send detailed plans on the next course of action on the rural bodies,” he said. The term of the existing panchayats will end on January 4, 2021. The state government is yet to decide on holding elections in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, Jharkhand doesn’t have a state election commissioner, a position that has been lying vacant for several months. BJP and AJSU-P, who form the Opposition NDA in Jharkhand, have already pointed to the delay in holding panchayat polls, accusing the state government led by Hemant Soren for trying to take administrative control over rural elected bodies. While the BJP staged a statewide agitation on this issue on December 16, its ally, AJSU-P, has written to the chief minister demanding that panchayat polls are held without further delay. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam, however, snubbed the BJP for its selective outrage. “Panchayat polls were held in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh despite completion of terms. Why is BJP silent on it? Is it because they are in power in those states?” he said, adding that the Jharkhand government was working out modalities to hold elections at the earliest. “We are trying to hold the polls by April (2021). Meanwhile, the government is exploring options. Are we to bring panchayat bodies under administrative control or form local-level samitis to run them? We shall opt for the option that will be best suited for panchayats in the interest of uninterrupted development of the rural areas,” he said. Earlier this week, leader of the BJP legislative party Babulal Marandi accused the state government of deliberately delaying the panchayat elections. “The country has seen the successful conduct of Bihar polls, several bypolls in the last few months. Hence, the Covid-19 pandemic can no longer be an excuse for not holding panchayat elections in Jharkhand,” he told the media. Marandi said the state government wanted to take administrative control of panchayats so that it could run them and appoint officials of its choice. He did not spare the Congress, part of the ruling alliance, too. “They (Congress) claim to have introduced panchayati raj in the country to empower villages. But they are conveniently silent on the delay,” he added. The BJP leader said Central funds meant for panchayats would not be used in the absence of panchayat polls. “Development work in rural areas will be stalled. This is the time when development work needs to be done to reduce distress in rural areas and create employment avenues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman, out answering nature’s call, buried alive after Jharia cave-in||A woman, who was out answering nature’s call, was buried alive at Kusunda early on Friday morning after a sudden land subsidence, a perennial fallout of indiscriminate mining in Jharia’s underground fire-affected region. Kalyani Devi (30), who was with her daughter Komal (8), fell into the 30-feet crater that developed near Industry Colliery as a result of the cave-in at 8 am. Her daughter shouted for help, but by the time residents gathered around and tried to save her, she had had died. Komal said both her mother and she were holding hands while returning home. “But after walking for some time, I had moved ahead. Suddenly I heard screaming. I looked back to see my mother sinking inside a crater, shouting for help,” she said. Komal said their neighbours rushed out and tried to help. “Some tried by dropping a rope down the crater. Others tried to send down a bucket, but she could not be saved,” said Komal. Kalyani’s body was recovered at 12.30 pm about four and-a-half hours after the site was excavated by Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) workers who had deployed a hydraulic excavator. Local residents blocked the Jharia-Dhanbad Road for than an hour from 9am, demanding compensation for the family of the deceased. This was followed by negotiations between BCCL officials and Kalyani’s family members. Kalyani’s husband, Dilip Bauri (36) is a daily wage earner. “We don’t have a toilet in our house. All family members go outside to answer nature’s call.  My wife went out this (Friday) morning along with my elder daughter, but fate had something else in store for us. My wife fell into the crater that developed after a cave-in,” he said. Residents blamed BCCL for negligence. “BCCL never tried to douse the underground fire. Noe did it plan to shift us to a safer site, compelling us to risk or lives and stay here,” said Shanti Devi, who lives next door to Kalyani. Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar, who was part of the negotiations with Kalyani’s family and the district administration, said compensation would be provided to the family as per norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coaching institutes want permission to reopen, threaten stir||Members of the Jharkhand Coaching Association, an umbrella organisation of private tutorials, have demanded that they be allowed to reopen given that the state government has allowed schools to start functioning as per newly introduced SOPs. Reacting to Thursday’s announcement of SOPs for schools for classes 10 and 12, coaching institutes, that cater to those appearing for various competitive examinations, have now threatened to hit the streets from next week if their demands are not met. The association said that the continued “lockdown” of coaching institutes was adversely affecting the livelihoods of lakhs of professionals associated with them. JCA said that they would not hesitate to launch a state and district-level agitation if their pleas are ignored. But according to a statement issued after a meeting on Thursday evening, JCA would wait to hear from the government till Sunday. S.D. Mishra, joint secretary of JCA, said, “It is beyond our understanding why coaching centres are facing a lockdown when schools and higher education centres are being allowed to function in a staggered manner. Allow us to also function with similar conditions. We will abide by every protocol set by the government to curb the spread of the virus.” Mishra said over a lakh people, comprising teachers and support staff, are directly and indirectly dependent on coaching centres to run their families. In Ranchi alone, there are around 15,000 coaching centres employing over 40,000 people. “Since the past nine months, they are without jobs and are finding it difficult to make ends meet. Many coaching centres have been forced to shut down permanently owing to high recurring monthly expenses,” said Mishra, adding that they had appealed to senior functionaries of the state government in the past, but nothing has come of these meetings. “We request the state government to be sympathetic to our woes and clear its stand by Sunday. Otherwise, we will be forced to protest in whichever way we can,” he said. As per SOPs issued by the state government, all schools outside containment zones have been permitted to resume regular classes for students of class 10 and 12 with the consent of parents with effect from December 21. In addition to schools, the state government has also allowed shooting of films without the presence of spectators, subject to compliance of SOPs to be notified by the information and public relations department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chapter of CII holds online industrial safety conclave||The Confederation of Indian Industry's ( CII) Jharkhand  State Council on Friday organised its second edition of Industrial Safety Conclave, to inspire stakeholders towards building a stronger culture of safety in their organisations. The conclave acted as a forum for participants to interact with the safety professionals and thought leaders to learn the best practices. “For achieving vision zero or a zero-accident workplace, we would need more involvement and commitment of the MSMEs,” said Sanjay Sabherwal, Chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council. “I am happy that the CII Jharkhand's safety panel has launched Project SARTHI to handhold MSMEs on better safety management practices and transform them into a better and safer workplace,” Sabherwal, who is also the Managing Director of Metaldyne Industries Ltd said in his address. Tapas Sahu, Chairman of the CII Jamshedpur zonal council and Managing Director, Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd said, “Safety is something which can never be overemphasised. Impact of being unsafe is very heavy on society. Best safety cultures are led by business leaders who integrate safety into the business.” In his address to the conclave, Vilas Gaikwad, Chief of safety at Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, said, “The commitment from the leadership towards safety is extremely critical to inculcate a true safety culture within the organisation.” Safety expert and the Head of Safety at Tata Motors Ltd, Bipin B Sharan, said that the conclave will prove to be a good learning session. “This second edition of CII Jharkhand Industrial Safety Conclave will prove to be a good learning session with significant takeaways and would go a long way in encouraging industries to take proactive approaches for a safe workplace,” he said. Raju Ramchandran, senior Vice President of Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd ( Jojobera ) said that achieving vision zero in industrial safety will require a new mindset, new beliefs, new approaches and a different kind of leadership. The conclave deliberated on important topics of discussion including adopting safety as a culture, emerging trends and technology in industrial safety and best practices in industrial safety and maintaining a safe shop floor in the ‘new normal’ scenario. he other  speakers who addressed the conclave included Prakash Sinha, general manager, Tata Motors Ltd;  Dr Abhishek Pandey, chief medical officer and  Country Health Coordinator, Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd; Shikhar Kaushik, Head - Safety New Initiatives , Tata Steel Limited and  S K Bhattacherjee, chief general manager (Iron Making), Mecon Limited. Over a hundred delegates participated in the event online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Worry for Jharkhand as fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries||Coronavirus on Thursday claimed two more lives in Ranchi and one in Dhanbad, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1007, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Thursday's findings took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 99 and that in Ranchi to 209, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, remained 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries on the day, causing a rise in the number of active cases. As many as 211 people were found infected across Jharkhand while 164 patients recovered from the viral infection on Thursday, taking the number of active cases in the state up at 1629, the NHM bulletin revealed. Ranchi registered a rise in active cases, while East Singhbhum reported as many fresh cases as recoveries. At least 99 people were found infected in Ranchi while 80 patients recovered, taking the active cases up at 778. As many as 32 people were found infected in East Singhbhum and the same number of patients recovered there. At least six of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, but four districts reported a double-digit-spike. Bokaro reported 23 cases against 10 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 13 cases against four recoveries. The government on Thursday tested 18,738 patients and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.86 lakh people and tested 45.71 lakh of them. Around 15,000 samples were pending for tests by the end of Thursday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.23 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 469.46 days against the national doubling rate of 300.36 days. As many as 109696 people have recovered from the viral infection in the state, taking the recovery rate up at 97.65 per cent against the national average of 95.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rs 1 lakh ex gratia for mishap victims’ kin||The Jharkhand government will pay an ex gratia of Rs 1 lakh to the families of those who die in road accidents. This first of its kind decision was taken during a review meeting of the disaster management department on Tuesday that was presided over by chief minister Hemant Soren and attended by the departmental minister Banna Gupta, who is also the health minister. “The state government has taken a historical decision of paying Rs 1 lakh to the families of those who die in road accidents,” Gupta said, adding the amount will be given by the disaster management department. Asked when the decision would come into effect, special secretary in disaster management department, Manish Tiwari, said: “This (the decision to pay the ex gratia amount) needs approval from the state cabinet, which is expected to be obtained soon.” Asked whether the ex gratia recipients have to be below the poverty line, Tiwari said: “The next of the kin of anyone who dies in a road accident will be eligible for the payment, irrespective of their financial status.” The relevant rules would be formed shortly that will have certain restrictions and those who get involved and die in road accidents for drink driving are not supposed to qualify for the payment, Tiwari said. He said the payment of ex gratia would be done only after receiving favourable reports from competent authorities such as the police. Like many other states, Jharkhand also records a large number of deaths, numbering over 3,000, due to road accidents every year. According to data available with the road transport department, there were 4,932 road accidents in 2016, in which 3,027 people died. In 2017, 3,256 people died in 5,198 road accidents, while there were 3,542 deaths due to 5,394 accidents in 2018 and 3,800 fatalities in 5,215 accidents in 2019. Till October this year, 2,294 people have died due to 3,366 road accidents in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel excels in LGBT+ inclusion||Global steel behemoth Tata Steel, which has its largest plant at Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, has been named a top employer for LGBT+ inclusion by India Workplace Equality Index (IWEI), the country’s first comprehensive benchmarking study to measure and enable efforts for the community’s inclusion. Tata Steel vice-president (designate), human resource management, Atrayee S. Sanyal, said in a media communiqué released on Thursday afternoon: “At Tata Steel we believe a diverse and inclusive environment enables employees to express themselves openly thereby adding to the perspectives and collective wisdom of the organisation. We are proud to feature amongst the IWEI 2020 top employers for LGBT+ inclusion. This recognition reaffirms our commitment to foster a culture to actively promote LGBTQ+ empowerment and build a benchmark workplace.” The IWEI ranking is considered the definitive list showcasing the best employers in India for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Tata Steel is one of the 18 organisations to feature in the silver category. “This is the inaugural IWEI top employers’ list, featuring 52 organisations that have been recognised as ‘bronze’, ‘silver’ or ‘gold’ depending on their final score. Organisations participating in this index make it clear that they support equality for LGBT+ people at work,” the communiqué added. Incidentally, Tata Steel rolled out a new HR policy last year that enables colleagues from the LGBTQ+ community to avail all benefits permissible under the law for their partners (people of same-sex living together) like coverage for child-care leave, newborn parent leave, medical benefits, joint house points, employee assistance programs, domestic travel policy, health check-ups, transfer and relocation benefits, honeymoon package and others. In line with the company’s vision of enabling a workplace for all diverse groups, Tata Steel launched Wings, a LGBTQ+ employee resource group, in May 2018. The company’s diversity and inclusion (D&I) programme started taking shape with the launch of a diversity group called Mosaic in June 2015. Mosaic facilitates a diversity of gender, hiring and inclusion of persons with disabilities (PWDs), LGBTQ+ and more. Mosaic focuses on the five pillars of sensitisation, infrastructure, recruitment, retention, development and celebrations. “Tata Steel has set a target of having 20 per cent women officers in the workforce by 2025,” said a senior HR official of Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||A study in self-reliance in Jharkhand||A headmaster in a remote Jharkhand village is helping students become atmanirbhar (self-reliant) amid the pandemic by making them learn how to make chalk, mats, brooms, handicrafts and carry out gardening. Sapan Kumar, the 42-year-old headmaster of Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya (Upgraded Middle School) at Dumarthar village in Dumka district, had shot into limelight a few months back for using an innovative method to help students overcome difficulties in attending online classes by encouraging the children to use the walls in their houses as blackboards to write down class assignments under the supervision of teachers. “Dumarthar is inhabited mainly by Santhals who are mostly farmers or contract workers and are very poor. Out of the 302 students (158 boys and 144 girls) in our school, only 10-15 students have smartphones. We were worried about how to continue their education after the school was closed due to the pandemic and conducting online classes was next to impossible. So we divided the village into four sections. Each section was given to one teacher (there are four teachers, including the headmaster) to supervise students who will have to write down the lessons using the walls of their houses as blackboards,” said Kumar. After the success of the innovative idea under the supervision of teachers who are equipped with Bluetooth-enabled microphone to sort out queries of the students in the last few months, the headmaster was faced with another problem. “Though initially we provided students with chalk pieces. But later on our hands became tied as the cost of purchasing chalk was quite high. So I decided to talk to my friends and arrange plaster of Paris and moulds and trained the students to make white chalk. Now we make 200 pieces of chalk daily and do not have to purchase it from the market,” said Kumar. Students who faced problems in getting mats to site near their houses for the classes were also trained to make mats using date palm leaves. “We started using dry date palm leaves to weave it into a mat which could be used for students to sit. We also use wild grasses to make brooms which are used to clean the places where the students sit. All these activities had a positive impact on students who were inspired not only to keep their houses clean but also keep the lanes near their homes clean,” the headmaster said. Students are also being given information on growing vegetables and flowering plants and plantation methods for rabi and kharif crops. Girl students are also being trained on how to apply decorative mehendi. However, the extracurricular sessions are conducted after class hours. “The classes are held between 10am and 12.30pm. We conduct training to make the students self-reliant after class for nearly 30 minutes depending on their choices ranging from making chalk, broom, mat, mehendi or gardening,” said Kumar. Phenomoni Murmu, a fourth grader, was excited with the extracurricular activities. “We are enjoying making brooms and mats. I am also learning to apply mehendi,” said Phenomoni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
