19-12-2020||Calcutta||Pen-and-paper ICSE and ISC: Gerry Arathoon||The ICSE and ISC exams will be pen and paper and there must be at least two months of on-campus classes before the boards can take place, the chief executive and secretary of the council, Gerry Arathoon, said on Friday. “It (the board exams) will have to be a pen-and-paper exam. Online exams will not be practical given the connectivity problem and issues of availability of laptop for a section of students. Two months of rigorous teaching has to be done (in the school) before the board exam. The Class X and XII students will have to come to school for practical classes, to complete projects, for revision and clearing of doubts,” Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), told The Telegraph over the phone. The council chief conveyed this message to 1,500-odd principals online in the annual meeting of the Association of Schools for the ISC on Friday. “Not all students have laptops and they are using smartphones. All parents cannot afford to buy laptops. Many of them are unable to pay the fees so can they buy a laptop? There are parents who have had salary cuts also,” said Arathoon. Speaking about poor connectivity, he said that even during the online meeting there were interruptions. “We lost connectivity four times.” Arathoon said he had written to the chief ministers of all states to allow schools to “reopen partially” from January 4 for the students of Classes X and XII to attend practical classes, “doubt clearing” lessons and do project work. The council has also requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to polls in April and May, so the council can “finalise” the schedules of next year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. “Once we know the dates, we can form the schedule of the board exams. Bengal is one state where elections are due,” said Arathoon. There are about 430 ICSE and 250-odd ISC schools in Bengal. Usually, the Class X board exams begin in March and Class XII begin in February. “I cannot see the board exams taking place in February or March because schools have not reopened yet,” Arathoon said. “Students have attended online classes but they need to be in school for teaching lessons, practical and revision.” All schools have been closed since March as a precaution against Covid. Schools have been conducting online classes. But many teachers said that for practical classes, showing the experiments online is not enough, the students have to do it themselves. Arathoon said schools have to tell the parents to let their children attend on-campus classes. “At least parents of Classes X and XII will have to be educated by the schools. The importance of sending the children to school will have to be communicated to them. Of course the SOPs have to be maintained. Gradually we have to inculcate some kind of assurance to parents that children will be safe and only then can the boards be conducted successfully in school,” he said. “There are parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Darjeeling, remote areas in Odisha and Chhattisgarh where connectivity is a huge issue. As Mr. Arathoon pointed out, since connectivity is not proper throughout the country, a pen-and-paper exam is the best solution,” said Sujoy Biswas, the president of the Association of Schools for the ISC. Principals who attended Friday’s meeting agreed with the council. “Two months is a good time span to give the students proper practice and bring them to school in a staggered manner,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||JU asks engineering aspirants to apply between December 22 and 26 ||Jadavpur University has asked engineering aspirants to apply between December 22 and 26 to fill the 487 BTech seats that have remained vacant after the centralised counselling by the JEE board. According to a notification issued on Friday, all general category candidates who have qualified JEE 2020 with a valid general merit rank of 10,000 or less and reserved category candidates having qualified JEE 2020 with any valid general merit rank and not admitted to any undergraduate degree programme under faculty of engineering and technology, Jadavpur University, may apply. The university has 1,253 seats and close to 40 per cent seats have not found takers during the three rounds of online counselling by the board that had started in August and ended in late October. The students already admitted to any BTech programme in JU may also apply only if they desire to change the programme they are admitted to. When the state government in early December had allowed engineering colleges to select students for admission on their own, the vacancy stood at 450 at JU. By the time JU issued the notification for decentralised counselling, the figure rose to 487. In computer science and engineering, considered to be the most coveted stream attracting the top-notch students from the state JEE, over 50 seats have remained vacant. In electronics and telecommunication engineering close to 50 seats have remained vacant while in information technology its 36. Where are the enrolled students heading to? An official of the engineering and technology faculty at JU said even as the university had been filling seats in the first three rounds of centralised counselling, enrolled students started backing out after counselling for the NITs began in mid-October. “With the Joint Seat Allocation Authority starting its counseling, a large number of students who had opted for JU backed out and took admission in NITs, like NIT Suratkal, NIT Trichy. This led to a situation where more one in the three seats has remained vacant at JU,’’ said the official. Amitava Datta, the new dean of engineering and technology said: “After the admission process gets over, we will engage our quality assurance cell to find out why so many seats remained vacant’’. The problem of seats remaining vacant is not only restricted to JU. In Calcutta University as many as 89 out of 237 BTech seats have remained vacant, prompting the university to start decentralised counselling. Metro had reported on Monday that the association of private engineering colleges in Bengal has appealed to the state government for permission to admit students during the decentralised counselling who did not write any common entrance exam, a move that the association said has been prompted by a staggering number of vacant seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Members-only Midnight Mass at Church of North India||St Paul’s Cathedral and other churches under the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India will allow only church members for the Midnight Mass on December 24 this year. At St Paul’s Cathedral, after the Midnight Mass, visitors will be allowed to take a round and leave, a church official said. “We are allowing only the members this year for the Midnight Mass. Usually there is a huge gathering every year including non-Christians who come to St Paul’s Cathedral to seek blessings. After the midnight mass visitors will be allowed for a while and they will have to leave after that,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI). The Midnight Mass at St Paul’s Cathedral starts at 11pm and goes on for one-and-a-half hours. The bishop said visitors will be allowed for an hour after that. “We have sent the message through our priests that only members will be allowed,” he said. “At St Paul’s Cathedral, for the Midnight Mass, we are not expecting more than 150 people and since our seating capacity is much more, we will be able to maintain proper distancing,” said Reverend Canning. The state government has allowed a maximum of 200 people in closed spaces as a precaution against the Covid pandemic. “On Christmas (December 25) visitors will be allowed inside St Paul’s Cathedral following the safety protocols. The other churches will also be open for visitors because people come to seek blessings,” the bishop said. Police will also help manage the crowd so that not many people enter the premises all at once, he said. “This year, because of the pandemic, the crowd will also be limited. Not everybody, especially the elderly or the children, are venturing out or coming to the church like they do in other years,” John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the CNI. There are about 30 churches in the Calcutta diocese, including St Paul’s Cathedral, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street, and St James’ Church. Many among them have the Midnight Mass. This Christmas Eve, there will be no Midnight Mass in the Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta. Instead there will be an Evening Mass that should end by 9pm, Archbishop Thomas D’ Souza said in a circular issued to priests in the first week of December. There are 65 churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta, including the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, St Thomas’ Church in Middleton Row, and St Ignatius Church in Kidderpore. Water supply to parts of south Calcutta, including parts of Bhowanipore, Kalighat and Gariahat will be stopped after 10am on Saturday. The whole of Behala, parts of Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and places off NSC Bose Road, between Garia and Tollygunge, will also be affected. The supply will resume from Sunday morning. The water supply will be stopped to undertake maintenance and repair works. The Tallah network, which supplies water to the whole of north Calcutta and parts of central and south Calcutta and Bidhanangar, faced a similar shutdown last month to repair a leak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Mishap kills another cyclist on Rashbehari Connector||A bicyclist died after being hit by an autorickshaw in front of the Siemens building on Rashbehari Connector on Thursday night, police said. At least four cyclists, including Thursday night’s victim, have died and several others got injured in road accidents in past one month. In all the cases, the cyclists were hit by vehicles moving faster. Satyam Naskar, 35, a resident of Anandapur, was crossing Rashbehari connector in front of the Siemens building when a Gariahat-bound autorickshaw hit him and fled. The offending vehicle was yet to be traced till Friday evening. The incident happened around 9.30pm on Thursday. Officers of Kasba police station took Naskar to a private hospital on EM Bypass, from where he was shifted to SSKM Hospital. Naskar succumbed to his injuries at 2.30am on Friday. Following a nod from the state cabinet in June, the police had permitted the movement of bicycles on lanes and bylanes of the city for the convenience of those using cycles to commute in absence of public transport during the pandemic. Although the official notification had allowed the movement of cycles only through smaller and medium roads, the police were also allowing their movement on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds”. However, with the rise in number of accidents involving cycles, the city police had stopped extending the permission from this month and carried out awareness drives to keep cyclists away from thoroughfares. The presence of cycles has also reduced vehicular speed on thoroughfares, a police officer said. The Rashebehari connector, where the accident happened on Thursday, is one of the 62 thoroughfares of Calcutta where cycle movement is restricted within stipulated hours. According to a government notification, cycles are allowed on this stretch only between 11pm and 7am the next morning. Officers probing the case said that the cyclist was trying to cross the road when the signal was green and traffic was moving. “We understand that a cycle is the cheapest and most user-friendly mode of transport for hundreds of people who either want to avoid public transport during the pandemic or have no public transport connectivity. But their presence of the main roads generally reduces the average speed of other vehicles,” said an officer of the traffic department. “With increasing volume of traffic, cyclists are most vulnerable to accidents as they do not wear helmets,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||How to curb drink-driving minus breathalysers||Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Friday asked his officers to find a way to curb drink driving in the city even if police were unable to use breathalysers for detecting presence of alcohol in a driver’s blood during the pandemic. Police have stopped the use of breathalysers to prevent chances of transmission of the Covid-19 infection since the outbreak of the pandemic. The top cop, while addressing officers of the rank of officers-in-charge and above during the monthly crime conference, said even if cops were unable to use the machine (breathalyser), they should find a way to curb the menace of drink driving in the city. On Sunday night, a 23-year-old youth, who was allegedly under the influence of alcohol, killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian with his Volkswagen Polo on Prince Anwar Shah Road. “We have to find a way to do this (prosecute for drink driving),” an officer quoted the top cop as saying. The police commissioner also reminded that in absence of traffic during the lockdown period, the police have had a relatively lighter period as there was no traffic to manage, sources quoted him. However, with all establishments opening up during the unlock phases, the volume of traffic has increased manifold compared to what it was during the lockdown period and has become a cause of concern for motorists and pedestrians alike. In the present scenario, the prosecution rate for drink driving in the city has also gone down in absence of use of breathalysers whose readings are used as evidence while prosecuting a person under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if found driving after drinking beyond the permissible limit of 30mg in 100 ml of blood. Second and subsequent offence attracts a fine of Rs 3,000 and two years’ jail. With the year-end and Christmas approaching, the possibility of cases of drink driving may increase too, a section of the police feels. Sharma also expressed concern over the soaring number of road accidents in the city in the past few weeks, sources said. Three fatal accidents were reported in the city between Thursday night and Friday morning. A 75-year-old motorcyclist — Dilip Kumar Biswas, who was wearing a helmet — died in an accident on Strand Road on Friday morning. The police said Biswas, who was riding the two-wheeler, had first overtaken another two-wheeler and was trying to overtake a bus when he apparently lost control and rammed into a lamp post near Prinsep Ghat around 9.50am. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he was declared dead. A younger relative, who was riding pillion, escaped with minor lesser injuries. In Thakurpukur, a 78-year-old pedestrian Nimai Mondal died after a truck lost control and hit three static auto rickshaws on Diamond Harbour Road and then went on to knock down two pedestrians, killing one of them. The incident happened on Friday afternoon. On Thursday night, a cyclist received fatal injuries after being hit by an autorickshaw on Rashbehari connector. An officer who attended the crime conference on Friday said Sharma had also asked to intensify the night patrol and focus on anti-crime drives in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Rally to protest against the three farm laws in Calcutta||Social activist Albee Khan had come from Howrah’s Pilkhana, businessman Umar Awais who stays in Rajabazar shut his business for a day, retired sales professional Amitava Chakraborty came from Metropolitan off the EM Bypass against general advice for elderly to stay at home during the pandemic. About five hundred people from various walks of life matched steps in a rally between Rajabazar and Moulali on Friday afternoon to protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre and in solidarity with farmers who have been camping on the borders of Delhi demanding that the laws be repealed. The Calcuttans iterated the demands made by the farmers — repeal the three laws and do not leave farmers at the mercy of “a few oligarchs”. “I came only to attend this rally. If we cannot protect our farmers, its impact will come on us too,” said Albee, who was in the front row of the rally. “The Centre is trying to hand over the agricultural sector to a few large corporate houses and we will not let that happen,” she added with a firmness in her voice. Chakraborty, 65, said that the new farm laws will drive more farmers towards suicide. The clauses of the new laws are such that the farmers have to be content with whatever  price they are offered by the corporates. “Farmer suicides are very common in our country. Farmers are forced to kill themselves because of huge debts, because they cannot recover their investment. The new laws will make their economic conditions worse and drive more farmers towards suicide,” he said. A group of people who took part in a sit-in against the National Register for Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act from January to March before the pandemic forced them to call off the protest, gave the call for Friday’s rally. The rally was held under the banner of United Forum for National Integrity. Protests, marches and meetings against NRC-CAA as well as the three farm laws have been taking place in Calcutta since the lockdown restrictions were eased. Most of the protesters are common people without any political affiliation. The protests are again drawing spontaneous outpouring of people. Friday’s rally started at 2pm from Rajabazar. Slogans like yeh kanoon wapas lo, kala kanoon wapas lo were raised by the protesters. The demonstrators blocked the Moulali crossing for five minutes. A street side meeting at Moulali followed the march. Awais added that he was also particularly opposed to withdrawing the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism and allowing hoarding of essential commodities under the new laws. “The large companies will buy off very huge quantities from the farmers and then sell them at a price they wish. The bill will not only impact farmers, but each and everyone of us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Bridge repair at Kalighat, Baghajatin ||Two of Calcutta’s bridges, one in Baghajatin and another in Kalighat, would undergo thorough repair that would help the structures bear more vehicular load, the urban development department has decided recently. The concrete used for constructing the decks slabs of the Baghajatin bridge that stands over railway tracks on EM Bypass would be strengthened and its entire underbelly would be covered with a carbon-fibre wrap to reinforce the structure. Following this, steel props would be set up to hold the concrete deck slab of the bridge. For the Kalighat bridge, special bonding agents would be used to fill up micro-cracks that have developed on the structure. A steel casing would be used around the structure like a jacket and the bridge will get an anti-corrosive paint. It would take close to a year for completing the task for each of these bridges and there would periodic traffic blocks to facilitate the repair works, officials said. A government-appointed committee running a health check on bridges and flyovers had earlier flagged these two structures for their poor condition. The committee had suggested immediate demolition of the 56-year-old Kalighat bridge and had said the rail-over-bridge in Baghajatin on EM Bypass should be gradually replaced with a new structure because of its condition. During a recent review of the health of some of the bridges and flyovers across Calcutta, the urban development department opted for thorough overhauling of these two bridges instead of replacing them after structural engineers offered alternatives whereby the longevity of these two structures could be enhanced by at least five years. A budgetary allocation of around Rs 45 crore has been made for the repair of the flyovers, which remain key links for parts of east and south Calcutta. “Recent practices in repair of bridges and flyovers globally were studied and a set of recommendations has been drawn up about how these two structures would be repaired,”  said a senior official of the CMDA, the implementing agency of the overhaul. “The company that is awarded the contract for each will have to follow them to the T.” Built in 2002, the rail overbridge at Baghajatin near Highland Park on EM Bypass left engineers and structural experts shocked when in 2017 some chunks of concrete started peeling off. An inspection later revealed that the structure had been weakened. The expert committee scanning the health of the Kalighat bridge had found acidic vapour from the waters of the Tolly’s Nullah beneath the bridge has corroded parts of the underbelly. The steel reinforcements of the bridge were heavily corroded and the superstructure was damaged in several parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Rs 25,000 discharge summary fine to Health Point Nursing Home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on Health Point Nursing Home in Paddapukur for alleged negligence in preparing the discharge summary of an 85-year-old man. Tapas Kumar Bir, a resident of Palm Avenue in Ballygunge, was admitted to the intensive care unit of the nursing home on October 31 with Covid-19, pneumonia and other complications. He was discharged on November 16 but eventually passed away on December 6. Upon reaching home after discharge in an hospital ambulance, a caregiver and an ayah had found “bruises all over his body”. Bir’s daughter filed a police complaint, alleging her father was beaten up at the hospital, besides approaching the commission. “The hospital denied the allegation…. His daughter shared the pictures of the bruises…. From the pictures, we inferred that they were blood clots, a Covid-19 complication that should have been treated,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The hospital is said to have told the commission that there was no such mark at the time of discharge but Bir had earlier been treated for blood clots. “The same was written on his bed ticket, according to the hospital. But there was no mention of it in his discharge summary. We have fined them Rs 25,000. We have also warned that in the future, at the time of any discharge, the hospital should not only explain to the patient party the treatment in detail but also have the same documented,” said Banerjee. The commission ruled on several other complaints: ⚫The commission imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on CMRI for medical negligence in the treatment of a 69-year-old woman from Habra in North 24-Parganas. During the hearing, however, the complainant (the patient’s son) said he was satisfied with the hospital’s response. ⚫A private nursing home in Park Lane was asked to refund Rs 50,000 taken during the admission of a 58-year-old woman from Baruipur. ⚫The commission  slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on a nursing home in Howrah’s Amta for alleged medical negligence in treating a pregnant woman. The complainant, the woman’s husband, wanted “justice”, not compensation. The commission asked the hospital to pay the amount to an orphanage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiljala ATM loot arrest in Haryana||A man who was allegedly a part of the gang that had broken into an ATM kiosk in Tiljala and fled with Rs 13.5 lakh last month, was arrested from Haryana on Thursday night, police said. The vehicle that was used in the crime has been seized. The police tracked down the Mahindra Scorpio in which the gang had fled from Calcutta to Haryana (via Uttar Pradesh) by checking hundreds of CCTV footages starting from Tiljala’s CN Roy Road to Mathura’s Mahuvan (Uttar Pradesh), over 1,300km from Calcutta. The Haryana-based gang had deliberately used a second-hand vehicle that was still registered in name of its first owner to avert police glare. The ATM robbery was carried out on November 20. The CCTV camera was smeared with black paint. The police found out about the Mahindra Scorpio after examining footages from CCTV cameras installed on the road outside the kiosk. “The route of the vehicle was tracked after scanning over 100 CCTV footages from the city, adjoining districts, till Mathura in Uttar Pradesh,” said a senior police officer. Once the number plate of the vehicle was clearly visible, the police tracked the person in whose name the car was registered and found that he was no longer the owner. From him the police got the details of the car’s new owners. During the probe the police found leads that hinted that the gang was from Mewat in Haryana. A team from Lalbazar went to Mewat and zeroed in on Mohammad Shahid, 29, a gang member. “Although this was an inter-state crime, the gang operated on the basis of the information provided by a local source. The gang was working in close coordination with a Calcutta youth who gave them information about ATM kiosks that did not have security guards or were located on deserted stretches,” said an investigator. The police did not divulge details about the Calcutta contact saying it might hamper the progress of the investigation. Police suspect that the same gang is behind the other ATM robberies reported in November. Similar ATM robberies were reported in Howrah’s Dhulagarh, Michaelnagar in the airport area and Narayanpur in Barasat before the Tiljala robbery. In all these cases, the ATMs were broken using gas cutters. Based on the statement given by the accused in police custody, a search has been launched for the remaining gang members. Shahid has been brought to Calcutta on transit remand and has been booked for theft and breaking open a machine that contained money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Business||Karnataka violence: Wistron fires India boss, Apple places firm on probation||Just a week after violence blew up at  its Narasapura facility in Karnataka, contract manufacturer Wistron on Saturday announced it has let go of its vice-president responsible for operations in India, while iPhone maker Apple placed the Taiwanese firm on probation. Wistron had admitted that it had made mistakes pertaining to the wage payment processes. A section of workers at Wistron Corporation's facility in Narasapura Industrial Area in Kolar district near Bengaluru went on rampage last week over non-payment of their wages. “We are removing the Vice President who oversees our business in India. We are also enhancing our processes and restructuring our teams to ensure these issues cannot happen again,” Wistron said in a statement. Sources say that the fired employee was Vincent Lee, though the company did not reveal any names. Wistron acknowledged that during its investigation, it found out that “found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time”. “We deeply regret this and apologise to all of our workers. This is a new facility and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded,” it said. Wistron said that some of the mechanisms related to payment of wages needed to be strengthened and added it is taking “immediate action to correct this, including disciplinary action”. The firm has increased its headcount from 2,000 in the middle of this year to around 9,000 recently. “Our top priority is to ensure all workers are fully compensated immediately and we are working hard to achieve that,” it said. The company said it has established an employee assistance programme for workers at the facility, and has set up a 24-hour grievance hotline in Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Hindi and English to ensure all workers can voice any concerns they may have, anonymously. Apple, in a separate statement, said it has placed Wistron on probation and that the contract manufacturer will not receive any new business from the US-based company before corrective actions are completed. Apple is also undertaking a detailed investigation in this matter. “We have placed Wistron on probation and they will not receive any new business from Apple before they complete corrective actions. Apple employees, along with independent auditors, will monitor their progress. Our main objective is to make sure all the workers are treated with dignity and respect, and fully compensated promptly,” it said. Over 160 people have been arrested by the police in connection with the violence during which stones were hurled, windows and doors were broken and vehicles in the parking lot were overturned and set on fire. Video footage of the attack had flooded the social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Worry over growth led to easy money policy||Members of the Reserve Bank of India’s interest rate setting body grappled with patchy growth and stubborn inflation but decided to persist with their accommodative stance as it could derail the nascent recovery and growth, minutes of their meeting held earlier this month showed. At the three-day meeting, members of the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) also flagged risks arising from low short-term money market rates even as one member justified the aggressive intervention from the central bank in the forex markets that has been blamed for the US Treasury Department putting India in the monitoring list of currency manipulators. At the meet, members pointed out that though there has been recovery, it has been uneven. They were equally worried about the adverse effects of inflation on growth. Deputy governor Michael Patra said the stress given by MPC to growth relative to inflation since the outbreak of Covid-19 appears to be yielding dividends and the contraction in the economy was less. With inflation remaining elevated, he cautioned that the window available to the MPC to look through inflation pressures is narrower than before. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das felt that though more sectors are showing an upturn, the improvement is not steady and continuous. “Overall, the persistence of inflation at elevated levels constrains monetary policy at the current juncture…though recovery is underway, there is still continuous need to nurture and support growth to make it broad based and durable. A premature roll back of the monetary and liquidity policies of RBI would be detrimental to the nascent recovery and growth.” Ashima Goyal supported RBI’s intervention in the forex market as over-valued rupee can hurt exports,  raise country risk and lead to a sharp depreciation later. “Prolonged inflows can lead to over-valuation without intervention. Surges and sudden stops of capital flows to emerging markets due to advanced economy quantitative easing have hurt emerging market growth in the decade after the global financial crisis,” she said.. Jayanth R. Varma raised  the issue of very low short- term money market rates because of  plentiful liquidity. Ahead of the policy, there were expectations that the RBI would take some steps to restore these rates that were below the policy corridor. Efforts should be to soften the long-term rates rather than the short-term rates, he said. He pointed out that his reduction of rates carries significant risks and very little rewards. ``The rewards are low because long rates are what are relevant for stimulating investments and supporting an economic recovery; a steepening of the yield curve by a reduction in short rates does not accomplish this. Also, a reduction in long rates that stimulates investment not only increases demand in the short run, but it also stimulates supply in the medium term as the new capacity becomes operational, and this new supply dampens inflationary pressures’’, he noted. But, on the other hand, demand that is stimulated by a reduction in short rates is not accompanied by an offsetting supply boost, and it carries greater inflationary risks. He went on to add that in such circumstances, there will be cases of rising profits and profit margins, improving capacity utilization and lack of new capacity additions which will create ripe conditions for the `oligopolistic core’ to start exercising pricing power. Varma pointed out that these are also the enterprises that are benefiting from borrowing at rates below the policy corridor through commercial paper issuance. However, Ashima Goyal had a different view. She pointed out that as long as MPC stance is accommodative, durable liquidity will be in surplus and short-term rates will be below the reverse repo rate. She added that the rates have fallen below the reverse repo because of the combination of excess foreign inflows, intervention and reverse repo access limited only to banks. Ashima Goyal supported RBI’s intervention in the forex market as over-valued rupee can hurt exports,  raise country risk and lead to a sharp depreciation later. “Prolonged inflows can lead to over-valuation without intervention. Surges and sudden stops of capital flows to emerging markets due to advanced economy quantitative easing have hurt emerging market growth in the decade after the global financial crisis,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Life Insurance Corporation stake in Exide up to 5.5%||Life Insurance Corporation of India has upped its stake in city-based automotive and industrial battery maker Exide Industries. In a stock exchange filing on Friday, Exide said that LIC’s stake in the company has increased to 5.519 per cent from 3.480 per cent, making itself a prominent public shareholder in the company. With Exide’s performance closely linked to the automotive sector, LIC stands to benefit from the gradually improving demand. Passenger vehicles and two-wheeler sales have seen a consistent recovery since August after a slump in the early months of the fiscal amid economic slowdown and Covid pandemic. Industry body Siam estimated a 4.65 per cent growth in passenger vehicles and a 13.43 per cent rise in two-wheelers in November 2020 compared with the year-ago period. The regulatory disclosure of Exide said the shares were acquired by LIC through market purchase between June 8, 2017 and December 17, 2020. LIC identifies itself as a long-term investor and has been tweaking its portfolio amid a volatile equity market. Observers said ahead of the proposed public listing, the focus has been towards investing in more mid- and large-cap companies and moving away from low market capitalisation companies. LIC said it has taken opportunities in a volatile market, investing more than Rs 2,60,000 crore this year in debt and equity as on September 30, 2020, compared with Rs 2,44,931 crore in the corresponding year-ago period. The insurer has also booked more than Rs 15,000 crore as profit in the capital market in the first half of the fiscal. Besides LIC, New India Assurance, HDFC Life Insurance, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance are the other insurance companies who have invested in Exide. Mutual funds put together held 14.59 per cent in the company as of September 2020. Exide has been growing its topline despite the subdued demand and Covid-induced business disruptions. The company has posted a 5 per cent growth in revenue during the second quarter, supported by demand for replacement batteries for automobiles and UPS segment. The insurance business revenue has also increased  9 per cent and Exide Life Insurance remained profitable during the quarter. Brokerages are positive on the scrip with expectations of EBITDA margin sustaining at around 14 per cent level in the second half of the ongoing fiscal. Emkay Global in a report on the financials of the company has said Exide has taken a price rise to partially pass through the cost of higher lead prices. “Although the shift towards electric vehicles remains a structural risk for the company, EV penetration could be gradual in our view,” the report said. Exide has already included lithium ion automotive batteries in its portfolio with the company forming a joint venture with European energy storage solution provider Leclanché. Moreover, Exide last month announced additional investment aggregating Rs 33.17 crore in the joint venture to increase the stake to 80.15 per cent  from 77.87 per cent. Also, with stringent vehicle emission norms, the company expects manufacturers to shift to a microhybrid engine architecture translating into demand for sophisticated car batteries, a revenue positive move, according to market observers. Exide has collaborated with Moura Batteries of Brazil to develop batteries for BS VI compliant vehicles. The insurer has also identified itself as a contrarian investor focussed on national priorities and obligation towards reasonable returns for its stakeholders and policyholders as the main criteria of investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Reliance Industries starts gas drill in R-Cluster||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) and BP on Friday announced the start of production from the R-Cluster, the ultra-deep-water gas field in the KG-D6 block off the east coast of India. RIL and BP are developing three deepwater gas projects in KG-D6 — R Cluster, Satellites Cluster and MJ — which together are expected to meet around 15 per cent of India’s gas demand by 2023. These projects will use the existing hub infrastructure in the KG-D6 block. RIL is the operator of KG- D6 with a 66.67 per cent participating interest and BP holds a 33.33 per cent participating interest. R-Cluster is the first of the three projects to come onstream. The field is located about 60 kilometres from the existing KG-D6 Control & Riser Platform (CRP) off the Kakinada coast and comprises a subsea production system tied back to CRP via a subsea pipeline. Located at a water depth of greater than 2,000 metres, it is the deepest offshore gas field in Asia. The field is expected to reach plateau gas production of about 12.9 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) in 2021. RIL had originally put the recoverable reserves in the R-series cluster at 1.413 trillion cubic feet that could produce a peak output of 14.9 mscmd. However, the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) trimmed the recoverable reserves after studying the data submitted by the operator to 1.191 tcf and peak output to 12.9 mscmd. Production from older fields in the KG-D6 block was stopped in February this year. Operations at R-Cluster were expected to start earlier this year but were delayed owing to the pandemic. Analysts said that the commencement of production from the R-Cluster will improve earnings from its exploration & production (E&P) business in the next two years. Though the development is positive, they  added that the Reliance-BP duo is now not giving an ambitious forecast. The company did not have an exhilarating experience particularly in the D1/D3 field, in the KG-D6 block that was India’s first deepwater gas field to be put on production in April 2009. Its output, peaked at over 61 mscmd in 2010 and after that it has been on a decline as sand and water ingress forced wells to shut down one after the other. In February this year, Reliance had said that the D1/D3 gas field, had ceased production. During the second quarter ended September 30, revenues from RIL’s E&P business declined to Rs 355 crore from Rs 506 crore on a sequential basis. This was largely due to lower price realisation and decline in production. “This is a significant milestone in India’s energy landscape, for a cleaner and greener gas-based economy. Through our deep-water infrastructure in the Krishna Godavari basin, we expect to produce gas and meet the growing clean energy requirements of the nation,” RIL chairman and MD Mukesh Ambani said. BP chief executive Bernard Looney said the project will help meet India’s rapidly expanding energy needs. “Growing India’s own production of cleaner-burning gas to meet a significant portion of its energy demand, these three new KG D6 projects will support the country’s drive to shape and improve its future energy mix,” said Looney. The next project, the Satellites Cluster, is expected to come onstream in 2021, followed by the MJ project in 2022. Peak gas production from the three fields is expected to be around 30 mmscmd (1 bcf/d) by 2023, which is expected to be about 25 per cent of India’s domestic production. It will help reduce the country’s dependence on imported gas. Reliance and its partner BP Plc of the UK had in June 2017 announced an investment of Rs 40,000 crore in the three sets of discoveries to reverse the flagging production in KG-D6 block. Reliance has so far made 19 gas discoveries in the KG-D6 block. Of these, D-1 and D-3 were brought into production in April 2009 and MA, the only oilfield in the block, in September 2008. Besides MJ-1, the company plans to develop four deepsea satellite gas discoveries -- D-2, 6, 19 and 22 -- together with D29 and D30 finds on the block. The third set is the D-34 or R-Series find. These finds are expected to bring a total 30-35 million cubic metres (1 billion cubic feet) of gas a day on stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Sensex races past 47000-mark ||The Sensex on Friday raced past the 47000-mark for the first time but retreated  from this milestone because of profit taking. Analysts said stocks could continue their winning run but with reduced speed as portfolio flows are showing some moderation because of the holidays. The benchmark index, however, rebounded during fag-end trading to finish at a record 46960.69, up 70.35 points, or 0.15 per cent. It has taken the Sensex only seven sessions to rise 1000 points. These gains have come primarily on account of persistent FPI inflows as global liquidity remains abundant with central banks following a loose monetary policy and investors now preferring riskier assets. Moreover, the sentiment has been buoyant over the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccine and expectations of a sharp global economic recovery. Stock prices have, therefore, ignored the current state of the economy. Moreover, the better-than-expected corporate earnings for the second quarter have only strengthened expectations of recovery gathering steam in the next few months. Amid these conditions, experts feel that the current bull run will continue, though there could be intermittent consolidation. Here, the focus of attention is whether the FPI will continue with their robust investments. So far during this calendar year, they have put in more than $21 billion into stocks with the highest number coming in last month. It is, however, felt that inflows could show some moderation in the next few days and pick up next year. “FII flows though strong have moderated some bit from the previous week. The average daily FII flows in the first four days of the week was Rs 3,200 crore. Going forward, we expect FII flows to slow down in the next two weeks as we head towards Christmas vacation. “Markets could turn volatile next week because of the monthly expiry and lesser participation from FIIs. We expect Nifty-50 to consolidate between 13000 and 14000 levels till the end of this month,” Rusmik Oza, executive vice-president, head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities, said. In Friday’s trade, the Sensex opened above the 47000-mark at 47026.02 — a new lifetime intra-day high. This was on optimism of a US stimulus package. However, profit booking in financial stocks saw the gauge touching a low of 46630.31. It later rose to finish at a record 46960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13760.55 -- its new closing record. IT stocks were in focus as better-than-expected results from Accenture Plc enthused investors. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 2.64 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, SBI, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Titan, Asian Paints and TCS. But IndusInd Bank, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel were among the main losers, falling up to 3.30 per cent. During the week, the Sensex has rallied 861.68 points or 1.86 per cent, while the Nifty surged 246.70 points or 1.82 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Builders see price fixing in cement, steel ||Real estate industry body Credai has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the government’s immediate intervention to regulate the rates of cement and steel as it alleged that the prices have increased sharply because of “cartelisation” by manufacturers of these two major construction raw materials. Credai said the abrupt increase in prices is “highly unethical and amounts to unfair and restrictive trade practices” and is “a classic case of cartelisation by cement and steel manufacturers”. The association said cement prices have increased more than 23 per cent and steel prices have increased more than 45 per cent since the beginning of this year. In January 2020, cement price was around Rs 349 per 50-kilogram bag, which has now increased to Rs 420–430 per bag in December 2020. At the beginning of this year, the per tonne rate of steel was at Rs 40,000 and has now rocketed to Rs 58,000 in December 2020, it said . Credai has written to the PM and all concerned ministries, urging them to “take note of cartelisation by cement and steel manufacturers”. The association, which has more than 20,000 members, requested the government for an immediate intervention in regulating the prices of construction raw materials. Credai said real estate was one of the worst-hit sectors because of the Covid-19 pandemic. With a continuous and sudden upsurge due to cartelisation in the prices of steel, cement and other raw materials, real estate developers are experiencing an inevitable increase in construction cost and are faced with situation that will create a delay in delivery, stalling of projects in some cases, thereby impacting the homebuyers at large, the statement said. “The real estate sector has been working on wafer thin margins and is battling unsold inventory on one hand and unfinished projects due to lack of funds on the other. With a stagnant demand, developers have not increased the prices and are selling projects at affordable rates,” said Credai chairman Jaxay Shah. Stating that there is an urgent need to control the spiralling prices of some  raw materials, Shah urged the government to take necessary steps at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Air travel picks up in November||Domestic air passenger travel is showing signs of picking up with the passing of each month. On a month-on- month basis, it showed an improvement with 39.43 lakh and 52.71 lakh people opting for air travel in the country in September and October, respectively. However, year-on-year, the numbers are still lower — 51 per cent down at 63.54 lakh passengers in November compared with the corresponding period last year, the aviation regulator said on Friday. While IndiGo carried 34.23 lakh passengers in November, a 53.9 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 8.4 lakh passengers, which is a 13.2 per cent share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA. Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 6.56 lakh, 5.77 lakh, 4.21 lakh and 3.97 lakh passengers, respectively in November. The occupancy rate or load factor of the six major Indian airlines was between 66.3 per cent and 77.7 per cent in November. “The passenger load factor in November 2020 has shown some recovery because of increased demand after the lockdown was lifted and the onset of the festive season,” the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) said. The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 77.7 per cent in November. For IndiGo, Vistara, GoAir, Air India and AirAsia India, the rate was 74 per cent, 70.8 per cent, 70.8 per cent, 69.6 per cent and 66.3 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||MG Motor India and Renault hike prices||MG Motor India and Renault on Friday joined Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra and Mahindra, Ford India and Hero MotoCorp in announcing price hikes of their vehicles from January 2021. In a statement, MG Motor said it would undertake a price revision across its product range in view of “miscellaneous cost increase”. The price hike for MG Motor India will range up to 3 per cent depending on the model and will be applicable from January 1, 2021. At present, MG retails three models in India – the MG Hector, the ZS EV and the Gloster. Renault India said it will increase prices of its entire model range by up to Rs 28,000 from next month. The company, which sells models like the Kwid, Duster and Triber, said the price hike from January would vary across variants and products. “The price increase is a result of the steadily increasing input costs across the spectrum, including input costs for steel, aluminium, plastics and other affiliated cost increases during the pandemic,” Renault India said in a statement. When asked what impact the price revision will have on demand, an industry insider said: “With festive season over and the so-called pent-up demand taken care of, it remains to be seen if the recovery seen during the festive season will continue next year. Unless there are stimulants that the industry needs badly, I do not see the market reacting positively to such price rises.” MG Motor India also announced that it will introduce the much-awaited MG Hector Plus 7-seater version in January 2021. Currently, the Hector is available as a five-seater while the Hector Plus is a six-seater with captain seats MG currently retails three models in India – the MG Hector, the ZS EV and the Gloster. The MG Hector is available in both petrol and diesel options along with the option of a first-in-class 48V Hybrid variant. The petrol version also comes with a DCT (dual-clutch transmission).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
19-12-2020||Business||Coca-Cola to lay off 2,200 workers||The Coca-Cola Company has said that it was laying off 2,200 workers, or 17 per cent of its global workforce, as part of a larger restructuring aimed at paring down its business units and brands. The Atlanta-based company said on Thursday that around half of the layoffs will occur in the US, where Coke employs around 10,400 people. Coke employed 86,200 people worldwide at the end of 2019. The coronavirus pandemic has hammered Coke’s business, as sales at places like stadiums and movie theaters dried up due to lockdowns. Its revenue fell 9 per cent to $8.7 billion in the July-September period. The downturn forced the company to accelerate a restructuring that was already underway. “We’ve been challenging legacy ways of doing business and the pandemic helped us realise we could be bolder in our efforts,” Coke chairman and CEO James Quincey said during an earnings call in October. Coke is reducing its brands by half to 200. It shed multiple slow-selling brands this year, including Tab, Zico coconut water, Diet Coke Fiesty Cherry and Odwalla juices. The company said it will use the savings to invest in growing brands such as Minute Maid and Simply juices and fund the launch of new products like Topo Chico Hard Seltzer, Coca-Cola Energy and Aha sparkling water. Coke is also reducing its business segments from 17 to nine. It said the severance programmes will cost between $350 million to $550 million. In August, it offered voluntary-separation packages to about 4,000 employees in the US and Canada. The company didn’t say how many people participated. Coke’s North America business unit will be reorganised to look more like other units around the world. Until now in North America, the company’s fountain-machine business, bottle-and-can business and Minute Maid operations each had their own teams for marketing, communicating with retailers and coordinating with bottlers. Those teams will be consolidated, the company said. The layoffs won’t impact Coke’s bottlers, which are largely independent. Including bottlers, the company employs more than 700,000 people worldwide. Beverage rivals PepsiCo Inc and Keurig Dr Pepper Inc haven’t announced mass layoffs this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
19-12-2020||India||Khattar hopeful about next round of talks as farmers to decide course of action||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said there can be a way out for the next round of talks between the government and the farmers, while union leaders said they will decide their course of action within the next two to three days. Khattar’s comments came after he met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for the second time this month, the first one being on December 8. “In a day or two, there can be a way out for talks. The government is ready for discussion if farmer union leaders come forward beyond yes or no,” the Haryana government quoted him as saying. The chief minister said he discussed the ongoing protests with Tomar and added, “Effort is to find solutions through dialogue.” “The government can think of changes to the farm laws more than what it has done,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers’ union leaders said discussions are on to decide their next strategy. Their comments came days after the Supreme Court said it was thinking of setting up an “impartial and independent” panel of agriculture experts and peasants' unions to resolve the deadlock. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said they are seeking legal opinions on the issue. “Our meetings are being held for the next course of action. We are hopeful that in the next two-three days, we will have clarity on whether we should be part of a committee as suggested by the court,” Kakka told PTI. Balbir Singh, another union leader, said that the farmers would carry out their protests till their demands are met. “We are ready for a long haul. We are here for our rights. We are in the process to decide our stand following the court's order,” he said. Meanwhile, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Saturday claimed that 33 farmers participating in the ongoing protests have so far died since November 26 due to accidents, illness and cold weather conditions. According to AIKS, ‘Homage Day’ will be observed in different parts of the country on Sunday to pay tributes to those farmers who lost their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Delhi court takes cognisance against Sharjeel for sedition||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the offence of sedition against JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to the violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year, which resulted in damage to public property and injuries to police near Jamia Millia Islamia. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat took cognisance of the offences under sections 124 A (sedition), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), and 505 (public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Imam. The court had earlier taken cognisance of the offence under section 13 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Imam, but deferred taking cognisance of offences under IPC sections 124 A, 153 A, 153 B, 505 as the requisite sanctions were awaited. The court took cognisance of the offences after the Delhi Police filed a supplementary charge sheet mentioning the requisite sanctions granted by the authorities concerned. “The requisite sanction...has been filed. I have perused the supplementary charge sheet. In view of the same, I take cognisance for commission of offence under Section 124A/153A/153B/505 IPC,” the judge said in his order. The Delhi Police had filed another supplementary charge sheet against Imam in the case in July this year. The police had alleged in the charge sheet that Imam gave inflammatory speeches at several places, including Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University during anti-CAA protests. The charge sheet said that Imam allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt and disaffection towards the Centre and instigated the people which led to the violence in December last year.  “The present case has emerged from a deep seated conspiracy which was hatched under the garb of opposing the Citizenship Amendment Bill. Earlier even before the Presidential assent, the present accused (Imam) along with his associates were involved in circulating falsehood by canvassing in the Muslim dominated areas about this Bill that the Government of India intended to take away the citizenship of Muslims and also that the Muslims will be put in detention camp,” it alleged. The charge sheet further alleged that “falsehood and rumours” were being continuously spread with mischievous intent that the Citizenship Amendment Bill, coupled with National Register of Citizens (NRC), intended to take away citizenship of Indian Muslims. False messages were shared over social media, pamphlets were distributed among masses, individual, members of societies/NGO’s were roped in to give speeches which made innocent teens believe that CAB would indeed take away the citizenship of the Indian Muslim community. Protests against the CAB and later on Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were started deliberately to create a sense of insecurity amongst the Indian Muslim population, it alleged. Imam was arrested for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. “In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life. Also, in the name of opposing CAA he also openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the chargesheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||ED seizes Rs 12-crore worth assets of Farooq Abdullah in JKCA case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 11.86 crores of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference president Farrooq Abdullahin connection with its money laundering probe, sources said on Saturday. The financial crime investigating agency is probing into a money laundering case linked to alleged financial irregularities in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association and has pressed similar charges against a few others as well. The sources said the agency has issued a provisional attachment order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and the attached properties are located in Jammu and Srinagar. “Two immovable assets are residential, one is a commercial property while three other plots of land have also been attached by the Enforcement Directorate,” they said. “While the book value of these attached properties is Rs 11.86 crore, their market value is about Rs 60-70 crore,” the sources added. In October this year, the ED had last questioned the NC leader in connection to the case, kicking up a political storm as parties called it a vendetta against the formation of an alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370. “We knew it was coming,” the NC had said in a statement back then.“The ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity that Dr (Farooq) Sahib has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in J&K,” the statement said. “This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how BJP has been employing coercive and intimidative measures through various departments to target Opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is a case in point,” it added. The ED filed a chargesheet in July last year against Abdullah and three others for allegedly misappropriating Rs 43 crore, amid unprecedented uncertainty ahead of the August 5 abrogation of Article 370. Abdullah then claimed he had done no wrong and was open to investigations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Congress leaders discuss ways to strengthen party||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday held a five-hour meeting with party leaders, including some  who had written to her seeking complete organisational revamp, and decided ways to strengthen the party at all levels. It was also decided that they will hold conclaves similar to those of Panchmarhi and Shimla to chalk out plans to move forward. The meeting, which also included some of Gandhi’s close associates, assumed significance as it was the first of its kind for a rapprochement with the ‘letter-writers’ who had questioned the party leadership. Sonia Gandhi loyalist Pawan Basant asserted that there was no conflict in the party, and the meeting had ended on a positive note with all the Congress leaders suggesting their views on ways to strengthen the party. “Discussions were held on a positive note at the meeting where leaders talked about how to strengthen the party at all levels. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said we all are one big family and we all should work to strengthen the party. Rahul Gandhi also talked about strengthening the party,” he told reporters after the meeting. This was the first time Gandhi met Congress leaders in person since the outbreak of Covid-19. “There is no dissidence in the Congress party and all are committed to working unitedly to energise the party and fight all those forces which are trying to put upend the idea of India, as enshrined in the Constitution and as articulated by the founding fathers of India's Constitution,” Bansal said. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also attended the meeting. Former Maharashtra chief minister and party leader Prithviraj Chavan said this was the first time such a meeting was held and more of them will be conducted moving forward. He said ‘Chintan Shivir’ like those held in the past in Shimla and Panchmarhi would be organised. The Congress had organised both the Pachmarhi and Shimla ‘Chintan Shivirs’ when the party was in the opposition. While the Pachmarhi Shivir was organised in September 1998 when Gandhi had just taken over the party's reins, the Shimla Shivir was held later in July 2003. Another Congress leader Harish Rawat said that every leader spoke about unitedly working towards strengthening the party. ‘Letter-writers’ including Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of the party in the upper House Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan, and MPs Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha and Shashi Tharoor were present in the meeting. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and senior leader P Chidambaram were also part of the meeting, the sources said. Among Sonia loyalists were A.K. Antony, Ambika Soni, Ashok Gehlot, Harish Rawat, Ajay Maken, Pawan Bansal and Bhakt Charan Das. Sources said a number of issues were discussed at the meeting, where the 'letter-writers' expressed the view that they were neither ‘dissenters’ nor ‘rebels’. They said they had only raised issues in the party's interest to strengthen it, the sources said. The Congress has already decided to hold elections for the post of Congress president and that process is underway. This followed a stormy Congress Working Committee meeting in August after the letter's contents became public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Amit Shah visits Swami Vivekananda's birthplace, says his ideals more relevant today||Home Minister Amit Shah visited the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda in north Kolkata on Saturday morning and said that the ideals of the 19th-century icon are more relevant in the present-day world. Shah, who is on a two-day visit to West Bengal, paid tribute to Swami Vivekananda, hailing him for taking Indian's culture and ethos to the world. "Swami Vivekananda took India's culture, vision and ethos to the world. He bridged the gap between spirituality and modernity. After visiting his birthplace, I feel his ideals are still relevant in the present-day world. Rather, his ideals are more needed in the present times," he told reporters. The path shown by Vivekananda will not only lead India but the entire world on the road to prosperity, Shah said. He said Vivekananda gave a call for worshipping the nation as 'Bharatmata' in his Chicago address. "Eventually the country got freedom," Shah said, describing Vivekananda as one of the most dynamic spiritual leaders of the country who familiarised the world with the philosophy of India. Amid beats of the dhaak, Shah arrived at Vivekananda's ancestral home in Simla Street that has been turned into a museum. Members of the BJP women's wing, in traditional white saree with red borders, welcomed him by showering flower petals. After garlanding the statue of Swami Vivekananda outside the complex, Shah was shown the articles used by him. The BJP leader also interacted with the monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Unplanned lockdown destroyed lives, says Rahul||As India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the one crore-mark, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the unplanned lockdown did not manage to "win the battle in 21 days as the PM claimed", but it "destroyed" millions of lives in the country. India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the sombre one-crore mark on Saturday, adding 10 lakh cases in nearly a month, while the total number of recoveries surged to 95.50 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. Taking a dig at the prime minister's remarks in March that the Mahabharata war was won in 18 days and the war against coronavirus will take 21 days, Gandhi tweeted, "1 crore Covid infections with almost 1.5 lakh deaths! The unplanned lockdown did not manage to win the battle in 21 days' as the PM claimed, but it surely destroyed millions of lives in the country." The country's Covid-19 case tally had surpassed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. The health ministry's data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed that the total number of cases mounted to 1,00,04,599 and the death toll reached 1,45,136 with the virus claiming 347 more lives in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Sonia meets party leaders months after they wrote to her seeking party overhaul||Congress president Sonia Gandhi Saturday met a group of party leaders who had written to her a few months ago seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation. This is the first time that Gandhi is meeting Congress leaders in person since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi is also attending the meeting. The meeting also includes some of Sonia Gandhi's close associates and is the first effort by the Congress leadership for a reproachment with those who raised questions over the leadership. Those attending the meeting from among the letter-writers are Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of the party in the upper House Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan, and MPs Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha and Shashi Tharoor. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and senior leader P Chidambaram are also part of the meeting, the sources said. Among Sonia loyalists at the discussion that will include a range of issues, primarily organisational elections, are A K Antony, Ambika Soni, Ashok Gehlot and Harish Rawat, besides Pawan Bansal. Sources said a number of organisational issues is likely to be discussed at the meeting. The Congress has already decided to hold elections for the post of Congress president and that process is underway. Sonia Gandhi will be meeting a host of other leaders in the coming days, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
19-12-2020||India||Modi urges people to read e-booklet on agro-reforms||Amid the deadlock between the Centre and the protesting farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday urged people to read and share widely an e-booklet issued by the government highlighting how the recent agro-reforms help farmers. The government has issued an e-booklet in English and Hindi highlighting the success stories of farmers who have benefited from the reforms enacted in September. "There is a lot of content, including graphics and booklets that elaborate on how the recent Agro-reforms help our farmers. It can be found on the NaMo App Volunteer Module's Your Voice and Downloads sections. Read and share widely," the prime minister tweeted sharing snapshots of pages from the Hindi version of the booklet. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. At least five rounds of formal talks have been held between the three Union Ministers and 40 farmer unions to break the deadlock. The unions, however, are demanding a complete rollback of the Central laws. Last week, the Centre had sent a proposal to these unions, stating that it would give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) system will remain and also redress their other key concerns, but it failed to break the stalemate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Any harm to India's self-respect won't be tolerated: Rajnath Singh on Indo-China border row||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the Indo-China border standoff showed the country was not weak and could give a befitting reply to any kind of transgression, aggression or unilateral acts. With the two countries having held several rounds of talks to resolve the issue, Singh said India wants peaceful resolution of disputes but asserted no harm to its self-respect will be tolerated. In his address at the combined graduation parade at Dundigul Air Force station here, the Defence Minister also said China's "attitude reflected that country's intentions" during these COVID-19 times. "But we have shown that India is not weak. This is new India that will give a befitting reply to any kind of transgression, aggression or any unilateral acts," he said. India has found the support of many countries, even as it has received accolades, he added. Pointing out that rounds of talks have been held at the diplomatic and military levels to solve the issue, the Defence Minister said, "let me reiterate, we don't want conflict but peace." "But we will not tolerate any harm to the country's self-respect," the Defence minister asserted. The country was prepared to face any situation, he added. Referring to the western sector, Singh said Pakistan was indulging in skirmishes on the borders and charged the neighbour with indulging in a "proxy war" using terrorism, despite being defeated by India in four wars. The armed forces and police were effectively dealing with terrorism, he said. The country was not only handling terrorism effectively within the country but even taking action beyond the borders, he said referring to the airstrikes at terror camps in Balakot in Pakistan. This demonstrated to the world India's military strength and the country's firm intentions against terrorism, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Joblessness among urban youths was over 19 per cent pre-Covid||Joblessness among urban youths was over 19 per cent or nearly three times the 2012 level even before Covid-19 hit India, official survey reports have shown. The findings buttress the view that the Narendra Modi government’s economic decisions, including the 2016 demonetisation, had led to widespread unemployment. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the situation would be much worse now, after the lockdown. He warned that the job scene would further deteriorate for educated youths in the next 10 years because of poor employment creation in a stressed economy where the entry of new job seekers was accelerating. According to a paper published last year by Mehrotra and researcher Jajati Parida, titled “India’s Employment Crisis: Rising Education Levels and Falling non-Agricultural Job Growth”, the unemployment rate among youths (aged 15 to 29) was 6.1 per cent in 2012. The paper had drawn its data from a National Statistical Office (NSO) survey. Now the NSO, which conducts the quarterly Periodic Labour Force Survey, has uploaded the bulletins for the July-to-September and October-to-December quarters of 2019. These and previous bulletins show that the overall urban youth unemployment rate was 19.2 per cent between October and December of 2019, down from 23.1 per cent in July-September 2018. Mehrotra told The Telegraph the unemployment rate among urban youths is usually about half a per cent higher than the overall national average, implying joblessness among this group at the end of last year would have been nearly three times the 2012 figure. “The unemployment figure for urban areas is always a bit higher compared with rural areas. The 2019 data show that the unemployment rate has almost tripled between 2012 and 2019,” he said. “Most of the worsening (of the jobless rate has been) concentrated in the recent past, when the economy began slowing from its 8 per cent annual growth rate between 2003-04 and 2013-14. “The employment situation has further deteriorated after the lockdown because of a contraction in the economy and the continuous and accelerating entry of fresh pass-outs from secondary schools, universities, technical institutions and training organisations.” Mehrotra said this acceleration of new entrants into the labour force would continue till 2030. In contrast, the economy will take at least two years to return to the pre-Covid level, he said. “The more important thing is to get back to the pre-Covid per capita income. That will take time. So, the unemployment situation will further deteriorate for the educated youths in the next few years,” he said. The Mehrotra-Parida paper had said the unemployment rate in 2012 was 1.7 per cent among illiterate youths, 3 per cent among youths with primary education, 4.5 per cent (middle education), 5.9 per cent (secondary education), 10.8 per cent (higher secondary), 19.2 per cent (graduates) and 21.3 per cent (postgraduates). Mehrotra explained that uneducated youths, who are usually poor, somehow manage to find some sort of physical labour while many educated urban youths choose to wait for skilled or quality jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||JDU to contest 75 seats in the 2021 Bengal polls||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United will contest 75 seats in the 2021 Bengal polls. JDU leader and Bengal in-charge Ghulam Rasool Balyawi announced the decision on Thursday but did not make it clear whether there would be an alliance with the BJP just like in Bihar. Bengal has a sizeable population of people having roots in Bihar and the BJP is eyeing their votes. The JDU’s entry could queer the pitch for these votes if there is no alliance between them in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||National parties forget promises: Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday said that only regional parties can fulfil the people’s aspirations at a time when the BJP is trying to make inroads in the eastern state and other places. “Only a regional party will do justice to the aspirations of the youth of Odisha,” Naveen, also the ruling Biju Janata Dal president, said. He added that Odia is much more important than Hindi. He also reminded both the BJP and the Congress that how they had forgotten the promise made in their election manifestoes of according special category status to Odisha in an oblique reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged Opposition parties to check their earlier manifestoes while talking about farmers’ issues. Addressing the BJD youth wing executive committee meeting, Naveen said: “Both the national parties — the BJP and the Congress — had made the special category status their number one manifesto point. After the elections, they conveniently forgot about the promise. The BJD will continue to fight for the special category status and keep reminding national parties about their step-motherly treatment of Odisha.” Reminding the people that the very purpose of forming a separate state is to preserve and protect its unique identity, Naveen said: “It is only a regional party, whose survival and growth is in sync with the development of Odisha, that can stand and fight for its people. The BJD as a regional party is synonymous with the aspirations and ideals for which the state of Odisha was formed.” Maintaining that only a regional party can preserve Odisha’s unique identity, he said: “The mainstream national parties will make you a small drop in their vast ocean.” Targeting the national parties, Naveen said history has shown that they always have a mainstream agenda. “It is only through mainstreaming that they can get maximum votes and form a government at the Centre. For this, their strategy revolves around a uniform language — Hindi, uniform culture and uniform policies which will appeal to the large populous states and then they try toimpose the same across the country ignoring the unique identity of certain populations,” Naveen said. Maintaining that national parties are bound to compromise on the distinctive requirements of a state for gain in the larger national context, the chief minister said: “For us, our language Odia is more important than Hindi. For us our Mahanadi is more sacred than any other river. For us Odissi music is a classical art form.” Naveen also reminded that the diversity and richness of tribal culture is Odisha’s strength. “Odisha has a unique and distinct identity. It is for this identity our forefathers sacrificed themselves and fought for a separate state,” he said. Clarifying his stand on the issue, Naveen said: “For a national party or their branches in the states, these do not matter. The state leaders of national parties neither have the voice to insist on protecting our unique heritage nor do they have the intent to do so in a hierarchical centralised national party structure.” The chief minister also reminded the people how the Congress governments in the state were remote controlled from Delhi. “The BJP governments in other states also follow the directions of the national leadership,” Naveen said. “We don’t have any bosses in Delhi. Four-and-a-half crore Odias are our boss,” he added. Naveen also pointed out how the state was fighting for the water of Mahandi, fighting to declare Odissi music as a classical form and for inclusion of Kosali and Ho languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Farmers fact check Modi's claims on MSP||The protesting farmers on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched an open attack on the country’s farming community by linking their agitation to the Opposition parties. As Modi addressed a virtual convention of farmers in Madhya Pradesh, some of the protesting farmer unions began fact-checking him in real time — particularly on his claims on MSP — knowing that most media outlets would not do so. Modi in his speech accused the Opposition of engineering the farmers’ protest through falsehoods and claimed his government had raised the minimum support price at a higher rate than the UPA and adopted the Swaminathan Commission formula for fixing the MSP. The Prime Minister defended the three new farm laws the agitators want withdrawn, and issued a “folded-hands” appeal saying the government was ready to discuss all the farmers’ concerns. Having studiously kept all political parties at arm’s length, the farmer leaders felt upset at the repeated insinuation — this time by the Prime Minister himself — that the protesters were dancing to the Opposition parties’ tune. “In place of addressing the issue of repeal of the three farm acts which erode farmers’ hold on land and farming and establish the MNCs and big business to grow in agriculture, he (Modi) has reduced himself to a party leader undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems,” the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement. The farmers, facing daily vilification from Union ministers, view the allegation that the Opposition is behind their protest as an affront to the farming community. “Since it is politically suicidal to attack farmers directly, the Prime Minister and his minions have adopted this indirect route to malign our agitation by linking it to Opposition politics,” a farmer leader said. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s open letter to the farmers too was full of references to the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Akali Dal and to issues irrelevant to the farmers’ protest, the AIKSCC said. “He has made fictitious claims (such as) that the farmers will not lose their land, which is contradicted by the Contract Act 2020 which provides for farmer land to be mortgaged under Section 9 and for recovery of dues from the farmer under Section 4.7 as arrears of land revenue for advances taken from the company under Section 14.2 of the act,” the AIKS said. While the Prime Minister was still speaking, the Bharatiya Kisan Union of Rakesh Tikait began fact-checking him. The protesting farmers at the Singhu border have brought out their own newsletter — Trolley Times — and launched a social media platform to counter propaganda and fake news. Tikait, whose organisation is somewhat aligned to BJP politics in western Uttar Pradesh and has been a late entrant into the agitation, said data did not support Modi’s claim about his government increasing the MSP at a higher rate than the UPA. According to the BKU, the data show that the rate of increase in the MSP during the UPA years averaged between 8 and 12 per cent depending on the crop, while under the NDA the figure has ranged between 1 and 5 per cent. R. Ramkumar, one of the 10 economists who wrote to Tomar on Thursday seeking withdrawal of the three laws and a restart of negotiations for more equitable reforms in agriculture, posted a series of tweets contesting Modi’s claims about MSP increase and adoption of the Swaminathan formula. “Between 2010-11 & 2013-14, the MSPs for paddy, wheat & cotton grew at an average annual rate of 9.5%, 7.8% & 14.4% respectively. Between 2014-15 and 2020-21, the MSPs for paddy, wheat and cotton grew at an average annual rate of 5.2%, 5% and 6.2% respectively,” the tweets said. “The Swaminathan panel suggested fixing MSP at 50% over the C2 cost of production. The government fixed it at 50% over the lower A2+FL cost of production. Due to this, farmers lose about Rs 300-500/Q in MSP.” (The A2 cost covers all paid-out expenses, cash or kind, incurred by the farmers on seeds, fertilisers, chemicals, hired labour, fuel and irrigation, among others. FL is the imputed value of family labour. C2 cost covers the paid-out costs, imputed value of family labour, interest on the value of owned capital assets, rent paid on leased land and the rental value of owned land.) All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah described the Prime Minister’s speech as “tiring repetition”, echoing Ramkumar and Tikait on Modi’s claims about the MSP and the Swaminathan formula. Support for the agitation has been growing despite the hardships, the cold and the hurdles put up by the government, and the protest at the Tikri border now has a sizeable presence of women. March from Nashik The All India Kisan Sabha has announced in Nashik, Maharashtra, that it will join the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, PTI reported. “The farmers’ rally will start from Nashik on December 21.... There will be a public rally in Dhule on December 22. The farmers will travel 1,266km to Delhi and join the protest on December 24,” AIKS leader Ashok Dhawale said. “Thousands of farmers are expected to join us. We will be carrying provisions so that we can stay there for a long period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Congress dissenting leaders set for ‘frank discussion’ with Sonia||The meeting of senior Congress leaders with Sonia Gandhi on Saturday is critical as the dissenting group has decided to stand firm on the issues they had raised, arguing that business as usual cannot be allowed after two successive defeats in parliamentary elections and the irreversible decline in Assembly and local polls across the country. Sources in the so-called “Group of 23” that had written a controversial letter to Sonia on the drift in the party aver that their concerns should not be demeaned by describing it as a quarrel over leadership as their sole motive was revival of the Congress, an objective every party worker is concerned about. “The issues we raised were fundamental, linked to the future of the party, and we stand vindicated by the pathetic performance in Bihar and the civic elections in Rajasthan and Hyderabad,” one of them told The Telegraph. Conceding that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Kamal Nath and Ashok Gehlot had played a key role in arranging the meeting amidst the vacuum created by Ahmed Patel’s demise, these leaders argued that nothing could be gained by brushing the problems under the carpet and that a “candid assessment of the ground reality and our own infirmities” were the need of the hour. They said they planned to go for a “frank discussion” at Saturday’s meeting as the Congress must be revived to give direction to the country in the wake of the “disastrous governance” of Narendra Modi. Sources disclosed that it had been “specifically” suggested to Sonia that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka must be present at the meeting to avoid a communication gap and to ensure final agreement on the proposals and effective execution of the plan. They also wanted the group not to be extended to include “cheerleaders” that vitiates the atmosphere and prevents constructive discussions. One leader said: “We are not going there to fight but to find a solution to the problems. Don’t forget that we had excellent rapport with the Gandhi-Nehru family and nobody should doubt our loyalty.” The list of invitees include almost all the important leaders: Sonia, Rahul, Manmohan Singh, P. Chidambaram, Kamal Nath, Ashok Gehlot, A.K. Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha, K.C. Venugopal, Prithviraj Chavan, Pawan Bansal and Priyanka. While this group does not have general secretaries and younger Rahul loyalists, the presence of Manmohan, Antony, Chidambaram, Kamal Nath and Gehlot will ensure no side dominates and an objective assessment is made of the reasons for the crisis and the plan for the future. Sources say Chidambaram, Kamal Nath and Gehlot have a broad understanding of the problems and, unlike leaders like Antony, are not blindly dismissive of the questions raised by the “Group of 23”. While the demand for a collective leadership mechanism and unity of purpose, instead of purge and elimination, is bound to dominate the discussions, Rahul’s role will also come under scrutiny. Without clarity on whether he is willing to return as party president or not, drawing up a future course of action will be impossible. There is a possibility that some blunt talk on his choice of people will be done at the meeting. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala contested the perception that it would be a meeting of “rebels or dissenters”, asserting that every party colleague was valuable and their demand had already been conceded by announcing elections to the post of Congress president. He added that “99.5 per cent Congress workers” wanted Rahul, who fought the Narendra Modi regime fearlessly, to return as party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Gang rape charge on Hathras 4 after 2 months||The CBI on Friday filed a chargesheet accusing four men of gang-raping and murdering a Dalit teen in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district, officials said. After nearly two months of probe, the agency concluded in its final report that the accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Luv Kush and Ramu — had allegedly gang-raped and murdered the 19-year-old when she had gone to the field to collect fodder on September 14 in her village, the officials said. In its findings submitted before the competent court in Hathras, the agency has slapped Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to rape, murder and gang rape, apart from those under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, against the four accused men, they said. The charges attract a maximum sentence of capital punishment. The agency has based its findings on the dying statement of the woman in which she is understood to have named the accused, besides scientific and forensic evidence collected by the CBI and statements of witnesses and the victim’s family members recorded by it. The findings submitted by the CBI have left red-faced top officials of Uttar Pradesh police who had claimed that no evidence of rape had been found in the forensic tests. Uttar Pradesh additional director-general (law and order) Prashant Kumar had said: “The report of the FSL has come. It says clearly that samples did not contain semen. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang rape.” The ADG had also claimed that the woman in her statement to the police “did not mention rape but talked about ‘maar-peet (beating)’ only”. The Uttar Pradesh government had handed over the case to the CBI after the incident triggered massive public outrage and a political slugfest. Allahabad High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the victim’s late-night cremation by the state police, allegedly against the consent of her family, and made some terse remarks on senior officials, warning them against character assassination of the victim and urging restraint by the officials, political parties and the media. The CBI took over the investigation on October 11 and formed a special team under the Ghaziabad unit to probe the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||SC issues directions to curb Covid protocol violations||The Supreme Court on Friday issued directions to states and Union Territories to curb Covid protocol violations, expressing concern over people flouting standard operating procedures issued by the Union health ministry. The following are the directions: A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions while taking suo motu cognisance of a series of fire mishaps at dedicated Covid hospitals in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||SC sends showcause notice to Kunal Kamra for contempt proceedings||The Supreme Court on Friday issued separate notices to stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja asking them to show cause as to why they should not be prosecuted for contempt over their remarks against the top court and the Chief Justice of India. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, while hearing a batch of petitions seeking contempt proceedings against the two, posted the matter for further hearing after six weeks. However, the bench exempted Kamra and Taneja from personally appearing before it. Under the Contempt of Court Act, it is mandatory for the alleged contemnor to be present in court during the hearing unless granted an exemption. In the case of Kamra, the plea for contempt was initiated by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the principal law officer of the government, had earlier granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra over his tweets on the Supreme Court in November after the top court granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, Venugopal had said in response to a request for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. The impugned tweets by Kamra had said, “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. He had also tweeted a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a BJP flag having replaced the Tricolour. While refusing to withdraw the tweets, Kamra had made an objectionable hand gesture while referring to the CJI. Another law student had sought contempt proceedings against cartoonist Taneja for three art works allegedly implying that the Supreme Court was acting hand-in-glove with the BJP. One of the cartoons related to Republic TV’s Goswami, another alluding a link between the Supreme Court and the Sangh parivar and the other on the Ayodhya dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-479
19-12-2020||India||Congress accuses Modi's farmers outreach event of ‘deceit’||The Congress on Friday dismissed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach as “unfortunate and deceitful”, alleging that he chose to talk to “BJP workers” posing as farmers sitting hundreds of miles away instead of the engaging with the anguished peasants protesting at Delhi’s borders. “Why this cruelty? Why this insensitivity Mr Prime Minister?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala asked, adding: “Why not directly talk to the thousands of real farmers who are sitting on the road in this near-zero-degree temperature? This apathy of your government has already resulted in the death of 24 farmers.” Surjewala said: “The Rajiv Gandhi government had 402 MPs but allowed around one lakh farmers to come to Rajpath in Delhi to protest. The Manmohan Singh government allowed Anna Hazare to protest at the Ramlila grounds…. The government engaged with the protesters and conceded their demands.” Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “As per his habit, Modi ji again did asatyagraha today. Pay heed to the farmers’ demands and withdraw the three black laws.” Surjewala said: “On June 12, 2014, the Modi government wrote to states to stop bonus above minimum support price (MSP). In December 2014, it brought an ordinance to kill the Land Acquisition Act. In February 2015, they submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying giving 50 per cent profit above input cost was impossible. In 2016, they introduced a crop insurance scheme that helped the corporates. In 2017, they rejected the demand for farm loan-waiver while providing relief worth Rs 3.75 lakh crore to corporates.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
19-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi addresses farmers, in Madhya Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday defended the new farm laws, castigated the Opposition and made a “folded-hands” appeal to the protesting farmers, saying the government was ready to discuss all their concerns. “If anyone has any apprehensions even after these efforts by the government, we are ready with our heads bowed and hands folded, and with the utmost humility, to talk about every concern of the country’s farmers,” Modi said, addressing a virtual convention of farmers in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh. Organised by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the convention was part of the BJP’s counter-offensive to the ongoing farmers’ protest, aimed at showing that the new laws had widespread support. The party has been organising similar conventions in other states too. Modi accused the Opposition of “misleading” the farmers and “spreading lies”. He took recourse to Hindu religious symbolism and almost repeated what he had said in Varanasi last month, claiming his government was “pavitra” (pure) as “Gangajal” and “Ma Narmada ka paani” (the waters of the Ganga and the Narmada). Modi sought to portray the new farm laws as measures aimed at modernising agriculture and introducing India’s farmers to global practices and standards. He claimed there had been “vyapak charcha” (extensive discussions) with all stakeholders before the laws were passed. The Opposition accuses the government of railroading the bills through Parliament in September without the required discussions. The farmers, too, have said they were not consulted. Modi said Opposition leaders were jealous and were asking themselves “why they had failed to implement the reforms (and) how Modi had done it and why Modi was getting the credit”. “I want to tell all the political parties with folded hands, ‘Keep all the credit with you’,” he said. “I’m giving the credit to all your old manifestos; I don’t want any credit.” Modi sought to claim that the protests were politically motivated, saying the new laws had been in force for six to seven months but the agitation had started only now. The farm laws had been introduced in the form of ordinances during the coronavirus lockdown in the summer. The ongoing protests began after the corresponding bills were passed in September. Modi said the government had repeatedly been asking which among the clauses in the laws were of concern but there had been “no concrete reply”. The farmer leaders have given to the government in writing their objections to the laws. Modi said that the Opposition parties, when they were in power, had for eight years suppressed the Swaminathan Commission report on farm reforms and that it was his government that had implemented it. He next sought to target the Congress without naming the party, alleging farm loan waivers had been promised in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan ahead of state elections but were never implemented. Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan voted the Congress to power in December 2018. But in Madhya Pradesh, the government was toppled by defections in March 2020 and the BJP is now in power. Modi said the Opposition’s “biggest lie” was that the system of minimum support price (MSP) would end. He said the new laws had been implemented six to seven months ago but the government had continued with the MSP. “I want to assure our farmers that the MSP will continue,” the Prime Minister said. The farmers want a legal guarantee on MSP, which the Modi government has so far been reluctant to give.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-480
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah welcomes Adhikari, others into BJP; says many more will leave TMC||Union home minister Amit Shah said there would be more desertions from the Trinamul Congress and that Bengal chief minister would be left alone in her party, his assertions coming on a day he presided over the induction of TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari and several other MLAs into the BJP. Addressing a party rally at Midnapore, Shah alleged the Mamata Banerjee’s government was steeped in corruption resulting in alienation of the masses. He exuded confidence that the BJP would form the next government in the state (with a 294-membr Assembly) with more than 200 seats. “Why are so many people leaving Trinamool Congress? Because of the misrule, corruption and nepotism of Mamata Banerjee. Didi, this is just the beginning. By the time elections come, you will be left all alone," he said, according to ndtv.com Adhikari, nine MLAs of various parties _ five of them from the TMC _ and a TMC MP joined the BJP on Saturday. "I want to say it clearly that the BJP will form the next government in the state … political violence and intimidation by the TMC won't yield any benefit. BJP president J P Nadda's convoy was attacked, so many our party workers have been killed," Shah said.  "The more violence you (the TMC) perpetrate, the more stronger the BJP will emerge," he asserted.  Taking a swipe at the TMC over a string of desertions ahead of the assembly elections, the BJP leader said, "By the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone in her party." Addressing the crowd at the rally, Adhikari said that the TMC came into existence because of the saffron party. “I had first met Amit Shah during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls... When I was down with Covid, my former party did not enquire about my health, while Amit Shah twice enquired about how I am, he said. Adhikari, a former close associate of Mamata, alleged that her party wanted to divide the nation on the lines of “insider” and “outsider”, while nationalism and pluralism was the ideal of the BJP. “Shame on the TMC for such narrow politics,” Adhikari said amid a thunderous applause from the crowd.  “I am being called a traitor by those who themselves (TMC) are traitors. Had the BJP not been there, TMC would have never come into existence. In the next Assembly polls, BJP will win Bengal and TMC will be defeated,” the 50-year-old said. In an open letter addressed to the grassroots members of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, Suvendu said that Bengal was standing at a critical juncture as the people of the state were destined to make a choice in the 2021 Assembly elections that would impact them forever. “Neither West Bengal nor the Trinamool Congress is anyone's fiefdom,” he said. Asserting that the party was not built in one day with the contribution of one person, he wrote that it was a continuous and contiguous effort on a mammoth scale, the culmination of which was the TMC's coming to power in Bengal in 2011. Adhikari had tendered his resignation from the TMC on Thursday, a day after quitting as a member of Bengal’s Legislative Assembly. He alleged that the TMC, which the ordinary people built brick by brick selflessly without any desires, is now filled with individuals who do not bother about anyone but themselves. According to NDTV, at least 50 TMC, Congress and Left leaders had switched over to the saffron party in Midnapore. On Saturday, TMC MLAs Banasri Maity, Silbhdrada Dutta, Biswajit Kundu, Sukra Munda and Saikat Panja took up the saffron flag at the mammoth rally at the College Grounds in Midnapore. MLA Dipali Biswas, who had won the Gajole seat in 2016 on a CPI(M) ticket but joined the TMC in 2018, was also inducted into the BJP. She has not resigned as a CPI(M) MLA. Haldias CPI(M) MLA Tapasi Mandal, Tamluks CPI MLA Ashok Dinda and Congress MLA from Purulia Sudip Mukherjee also joined the BJP at the rally. Former TMC MP Dasarth Tirkey also joined the BJP. Several district-level leaders of the TMC, Left and Congress, including former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, also changed sides and joined the BJP. Earlier, garlanding the statue of Khudiram at the freedom fighter's ancestral residence, Shah said that he has inspired the youths of the country with his slogan 'Vande Mataram' while he was hanged by the British in 1908 at the age of 18. “I want to tell those who are doing narrow politics in Bengal that Khudiram Bose is as much a pride of India as he is of Bengal,” he said in his address. In an indirect attack on the TMC, he said that those doing politics over regionalism should overcome it. Mamata and other leaders of the party have often accused the BJP of bringing in “outsiders” just before the Assembly elections. Shah said that those brave sons of the country who fought and made great sacrifices for Independence together “could never have imagined such narrow politics of regionalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||At Shah’s Midnapore rally, Suvendu Adhikari joins saffron party||Former Trinamul Congress heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party at Union Home Minister’s rally in Bengal’s Midnapore. Addressing the crowd at Midnapore, Adhikari said that the TMC came into existence because of the saffron party. “I had first met Amit Shah during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls... When I was down with Covid, my former party did not enquire about my health, while Amit Shah twice enquired about how I am, he said. The former close associate of Mamata Banerjee alleged that her party wants to divide the nation on the lines of ‘insider’ and ‘outsider’, while nationalism and pluralism was the ideal of the BJP. “Shame on the TMC for such narrow politics,” Adhikari said as the crowd roared. “I am being called a traitor by those who themselves (TMC) are traitors. Had the BJP not been there, TMC would have never come into existence. In the next assembly polls, BJP will win Bengal and TMC will be defeated,” the 50-year-old said. Resulting in a major rift in the state’s ruling party, five other sitting MLAs as well as East Bardhaman MP Sunil Mondal, joined the saffron party, which looks forward to winning the Assembly polls next year, in presence of Shah. In an open letter addressed to the grassroot members of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, Suvendu said that Bengal is standing at a critical juncture as the people of the state are destined to make a choice in the 2021 Assembly elections that will impact them forever. “Neither West Bengal nor the Trinamool Congress is anyone's fiefdom,” he said. Asserting that the party was not built in one day with the contribution of one person, he wrote that it was a continuous and contiguous effort on a mammoth scale, the culmination of which was the TMC's coming to power in Bengal in 2011. Adhikari had tendered his resignation from the TMC on Thursday, a day after quitting as a member of Bengla’s Legislative Assembly. He alleged that the TMC, which the ordinary people built brick by brick selflessly without any desires, is now filled with individuals who do not bother about anyone but themselves. A total of nine MLAs joined the BJP on Saturday at Shah’s rally. According to NDTV, nearly 50 TMC, Congress and Left leaders switched to the saffron party in Midnapore. TMC MLAs Banasri Maity, Silbhdrada Dutta, Biswajit Kundu, Sukra Munda and Saikat Panja took up the saffron flags at the mammoth rally at the College Grounds here. MLA Dipali Biswas, who had won the Gajole seat in 2016 on a CPI(M) ticket but joined the TMC in 2018, was also inducted into the BJP. She has not resigned as a CPI(M) MLA. Haldias CPI(M) MLA Tapasi Mandal, Tamluks CPI MLA Ashok Dinda and Congress MLA from Purulia Sudip Mukherjee also joined the BJP at the rally. Former TMC MP Dasarth Tirkey also joined the BJP. Several district-level leaders of the TMC, Left and Congress, including former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, also changed sides and joined the BJP. “By the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone in the party,” the Home Minister said as the TMC members deserted the party. Garlanding the statue of Khudiram at the freedom fighter's ancestral residence here, Shah said that he has inspired the youths of the country with his slogan 'Vande Mataram' while he was hanged by the British in 1908 at the age of 18. “I want to tell those who are doing narrow politics in Bengal that Khudiram Bose is as much a pride of India as he is of Bengal,” he said in his address. In an indirect attack on the TMC, he said that those doing politics over regionalism should overcome it. Mamata and other leaders of the party have often accused the BJP of bringing in “outsiders” just before the Assembly elections. Shah said that those brave sons of the country who fought and made great sacrifices for Independence together “could never have imagined such narrow politics of regionalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Retired IPS thrashed over ‘land row’ ||Retired IPS officer and chairman of NGO Basantapur Education Society, Nazrul Islam, was allegedly thrashed and dragged out of his office by a Trinamul councillor and his aides in Murshidabad’s Domkal on Friday. Accused councillor Majidul Sheikh, his relative Bhadu Sheikh, and one Jahangir Sheikh allegedly stormed into Nazrul’s second-floor office around 10am when the retired police officer was alone in his room. Nazrul alleged that they beat him up before dragging him down the stairs. The injured Nazrul added that Majidul’s aim was to take control of the 200-odd bigha land belonging to the Basantapur Education Society. “They (Majidul and the two others) let me go only when bystanders rushed to my help,” said Nazrul, who lodged a formal complaint against the alleged attackers with Domkal police in the evening. The retired police officer said there had been a prior land dispute with his assaulters and he had won the legal battle. “I filed criminal cases against these persons in the past as well. Today they attacked me because they wanted the criminal cases I lodged against them over previous intimidations be withdrawn. When they realised they could not wrest the land from us, they attacked me,” he added. Eyewitnesses said the police arrived around 10.30 am after the attackers had fled. They took an injured Nazrul to Domkal subdivisional hospital from where he was discharged in the evening. Contacted over phone by this paper, Majidul did not reply. Chairman of the Trinamul-run Domkal municipality, Zafikul Islam, claimed the incident was “not political” and said “the law will take its course”. Murshidabad SP K. Sabari Rajkumar said the police would take necessary action. The three accused were absconding, the SP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Officials scan north Bengal election preparation||Deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain and the chief electoral officer of Bengal, Aariz Aftab, held separate meetings with administrative officials and representatives of political parties in north Bengal on Friday. In the morning, the duo reached Malda by a chopper. Later, they spoke to administrative and police officials of Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur at a private resort to take stock of the situation. Sources said the administrative and police officials were asked to start making preparations to create additional polling booths to prevent overcrowding during voting, keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation. “As there would be more booths, extra polling personnel would be required. So, district officials have been asked to start preparing lists of government employees who would be deputed to booths and in different other capacities,” said a source. The meeting commenced at around 11.15 am and ended at 2.30 pm. Those present were also told about the special arrangements made for the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. “All such arrangements would be followed here as well. For example, booths with over 1,000 electors would be divided into smaller ones. Social distancing would be maintained among voters and adequate measures have to be made at the booths according to the health safety protocol,” said an officer who was present at the meeting. In Malda, there are around 1,500 polling booths which have over 1,000 voters. Jain and Aftab also asked police officers about the law and order in all the four districts. The issue of trans-border smuggling was also discussed, said sources. From Malda, the team headed for Siliguri. In the evening, Jain and Aftab held a meeting with officials of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The meeting continued for around two hours at the state guest house. “Some common instructions were also issued to us. They include preparation of error-free electoral rolls, identification of elderly voters and arrangements for them to exercise their franchise without any hassle,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||75 deer for prey released into Buxa ||A herd of 75 spotted deer was released at the hilly Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar district late on Thursday evening. The release of the deer, foresters said, was a part of the programme taken up by the department to augment the prey base at the reserve and make it an ideal habitat for tigers. Subhankar Sengupta, the field director of BTR, said the deer were brought from the Ballavpur Wildlife Sanctuary located in Birbhum district. “As there is a plan to reintroduce tigers in Buxa, it is necessary to augment prey base here at the reserve. Earlier too, we had released around 200 spotted deer in the reserve area. On Thursday evening, another 75 were released. Soon, we will bring in some sambars (another deer species) from Jaldapara National Park. Those would also be released here in the wild,” Sengupta said. Earlier this year, it was decided that six tigers in all would be released at the Buxa reserve in two phases, forest sources said. Though Buxa was notified as a tiger reserve back in 1983, direct sightings of the big cat have not been recorded for three decades now. Some foresters, however, have claimed in the meanwhile that they did find indirect evidence of tigers such as claw marks on trees and carcasses of herbivores. However, as no tigers had been spotted in the BTR area, the same was also said in the tiger census conducted in 2018. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) eventually announced three tigers from Kaziranga in Assam would be reintroduced in Buxa. It allotted a sum of Rs 12 crore to prepare the BTR as a tiger habitat for the process of reintroduction. The figure was later raised to six tigers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Display board with Amit Shah above Tagore draws backlash ||If once is happenstance, twice is coincidence and the third time it’s enemy action, Amit Shah should first rope in Auric Goldfinger before courting Trinamul turncoats so that the mischief-makers can be ferreted out well in advance. Like James Bond’s annoying habit of turning up at unlikely places that prompted Goldfinger to reprise the Chicago saying, a cultural disconnect is doggedly chasing the BJP in Bengal. A display board welcoming Shah to Bolpur and Santiniketan triggered protests on Friday as it had placed a sketch of Rabindranath Tagore below that of the Union home minister. The flex also sports the picture of BJP leader Anupam Hazra. It had been put up by a little-known organisation called the Bolpur-Santiniketan Sanskriti Vikash Samity. Scheduled to visit Santiniketan on Sunday, Shah has lined up a series of programmes to underscore the BJP’s cultural connect with Bengal after a series of missteps, including a gaffe on Tagore’s birthplace last week when the party’s national president J.P. Nadda was in Bengal. On Friday, several flexes featuring Shah above Tagore were put up at multiple places in Bolpur and Santiniketan, drawing widespread condemnation from those associated with Visva-Bharati and the BJP’s political opponents. Such was the backlash that the display boards were withdrawn in a few hours. Angry over the “insult to Tagore”, present and former students of Visva-Bharati organised a rally on Friday evening. Old-timers at Santiniketan too flayed the BJP for the “unpardonable” and “unfortunate” incident. “Very unfortunate that Tagore’s image had been placed below that of a political leader. There was no need to use the image of Tagore,” said Supriya Tagore, a former Patha Bhavana principal and a member of the Tagore family. Trinamul Congress tweeted: “@AmitShah ji & @BJP4Bengal, it’s high time you know your limits! How dare you insult Gurudeb Rabindranath Tagore AGAIN? Extremely shameful to see that you have placed yourself above Gurudeb! People of Bengal will NEVER forgive this.” Hazra, however, saw in the incident a Trinamul attempt to malign the BJP. “We can never think of placing anyone above Tagore. The flexes had been put up by a fictitious organisation to malign our party,” said Hazra, a BJP national secretary, who was earlier with Trinamul. Trinamul’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal denied Hazra’s allegation and said the flexes had revealed the BJP’s lack of reverence for Tagore and Bengali culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven-hour fire destroys 113 shops in Jalpaiguri||Some 113 shops at the local Kaparpatty market in Dhupguri town of Jalpaiguri district were gutted in a devastating fire in the small hours of Friday. Five fire tenders took over seven hours to arrest the blaze that officials of the fire services department suspect was caused by a short-circuit. Sources said some residents spotted the flames past midnight in the market located on the town’s Thana Road. Soon, racing flames engulfed one shop after another. No one was injured in the blaze because of the timing, but losses are estimated to be close to Rs 100 crores. Two state ministers, Rabbindranath Ghosh and Gautam Deb, visited the site of the blaze and spoke to affected traders. “Preliminary reports suggest that 113 shops in total have been gutted in the fire. There were garment shops, shops selling stationery and grocery items and even some jewellery shops. The total loss appears to be close to 100 crores,” said north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who rushed to the spot soon after the incident. The fire services department and police have started separate investigations to ascertain the cause of the blaze. Initially, two fire engines from the local fire station and one from Maynaguri reached the spot of the blaze. While two engines tried to douse the flames, the third engine made arrangements to draw water from Kumlai river that skirts the town. Later, two more engines reached the spot from Baxirhat of Cooch Behar and Falakata of Alipurduar. After seven gruelling hours, the blaze came under control and eventually was completely doused, with charred remains of the shops strewn all around. The owners of the charred shops met minister Ghosh and expressed their distress. Acting quickly, Ghosh called up state municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim for a solution. “The municipal affairs and urban development department will build the shops which have been gutted in the fire. Those would be handed over to the affected shop owners. We will talk with local banks so that shop owners can avail of long-term loans at lower interest rates,” the NB development minister said. Some residents requested Ghosh to see to it that infrastructure was better developed at the local fire station. Ghosh promised to look into it. Later, state tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the spot and spoke to shop owners who requested him to ensure that a water reservoir was built in the market and the land upon which shops were located was given to them on lease. “The minister told us to give him our demands in writing and assured us that he would talk to agencies concerned,” said a trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||‘Marketing agents’ jibe at hill parties||Shanta Chhetri, the Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul from the hills, lambasted the leaders of the hill-based parties other than the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha for acting as “marketing agents” of the saffron brigade ahead of the Bengal elections. In recent months, this is the first time that a Trinamul leader has spoken in such aggressive terms against the hill parties other than the Morcha. Both the factions of the Morcha are allies of Trinamul now. Leaders of BJP’s allies such as the GNLF, CPRM and ABGL, all of which are based in the hills, had been to Delhi along with the BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista to meet BJP leaders and central ministers over two longstanding demands — a permanent political solution for hills and Scheduled Tribe status for 11 hill communities. Chhetri, while speaking here on Friday, said that back in 2014 chief minister Mamata Banerjee had mooted a proposal for the conferment of ST status to the hill communities. “The proposal had been passed in the state cabinet in February 2014, and was sent to the Centre for necessary steps. After I became an MP in the Rajya Sabha in 2017, I had also raised the issue at the House. But the Centre has not done anything on the demand so far,” said the Rajya Sabha MP. Chhetri also pointed out that even though the BJP had won the Darjeeling parliamentary seat for three consecutive terms, none of the MPs had bothered to take any initiative on the demand. “Now that the Assembly elections are ahead, BJP has again started floating promises,” said Chhetri, who is also the district Trinamul chief of Kalimpong. “It is unfortunate that some regional party leaders have become active (in the matter) and are acting like the marketing agents of the BJP to pave way for the party,” she added. Another Trinamul leader in hills, who did not want to be named, said that while on one hand, the state had carried out development work across the hills, the party, on the other hand, had taken up the task to build its base, particularly in the rural areas and in tea plantations of the region. “Even if these (regional) parties stand with the BJP, it would not be an easy contest for the saffron party in the three Assembly seats of the hills. We have the support of both factions of the Morcha which still happens to be the strongest political force in hills,” the leader added. Also, Bimal Gurung, who heads one of the Morcha factions, downplayed Thursday’s meeting between leaders of some hill parties and Union minister of state for home affairs and said nothing would come to their hands. “I had also attended a number of such meetings in Delhi. They are nothing but photo sessions with central ministers and leaders. Nothing will come out of these,” said Gurung, who was in Odlabari of Jalpaiguri to attend a meeting with local residents. When asked about a permanent political solution in the hills, Gurung said he would join hands with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and mount pressure on the state to act on the demand. Gurung has iterated that he and his faction stand firm on the Gorkhaland demand despite teaming up with Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Arrest sparks 6-hour roadblock in the Dooars||In a rare move, the police arrested an assistant manager of a tea estate in the Dooars on Friday for stealing power and putting up illegal electrified fences around the garden area, which they said had led to the death of a wild elephant earlier this month. In recent years, this is the first time that a managerial level employee has been arrested on such charges. The arrest triggered protests as hundreds of workers and their families went up to NH 31C around 11am and blocked it for over six hours, throwing traffic out of gear. Vehicles moving through the stretch had to take detours. Sources said that on December 4, a wild elephant had strayed inside Haldibari Tea Estate, located under Banarhat police station area of Jalpaiguri district. The elephant came in touch with a live wire that was part of the electrified fence and died of electrocution. Following this, Partha Pratim Pal, an official of West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) posted in Malbazar, filed a complaint with the police on December 5, alleging that the electricity illegally drawn from a transformer was used to put illegal fences that led to the elephant’s death. On Friday morning, a joint team of the foresters and police reached the tea estate and arrested Uday Newar, the garden’s assistant manager. “The tea garden authorities are responsible for the elephant’s death. On Friday, the garden’s assistant manager was arrested. The manager fled,” said V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state. However, as the news spread, hundreds of workers came out of their quarters to side with Newar and protest against his “unjustified” arrest. Around 11am, they blocked NH 31C at Haldibari More, which is a prominent crossing near the garden, demanding his release. Vehicles moving through the highway had to change their routes and move via Binnaguri and Telepara. “We want the assistant manager to be released immediately or else we will continue our movement. He has been arrested without any reason,” said Jyoti Munda, a worker and one of the protesters. John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who stays at a tea estate near Banarhat, also reached the spot and joined the protesters. “Wild elephants roam throughout the Dooars and often stray inside tea estates and human habitats. It is a major problem in this region. The state forest department has not taken any initiative to address the issue but instead has arrested an assistant manager,” said Barla. While the protests continued in Haldibari More, Newar was produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri. Mrinmoy Banerjee, a government lawyer, said the court heard the case and sent Newar to the forest department’s custody for five days. The workers continued their protest against the arrest till around 5pm. A worker said they withdrew for the time being but if the assistant manager did not return to the garden by the night, they would launch fresh protests at the offices of the forest department and block rail tracks and roads on Saturday. Senior police officers said they are keeping a watch over the situation. “Our men are on alert to ensure that there is no breach of peace,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Supreme Court restrains Bengal BJP leaders’ arrest||The Supreme Court on Friday directed that Bengal government shall not take “any coercive steps” until further orders against BJP leaders like Mukul Roy and Kailash Vijayvargiya after the party’s top brass had approached the judiciary complaining of witch hunting of political opponents by the Mamata Banerjee government. In other words, the BJP leaders can’t be arrested till the court withdraws Friday’s order. The court also directed the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to file a report in sealed cover on the alleged assault of Kabir Shankar Bose, a BJP spokesman protected by the CISF-SPG, allegedly by Trinamul leaders and activists. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Mukherjee passed the direction after BJP leaders, Mukul Roy, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arjun Singh, Pawan Singh, Sourav Singh and Kabir Sankar Bose, had filed separate petitions seeking quashing of multiple criminal cases registered by Bengal police or transfer of the same to some other independent investigating agency like the CBI. While restraining the Bengal government from any coercive action, the court issued notice to the state government for its response and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Arjun Singh told the bench that in all, 64 cases had been registered against his client after he had switched over to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress. “What are you saying?” Justice Kaul asked in surprise. In response to a query from the bench, Rohatgi said the cases had been registered between March 2020 and November 2020 although the said offences, mostly related to rioting under IPC sections 147, 148,149, had occurred in 2019. Advocate Prashant Kumar, who argued on behalf of Vijayvargiya, said all the cases against him were also false and an attempt to deter his client, who is the all India general secretary of the BJP and an MP from Madhya Pradesh, from entering Bengal. Mukul Roy’s counsel said he had resigned from Trinamul in 2017 and since then, as many as 19 cases had been filed against him. Rohtagi intervened and told the court that most of the cases against different leaders of the BJP were identical. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani said his client Kabir Shankar Bose was a Supreme Court lawyer who happened to be the former son-in-law of a powerful Trinamul leader. “They have filed several cases against me. I’m under threat. I’m now the spokesperson for the BJP. On December 6, I was attacked by TMC activists, including by my ex-father-in-law Kalyan Banerjee. Instead of taking action against them, an FIR has been filed against me (Bose),” he complained. Then, Justice Kaul asked Jethmalani: “So your case is not exactly similar to the rest?” The senior counsel said: “I’m a CISF-SPG protectee. The Special Protection Group has also filed its own incident report.” After hearing the arguments, the court then passed the order restraining the state from taking any coercive steps against the BJP leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt 'reaffirms' stance on three IPS officers ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday “reaffirmed” its stance that three IPS officers who were put on central deputation by the ministry of home affairs wouldn’t be released. The state iterated its stand during a video conference held between Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior Bengal government officials on Friday evening. “The state government has made it clear that the three IPS officers would not be released as they are working well in the state. The state reaffirmed its stance when the Union home secretary raised the issue during the video conference,” said a senior state government official present at the meeting. On Thursday, the Union home ministry had sent a letter to the chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, to release the officers immediately informing that the trio had been assigned new responsibilities at the Centre. The Centre told the state that Bholanath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour police district) would be posted as SP, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Rajeev Mishra (ADG, south Bengal) as IG, ITBP, and Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) as DIG of the Sashastra Seema Bal as soon as the state released them. “As it was clear that they were being punished for the attack on BJP national president J. P. Nadda’s convoy to put pressure on the All India service officers working in Bengal, the state made it clear that the officers would not be released. The situation did not change overnight. So, the MHA was once again made aware of the state’s decision,” said another official. Senior government officials also pointed out that the state would now wait for the Centre’s response as the provision of the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 — based on which the MHA issued the posting orders of the officers — did not spell clearly whether the Centre could go ahead with the positing of the officers even if the state refuses to give clearance. Sources said that the provision was added in the cadre rules in 1986 and it was never implemented in the country since then. So, it is still not clear how far the Centre would go without the state’s NoC. “If the MHA seeks NoC from the state repeatedly, that means the state has a role to play. In such a situation, the state would wait for the next move of the Centre,” said a source. “If the Centre moves court alleging state was not releasing the officers despite the provision in the cadre rules, the state would fight the legal battle.” During the video conference, the MHA has laid stress on better cooperation between the central agencies and the state police in arranging security for protectees visiting the state. The video conference was held after the chief secretary and the director general of police had requested the MHA to dispense with the state officials to be present at a meeting in the North Block, New Delhi. Sources in the Union home ministry said areas of cooperation between central agencies and state government administration during VIPs visit were discussed during the meeting between Union home secretary and Bengal chief secretary. “Besides, home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla took note of the political violence in Bengal from the state government officials over video conferencing this evening. He also asked the state government officials about the steps taken to control the situation, " said a ministry official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Folk singer to sing a song of 'harmony and tolerance' for Shah||Basudeb Das Baul, the folk singer from Santiniketan who will host Sunday lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah during the latter’s visit here, has a unique item on the menu. Basudeb, 62, plans to sing a song of “harmony and tolerance” for his guest. The song that Basudeb is most likely to perform in front of his guest — he has been asked to prepare a couple of numbers — is a popular Baul ditty “Orey manus dekhbi jodi bhogoban (O human, if you want to see god)”. It is one of the songs of Bhoba Pagla, who is considered an icon of the Baul community. The song, which reflects “humanity beyond caste creed and religion”, strikes an uncommon note in the run-up to the 2021 state polls, widely seen as one of the most polarising in recent times. “Its message is clear, that we can see god by accepting human beings from all castes, creeds and religions. I want to give my guest this message, which is the ideology of the Baul community. I think it will please him,” Basudeb said. Sources said Shah is scheduled to visit Santiniketan on Sunday to attend events on Visva-Bharati campus, as well as a road show in Bolpur town. These events are a part of his two-day long outreach drive to “establish the saffron camp’s connect” with Bengali culture and traditions at a time when Trinamul has dubbed the BJP as a party of outsiders. The first two lines of the song extol the virtues of peace over violence, saying, “Chhere de tor hingsabritti, ei to bighno, oti prodhan (Leave the violence inside you, because it is the one and only danger) The song then goes on to extol the virtues of all religions. “Chhere de tor bhinno bhed, dekhna shastro dekhna Ved/ Bible Koran noire probhed, shon re Hindu shon Mussalman (Shun your habit of discriminating among people, look into religious books or in the Veda/ There is no difference between Bible and Koran, Hindu and Muslims).” “Through the entire song, you will find this message of humanity. As a Baul, I believe in humanity and communal harmony,” said the folk singer. BJP leaders in the district said that Shah would have lunch at Basudeb’s house at Subhas Pally near Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The singer said he had been asked to prepare one or two songs to sing before Shah but there had been no directive from party leaders on the lyrics or the song. “We will not dictate which song the Baul will sing. It depends on the artiste,” said Shyamapada Mondal, Birbhum’s BJP president. The folk singer, who has been living in Santiniketan for years with his family, said he would also share with Shah the sufferings Baul singers faced during the lockdown. “I want to share our experiences of how the lockdown led to great suffering for us, and of how we survived with the help of people. I will demand the central government do something for Baul singers,” said Basudeb, who gets a monthly  dole of Rs 1,000 from the state government. Shah’s menu for Sunday’s lunch would be prepared on Saturday, sources said. All items would be decided by Basudeb’s family members and neighbours. “We eat rice bought from ration shops and simple Bengali fare. We would like to offer our guest our daily fare,” said Basudeb’s Urmila.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Clear air on citizenship before Bengal elections: Forum ||The Centre should come clean on where it stands on the NRC, CAA and NPR before Bengal elections, a platform of organisations opposed to the new citizenship matrix said on Friday while fielding questions for Union home minister Amit Shah, who reached Calcutta late in the night. The Joint Forum Against NRC stressed this was more important for Bengal’s people than talks on Trinamul turncoats joining the BJP. “We would like to talk on issues that impact people much more than a few leaders switching parties...The Centre has to spell out clearly if it wants a nationwide National Register for Citizens (NRC) or not. They have to come clear on this before Bengal elections. If they do not, we will start a movement that forces them to clear their stand,” Bose said. Bengal being a bordering state and home to hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Bangladesh, clarity on the Centre’s views on the citizenship matrix assumes urgency. Shah was supposed to visit Thakurnagar, home to many from the Matua community — lower-caste Hindus from Bangladesh, many of whom want the new citizenship laws here. But Thakurnagar was dropped from Shah’s itinerary. Instead, he will now head to Midnapore, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s turf. Bose said they had all heard BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya say that citizenship will be given to all refugees by February. “But Vijayvargiya is not a minister...Shah must clarify whether the home ministry intends to do the same or whether Vijayvargiya is bluffing,” Bose said. Forum members cited examples of different voices from the BJP on the citizenship matrix to stress why clear answers from Shah were vital. For instance, in December 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had stated there had been no discussion on “the word NRC” during his five-year-old tenure, ignoring home minister Amit Shah’s repeated claims that the citizenship amendment would be followed by a countrywide NRC update to identify and expel “ghuspetiyas (infiltrators)”. Bose said Shah must spell out the Centre’s stand on the BJP-led Assam government about a fresh NRC. “After inconveniencing so many people for so many years, the Assam BJP is now saying that if they come to power again they will prepare a fresh NRC. Shah should make it clear whether the home ministry shares the same view,” he added. Pratip Nag, another member, said the forum wanted all amendments to the citizenship act passed in 1955 to be repealed. “We want all amendments to be repealed. The 1955 Act was the most inclusive and most secular. It said whoever was born in India would become a citizen, irrespective of whether a person’s parents were born in India or not,” said Nag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-269
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Newcomers trigger dissent  in Bengal BJP||Bengal BJP’s plan to accommodate Trinamul Congress defectors has sparked off an internal feud with senior leaders and workers in the saffron camp raising objections to the possible inductions. While BJP’s Asansol MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo and state general-secretary Sayantan Basu have publicly expressed their discontent regarding the possible induction of Trinamul MLA and former mayor of Asansol Municipal Corporation Jitendra Tiwari into the BJP, party workers in Bankura hit the streets on Friday to protest against the possibility of former state minister and Trinamul leader Shyamaprasad Mukherjee joining the saffron fold. “Personally, I don’t want Jitendra Tiwari in our party. Babul has also voiced his objection,” Basu said on Friday. “I’ve informed our central leaders that our workers in Asansol are against Tiwari’s induction as he had tormented them. Tiwari has also insulted Babul multiple times,” he added. Later in the day, Tiwari admitted publicly that it was his mistake to leave Trinamul and he returned to the party. Supriyo made a Facebook post on Thursday night saying that rumours were being spread that he had made an “under the table deal” to ensure Tiwari’s defection. He said the rumours were untrue and he wouldn’t be able to approve if Tiwari joined the BJP. BJP leaders opposed to such random inductions have said that defectors from other parties should be accommodated only if they could win polls. Mukherjee, who was Trinamul’s deputy chief for Bankura, resigned from the party on Thursday evening and declared that he would join the BJP. Mukherjee had been questioned by multiple investigating agencies over his alleged involvement in the multi-crore Saradha scam and this prompted BJP supporters in Bankura to protest against his possible induction. Questioned about the protests by BJP supporters against him, Mukherjee refused to comment. “I will join the BJP and work as the party instructs me to,” he said. The feud over the possible inductions has once again revealed that the central leadership’s repeated effort to make the state BJP work as a single unit with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls has not worked. The open opposition to the possible inductions shows that the new entrants were unlikely to receive a warm welcome from BJP old guards. However, another set of BJP leaders is unwilling to pay heed to the opposition from the likes of Basu and Supriyo. A senior BJP leader, who approved of accommodating defectors to the saffron camp, told this correspondent that the party’s ultimate goal was to wrest power in Bengal “by any means possible”. “If the leaders who join us can win seats for the party, what is the problem? Moreover, with more such leaders defecting from Trinamul and joining us, a perception has been created that Mamata Banerjee’s party is crumbling like a house of cards. This will help consolidate people’s support in our favour,” the leader said. Echoing the BJP leader, party MP Locket Chatterjee said from the kind of defections happening, it seemed the BJP would have to fight the 2021 polls without any opposition. Several Trinamul defectors, including former minister Suvendu Adhikari, are expected to join the BJP at a public meeting in Midnapore in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday. A political analyst pointed out that after coming to power, Trinamul had strengthened its position by inducting defectors from the Congress and the CPM. “If you notice, this trend of horse-trading was started by Trinamul. Today as many leaders are quitting the party, Trinamul leaders are realising the futility of such a show of strength,” the analyst added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
19-12-2020||West Bengal||19,065 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 2,729 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,239 new infections and 42 deaths, as the recovery rate rose to yet another new high of 94.68 per cent. The state logged a drop in total active cases for the 53rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total fell by over 18,000 to 19,065 active cases currently, back almost to where it was on July 23, 148 days ago. “We could well end the year with less than 17,000 active cases,” said a minister. The recovery rate, rising for 57 consecutive days, has shown an improvement of over seven per cent. The national rate now is 95.42 per cent. “Getting past the national rate will be in a matter of days now,” said the minister. In these 53 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.94 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.78 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of 5.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.04 lakh recoveries and 9,277 deaths. Of Friday’s 42 deaths, 10 were from the city. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. With 42,355 tests on Friday, the state’s test count rose to 66.23 lakh, at 73,598 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests conducted — is 8.04 now, better than 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 18.25 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.37 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
19-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul sees no threat from defections to BJP||Trinamul Congress’s internal assessment on the actual extent of damage in the wake of Suvendu Adhikari’s departure and the consequent bandwagon effect is veering towards the view that there is no need for pessimism yet. Sources in the ruling party said the BJP had, with considerable success, gone about peddling the perception that Trinamul was all but gone with the desertions, but other than Adhikari himself, the party was yet to lose notable key leaders with mass connect or organisational abilities. There are rumours in the power corridors that with Adhikari, “three-five MPs and 20-odd MLAs” are likely to join the BJP, either this weekend, or over the next few weeks. Hundreds of elected representatives at local bodies and organisational office-bearers of Trinamul are also rumoured to embrace the BJP. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sat with senior Trinamul leaders at her residence in the evening to analyse the situation. Sources said she seemed certain that the desertions would not cause significant damage to the party’s electoral chances. “She is planning her own programmes and is confident of being able to compensate whatever losses these desertions cause,” said a source. The source said Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari was already back in Trinamul as the BJP had refused to accommodate him. Tiwari issued a statement, saying it was his mistake to leave Trinamul and he reaffirmed his faith in Mamata. The former Asansol mayor’s turnaround came after a meeting with minister Aroop Biswas and poll consultant Prashant Kishor in Calcutta. Trinamul, said a party MP, will not be heavily dented by the possible exodus Adhikari was tasked with generating. “From what we know, as of this evening, Suvendu is the only proper leader with real mass connect who is going. Those leaving for the BJP now with him are mostly those who fear defeat or denial of candidature by Trinamul,” he added. A senior member of the Mamata cabinet pointed out that displeasure with poll consultant Prashant and his role in Trinamul was common to most of those who had left or were likely to desert. Prashant, brought on board by the chief minister after the party’s unimpressive performance in the general election last year, is seen as close to her heir-apparent, nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “Other than Suvendu, whoever scored low in the winnability assessment of PK, is looking to leave,” he said, adding that the likes of “turncoats” Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Contai North MLA Banasri Maity and Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Datta, all had an unfavourable winnability assessment. Maity and Datta stepped down from the party on Friday. Former minister Adhikari — who resigned from the state cabinet on November 27 and the party on Thursday — was asked to make an appearance before Speaker Biman Banerjee on Monday to satisfy him on certain technical shortfalls of his resignation as the Nandigram MLA. From Friday, Adhikari got allotted Z cover security from the Centre, comprising 20 personnel from the central forces. A Trinamul Rajya Sabha member said he was more worried about the perception at play that a man like Adhikari must have taken such a big decision, after over two decades in the party, on the basis of his understanding — deemed fool-proof by many — that the BJP’s victory was a foregone conclusion. “Many of those going are doing this on a herd impulse, assuming Suvendu’s understanding is infallible. But, as of now, this is far from over and we still have a clear path to victory,” he said. Barasat Trinamul MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “These departures are cleansing, purifying our party. We will emerge better and stronger for them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-270
19-12-2020||Opinion||Time and tide||The tide in the affairs of men when taken at the flood, the noble Brutus believed, could lead to fortune. The president of Bengal’s Bharatiya Janata Party would certainly appreciate Shakespeare’s foresight. Having taken Brutus’s advice — seizing the moment, as it were — the BJP in Bengal is hoping to cash in on the possible tide of defections from its principal political rival, the ruling Trinamul Congress, that the saffron party seeks to unseat in the upcoming assembly elections. Suvendu Adhikari, one of TMC’s most prominent faces, has resigned from the party. The word is that he would lead a flood of leaders — members of parliament and legislative assemblies as well as lower-level functionaries — not only from East and West Midnapore, Mr Adhikari’s fief, but also such other districts as Howrah and Hooghly, to the BJP. If this does come to pass, the TMC’s electoral prospects in its bastion in South Bengal could well be jeopardized. The BJP believes that with Mr Adhikari changing his spots, as many as 40 assembly seats would be up for grabs. Little wonder then that tides have been on the chief minister’s mind as well. Mamata Banerjee has scoffed at deserters, portraying them as opportunists who swim with the party in high tide and desert it when the waters are low. There is another important adage that seems to have slipped Ms Banerjee’s mind. History, the wise ones say, has a penchant for repeating itself as tragedy. The TMC, its political adversaries have reasons to believe, is now being paid back in its own coin for the party, when the tide was high, had been accused of engineering similar defections from its opponents. The TMC has had no qualms about bleeding dry the Left and the Congress — its chief challengers at one point of time — in an effort to establish its political hegemony. The BJP is now applying the same strategy: Mukul Roy, a turncoat from the TMC himself, has waxed eloquent about this tactic, calling it an essential part of politics. Indeed, the tides in national politics mirror the indispensability of defection as a political weapon that is used most effectively by the BJP. Of course, it is unreasonable to expect that Mr Roy and his ilk would concern themselves with the pitfalls of their actions. The frequent change in political jerseys bares the moral and ideological vacuum that lies at the heart of India’s competitive politics. This amorality has neutralized both legal deterrents and conscience. The existing format of the anti-defection law has been markedly ineffective against such chicanery. Worryingly, voters do not mind such mischief either, even though the defector, by jumping ship, abuses the electoral verdict concerned. If this ignoble tradition is not rooted out, the future of electoral democracy would be bleak in India. The party with the deepest pockets could wield the sceptre permanently. But then Mr Adhikari and Mr Roy cannot be bothered with such trivialities. For they have Bengal’s crown to wrest from Ms Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||High cost: Kohli's run out at pink ball test||Sir — It was crushing to watch the skipper of the Indian men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, lose his wicket during the first day of the first Test match at Adelaide on account of the bad decision-making of the vice-captain, Ajinkya Rahane. Kohli was looking set to make a big score; he had already made 74 runs against a tough Australian bowling attack. He came in to bat when the Indian team was already down two wickets for 32 runs; he first put on a partnership of 68 runs with Cheteshwar Pujara and then an 88-run partnership with Rahane. It still smarts to think of Rahane’s moment of indecision that led to Kohli losing his wicket at a crucial juncture. Rahane had hit a delivery by Nathan Lyon to mid-off and called to Kohli — who is always ready to take a quick single — for the run. Kohli responded to his deputy’s call and started running, but to the horror of spectators, Rahane reversed his decision and sent Kohli back. This cost Kohli and the team dearly and completely changed the game’s momentum; Rahane got out soon after for 49 runs as Mitchell Starc bowled to him in the first over with the new ball. Josh Hazlewood trapped Hanuma Vihari in a leg-before-wicket delivery. Had Rahane exercised better judgment, Kohli would have most likely put on a stupendous score and exerted pressure on the Aussies, which is of great importance when one is playing them on their own turf. Is it any wonder that cricket lovers on social media are furious with Rahane? Madhavi Bhatia,Delhi Sir — Cheteshwar Pujara is right to say that the situation on the opening day of the pink ball test at Adelaide had warranted a lot of patience, as a result of which he played his game accordingly. Even Virat Kohli took control of the game slowly and steadily. Unfortunately, it was Ajinkya Rahane who put an end to the captain’s progress towards scoring another century at Adelaide. Although the Aussies had gained an upper hand during the first session, they started losing their grip during the second and third sessions right till Rahane’s agonizing split-second indecision caused Kohli’s unfortunate run-out. The loss of this wicket triggered a collapse, especially with the new ball. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai Sir — The cricket commentator, Sanjay Manjrekar, has correctly pointed out that Kohli’s run-out on Day One of the pink ball Test at Adelaide was completely the fault of his partner, Rahane. While it is only human to make wrong decisions once in a while on the field, Rahane, as vice-captain, carries an added responsibility to make the best call for the team at all times. Causing Kohli to lose his wicket, especially when he was poised to get a huge score on the board that would have put India in a powerful position against Australia, was unforgivable. However, no mistake warrants the kind of hate that Rahane has been receiving online. Indian cricket lovers and Kohli enthusiasts are right to be enraged, but spewing hatred online has often proved to be greatly detrimental to the mental health of the person or people who are at the receiving end. Constructive criticism should always be welcome; undignified verbal attacks are unacceptable. It is now necessary for the team to move forward and come up with strategies to recover and also to win the next few games in which Kohli will not be playing. One hopes that the morale of the team and its players is not compromised. Radhika Ghosh,Calcutta Bad call Sir — It was with disbelief that I read the news that the Paris city hall has been fined 90,000 euros for allegedly employing ‘too many’ women. In 2018, eleven women had been promoted, breaching a national rule in 2013 that disallowed more than 60 per cent of new appointments to management positions in public service going to one sex. Such rules are almost always overwhelmingly in favour of men; the move to fine the Paris authorities is just another example of the unwillingness of the powers-that-be and larger society to see more and more women in positions of power. The Paris mayor, Anne Hindalgo, is right to be unapologetic about her decision to promote so many women. Arijit Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||Hanukkah the festival of light, faith and giving; and special foods||The eight-day Jewish festival, Hanukkah, kicked off on December 10. Kwanzaa, an African celebration, will commence as usual on December 26 through January 1. For Hanukkah, some cities hosted safe parades downtown with menorah lighting and live music. The ceremony to light the world’s largest menorah — 32-feet-tall and weighing 4,000 pounds — started in the evening at Manhattan’s Grand Army Plaza outside Central Park in celebration of the first night of the festival. The event was put together by the Lubavitch Youth Organization. This year the menorah was decorated with LED lights to honour those in New York — more than 27,000 — who died as a result of Covid-19. Hanukkah involves special foods. A crowd favourite is the latke, a potato-like fried pancake served with applesauce or sour cream. Another fried favourite is a special jelly doughnut called sufganiyot, extremely popular in Israel during these eight days. Hanukkah is the festival of lights, faith and giving. Traditionally this time involves gift giving. In these uncertain times donating money is encouraged. Congregation Kol Emeth of Palo Alto organized a National Virtual Hanukkah Celebration. In Chicago, Israel’s consulate held a virtual candle lighting ceremony featuring cantors and musicians from Chicago and Israel. Kwanzaa was introduced in the United States of America in 1966 as a ritual to welcome the first harvest. Gifts are exchanged and there is a feast with cuisine from various African countries. For African-Americans, Kwanzaa is an important recognition of black history. Ugly words One op-ed later, women around the US and the world are forced to prove themselves all over again. Last week, the Wall Street Journal published an opinion piece suggesting that the First Lady in waiting, Dr Jill Biden, should omit the ‘Dr’ in her title since she is not in the field of medicine. The piece was met with criticism, with several people, including Biden’s supporters and people in academia, calling the writer, Joseph Epstein (neither a medical doctor nor a holder of a doctorate degree himself) sexist and demeaning. Epstein refers to her use of the title as both “fraudulent” and “a touch comic”. Later in the piece he also calls her ‘kiddo’. Paul Gigot, in charge of the Opinion section of WSJ, defended the article and vowed to continue to publish “provocative” opinion pieces. Biden received her doctorate in education from the University of Delaware in 2007 and also holds two Masters degrees. Later that weekend in a tweet, she said, “Together, we will build a world where the accomplishments of our daughters will be celebrated, rather than diminished”. Northwestern University, where Epstein wrote that he had taught for 30 years, issued a statement saying it “strongly disagrees with Mr. Epstein’s misogynistic views” and noted he has not been a lecturer there since 2003. Doug Emhoff, the husband of the vice-president-elect, Kamala Harris, said in a tweet, “This story would have never been written about a man”. The Merriam-Webster dictionary noted in a tweet that the word ‘doctor’ comes from the Latin word for ‘teacher’, which first described theologians. Early arrival Christmas may be different this year, but one can still find a way to enjoy festive displays whether through socially distanced walks or drive-throughs in the comfort of one’s car. A family in Utah has created A Hamilton-themed Christmas light display. They have their own official Facebook page where the couple have been accepting donations and raising funds for United Way of Utah County’s Sub for Santa programme. Over on the East coast, the Holiday Light Fantasia display in Hartford, Connecticut is up and goes on for two miles. The display features over one million lights and has displays dedicated to Christmas, Hanukkah, New Year, Three Kings Day and much more. The proceeds benefit year-round programmes at Channel 3 Kids Camp. Hanging lights at home is a ritual for many families, but this year decorations came early. Houses were decked up with Christmas lights, with pictures and captions on social media drawing attention to how early it is to do so. In New York City, NBC aired its two-hour ‘Christmas in Rockefeller Center’ for the 88th annual lighting of the Rockefeller Christmas tree. Although the usual midtown crowd was missing for this spectacle, it was made up for by the presence of celebrities like Kelly Clarkson, Gwen Stefani, Jimmy Fallon and Dolly Parton. New hope The US has finally approved emergency authorization of the Covid-19 vaccine. Nurse Sandra Lindsay at Long Island Jewish Medical Center was the first American to receive the vaccine, outside of the Pfizer clinical trials. Doctors and nurses are the first in line to receive the vaccine. News cameras captured the moments of inoculation, a seemingly undramatic moment as it is no more than a shot in the arm, yet the historic moments were met with tears, clapping and cheering. The former presidents, Barack Obama, George W Bush and Bill Clinton are also volunteering to get their Covid-19 vaccines on TV to promote public confidence in the vaccine’s safety and encourage people to take it. According to a poll conducted in the first week of December, 32 per cent of Americans said they would not take the vaccine. They want to give it a few months and see how effective it is first. At the same time, anti-vaccine conspiracies have also spread online, many of them propelled by the right-wing conspiracy group, QAnon. There was a Facebook group (now removed) called “Stop Mandatory Vaccination,” which at one point had more than 2,00,000 followers.Footnote There was some unrivalled kindness at the drive-through of the fast food chain, Dairy Queen, in Minnesota with customers all paying for the meal for the car behind them. This went all the way up to 900 customers! It happened for two days, and the last customer gave the cashier $10 to start the chain again the next day. This led to $10,000 in sales. The store manager said that she had seen pay-it-forward chains that last for 15 or 20 cars, but nothing like this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
19-12-2020||Opinion||Prejudice, not pride||In his book, Mahatma Gandhi: The Last Phase, Gandhi’s last secretary, Pyarelal, writes that the partition of India in 1947 and the horrific violence that accompanied it “provided a fruitful soil for Hindu chauvinism. Its most serious manifestation was infiltration of the Hindu middle class and even the Government services by the R.S.S. [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]. It had begun to command the secret sympathy even of a section of Hindu Congressmen.” Pyarelal then outlined for his readers what this organization of Hindu chauvinists stood for, and what its aims were. Thus he wrote: “The R.S.S. was a communalist, para-military, Fascist organisation... Their declared object was to set up Hindu Raj. They had adopted the slogan, ‘Muslims clear out of India.’ At the time they were not very active, at least overtly, but it was being darkly hinted that they were only waiting for all the Hindus and Sikhs in West Pakistan to be evacuated. They would then wreak full vengeance on the Indian Muslims for what Pakistan had done.” As newly-independent India grappled with the wounds of Partition and the plight of the refugees, it faced a serious threat from within, an internal enemy, so to speak. This was the rising tide of Hindu chauvinism. In the second half of 1947, the RSS was winning converts among the Hindu middle class, senior officials and politicians among them. However, two remarkable Hindus stood out resolutely against sectarianism and chauvinism. They were willing to stake their own lives to defend the rights of Muslims who had chosen to stay behind in India. These exemplary Hindus were the prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and his mentor, Mahatma Gandhi. As Pyarelal wrote: “Gandhiji was determined not to be a living witness to such a tragedy. The Muslims were in a minority in the Indian Union. Why should they feel insecure as to their future as equal citizens in the Indian Union? It hurt him to see anyone live under fear, unable to walk with his head erect. Eager always to champion the cause of the under-dog and to identify himself with the down and out, he set himself to put heart into the Indian Muslims.” It is instructive to read these words today, seventy-odd years after the events they describe. In the second half of 1947 the RSS was a marginal player in Indian politics and public life. It hoped to increase its influence by exploiting the communal tensions of the time; fortunately for India, the organization’s rise was stopped by the resolve of Gandhi and of Nehru. Nehru made it clear to everyone in his government that India had no intention of becoming a Hindu Pakistan, while Gandhi fasted successfully for Hindu-Muslim harmony in Calcutta and in Delhi. Gandhi was murdered by an RSS man on January 30, 1948; and his martyrdom horrified and shamed his fellow Hindus, bringing them to their senses. The RSS’s designs were thwarted — for the moment. As I write this, however, the RSS is no longer marginal, but hegemonic in Indian politics and public life. The organization’s political front, the Bharatiya Janata Party, controls the Central government and many state governments. Large sections of the Hindu middle class are stridently vocal, rather than secretive, in support of their political and ideological agenda. Top civil servants, top diplomats, even some top army officials have abandoned their commitment to the Constitution and become partisan supporters of Hindutva and the ruling regime. Of the RSS’s core beliefs in 1947, Pyarelal observed: “Their declared object was to set up Hindu Raj. They had adopted the slogan, ‘Muslims clear out of India.’” The first part of that statement remains still entirely valid. The second half has been modified, if not in entirely salutary ways. In the immediate aftermath of Partition, many leaders of the RSS wanted to rid India of Muslims entirely. However, by the 1950s they realized that this was no longer feasible. The community was very large, and so widely spread out across the country that a full-scale purge was beyond anyone’s fantasies. Now the RSS’s attitude towards Indian Muslims was reframed as follows: Muslims who were born here and live here could stay on in the country, so long as they recognized the political, theological, social, economic, institutional, and moral supremacy of the Hindus. As I have pointed out elsewhere, this political model of the RSS is, ironically, borrowed from Islam — medieval Islam. In the heyday of the Caliphate, Muslims had distinctly superior rights to Jews and Christians. The latter were not explicitly persecuted; however, they had to accept an inferior, or second-class, status in order to raise their families and eke out a livelihood. Likewise, in India today, if the RSS prevails, Muslims shall have to accept second-class status too. Scholars have written many learned works on the history and sociology of the RSS. For its part, the RSS has published dozens of books and pamphlets seeking to explain to non-members what it stands for. Notwithstanding this large (and ever growing) body of literature, the ideology and programme of the RSS can be summarized in six words. These are: We shall show Muslims their place. The RSS claims to stand for the recovery, the restoration, the resurrection of Hindu pride. However, in practice, the beliefs and actions of the organization, and of the political party associated with it, are determined more by prejudice and paranoia than by pride per se. Consider thus the recent actions of the Union government, and of state governments run by the BJP. The destruction of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, the triumphalism about the construction of a temple in Ayodhya, the laws against inter-faith marriages, and above all the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the savage persecution of those who peacefully opposed it — all these are essentially animated by the desire to show Muslims their place. In Mahatma Gandhi: The Last Phase, Pyarelal wrote about a conversation that he was witness to in Delhi in September 1947. I quote: “A member of Gandhiji’s party interjected that the R.S.S. people had done a fine job of work at Wah refugee camp. They had shown discipline, courage and capacity for hard work. ‘But don’t forget,’ answered Gandhiji, ‘even so had Hitler’s Nazis and the Fascists under Mussolini.’ He characterised the R.S.S. as a ‘communal body with a totalitarian outlook.’” How do Gandhi’s views of the RSS hold up seventy-three years later? Very well indeed, except that the order of the adjectives he used might have to be reversed. Now, the RSS is perhaps better seen as a totalitarian body with a communal outlook, rather than the other way around. In 1947, the RSS was on the fringes of Indian life; in 2020, it is massively influential. The members of the RSS who control the Union government have subjugated the press, allegedly tamed the judiciary and used bribery and coercion to undermine or overthrow state governments run by other parties. The new laws aimed at curbing NGOs are animated by the desire to reduce to insignificance all voluntary organizations that do not owe allegiance to the Hindutva ideology. The RSS and the BJP seek to achieve dominance over the political process, over the institutions of the State, over civil society, even over what people eat, how they dress, and whom they can or cannot marry. This desire to control every aspect of life in the country, whether political, social, institutional or ideological, perfectly fits the textbook definition of ‘totalitarian’. Meanwhile, their continuing efforts to stigmatize and demonize Muslims clearly demonstrate their ‘communal’ mindset. Mahatma Gandhi’s characterization of the RSS in the second half of 1947 was then, and remains now, entirely (and disturbingly) accurate. Whether on the fringes of power or at the heart of power, the RSS has been nothing less, and nothing more, than a communal body with a totalitarian outlook. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-101
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||A three-way tie sets up final day thriller at Tata golf ||A three-way tie at the top between Gaganjeet Bhullar, SSP Chawrasia and Amardeep Malik promises a cracker of a final on Sunday at the Tata Steel Tour Championship being played at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses here. Kapurthala-based Bhullar and Calcutta’s Chawrasia, both winners on the European Tour and Asian Tour, as well as Noida’s Malik, a two-time winner on the PGTI, ended the penultimate day of the Rs 1.5 crore event with matching totals of 20-under-196 on Saturday. While Gaganjeet raised his hopes with a determined third round of 64, SSP and Amardeep too continued to be in contention with rounds of 68 and 67 respectively. Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi produced the day’s best score of 10-under-62 to occupy tied fourth place at 18-under-198 along with another Bengaluru player Chikkarangappa (68). The leading 27 players out of 53 played their first nine holes at Golmuri and second nine holes at Beldih. The remaining 26 players played at Beldih first and then Golmuri. The same format will continue on Sunday during the final round. Gaganjeet Bhullar (69-63-64), lying tied fifth and five off the lead at the halfway stage, surged up the leaderboard with a round featuring nine birdies and a bogey. The man with 10 international titles to his credit including eight on the Asian Tour started the day with some tremendous recoveries from the trees on the second and third where he birdied thanks to up and downs from close to 100 yards on both occasions. Gaganjeet went on to sink a monster 40-feet birdie putt on the seventh before producing another excellent wedge shot to set up a tap-in birdie on the ninth. Bhullar further consolidated his position picking up five more birdies over the next seven holes where he made a couple of good up and downs and also landed his approaches within five feet on two occasions. His only bogey of the day on the 17th was the result of a missed up and down. Bhullar said, “It was a solid round and I feel a continuation from the second day where I had shot a nine-under. I made a lot of up and downs for birdies. I also scrambled well at the start having found the trees twice. “I’ve given myself a lot of chances in the last two days and putted really well. I’ve been getting close enough to the pins and have been converting those chances which kept building the momentum for me. I feel I’ve adjusted well to the varying conditions at the two courses. “It’ll be interesting to play in the leader group along with SSP after a long time. I can’t remember the last time we played together in the leader group on the final day.” Amardeep Malik (63-66-67) made his way up from overnight third and two off the lead even as his bogey-free run came to an end. Among Malik’s seven birdies, two were tap-ins, two were long conversions and one was an up and down from the bunker. He also dropped two bogeys. Amardeep said, “I feel I still have to be tighter with my game when I’m playing under pressure especially in the last two rounds. That’s the consistency I need. Today it was fun to play alongside my favourite Indian golfer SSP Chawrasia. Fortunately, I’ll get to play in the same group as him tomorrow as well. “I dropped my first bogey of the tournament today on the sixth. I therefore achieved a personal record this week by going bogey-free in a tournament for 41 holes.” SSP Chawrasia (67-61-68), who was overnight second and one off the lead, followed up his spectacular 61 on day two with a flawless 68 on Saturday to gain one spot and move into the joint lead. Chawrasia, a winner of six international titles including four on the European Tour, said, “I missed a few short putts today but I was in control of my round. In round two I was much closer to the flags and holed more putts compared to today. “I’ll go into the last round with a lot of self-belief as I’ve won here on three previous occasions having played the same format, the front-nine at Golmuri and back-nine at Beldih.” Khalin Joshi, still recovering from a wrist injury, made two eagles and six birdies during his sensational 62 to rise 10 spots from his overnight tied 14th. Joshi’s two eagles came on the fourth and 16th holes. He landed his drive within five feet on the par-4 fourth while on the 16th he sank a 20-footer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police crack Hazaribagh murder case in three days||The sensational murder case of a young policeman – Birendra Kumar reached a closure with the police claiming to have solved it within three days of recovering the dead body. According to the police, Birendra’s distant relative Ashok Kumar Mehta was behind his murder. Allegedly, the accused was eyeing both the property and wife of the victim. Birendra, a resident of Chatra’s Mayurhund region, was living in Deepugarha mohalla of Hazaribagh. He had gone missing on the night of December 15, when someone sitting in an SUV had called him immediately after he had returned from his office. He sat in the car, next to the driver, and drove away. The next morning, his dead body was recovered about 20 kilometres away from his residence. Birendra had recently been transferred to the police control room. He was earlier posted in the traffic police department. With Birendra’s family alleging that the killer could be a known person, the police took Ashok in custody on suspicion. Police questioned him and even took him to a hotel in Deepugarha where he and Birendra had dinner and consumed liquor. Superintendent of Police Karthik S said, “Ashok broke down during the interrogation and admitted to having killed Birendra.” He told us that after leaving the hotel, when Birendra took his seat in the car, in an inebriated state, then he hit the victim on his head with a heavy object, which resulted in his immediate death. Following which, Ashok steered the vehicle towards Ichak and dumped the dead body there. He then drove back to his village Mayurhund but only after washing his clothes and SUV in the river. Karthik said the police had recovered the jeans and T-shirt that Ashok wore while committing the crime and seized his SUV and two mobile phones. He said, “Ashok is a man of poor character and had been eying Birendra’s wife Poonam Devi. He killed Birendra simpl, to grab a piece of land which Poonam owned, by remarrying her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi rakes up old case, asks Hemant to step down pending probe  ||The Opposition BJP in Jharkhand has raked up an old case against chief minister Hemant Soren, wherein an aspiring model accused him of rape in 2013 and later withdrew her charges, with senior leader Babulal Marandi calling for a CBI investigation and asking Hemant Soren to step down till the probe was completed. The case Marandi was referring to is now at the centre of a Rs 100 crore defamation suit filed by the chief minister against BJP’s Nishikant Dubey who first spoke about it in a tweet in July this year. Dubey, an MP, announced on twitter that he had written to the Union home ministry and the Maharashtra government demanding reopening of the case against Hemant, alleging that the JMM leader had used his influence to settle the case. In response, Hemant filed a defamation suit against the MP in a Ranchi court on August 4. Addressing a press conference in Dumka on Saturday, Marandi said, “Since the last week, social media and other platforms have been abuzz with reports of Jharkhand chief minister committing rape with a Mumbai based women in 2013. He was chief minister during the time when this incident allegedly took place. Now when the victim is again pleading for justice, he is in CM’s office. Since it involves two states, we demand a CBI inquiry.” On Thursday, the National Commission for Women (NCW) issued a statement, saying it was seeking an action taken report (ACT) from Maharashtra DGP in view of a letter, purportedly written by the victim containing details of incidents that allegedly occurred in the last seven years, that had gone viral on social media. The JMM and Congress, both part of the ruling alliance in the state, have termed the BJP’s accusations fraudulent and politically motivated with the intention of defaming an elected leader and destablising a popular, elected government. Marandi, who chose Dumka in the JMM bastion of Santhal Paragana to address Saturday’s press conference, also said, “In the interest of fairness of the CBI probe, we appeal to Hemant Soren to step down,” he said. Congress said the BJP and Marandi were “stooping to such low-level politics” out of frustration as the party had lost its relevance in Jharkhand. “Neither we, nor our allies, subscribe to personal attacks of such bad taste. But having said that, political decency can never be expected from the BJP,” said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey. JMM is yet to issue a formal statement in response to Marandi’s address to the media. But earlier, the JMM had termed the allegations as “fraudulent” and “below the belt” politics of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway announces two special trains from state||The South Eastern Railway on Saturday announced two special trains, a daily and a tri-weekly, amid growing demand of passengers. The Calcutta-based headquarters of the SER at Garden Reach in a circular said that the tri-weekly train will run between Howrah and Ranchi from December 23. The daily special train will take off from December 20 and run between Rourkela and Jharsuguda till resumption of normal train service. The 02895 Howrah-Ranchi Tri-Weekly Special will leave Howrah on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday from December 23 at 12.50 pm and will reach Ranchi at 9.10 pm on the same day. In the opposite direction, 02896 Ranchi-Howrah Tri-Weekly Special will leave Ranchi on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday from December 23 at 7 am and will reach Howrah at 3.10 pm on the same day till further advice. The special train will make stops  at Kharagpur, Jhargram, Chakulia, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Barabhum, Purulia, Jhalida and Muri stations. The 68601 Rourkela-Jharsuguda Passenger Special will leave Rourkela daily from December 20 at 8.20 am and will reach Jharsuguda at 10.50 am on the same day. Similarly, 68602 Jharsuguda-Rourkela Passenger Special will leave Jharsuguda daily at 11.15 am from December 20 and will reach Rourkela at 1.45 pm on the same day. This train will make stops at Panposh, Kalunga, Kansbahal, Rajgangpur, Sonakhan, Sagra, Garposh, Tangarmunda, Bamra, Dharuadih, Bagdehi, Panpali and Dhutra between Rourkela and Jharsuguda. The circular advised passengers to take help from the National Train Enquiry System App for updates, and intersectional stoppages and timings before undertaking their journey. They can also dial 139 for further assistance. The circular also directed passengers to strictly follow all health protocols before undertaking and during journey in the wake of  the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ticket inspector rescues 8-year-old from train at Daltonganj||A ticket inspector rescued an eight-year-old girl, who was travelling alone, from Howrah-Jabalpur Shaktipunj Express on Thursday night at daltonganj Railway Station. Revealing the details of the incident on Saturday, Daltonganj station superintendent A.K. Tiwari said, “One train ticket inspector (TTI) Shilanand Ekka had spotted this lone girl child travelling in S6 coach of the Up Howrah-Jabalpur Shaktipunj express train on the night of December 17. The TTI alerted the Commercial Control Room of Dhanbad.” Tiwari added that he was alerted by the Commercial Control Room, Dhanbad, about the incident. “I alerted the RPF and GRP here in Daltonganj immediately and also contacted the Childline India Foundation at 1098. Things began to move faster after then,” he said. Tiwari said that two members of the Child Working Committee reached the Daltonganj station where the train had arrived at around midnight and brought the girl down from the train to take her into safe custody. The station superintendent said that all this rescue work was done within a two-minute window as the Shaktipunj Express does not stop for more time at the Daltonganj station. According to sources, the girl had boarded the train at Patratu railway station. However, there is no proof if anyone was trafficking her. Nobody on the coach could answer TTI Ekka’s question if she was brought by someone on the train, and neither did anyone claim her. The girl, who perhaps belongs to a nomadic tribe ‘khanabadosh’, is under observation at a Daltonganj rescue home, and efforts are on to look for her parents. Tiwari said that the child looked lost and blank, and had poor clothing. He added that he could not say if she was under any shock. The superintendent, however, praised Ekka for his efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||North wind ushers in bone-numbing chill across state||The mercury nosedived across the state on was a bright Saturday resulting in temperatures below 8°C across districts with weathermen attributing the bone-chilling cold to the crisp North Wind. "The impact of the western disturbance, which resulted in formation of two induced cyclonic circulations, waned to revive chill-laden winds from the north. This resulted in plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He, however, ruled out the possibility of a cold wave, which occurs when minimum readings drop five notches below normal. The climate would remain dry for the next few days with early morning fog (shallow to moderate) in several isolated pockets which would reduce the surface visibility. According to weathermen, no adverse weather condition is expected over Jharkhand at least in the next 72 hours. Hence, no major change in night readings is expected in the next three days. Only westerly to north-westerly winds would prevail over the state at lower levels in the next few days. Capital Ranchi felt the shivers when the minimum temperature plummeted 7°C, three notches below the average normal. On Friday, Ranchi had recorded a minimum temperature of around 9 degree Celsius. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of around 6°C, three points below normal. Daltonganj, the headquarters of Palamau, recorded a sub-10 chill like that of Ranchi at 6.3°C, three notches lower than normal. On Friday, Daltonganj had recorded 7.9 °C. Steel hub Jamshedpur was a wee bit warmer at 9.6°C, two degrees below normal. On Friday, the local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur had recorded a minimum temperature of 14.9°C. The local IMD observatory said the reading had dropped by around five degrees in the past 24 hours. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded a night reading of 8.1°C, four notches below normal, while Bokaro recorded a minimum of 8.2 °C, four notches below normal. Night temperatures also fluctuated between 8°C and 10°C in several other parts of the state, including Dumka and other parts of Santhal Pargana regions, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Dhanbad, Koderma, Gumla and Simdega. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Calcutta corroborated Ranchi Met Centre forecasts. "There are no signs of clouds. The skies will remain clear for at least the next 72 hours, which will drag down temperatures further in Jharkhand," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bans liquor, tobacco consumption at tourist spots||Jharkhand Paryatan Suraksha Samiti announced on Saturday that consumption liquor or tobacco products will be completely banned across popular waterfalls around Ranchi from Sunday. The umbrella outfit of all the paryatak mitras (friends of tourists) deployed by Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation also said that the entry of visitors to these tourist hotspots without masks will not be allowed. Revelers will also be banned from using plastic or thermocol utilities on the spot and playing of loud sound systems will not be permissible, the committee announced. The Jharkhand Paryatan Suraksha Samiti is responsible for the intenance, upkeep and overall safety of the tourist spots and those coming to the state. The announcement was made ahead of the upcoming Christmas and New Year that usually see a heavy surge of visitors to these places every year. Committee president Raj Kishore Prasad said that the relaxation after the Covid-19 lockdown has made tourists visit almost all the waterfalls in Ranchi again. “Since October onwards, we are now seeing steady turnout of visitors, who are mostly locals, visiting these picturesque spots to break their extended monotony of staying indoors for long,” he said. Prasad informed that these dos and don’ts have been announced following a meeting with the local police station and shop-keepers/vendors around the tourist places. With Christmas and New Year, we are anticipating heavy rush again for which we have announced certain curbs to prevent any untoward incident or situation of law and order problems because of any rogue elements,” he added. The president also informed that all vehicles will be checked before entering the tourist spots. “All shopkeepers/vendors have been strictly asked to ensure no one sells liquor illegally, while paryatak mitras on the spots will be on the move to curb anyone drinking liquor on the spot,” Prasad said. “If anyone carries liquor on their own, they will be humbly asked not to enter the premises carrying them as none will be allowed to consume there,” he added. On punitive measures for violation of the norms, he said, “We will simply report them to local police.” Besides making masks compulsory for tourists entering the spots, to enforce Covid-19 guidelines, awareness boards have also been put up across the vicinity. “Controlling the crowd or ensuring 100 per cent social distancing will literally be not possible at tourist spots neither by us or by district administration. Hence, everyone must follow individual social responsibility to not litter anything, spew only at designated spots, carrying their own masks and sanitisers et al,” Prasad said. Dharamnath Ram, ASI of Sikidiri police station too appealed visitors to follow norms to curb any chances of covid-19 infection or law and order problems. “Any violator will be taken to task under the relevant sections of IPC,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Couple face mishap fury in Giridih district||A young couple were saved by police from a mob who tried to lynch them and later immolate the man after their car ran over a child killing him on the spot at Tisri in Jharkhand’s Giridih district on Thursday evening. According to police, Kaushik Thandar and Sangeeta Thandar were going to attend the marriage of their relative in Biharsharif (in Bihar) in their Ford Titanium car. When the car reached Giridih Main Road near the Sigha Mohan roundabout under Gawan block, a boy suddenly ran into the road and Kaushik could not stop the car from hitting the child though he applied the brakes. Giridih-based social worker P.K. Minral said: “Seven-year-old Sourav suddenly ran into the road and came under the vehicle and died on the spot. An irate mob gheraoed the car and forcibly took out the couple and started assaulting Kaushik without heeding to his wife’s pleas. “Suddenly one person from the crowd doused Kaushik in petrol and threatened to set him ablaze in anger against the death of the child. Fortunately, some locals informed the police who reached the site on time and rescued the couple. The police doused the flames and took the couple to hospital.” Tisri police station in-charge Piku Kumar claimed that Kaushik’s condition is stable. “The mob was demanding compensation for the death of the child and some mischievous elements had put petrol on the man and tried to set him ablaze. We reached the spot and doused the flames. We rushed the couple to Giridih Sadar Hospital. “Doctors said the man has sustained 40 per cent burn injuries but his condition is stable. The woman was not injured though she is in trauma and is also admitted in the hospital,” said Kumar. Locals claimed that Kaushik had fled from the spot after the mishap. After realising that the child might have suffered serious injuries or might have died, he returned with his vehicle and had to face the mob fury. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said separate cases have been registered by the parents of the deceased child and the couple from Bengal. “While the couple from Bengal have lodged a case against unidentified persons, including parents of the deceased boy, for assaulting and trying to torch them, the child’s parents have lodged a case against the couple for reckless driving leading to death. We have not arrested anybody in the case so far but would be arresting the culprits involved in assaulting the couple soon,” Renu said. Tisri is around 190km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Archdiocese will organise up to four Masses this Xmas||The Roman Catholic churches under Ranchi Archdiocese will organise up to four Masses for facilitating prayers by the faithful in a staggered manner this Christmas. “Spirituality and sobriety will be the focus this year and the faithful have been asked to avoid fanfare,” said Theodore Mascarenhas, auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese. The archdiocese in association with the Missionaries of Charity and the Catholic Youths of Ranchi will also organise a lunch for the local rickshaw-pullers at Loyola Ground on Christmas Day, he added. The Jharkhand disaster management department, in an order signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, on Thursday allowed congregations up to the half the capacity of a hall with a ceiling of 200 people and 300 people in the open. “We appreciate the order of the government and had already planned up to three Masses but The Vatican has now allowed up to four,” he said, adding that Mass will begin in the evening on December 24. “Some of the churches like the one at Kokar locality in Ranchi have also organised open-air Masses that can accommodate more people,” he said. Jharkhand, including the Chotanagpur region, has a large Christian population and Christmas is celebrated with much fanfare here every year. Though the Protestant Church was first to arrive in Ranchi way back in 1845 and the priests of the Roman Catholic Church reached here four decades later in 1885, the latter has a much larger following. Initially under the Calcutta Archdiocese, a separate diocese was formed for the region in 1927 with its episcopal seat in Ranchi that was elevated to the status of an archdiocese in 1953. Ranchi Archdiocese at present has six dioceses in the state — Daltonganj, Dumka, Jamshedpur, Gumla, Simgedga and Khunti — under it. “For the first time, the crib at the Archbishop House in Ranchi will be opened to the public on Christmas this year,” Bishop Mascarenhas announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chlorine gas leak at water tower in Hazaribagh||A chlorine gas leak was reported in the heart of Hazaribagh city on Friday. The gas leaked from a cylinder at a water tower located opposite of Chhath Talab at around 7:40 PM. The incident drove people shopping in the area into a frenzy. Officials said the cylinder contained 5 kilogram of chlorine, used to purify water. Employees of the drinking water and sanitation department started feeling uneasy, soon followed by others on the adjoining  busy stretch of road. As people came to know about the leak, many started running for safe cover. One employee was rushed to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital where he was stabilised. A fire brigade team reached the and started the exercise to plug the leak.After all efforts failed, officials decided to dump the leaking cylinder into the Chhath Talab. Sadar police station officer-in-charge Ganesh Kumar Singh and his team aided the disposal. The nearby densely populated Mohalla Okni and Nawabgunj areas were cause for major concern with the officials. The water tower is among nine such structures which supply water to approximate 5 lakh people in the town. It processes water from the Charwa Dam situated 5km away from town on Katkamsandi road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
