20-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Gas-leak’ fire during puja kills Calcutta woman||An elderly woman who got burned while performing puja at her home a few days ago died of the injuries at a nursing home on Friday evening. Manjula Dutta, 60, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, was performing her daily morning puja around 6.30am on December 12 when the accident occurred, police said. Cops suspect that the fire had broken out because of a leak in the LPG cylinder at her home. “The moment she lit a match stick in her puja room, there was a big fire and her apparel caught fire,” said an officer of Kasba police station. She was admitted to a nursing home on BB Chatterjee Road where she succumbed to her injuries on Friday. Although cops have not found any foul play during preliminary investigation, an unnatural death case has been registered with Kasba police station. Her body has been sent for post-mortem. Senior officers said they had not received any complaint from the family till Saturday. “A forensic team had visited the spot. The cause of the fire appears to be because of their LPG leak. It is very important to periodically get the LPG pipes — that connect the cylinder to the gas oven — checked. This could have serious consequences,” said a senior officer. Earlier this month, another elderly woman had died of burn injuries because of an LPG leak. Chaya Nag, 74, was cooking at her daughter’s home in Radha Madhab  Dutta Garden Lane in Beleghata, on December 7, when an LPG cylinder leak triggered the fire. Her daughter, who was standing near her, was also injured. A forensic official said it is very important to have proper ventilation in the kitchen to prevent accidents even if there is a leakage. Several homes keep their windows closed in winter. “If the gas gets trapped, the chances of a fire increase manifold the moment a match stick is lit or there is any source of ignition,” said the forensic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta school accounts: Action stations||On a deserted school campus, the clatter of the keyboards and the ringing of phones is constant in one room. Welcome to the accounts office, the most busy place in the school in the last few months. The mailbox is full, the phone calls are incessant and the personnel in the school accounts office are buried in calculations. One template that could be followed for all students is no longer effective and the accounts offices across schools are doing calculations specific to individual requests. Questions from parents range from how much they have to pay if they opt for waiver in the last two quarters, or how much they need to pay if they want the fees adjusted for the previous months where they have paid 100 per cent, or how much they have to pay if they opt for instalments. “In some cases, parents are calculating on their own and paying. The accounts office then has to tally and tell them what is due,” said the principal of a school in south Calcutta. In several schools, for 2,000 to 3,500-odd students on their rolls, there are at the most two to three people in the accounts section and in smaller schools, there is one person behind the counter. In one school, the accounts office has asked the management for recruitment, in another, the school has provided them with a help desk. One has asked a few teachers to help. There are instances when the regular working hours have been extended or work is being carried home, unlike what used to be, at least two school officials said. “Schools had computerised their accounts so three people handling the accounts was comfortable. But now the calculations are long and unique and hence, the work has increased tremendously,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. The school has deputed an additional workforce of four people to help out. “Earlier, we would reach out to parents with printed notices but now it is via emails or the school app. There has to be follow-up phone calls also,” said Prasad. Previously, each class had a particular fee slab and parents who defaulted, were sent emails. “The receipt of payment too was uniform and easy to calculate. But now parents are calculating the 80 per cent according to their interpretation and the school has it own numbers. Besides, there are some who can not pay 80 per cent. There are many variants to the amount of payment and with a large number of students, calculation is a nightmare,” said Brigadier (retd) V. N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society, which runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur. The management of at least two schools agreed that with fresh and different payments being made everyday, doing an analysis on the exact figures is a daunting task. “The calculations have become cumbersome. The accounts office has to check whether a student is entitled to additional waivers,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point, which has 12,000 students. In Calcutta Girls’ High School, the support staff are lending a hand to the accounts office by tallying numbers. “Its a huge task now because they also have to make manual reconciliations. And we cannot ask people from other departments because accounting is a specialised job,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal. In The Newtown School, there are three hands now instead of four. “One person had to quit for personal reasons and the department is asking for more hands. But it isn’t easy to find a replacement,” said founder-director Sunil Agarwal. “The volume of data has increased and it is difficult to handle now because almost each ledger is different and has to be dealt with individually,” he added. The accounts office also has to bear the brunt of parents’ grievances on emails and over phones. “With so many emails everyday, it is difficult to answer each promptly,” said a school official. A senior accountant in a city school said the calculations have gone up this year because the fee has been revised several times this year. “It is hard to keep a tab of who is paying and who is not. Parents have been asked to send emails but not all of them are doing so,” said Uttam Sardar, accounts manager at Indus Valley World School. In Chowringhee High School, the management has requested a few of the teachers to help out with the calculations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||North winds bring down Celsius in Calcutta||The mercury plunged to 13.1 degrees Celsius in the city on Saturday, the coldest day of the season so far, riding strong north-westerly winds. The Met office has predicted a cold spell over the next four-five days, with the mercury tipped to dip to sub-12 degrees in the next few days. The minimum temperature on Saturday was two notches below normal and three notches below Friday’s minimum temperature. Over the last few days, the cold winds had started picking up intensity. On Saturday, they swept through the city and its neighbourhood, dragging the minimum temperature to 22 degrees, three notches below normal. The temperature was not abnormal for mid-December, a Met official said. But the temperature in the city had been on the high-er side for a better part of December and Calcuttans welcomed the plunge that heralded the onset of their favourite time of the year. The sky was clear in the morning and people clad in woollens and jackets made a beeline for Alipore zoo, Eco Park and other public attractions. “The cold is here to stay. The minimum temperature is likely to dip to under 12 degrees in the coming days. The minimum temperature is unlikely to go above 15 degrees over the next five days,” said GK Das, director, India Meteorological Centre in Calcutta. As the evening crept in, people were seen making bonfires out of newspapers to keep themselves warm. The roads became deserted earlier than usual. Salt Lake and areas along VIP Road, EM Bypass and near the airport became particularly chilly. Weather officials said the chill was because of the winds blowing in from north India at over 15kmph. In Delhi, the chill was biting and the minimum temperature dropped to 3.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Web check-in no longer mandatory at Calcutta airport||Calcutta airport has done away with compulsory web check-in. Following this, the long queues at the entry gates of the terminal building have shifted to the check-in counters. “The bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) recently informed the airports and airlines that web check-in, although preferable, is not mandatory anymore...,” Kaushik Bhattacharya, director of Calcutta airport, said on Friday. But for the manual check-in, a passenger has to pay Rs 100 as a processing fee. Several airports had requested the civil aviation ministry to ease the safety norms for entering the terminals. After that, the BCAS issued the new advisory. When passenger flight operations resumed in late May after the lockdown, the civil aviation ministry had made web check-in mandatory. Metro had earlier reported about that the long queues at the entry gates of the departure section of the airport’s terminal were leading to passengers reporting late at the boarding gates and delay of flights. The problem, according to the airlines, occurred because many first-time fliers would come to the airport without web check-in and many of them did not have smartphones. The airlines later started redirecting these passengers to their ticket booking counters at Gate 3C, which led to congestion at the counters. “Now, the congestion has reduced significantly both at the entry gates and the airline booking counters,” said an official of a private airline. But there are long queues at the check-in counters, especially on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, when flights to and from Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur are allowed to operate. The state government lifted the restrictions on Delhi flights last week. An official of a private airline said apart from the time taken for check-in, there was also the problem of some passengers raising questions about airlines charging Rs 100 extra for  the manual check-in. “Many passengers are asking why they have to pay extra,” said the official. The restrictions on allowing only one piece of registered luggage has also been eased, said airline officials. For every additional piece of check-in baggage, airlines are charging Rs 700. “But this process is taking a long time,” said an airline official. Airport director Bhattacharya said because of the new problem, they have opened the check-in island, which was closed till a few weeks back, for installation the inline baggage-screening system. Of the four check-in islands, one termed ‘A’ was closed for months. “The US agency has told us that their officials would come for inspection in January. So, we are allowing manual screening of baggage for this island,” said Bhattacharya. Security check-in counters are now another point where congestions are taking place, said airline officials. Recently, automatic tray retrieval system has been introduced where the trays for screening of hand baggage are mechanically retrieved. “...At times the system is malfunctioning,” said an airline official. Airport officials said they were trying to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Vaccine storage hub identified at Bagbazar||The state health department has identified the warehouses of two central medical stores in Bagbazar that could be a hub for storing Covid-19 vaccines in Bengal once the inoculation process starts. Infrastructure, including new electric connections and space for accommodating large walk-in coolers as part of the cold chain system, is being strengthened at the central medical store and the central family welfare store in north Calcutta, under the directorate of health services. There are nine deep freezers at the stores in Bagbazar and additional space is being culled out for more “vertical refrigerators” which are not meant for domestic use. The state government would be shortly receiving 19 walk-in coolers, each with around 2,000 square feet capacity, for storing the vaccine packs, from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. A bulk of these coolers will be kept at the two warehouses and a few will be sent to the districts. Primarily, arrangements are being made for storing the vaccine-packs at a temperature ranging between two and eight degrees Celsius, with a provision for bringing the temperature down to as low as minus 20 degrees in these coolers. Senior officials said they were yet to receive guidelines from the health ministry on the desired temperature for storing the vials. “The idea is to increase the capacity of storing dosages from the existing 3.5 crore dosages to around six crore,” said a senior official of the health department. As part of the preparation for the proposed roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine, the health department has already started training key personnel who will then train vaccinators across districts. There are around 20,000 vaccinators in Bengal and a programme for the trainers was held at an EM Bypass address on Friday. The next one will be held in Siliguri for north Bengal shortly. “A key element of the cold chain system is ‘cold chain points’. There are 941 cold chain points across the state. In Calcutta, we would be adding several hospitals apart from the medical college and hospitals in this system,” said a senior official of the health department overseeing the preparations for storing vaccines. “We will use the facilities of health units across 16 boroughs under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Since the vaccination would be done in phases, there shouldn’t be any problem,” the official said. Since end-October, when the state government started collecting details of health care workers in private and government health establishments for administering the Covid-19 vaccine on priority basis, the health department received close to six lakh applications. Senior officials said they expect the figure to go by around 50,000. “The mission director of the Nation Health Mission is the director of this programme and will prepare the final list of healthcare workers in Bengal,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools await clarity on pre-board exams||Several schools are either waiting for further clarity before announcing the dates of their pre-board exams or reconsidering the dates if they had already been announced in the light of the announcement by the ICSE council that the board exams for Classes X and XII will be pen-and-paper and there has to be two months of classes on the campus before the boards. Several school heads said that they would prefer to have the rehearsals in school if they get the go-ahead from the state government and parents agree to send their children to school. They agreed that if the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has said that the boards will be in the pen-and-paper format, the rehearsals should be conducted the same way. “For the entire academic year, the students have not had one full-length exam. Before the pre-boards, they usually have two. The pre-boards ideally should be a practice before the finals,” said the head of an ICSE school. St James’ School, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School Salt Lake and The Future Foundation School are some of the schools that are yet to announce the pre-board dates. Loreto House, The Heritage School and Sri Sri Academy have sent out dates but said they are not “watertight but flexible” and subject to change, depending upon the  situation. “We are waiting for an indication from the council regarding the board timetable and only then will we announce the pre board dates. We don’t want to schedule the pre-boards long before the boards. Students get into a rhythm of studying and writing and a long gap between the boards and pre-boards will spoil that,” said Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School. Ireland said that ideally the pre-boards should be in the pen-and-paper mode if the boards are to be so and for that they would have to be allowed by the state government to resume classes on the campus. In many schools, the exams have been unit tests or of a shorter duration of 40 to 50 marks spanning for about an hour. “The idea of pre-boards is to simulate a board exam. How can a unit test be a rehearsal?” asked Ranjan Mitter, principal of The Future Foundation School. He said they are waiting for clarity from the council and state government before giving out any dates. “We have not announced the dates yet and if we know parents are willing (after the state government’s permission), we can conduct it in pen-and-paper and try to give students the experience of writing long answers,” said Sister Sherly Sebastian, principal, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School Salt Lake. Loreto House has communicated tentative dates to the students of Classes X and XII, which could be January end and beginning of February. “We have told parents these are tentative dates. We will reconsider and change the dates if schools are allowed to resume on campus classes because we will prefer to have offline rehearsal exams,” said Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House. The campuses are closed since March and schools have been conducting online classes and also online exams. The last time that the board examinees across many schools wrote a full-length two-hour or three-hour paper was only in February in the last academic year. Teachers said that students might have lost touch with the practice of writing out long answers and sitting at a stretch for two or three hours without a break. Schools will try to make use of the two months of on-campus classes to conduct the pre-boards to give students a shot at writing out the papers before the finals. “The Class X students have had no experience of an offline exam. It would be beneficial to both the board classes to write a mock exam on pen-and-paper format,” said Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School. “We might consider postponing the dates further depending on the government directive,” she added. At Sri Sri Academy, too, the pre-boards dates are “not watertight”. “We will not have the rehearsals earlier than January end but even that is flexible depending on the situation. We will wait for the state government to tell us when it is safe to resume on campus classes and make use of the two months to have the pre-boards,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy. St Xavier's Collegiate School will have a meeting with teachers and parents of Classes X and XII in January, before taking any decision about pre boards, said prin-cipal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
20-12-2020||Business||Financial services group Centrum in PMC race||Centrum, the Mumbai-based financial services group, has thrown its hat into the ring to acquire troubled-lender Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. On Friday, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced that PMC Bank has received four investment proposals to take over management control, revive the bank and commence regular operations. This was confirmed by a spokesperson of the Centrum group to The Telegraph. “PMC Bank made an open invitation for a potential investment in the bank. Centrum group has submitted an expression of interest (EoI) for the same,” the spokesperson disclosed. The identity of the three other suitors could not be ascertained. Centrum group is led by seasoned banker Jaspal Bindra, who was earlier the Asia-Pacific head of Standard Chartered Bank. The group, which started its operations as a money changer in 1997, has subsequently diversified into merchant banking, project finance, institutional brokerage and wealth management. It has also ventured into housing finance, SME and MSME finance and microfinance. In September 2019, the RBI had imposed restrictions on the multi-state urban cooperative bank, including on withdrawals by customers. Last month, PMC Bank had invited expressions of interest (EoI) from potential investors for investment or equity participation for its reconstruction. PMC Bank had said eligible investors could be financial institutions, including banks and NBFCs  and individuals or group of individuals, companies, societies, trusts or any other entities having adequate net worth. It further pointed out that the investor should ideally bring in the capital required for enabling the bank to achieve the minimum required capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent. However, the investors could also look at the option of restructuring a part of deposit liabilities into capital or capital instruments. PMC Bank had further said that subsequent to commencement of the normal day-to-day operations, it will be open for the investor to convert the bank into a small finance bank by making an application to the RBI. This, however, will be subject to compliance of the RBI guidelines on voluntary transition of urban co-operative banks (UCBs) into SFBs issued in 2018. Moreover, according to the RBI guidelines for “on tap” licensing of small finance banks in the private sector, an SFB is eligible for transition into a universal bank after a minimum period of five years, subject to meeting the prescribed eligibility conditions. Initially, the RBI had allowed depositors to withdraw Rs 1,000 which was later raised to Rs 1 lakh per account to mitigate their difficulties. In June this year, the RBI had extended the regulatory restrictions on the cooperative bank by another six months till December 22, 2020. This has now been extended till March 31, 2021. “The bank has informed Reserve Bank that in response to the EoI, four proposals have been received. These proposals will be examined by the bank with regard to their viability and feasibility, taking into account the best interest of the depositors. To undertake this process, the bank would need some more time,” the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
20-12-2020||Business||Wistron on notice over wage lapses||Apple has placed Wistron Corp, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer of its smartphones, on probation after detecting lapses in payments to employees at its facility near here. The phone-maker said in a statement on Saturday that Wistron would not receive any business until corrective steps were taken. The action came a week after hundreds of workers went on the rampage and vandalised the factory located at the Narsapura industrial area in Kolar district, some 75km from Bangalore on December 12. They had accused the company of arbitrary deductions in salaries even after introducing 12-hour work shifts in place of three eight-hour shifts. “Apple employees, along with independent auditors, will monitor their progress. Our main objective is to make sure all the workers are treated with dignity and respect, and fully compensated promptly,” said the company. It admitted violations at the Wistron facility. “While these investigations are ongoing, our preliminary findings indicate violations of our supplier code of conduct by failing to implement proper working hour management processes. This led to payment delays for some workers in October and November,” Apple said. In a separate statement, Wistron said it has sacked vice-president Vincent Lee, who oversees its India operations, and admitted lapses in proper payment to its employees. It added that the entire team was being restructured to ensure such issues do not recur. “Since the unfortunate events at our Narasapura facility we have been investigating and have found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time. We deeply regret this and apologise to all of our workers,” the company stated admitting the lapses. “This is a new facility and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded. Some of the processes we put in place to manage labour agencies and payments need to be strengthened and upgraded,” the company said. The company has established a 24-hour grievance hotline in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, English and Hindi for workers to voice their concerns anonymously. “We are deeply committed to our business and employees in India. We are working diligently on corrective actions to ensure this does not happen again,” it said. The action comes a day after the Karnataka government wrote to the union labour department citing some technical issues in recording attendance at Wistron’s Narsapura facility. The report noted that increasing working hours from eight to 12 hours and wages getting deducted due to the malfunctioning of the attendance system had led to the unrest. A government fact-finding team had reported that the Wistron facility had switched to 12-hour shifts from October 4 and manpower was increased from 5000 to 10,500 in a short period of time. The vandalism had come as a major embarrassment for the state government, especially because chief minister BS Yediyurappa had received director-general of Taipei Economic and Culture Centre Ben Wang and discussed investment plans a day before the incident. While Wistron had initially put the extent of damage at Rs437 crore, the company scaled it down to Rs41.25 crore in a letter to the local police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
20-12-2020||Business||Honda Cars India closes Noida unit||Honda Cars India Ltd has cited operational efficiency as the reason for shutting down its oldest plant in Greater Noida. Company sources said it is shifting all production to its newer Tapukara plant at Alwar, Rajasthan. The company, however, declined to comment. The Tapukara plant has an annual capacity of 1,80,000 units and makes the City, the Jazz, the W-RV and the Amaze. “The Noida facility will continue to operate as it accommodates the head office of HCIL, the research and development centre and the spare parts operations,” said a source in the company. The Greater Noida plant of HCIL used to manufacture its best selling sedan the City, the SUV CR-V and the Civic and had an annual capacity of 1,00,000 vehicles. “The Greater Noida plant manufactured lesser number of units than the Tapukara plant. Most of the workers have taken VRS while some have been transferred to Tapukara,” the source said. Faced with a pandemic situation, the Japanese company decided to stop production at its old plant, which has about 1000 employees. The Greater Noida plant was the Japanese carmaker's first manufacturing facility in India, which began operations in 1997. The initial capacity of the plant was 30,000 unit per year, which was later increased to 50,000 cars on a two-shift basis. By 2008, the company increased its manufacturing capacity to 100,000 units annually, which remained unchanged to date. Though the company has witnessed a 55 per cent growth in sales in November this year having sold 9,990 units as compared to 6459 units which were sold in the corresponding month last year. The Japanese carmaker witnessed this surge in sales specifically because of the festive season and lucrative deals. On the other hand, the company saw a Month-on-Month (MoM) decline of around 8 per cent, as compared to 10,836 units sold in the month of October 2020. When asked about its December sales, with the company offering year-end discounts, the source said: “We are witnessing good sales in December too. The sales trend has been good.” The company had resumed production in mid-June and slowly ramped up. By September, the company was on pre-Covid level production. However, the company has suffered reverses in sales in recent years having resisted the diesel route for a long time and then not being able to bring new products in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
20-12-2020||Business||Take cues from global supply chain events: PM Modi||The country needs to react quickly to geo-political developments to grab the opportunities emerging from shifts in the global supply chain, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he highlighted the changed perception of India among global investors. “When we are moving in mission mode to make the local global, we have to quickly react to all geo-political developments. A robust mechanism is needed to fulfil any sudden spurt in demand for global supply chains,” Modi said at an event organised by industry association Assocham. “The need of the hour is better coordination among the external affairs ministry, the commerce and industry ministry and industry organisations. I appeal to you to suggest measures on how we can build a mechanism to quickly respond to global transformations,” he said without naming China. Modi said the Centre has changed the world perception about the country from “why India” to “why not India”. Highlighting the reforms spanning from the manufacturing sector to labour during the last six years, he said the country has emerged as the world’s preferred destination for investment. Record foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign portfolio investment (FPI) during the pandemic is a testimony to the faith that the world now has in India, he said. The Prime Minister also praised the Tata group for its role in India’s development. “Tata Group has played an important role in India’s development,” Modi said after presenting the “Assocham Enterprise of the Century Award” to Ratan Tata, marking the contribution of the business group in the nation’s progress. Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata thanked Modi for leading the country from front during the difficult time of pandemic and hoped that the industry will now take forward the benefits of his strong leadership. Modi cited scrapping of 1,500 old and obsolete laws and farming new ones that in tune with the changing investment order as an example of his government’s outlook. “Earlier investors cited high tax rates to say Why India but today (corporate) tax rates are so competitive that they say ‘why not India’,” he said. Previously, a web of regulations and rules were cited by investors to ask why to invest in India but easing compliance burden in the new labour laws have made them say ‘why not India’, he said. Red tape previously made investors say Why India but a red carpet is now making them say ‘why not India’, he said. From a non-existent culture for innovation to a new ecosystem promoting and nurturing startups has given the world confidence to say ‘why not India’ “Earlier there was so much government interference that investors said ‘why India’ Today the faith reposed by the government in the private sector and encouragement of foreign investors have made the same people say ‘why not India’,” he said. He stated that new India is pushing towards AatmaNirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). During the April-September period, FDI inflows were at $40 billion, which has been higher than last year by about 13 per cent. In just eight months of the current financial year, net foreign portfolio investment (FPI) into equities jumped by Rs 1,40,295 crore, the highest-ever in any financial year. The Government’s main focus is on manufacturing and production linked incentives have been given to boost domestic capabilities and capacity, he said. The Prime Minister called on the industry to make all efforts to make India self-reliant. Modi asked the industry to adopt the best corporate governance and profit-sharing practices. He also said investment in research and development (R&D) must be increased and the private sector must scale up investments. “There is a great need to increase investment in R&D. In the US, 70 per cent of investments in R&D is done by the private sector, in India the same is done by the public sector. A big chunk of this is in the IT, pharma and transport sectors. Today the need is of increasing the private sector share of investment in R&D,” he said. More R&D funds should be set aside across sectors such as agriculture, defence, space, energy, and construction. He said Indian companies need to adopt the best practices of the world from corporate governance to profit sharing. “If we make our approach purpose-oriented along with the profit-centric approach, then more integration with the society will be possible," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
20-12-2020||India||Health Ministry calls urgent meeting on Monday to discuss new coronavirus strain in UK||The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there. A surge in the infection rate caused by a new variant of coronavirus has led to millions entering a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK from Sunday, with non-essential shops and businesses now closed. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the new rules at a briefing from 10 Downing Street on Saturday evening, which means a planned five-day Christmas bubble of relaxed rules has been cancelled in favour of a new Tier 4 level to the current three-tier lockdown system to try and control the surge in infections being caused by the new mutation of the deadly virus. "It seems that the spread is now being driven by the new variant of the virus”, Johnson said. “We have alerted the World Health Organisation and are continuing to analyse the available data to improve our understanding, said Professor Chris Whitty, the Chief Medical Officer for England. There is no current evidence to suggest the new strain causes a higher mortality rate or that it affects vaccines and treatments although urgent work is underway to confirm this”, he said. Under the new Tier 4, people would be banned from mixing with anyone outside of their household, including on Christmas Day, and for the other tiers, Christmas rules allowing up to three households will now be limited to Christmas Day of December 25 only, rather than five days. The changes will last for two weeks with the first review now due on December 30. Several EU nations ban flights from the UK The German government said on Sunday it was planning to restrict travel to and from Britain because of the new coronavirus variant. A government spokesman said Germany is working on a regulation to restrict travel between Germany and Britain to protect the country from the new coronavirus variant. The government said it was in contact with its European partners about the travel restrictions too. It wasn't immediately clear when or for how long the restrictions would be. One by one, several European Union nations banned flights from the UK on Sunday, all in hopes of blocking a new strain of coronavirus sweeping across southern England from establishing a strong foothold on the continent. The Netherlands banned flights from the UK for at least the rest of the year while Belgium issued a flight ban for 24 hours starting at midnight and also halted train links to Britain, including the Eurostar. Austria and Italy said they would halt flights from the U.K. but did not say exactly when that would take place. Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio said on Twitter that the government was preparing the ban "to protect Italians" from the new coronavirus variant. About two dozen flights were scheduled to arrive in Italy on Sunday, most in the northern region of Lombardy but also to Venice and Rome. The Czech Republic imposed stricter quarantine measures from people arriving from Britain. An EU official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were still ongoing, said Sunday afternoon that the EU Commission was in touch with member states on the rapidly developing situation. Just days before Christmas, high-speed train operator Eurostar cancelled its trains between London, Brussels and Amsterdam beginning Monday, but kept trains operating on the London-to-Paris route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Pak allegations Indian troops attack on UN vehicle found false in probe: India||India on Sunday said Pakistan's allegations that Indian troops deliberately targeted a vehicle of the United Nations along the Line of Control were investigated in detail and found to be factually "incorrect and false". Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan should responsibly investigate its "lapses" instead of repeating "baseless and fabricated" allegations against India to cover up its own "failure" in ensuring the safety and security of UN personnel in territory under its control. Pakistan on Friday alleged that Indian troops targeted a vehicle of United Nations Military Observers (UNMO) in the Chirikot sector along the LoC. Indian government sources rejected the allegations that day itself. In response to media queries on allegations by Pakistan, Srivastava also said that India has conveyed its findings and views on "these misrepresentations" to the Pakistani side. "Allegations by Pakistan regarding Indian forces deliberately targeting a UN vehicle on 18 Dec have been investigated in detail and found to be factually incorrect and false. Our forward troops were aware of the visit of UN Military Observers in the area and did not conduct any firing as alleged," he said. "Instead of repeating baseless and fabricated allegations against India to cover up its own failure in ensuring the safety and security of UN personnel in territory under its control, Pakistan should responsibly investigate its lapses," the MEA spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Farmers to observe day-long hunger strike on Monday against new laws||Agricultural union leaders on Sunday announced that they will observe a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at every site of protest as part of their ongoing agitation against the three new farm laws of the Centre. Farmers will also halt toll collection on Haryana highways from December 25 to 27, the leaders said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the laws for the last over four weeks at various border points of Delhi and demanding that the legislations be rolled back. “Farmers will begin a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at all sites of protest against the new agri laws. It will be started by a team of 11 members at protests sites here,” Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said during a press conference on Sunday at the Singhu border. He also appealed to the people demonstrating against the laws across the nation to observe a day-long hunger strike against the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws. Announcing the next move, farmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dalewala said farmers will halt toll collection on highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27. Bharatiya Kisan union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who was also part of the press conference, said that farmers protesting the new agri laws will celebrate Kisan Diwas on December 23. “We request people to not cook lunch for a day,” he said. This is not the first time the farmers have decided to observe a fast. Last Monday, farmer leaders had opted for a day-long hunger strike, a movement where Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took part in. On Sunday, Punjab and Haryana farmers observed “Shadhanjali Divas” to pay homage to their associates who have died while protesting. Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh, who is also the grandson of pre-independent India's tallest farm leader Sir Chhotu Ram, participated in a prayer meeting organised at NH-18 in Palwal. Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a two-day visit to Bengal, said at a press conference that Agricultural Minister Narendra Singh Tomar may talk to the farmers in a day or two. “I am not exactly aware of the timing but Tomar is likely to meet the representatives of farmers tomorrow or the day after to discuss their demands,” he told reporters at Bengal’s Bolpur. Several rounds of talks with farmers' representatives have failed to break the deadlock between them and the Centre. While the farmers want a complete repeal of the three laws, The government on Thursday refused to assure the Supreme Court that it would not implement the three new farm laws till the bench had heard all the parties, setting up an exchange on who was being adamant. A bench, headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made it clear it would not “interfere with the protest” and that “at this stage the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment”. It, however, stressed that while the entire country sympathised with the farmers, the protests should be non-violent and not cause any inconvenience to the public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Farmers observe ‘Shradhanjali Divas’ in memory of those who died amid stir||Punjab and Haryana farmers on Sunday observed “Shadhanjali Divas” to pay homage to their associates who have died while protesting against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws. Farmers’ unions have claimed that more than 30 people participating in the agitation have lost their lives due to several reasons including heart attack and road accidents. The protesting farmers performed ‘adras’ (prayers) in memory of those who have departed, at different villages of the two states on Sunday. Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh, who is also the grandson of pre-independent India's tallest farm leader Sir Chhotu Ram, participated in a prayer meeting organised at NH-18 in Palwal. “At several places in Punjab, tributes were paid to farmers who died during this agitation,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Union leaders asserted that they will not let this ‘sacrifice’ of their brethren against the “black laws” go in vain. At some places in Punjab, farmers owing allegiance to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) also took out protest marches against the BJP-led government at the Centre for not acceding to their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said people at various places in the state held prayer meetings in memory of the farmers who passed away during the stir. Meanwhile, the traffic movement on the Jaipur-Delhi highway remained partially affected for the eighth consecutive day on Sunday due to the protests by the farmers. Braving intense cold, the farmers have been sitting on a carriageway of the highway in Shahjahanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border. The carriageway has been blocked for traffic and Delhi-bound vehicles are being diverted through other routes, a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Muscle-flexing roadshow marks Shah's Santiniketan visit||In a show of might ahead of 2021 assembly polls, Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday held a roadshow in Bolpur area of Birbhum district. The roadshow, which began around 3.10 pm from Dakbunglow grounds here, is set to culminate at Bolpur Chowrasta More. Shah, standing on top of a decked-up lorry along with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, was seen waving to the crowd, as saffron party supporters raised 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Narendra Modi Zindabad' and 'Amit Shah Zindabad' slogans. Hundreds of people, standing on both sides of the road, cheered the home minister as he made his way through the crowd. Amit Shah arrived at Santiniketan this morning and proceeded to pay homage to Rabindranath Tagore during a visit to the Vishva-Bharati, crediting the Nobel laureate for turning Shantiniketan into a centre for cultural exchanges. He said, "As the Vishva-Bharati nears its centenary year, Tagore's teachings should spread across the world, helping Indian knowledge and culture achieve international acclaim through his works." "Tagore has not only enriched the philosophy and literature of India but also made Shantiniketan a base for connecting Indian culture with that of many other countries," Shah told reporters at the end of his two-hour-long visit to the central university. He said the bard's teachings point to the fact that the purpose of education is to overcome narrowness and know the truth. He then visited the residence of a 'Baul' singer (sufi genre folk music of Bengal) here to have a typical Bengali lunch. Shah listened with rapt attention as Basudeb Das Baul and his family sang a popular folk song 'Tomay Hrid Majhare Rakhbo' (will keep you at the bottom of our hearts) with 'ektara' (one-stringed musical instrument) after the BJP heavyweight arrived at the baul's modest residence, 'Manohardham Kutir', in Ratanpally area of Santiniketan in Birbhum district. Shah, accompanied by senior leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy, Dilip Ghosh, Rahul Sinha, Anupam Hazra, had lunch at Baul's residence, sitting on the floor of the house. Shah savoured the delicacies - 'palong saak', 'alu posto', 'begun bhaja', 'nolen gurer payes' and 'nalen gurer rosogolla' - along with other BJP leaders. Shah also offered puja at the family Shiva temple. Das said, "we are privileged that such an important person visited our residence. We are overjoyed". Tight security arrangements were made and members of the media and other party leaders were kept outside the house, and Shah's security personnel checked the premises repeatedly. On Saturday, the BJP leader had lunch at the house of a farmer in Paschim Medinipur district as part of his exercise to strengthen relations with the common people ahead of the assembly elections in the state, due in April-May next year. During his November visit to the state, he had lunch at the residence of a tribal BJP worker in Bankura and the house of a Matua community member in North 24 Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||DGCA issues fresh guidelines for Covid-positive flight crew||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Friday said crew members of a flight who test positive for Covid-19 but are asymptomatic need to isolate themselves at home for 10 days, and can be declared fit for flying again by their medical supervisor. If Covid-positive crew members have ‘mild symptoms’, they will “continue home isolation and will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days”, DGCA said in a circular, adding there is no need for “testing after the home isolation period is over”. “However, if the isolation period for mildly symptomatic crew members is more than 14 days, they have to be examined by DGCA empanelled Class-1 examiner and crew is fit to fly if the examiner declares so,” said the circular. The circular, dated December 18, said that Covid-19 positive crew members with moderate and severe symptoms have to undergo special medical examination following their complete clinical recovery, at one of the Indian Air Force boarding centres to obtain their “cure certificate”. “Once declared ‘fit for flying’ at the IAF boarding centre, the air crew can commence flying only after DGCA medical assessment is issued,” the circular stated. The regulator said the December 18 circular supersedes the June 22 circular which mentioned that only those cabin crew members who come in direct contact with a Covid-positive person onboard a flight will be sent for mandatory 14-day home quarantine. The June 22 circular superseded a March 23 circular of the DGCA that had made it mandatory for the airlines to put the entire crew of a flight under home quarantine for 14 days in case anyone aboard was found to be Covid-positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi's brother Nehal charged with 2.6 million dollar fraud in New York||Nehal Modi, the younger brother of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, has been indicted here for fraudulently obtaining diamonds worth over USD 2.6 million from one of the world's biggest diamond companies in Manhattan. Nehal, 41, is charged in a New York Supreme Court indictment with Grand Larceny in the First Degree, Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance, Jr. said. "While diamonds may be forever, this flawed scheme was not, and now Modi will face the clarity of a New York Supreme Court indictment. My Office will not allow individuals who have the privilege of soliciting business in Manhattan's iconic diamond industry to defraud our businesses or consumers," Vance said in a statement on Friday. According to the indictment, court filings, and statements made on the record in court, between March 2015 and August 2015, Nehal, a former member of Noble Titan Holdings, made false representations to obtain over USD 2.6 million worth of diamonds from LLD Diamonds USA on favourable credit terms and consignment, and then liquidated the diamonds for his own ends. The statement said that Nehal, "who comes from a well-known family in the diamond industry", was initially introduced to the president of LLD Diamonds through industry associates. In March 2015, he approached LLD, claimed that he was pursuing a relationship with Costco Wholesale Corporation and asked the New York-based diamond company to provide several diamonds, worth nearly USD 800,000, to present to Costco for a potential sale. After LLD provided the diamonds, Nehal falsely informed the company that Costco had agreed to purchase them. Subsequently, LLD allowed him to purchase the diamonds on credit, with full payment required within 90 days. He then pawned the diamonds at Modell Collateral Loans to secure a short-term loan, the Manhattan District Attorney's office said. Between April and May 2015, Nehal returned to LLD three additional times and took more than USD 1 million worth of diamonds for purported sales to Costco. He made a series of payments to LLD, but used the majority of the proceeds for personal use and other business expenses. To cover his fraud, Nehal falsely claimed that he was encountering payment issues due to a "Costco fulfillment error" and made repeated promises to satisfy the balance, the statement noted. In August 2015, Nehal returned to LLD again and falsely claimed that Costco wanted to purchase additional diamonds. This time, LLD permitted him to take the additional diamonds on consignment, with terms explicitly stating that he did not have the authority to sell the diamonds without authorisation by LLD. LLD also required a partial payment upfront in the event of a sale, as Nehal's outstanding balance was nearly USD 1 million at that time. Nehal had already contacted Modell to arrange an additional loan. After picking up the diamonds from LLD, he pawned the majority of the diamonds at Modell to secure two separate loans and sold the remainder of the diamonds to various retailers at a steep discount from the listed consignment price. LLD ultimately uncovered the fraud and demanded that he immediately pay his outstanding balance or return the diamonds. However, he had already sold or pawned all of the diamonds and spent most of those proceeds. LLD subsequently reported the fraud to the Manhattan DA's Office. Nehal's brother Nirav, 49, is wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. He remains at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. The Interpol has issued a Red Corner Notice (RCN) against Nehal on charges of alleged money laundering that is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate. Nehal was born in Antwerp, Belgium in 1979, and he knows languages such as English, Gujarati and Hindi, according to the RCN issued by Interpol. The New York Post quoted Nehal's defence lawyer Roger Bernstein as saying: "This is a commercial dispute" and that "Nehal is not guilty." A video on The Post website shows Nehal walking with Bernstein, who said "we are not discussing anything about the case" when asked about the Interpol notice. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Poonawalla bats for vaccine makers, demands indemnifier against lawsuits||Vaccine manufacturers need to have protection against all lawsuits for their vaccines especially during a pandemic, Serum Institute of India (SII) Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla has said. He also said that the vaccine makers are going to propose this to the government, while speaking at a virtual panel on the challenges of developing a Covid-19 vaccine at the Carnegie India's Global Technology Summit on Friday. "We need to have the government indemnify manufacturers, especially vaccine manufacturers, against all lawsuits. In fact, COVAX and other countries have already started talking about that," Poonawalla said. It is because when frivolous claims come up, and something is blown out of proportion in the media, scepticism sets in that definitely something can happen due to the vaccine and to dispel that, the government needs to step in to spread the right information, he added. "..the government can act, the US, for example, has in fact invoked a law, to say that during a pandemic, and this is especially important only during a pandemic, to indemnify vaccine manufacturers against lawsuits for severe adverse effects or any other frivolous claims which may come about because that adds to the fear and also will bankrupt vaccine manufacturers or distract them if they have to just all day fight lawsuits and explain to the media what is happening," Poonawalla said. These are a few things that the government can do and that is what the vaccine manufacturers are going to propose, he added. Last month, Serum had rejected charges that a 40-year-old man who took part in the 'Covishield' vaccine trial in Chennai had levelled against the company, alleging serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions. He had also sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to Serum and others, besides seeking a halt on the trial. Refuting the charges, Serum had said, "It is evident that the intention behind spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive. The Serum Institute of India will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||India reports more than 26,000 cases, 341 deaths in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,31,223 with 26,624 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95.80 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 95.51 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,45,477 with 341 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 95,80,402 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.51 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 3,05,344 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,11,98,195 samples have been tested up to December 19 with 11,07,681 samples being tested on Saturday. The 341 new fatalities include 74 from Maharashtra, 43 from West Bengal, 32 from Delhi, 29 from Kerala and 23 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,45,477 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,648 from Maharashtra followed by 12,004 from Karnataka, 11,968 from Tamil Nadu, 10,251 from Delhi, 9,320 from West Bengal, 8,177 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,074 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,189 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
20-12-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi, minimum temperature dips to 3.4 degree Celsius||A cold wave swept Delhi on Sunday as it recorded the coldest morning of the season so far at 3.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. On Saturday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had settled at 3.9 degrees Celsius. "The observatory recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal, on Sunday morning. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 22 degrees Celsius," an IMD official said. The mercury dipped to 3.3 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road, as icy winds from snow-laden Western Himalayas barrelled through the city, the IMD said. On Friday, the minimum temperature had plunged to 2.7 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur. The city had recorded a "severe" cold day on Thursday as the maximum temperature dropped to 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal and the lowest this season so far. However, it rose to 19.8 degrees Celsius on Friday and 21.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday. According to the IMD, a "cold day" is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.4 degrees Celsius below the normal. A "severe" cold day is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below the normal. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than the normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, officials said. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 5 degrees Celsius in the next five to six days, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Modi acknowledges farmers' agitation spread ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted an appeal to farmers in various languages to read agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s letter to them on the new farm laws, a clear acknowledgement that the protests were gaining traction outside the Punjab-Haryana belt. Till now, the government’s messaging has largely been in Hindi and Punjabi. Even the written offer of amendments to the three laws, sent to the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha last week, was in Hindi and Punjabi. Saturday’s tweets went out in all the southern languages too, apart from Bengali, Gujarati and Odia, reflecting the growing footprints of the agitation that has already witnessed participation from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the siege of Delhi’s borders. While the government continues with its attempts at persuasion, it seems to also have begun wielding the stick, with 14 big arhtiyas or commission agents in Punjab being raided since Friday. The protesting farmers see the income-tax raids as an attempt to intimidate them into submission. The raids have drawn stinging criticism from Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. The commission agents, whom the government calls middlemen, help farmers sell their produce to buyers — private, government or exporter — besides providing services like unloading the grain, cleaning it, filling it into bags, and weighing, sealing and loading it on trucks for final despatch. They also provide easy loans to the farmers, and have been participating in the protests out of concern that the new laws would run them out of business. Late on Saturday evening, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) responded to Tomar’s letter, which defends the new farm laws, point by point. It also sought to counter the government’s slander campaign against the agitation. The AIKSCC said it was most upsetting that the authorities were fuelling suspicion about a movement that had been going on peacefully for six months. Before besieging Delhi’s borders from November 26 on the AIKSCC’s call, the farmers had been agitating in their own states, with Punjab’s farmers carrying out the most sustained campaign. On the government’s persistent charge that the farmers were being misled by the Opposition, the AIKSCC underlined that it was the farmers’ movement, instead, that had forced several political parties to change their position on the new farm laws. On BJP leaders’ accusation that the farmers’ protest was not in the national interest, the AIKSCC said: “Our country is still largely an agrarian one. Are you saying that the welfare of farmers is not in national interest, and their voice should not be heard? Or is it your case that only the development of big corporate and foreign companies is in national interest.” On Saturday, Hanuman Beniwal, Rajasthan MP and leader of BJP ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, announced he would lead a march to Delhi on December 26 in support of the farmers’ agitation. His decision comes at a time farmers of Maharashtra are gearing to march from Nashik to Delhi under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sabha, reviving memories of the Kisan Long March from the same district to Mumbai in March 2018. “It seems the central government is in the mood to quell the farmers’ protest,” Beniwal said after resigning his memberships of three parliamentary committees in solidarity with the farmers. “Hence, our party has decided to lead a march of two lakh farmers and youths towards Delhi from Rajasthan on December 26,” the MP for Nagaur, who has not announced a departure from the NDA, added. Senior BJP leader from Haryana and a former union minister Birender Singh, who had left the Congress to join the BJP in 2014, broke ranks and has extended support to the farmers’ protest. Singh is the grandson of the pre-Independence peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram and was associated with the Congress for over four decades. He has not yet severed links with the BJP. “Whatever I have achieved in politics would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday. “Therefore, it is my moral responsibility to stand with the farmers in their fight today. I have decided to support this (farmers’) fight,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Abdullahs stare at loss of homes||Farooq Abdullah and son Omar Abdullah, scions of a Jammu and Kashmir family that played a key role in the erstwhile state’s accession to India and gave it several chief ministers, are suddenly staring at homelessness on their home turf. The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday claimed to have attached multiple properties of Farooq, including three residences in Kashmir and Jammu worth Rs 11.86 crore, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED action comes weeks after Farooq, a five-time chief minister who is now the Srinagar MP, was questioned in connection with the alleged laundering of funds of the Jammu & Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), which he once headed. ED officers said three residential houses — one at Gupkar Road, Srinagar; another at Katipora tehsil, Tanmarg; and the other at Bhatindi, Sunjwan village in Jammu — had been attached. Farooq alleged that he was being punished for taking a stand against the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. He suggested that if his houses were attached, he and son Omar would have nowhere to live. “They want to harass Farooq Abdullah, to make me bend before them.… I have been served with no letter, nothing as yet,” Farooq told The Telegraph. “This shows what kind of people they are. How can they attack my Srinagar house? I am living in this house with my son, my family.” In October, Omar vacated his government accommodation at Gupkar. He was reportedly asked to leave the house by the government, although he claimed he was doing so on his own. He subsequently moved into his father’s home on the same road. Farooq said the only property he had raised in his decades-long political career was a house in Sunjwan, Jammu. “All my properties are parental properties. I have made nothing myself other than the Jammu house. This (Gupkar house) we got in 1976 (when his father Sheikh Abdullah was chief minister),” he said. “The property in Tanmarg, I got from my mother’s side,” Farooq added. Omar said in a series of tweets that these properties largely dated back to the 1970s, “with the most recent one built before 2003”. “There can be no justification for the seizures because they fail the very basic test of having been acquired as the proceeds of the ‘crime’ being investigated,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Regional leaders express support for Mamata Banerjee over IPS transfer||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and DMK chief M.K. Stalin on Saturday joined a clutch of regional leaders who have spoken up for state governments’ say in the transfer of officials in the wake of the standoff between the Bengal government and the Centre over three IPS officers. Earlier, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, too, had picked up cudgels for the rights of state governments. “Transferring officers to central deputation without the state govts’ permission, as has been done in West Bengal, is another glaring example of diluting the federal structure,” Amarinder, a Congress veteran, tweeted. Baghel had said while referring to a tweet by Mamata Banerjee: “Federalism is at stake yet again. The BJP govt at the Centre has encroached the state’s area of administration and transferred officers. And that too before elections. The Centre’s interference is highly objectionable.” His Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot — also from the Congress — had re-tweeted Baghel’s tweet. Stalin tweeted: “The unilateral transfer of 3 West Bengal IPS officers by the Union BJP Govt is autocratic and anti-federal. The civil service of the country must not be dictated by the whims and fancies of the ruling party in Delhi. I urge @PMOIndia to immediately rescind the transfer order.” The Centre has placed the three IPS officers on central deputation after stones were hurled at BJP president J.P. Nadda’s convoy in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Bengal polls: BJP finds “bhoomiputra” in Suvendu||Once upon a time in a small room in New Delhi…. Suvendu Adhikari, who has severed his links with the Trinamul Congress through multiple rounds of resignations, narrated a story to an audience at the Midnapore College and Collegiate Ground on Saturday. “Amitji is like an elder brother to me…. In 2014, after Amitji had helped the BJP win the Lok Sabha polls and swept the Uttar Pradesh elections, then in a small room in the old BJP party office in Delhi, Amitji gave me darshan. The meeting was organised by Siddharth Nath Singh who is now the health minister in Uttar Pradesh,” Adhikari recounted. Six years down the line —swifter than the bees saal Bollywood usually takes to reunite long-lost brothers —the darshan graduated into a full-blown embrace on the College Ground as Adhikari joined the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah. Although Adhikari said that Shah had never told him to join the party, several BJP insiders said that Singh had set up the 2014 meeting to lay the ground for a switch. As Adhikari did not join the BJP at a rally addressed by Shah in Burdwan in January 2015, a source said, Singh suffered a loss of face and told his colleagues that no one from the BJP would ever contact anyone in the Adhikari family. Evidently, the BJP changed its mind, possibly driven by a desire to find a “bhoomiputra” more familiar to Bengal than its own home-grown faces. Sources in the party said the BJP would be using Adhikari with two principal objectives. First, the former Nandigram MLA will be the counter to Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP is a party of “bohiragawto (outsiders)”. The second objective is to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, which will be the mainstay of the BJP’s campaign in the run-up to the Assembly polls in the summer of 2021. Adhikari demonstrated that he had been briefed about the mandate, devoting considerable time to presenting his son-of-the-soil credentials by referring to his long political journey from a student leader in Midnapore to a state leader. Delivering on the second mandate during his first address as a BJP politician, he launched an attack on the Trinamul leadership. “My new slogan will be ‘tolabaaj bhaipo hatao (remove the extortionist nephew)’,” Adhikari said. Several loyalists have maintained that Adhikari’s primary grouse against Mamata has been her decision to make Abhishek her political heir apparent. Although Adhikari joined the BJP only on Saturday, speculation about him deserting Trinamul has been doing the rounds since 2014. In his address, Adhikari tried to justify his switch and respond to the “traitor” tag levelled at him by his former party colleagues. “Where I can’t have any self-respect, where there is no faith, no respect... I will not stay. This is the pride of Midnapore,” Adhikari said in his 11-minute speech after Shah handed him the BJP flag. It is not clear what Adhikari meant by “no respect”. He was one of the senior-most members in Mamata’s cabinet with charge of several key departments. His family has two MPs — father Sisir and brother Dibyendu — and a civic body chairman, brother Soumendu whose term ended recently. The Trinamul narrative over the last month or so has been that the party gave Suvendu Adhikari enough importance but he deserted it ahead of the elections to fulfil his ambitions. There have been murmurs in the BJP camp that Adhikari had tried to strike a hard bargain with the BJP central leaders for important posts for himself and his family members before quitting Trinamul. But Adhikari took care to explain that he was joining the BJP as an ordinary worker who was willing to “work at the booth level” or “draw wall graffiti”. Except for Adhikari, those who joined the BJP — 10 MLAs (including Suvendu), one MP, one former MP and one former minister, among others — at the Midnapore meeting on Saturday were political lightweights, sources in both the BJP and the Trinamul said. The list included Sunil Mondal, Trinamul MP; Tapasi Mondal, CPM MLA; Ashoke Dinda, CPI MLA; and Sudip Mukherjee, Congress MLA. The Trinamul MLAs were Saikat Panja, Shilbhadra Dutta, Dipali Biswas (from the CPM to Trinamul to the BJP), Sukra Munda, Biswajit Kundu and Banasri Maity. “The defections will continue in phases,” said a source close to Suvendu. Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee dared Adhikari to contest from Nandigram in 2021. “We will show him.... Even the people of Midnapore could not have imagined that a traitor like him could be born in the land of Vidyasagar, Khudiram Bose and Matangini Hazra,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Pari case central probe call ||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the Odisha government to recommend a probe by a central agency into the murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayagarh district. In its order, the NCPCR said: “The investigation conducted by the police authorities is severely flawed with glaring defects, which has caused untoward delay in the investigation of this serious incident of murder of a minor girl.” “Therefore, in view of the erroneous investigation conducted by the police authorities in this serious incident of murder of a minor girl, the commission recommends for disciplinary action to be taken against the investigating officers in the matter and recommend for a through investigation of this incident by a central agency,” the commission added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Dormitory for Puri devotees||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple Administration is planning to provide cheap accommodation to devotees who visit the shrine from all over the country, temple chief administrator Krishan Kumar announced on Saturday. The Bhakta Niwas, which will have dormitory accommodation, will offer beds at rates between Rs 100 and Rs 150 each. It is expected to come up on a 10-acre plot at Baseli Sahi, 2.5km from the 12th century shrine. “Devotees can stay by just paying Rs 100 to Rs 150 for one bed. There will be arrangements to accommodate 3,000 to 4,000 devotees,” an official said. The announcement came four days ahead of the opening of the Shree Jagannath Temple for devotees on December 23. The temple has remained closed since March because of the pandemic. In the first phase, only the servitors and their families will be allowed to enter the shrine on December 23 and 24. Over the next week, only people from Puri will get permission to visit the temple. The shrine will remain closed on January 1 and 2. From January 3, the temple will be thrown open to all devotees but those visiting will have to produce Covid-negative reports. Krishan Kumar, the temple chief administrator, made the announcement of the cheap accommodation after inspecting Odisha government-initiated development work at the temple corridor and in Puri city with V.K. Pandian, private secretary to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. Earlier, Naveen had visited Puri on October 17 and directed the administration to expedite the developmental projects. The Puri district administration has courted controversy following its decision to dismantle the 100-year-old Bagala Dharmasala, which used to provide accommodation at rates between Rs 10 and Rs 20. The dharmasala is located 100 metres from the temple. Local journalist and social activist Jagannath Bastia has challenged the demolition of the dharmshala in the high court. “The Puri temple administration should set up the Bhakta Niwas near the temple so that elderly devotees find it convenient. The proposed site is far away from the temple. Beside, the temple administration should reduce the tariff of the existing three Bhakta Niwases. They are charging like hotels,” Bastia said. The three Bhakta Niwases offer rooms at rates between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,400. There are nearly 650 hotels and lodges in Puri. Prior to the lockdown, nearly 30,000 people used to visit Puri every day but now the number has drastically reduced. “People have started coming to Puri again. But it will take time for the tourist business to pick up,” said Puri Hotel Owners’ Association president Ramakrushna Das Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||JNU to open for science students on Monday||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will open for research students from the science stream from Monday. According to guidelines issued by the university on Saturday, both day scholars and hostel residents will be allowed entry into the campus to use the laboratories. So far, the university had been allowing only those research students who are supposed to submit their thesis in June 2021. After reaching Delhi, the students will have to undergo quarantine for a week before joining the university. The canteens, dhabas and central library on the campus will remain closed. However, several faculty members of JNU criticised the varsity administration for not allowing social science and humanities students into the campus. “The students of social science are being discriminated against. They need to meet their supervisors, work on their research subjects. But the institution is only allowing science students,” said Prof. Mousumi Basu, secretary of the JNU Teachers’ Association. “Even though the university has allowed the entry of science students, I doubt if any student will come now. Those who can defer their laboratory work will prefer to delay their return,” a teacher said. Physical classes have not been held in JNU since March, when the pandemic-induced lockdown was announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Chidambaram invites Narendra Modi comment on 3 ‘lies’||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Saturday confronted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has accused the Opposition of spreading lies, with three incontrovertible facts that could leave the government in an embarrassing position. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Prime Minister has once again accused the Opposition of ‘spreading lies’. Here are three so-called lies that he may wish to comment upon: 1. The AIKSCC (All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee), which is coordinating the farmers’ protests, has said that farmers are selling paddy at Rs 900 per quintal though the MSP is Rs 1,870 per quintal. Is that a lie?” The Congress leader added: “2. A Delhi court that acquitted Tablighi Jamaat members has said that it is probable that the accused ‘were picked up to maliciously prosecute them upon directions from the ministry of home affairs’. Is that a lie? 3. The CBI has contradicted Uttar Police police and charged four accused persons with gang rape and murder of the Hathras victim. Is that a lie?” The Prime Minister has been claiming that his government has implemented the Swaminathan Commission recommendation of giving minimum support price (MSP), which is input cost plus 50 per cent, and citing instances where farmers have gained from the new farm laws. Farmers’ unions have fiercely contested this, saying that the government was making a false claim by doing a wrong calculation — based on partial input cost instead of total input cost. They have also been saying that most of the items are getting sold far below the MSP. While there is a unanimous view among the farmers that the Prime Minister’s claim of implementing the Swaminathan Commission recommendations was a lie, Chidambaram also said so through his question. The second issue, about the Tablighi Jamaat being responsible for the initial spread of the coronavirus in India, is also an embarrassment for the government as senior ministers and BJP leaders had, with the help of sections of the media, launched a vicious propaganda campaign to malign a community. Now, various courts have rejected the allegation, absolving Tablighi Jamaat members of all charges. The third claim, that the Hathras teen had not been raped, has also turned out to be a lie as the CBI has filed a chargesheet confirming gang rape. Along with the Uttar Pradesh police brass, many BJP leaders had propagated the no-rape narrative and made unsubstantiated allegations of an international conspiracy. Modi had earlier accused the Opposition of spreading lies during demonetisation and the anti-CAA protests as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Four arrested for bid to sell Narendra Modi’s constituency office in Varanasi||Four men have been arrested for allegedly trying to sell online Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency office in Varanasi, called the “mini-PMO”. Laxmikant Ojha, Manoj Yadav, Babulal Patel and Jitendra Kumar Verma were picked up on Friday evening and sent to jail custody on Saturday on the charge of forgery. Police said Ojha, a teacher at a school for special children, had on Wednesday posted an advertisement on the digital marketing website OLX with pictures of the bungalow, declaring it was for sale at Rs 7 crore. The ad, which the Dutch domicile online marketplace removed on Thursday after being contacted by the Varanasi police, said the north-facing house with a built-up area of 6,500sqft had four bedrooms and four bathrooms. It described the building as the “PMO office” in Varanasi and mentioned Ojha as the agent who would deal with the buyers. The BJP had rented the building in the upscale Ravindrapuri neighbourhood after Modi became the Varanasi MP in 2014. Modi was meant to meet people there but has never stepped inside the premises during any constituency visit. It’s only visiting Union ministers and other BJP parliamentarians who use the building to meet people and try to address their grievances. Police sources said Manoj, Babulal and Jitendra were, respectively, a milk seller, an electrician and a tea seller. They said Ojha had told them the trio were his friends and had misled him by saying the building’s owner wanted to sell it. “He (Ojha) said he had been offered Rs 7.5 lakh as his share if the building was sold online,” an officer said. He quoted Ojha as saying the three co-accused had helped him post the ad from his smart phone since he wasn’t very tech savvy. Experts said OLX cannot be held liable as it had followed the rules of “due diligence” under the Information Technology Act and pulled out the ad within 36 hours of learning about the mischief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-477
20-12-2020||India||Hathras chargesheet fails to allay kin fears||The family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim on Saturday said they were unsure of justice being done despite the CBI filing a chargesheet, for the four accused had supporters among “powerful people” and state police officers. “We shall feel that justice has been done only when the four accused are hanged and the police officers who burnt her (victim’s) body against our wishes are punished,” the 19-year-old victim’s sister-in-law told reporters at the family home. “Yes, the CBI chargesheet says our daughter was gang-raped on September 14 and died on September 29 of injuries inflicted by the four accused, but many things are happening around us,” she added. “There are powerful people openly standing behind the four criminals, and there are officers in the state and the district who don’t believe it’s a case of gang rape.” She added: “We know we have put our lives in danger by waging a war against the tormentors and killers of our daughter.” After the victim was brutalised in a field on September 14, the police had refused to file gang-rape charges for eight days till the girl made a statement from her hospital bed on September 22. Police sources have said she named the four suspects and alleged gang rape. The investigators are treating it as a dying declaration. After her death in a Delhi hospital, the Uttar Pradesh police “hijacked” the body and burnt it in her village, allegedly after locking up her family at their home. Days later, a senior police officer declared the girl had not been raped, while the administration virtually cordoned the family off from media contact. The case was transferred to the CBI in the second week of October on a recommendation from the state government. The family is under CRPF protection on a directive from the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court. The family of one of the four accused, Sandeep Singh, is gearing to “challenge the CBI chargesheet in court”, a relative told reporters on the condition of anonymity. “The girl never clearly alleged gang rape, and mentioned only two names clearly (as those of her attackers) in her last statement,” he said. “That statement was not a dying declaration since it came a week before her death. The CBI chargesheet won’t stand in court. We’ll meet our child at Hathras district jail in a day or two and tell him not to worry.” He added: “We have written to the government seeking a lie-detector test on the girl’s family members.” The other three suspects are Luvkush Kumar, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar. Munni Devi, mother of Luvkush, said: “I was working in the field when I heard a noise in an adjoining field. The girl was lying unconscious. I asked my son to bring water. Later, he was implicated in the case.” Rakesh Kumar, father of Ram Kumar, said: “My son was working in a chiller plant near the village. His attendance was marked and he can be seen in CCTV footage working there at the time of the incident.” Alok Singh, senior jail superintendent at Hathras district jail, said the four suspects were in a quarantine centre at the prison and would be shifted to ordinary cells on Monday. “The CBI had taken them to Gandhinagar on November 21 for a polygraph test and a brain electrical oscillation signature (both are lie tests). They were brought back on December 6 and put in 14 days’ quarantine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
20-12-2020||India||Students denied refunds in violation of rules||Thousands of students who secured admission to one higher-education institution and then sought transfer to another have been denied refunds and their academic certificates in violation of rules, the higher education regulator has said. Many private universities and colleges hold on to their students’ higher secondary or graduation certificates for several months after admission. The University Grants Commission had on September 22 directed institutions to return these certificates and the entire fees paid during admission if students requested a transfer by November 30. “The commission has been receiving several references in the form of RTI applications/ complaints/ public grievances/ court cases in respect of non-refund of fee by the universities/ institution(s) in violation of the UGC guidelines,” the commission secretary said in a December 17 letter. “The commission has taken a very serious view of such complaints. Most of these complaints have come from the students who have taken admission (to) private or self-financing universities and deemed to be universities and later opted out for one or the other reason. “It is reiterated that the UGC guidelines are to be followed mandatorily by all the universities in letter and spirit. Any institution/ university found to be violating the guidelines and refusing to refund the fee by giving its own interpretation of the guidelines shall be liable for punitive actions.” The letter said the punishment could include a recommendation to the state government for withdrawal of a defaulting institution’s university status, or one for de-affiliation of an errant college by its university. Under the UGC’s guidelines, the commission can stop funding such institutions. The UGC’s September 22 circular had also said that students seeking a transfer by December 31 would be paid a refund after deducting Rs 1,000 as processing fee. “Today (Saturday), a student was offered spot admission to the MBA course at our institution. He had already got admitted to another institution,” a teacher at the Institute of Management and Information Technology, Cuttack, said. “He said that getting back his college-leaving certificate (the graduation certificate he had deposited with the first institution) would be difficult. He has enquired with that institution. We have given him provisional admission. Only if he gets the certificate can his admission be confirmed.” Ravi Bhardwaj, a lawyer who has represented several private institutions in court cases, blamed the UGC for failing to clarify the refund rules till September 22. “The UGC clarified in September that institutions have to refund (the full fees) to those seeking withdrawal by November 30. Earlier in October 2018, it had issued refund guidelines saying students would not receive any refund if they withdraw after 30 days of the closure of the admission process,” he said. “Many institutions had conducted admissions in July and August this year and begun online classes. It’s difficult for them to comply with the September 22 circular (on refunds).” He said the UGC had issued a circular in May saying the students could pay their dues in instalments. It should have clarified the matter relating to refunds right at that time, Bhardwaj said. “The UGC has issued this directive to protect the interests of the students. It should take a balanced view. The institutions too are in stress because of low admission in view of the pandemic and the economic slowdown,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
20-12-2020||India||Congress bridges generation gap, averts crisis||The Congress leadership appears to have succeeded in averting a crisis by stressing the importance of unity and striving to erase the perceived old-versus-young line that has generated distrust and unease in the party. At a meeting of the top leadership where the “Group of 23” leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party were present, the Congress president forcefully argued that difference of perception in a big family like the Congress’s must not be taken as antagonism and everybody should come together to strengthen the party at this critical juncture when the country is grappling with an unprecedented social and political challenge. Rahul Gandhi echoed the sentiment, rubbishing the perception that he was against senior leaders. The former Congress chief made an emotional appeal to the seniors not to pay attention to rumours, explaining that he respected them not only because of their experience and contribution to the party but also because they had worked with his father, Rajiv Gandhi. This was received by the so-called dissenters with gratitude as they too wondered why such an artificial line dividing the party into two groups had been drawn. “We are not rebels or dissenters. Writing a letter to the party president is not a crime,” was the refrain from them. These leaders are not dissatisfied with the meeting though they concede that a lot has to be done at the organisational level to address the concerns raised by them. They all reiterated at the meeting that they had full faith in the leadership of Sonia and Rahul and the attempts to create rifts were condemnable. Nobody was critical of Rahul’s role in the recent months and everybody appreciated Sonia’s call for working with unity to strengthen the party. There was no discussion on the question of the next party president. A section of the media erroneously created an impression that Rahul had agreed to return as Congress chief. A senior leader who was present at the meeting told The Telegraph: “We don’t know where from this information came. Some leaders did try to raise the subject, asking Rahulji to return as party president. But Rahulji himself said this meeting was not for electing the party president. He said the agenda was to discuss ways of strengthening the party.” Sources recounted that Rahul also said it was not important what post he held as the main purpose was to revive the party and work together with everybody to achieve that objective. Except a few leaders, nobody referred to the question of Rahul’s return or the leadership crisis. It was clarified at the meeting that the process to elect the new party president had been set in motion and there was nothing more to be done about that. The so-called dissenters stuck to their position about organisational infirmities and referred to the debacle in the Bihar Assembly elections and the recent bypolls in some states including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Suggestions for election to party posts, from district-level office-bearers to the Congress Working Committee, and the constitution of a parliamentary board were also made. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra stressed the need for a public outreach, arguing that revival was difficult unless the party leaders stepped out to work among the people. The immediate outcome is doubtless the breaking of ice, of dissolution of the “us-and-them” binary that has troubled the Congress for the past few months. Veterans like Kamal Nath and Ashok Gehlot have worked hard to bridge the communication gap and convince the seniors that there was no move to isolate them. The controversy might have rubbed the message in yet again that the party cannot be run by younger leaders and there can be no agenda against the experienced, entrenched forces. The meetings will continue and Sonia will discuss organisational and political issues with other groups, including office-bearers, in the coming days. The focus, apart from organisational changes, will be on the coming Assembly elections. A proposal for holding a Shimla and Panchmarhi-like brainstorming session is also under consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-478
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah blasts Mamata govt over attack on Nadda's convoy||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government over the recent attack on BJP chief J P Nadda's convoy, and asserted the Centre had the right to summon state IPS officers responsible for providing him security for central deputation. He alleged Banerjee had failed to control the law and order situation in the state, which was rapidly falling on all development indices. Shah, while addressing a press conference here, said Banerjee and the ruling TMC were raking up the "outsider- insider" issue to divert public attention from the failures of the state government. "The Centre is well within its rights to send a letter (summoning IPS officers for central deputation) to state government...if they have any doubt they can go through the rule book," Shah said. On the "insider-outsider debate", Shah said a son of the soil will become the chief minister in West Bengal if BJP is voted to power. "I think Mamata di has forgotten a few things. When Mamata di was in Congress did she call Indira Gandhi an outsider? Did she use to term for Prime Minister P V Narashima Rao? Is she trying to create a country where people of one state are not allowed in other states?" he said. He also attacked the Mamata Banerjee government over Bangladeshi infiltration. "The TMC can never stop infiltration as it believes in appeasement politics. Only BJP can stop it... Mamata Banerjee supports farmers protest but doesn't allow cultivators of Bengal to get the benefits of central schemes. Is this the way to honour the federal structure?" he said. Responding to a question, the home minister said the rules for implementation of the Citizenship (amendment) Act will be formulated after the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control. "Because of the corona, such a massive process can't be carried out. As soon as Covid vaccination starts we will discuss it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC minister downplays departures to BJP||The TMC on Sunday said there was no need to raise a hue and cry over the recent defections from the party, as "traitors and backstabbers have existed since time immemorial." Addressing a press meet in Calcutta, state panchayat minister and TMC MLA Subrata Mukherjee said his party is neither shocked nor crestfallen, as such desertions "wouldn't have any impact" on assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May. The TMC does not attach much importance to such developments, he said, and pooh-poohed BJP's "absurd claims" of winning 250 of 294 assembly seats. Political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, along with one MP and five MLAs of the TMC, joined the BJP on Saturday, during Home Minister Amit Shah's rally in Midnapore. Hinting that Adhikari had been in touch with the saffron party for quite some time, the minister said, "We did have some information, and therefore we were not stunned or crestfallen. There is no reason to raise a hue and cry over the desertion of Mir Jafars. Such betrayals have been taking place for centuries." History suggests that Mir Jafar, a military commander, aided the British and betrayed Nawab of Bengal Siraj Ud-Daulah during the Battle of Plassey. His name had since been synonymous with treachery. "Just with one Suvendu in its fold, the BJP hopes to win 250 seats... Thank God they are not saying they will win all the seats," Mukherjee stated. He further accused the saffron party of "belittling" Bengal's icons, as outrage over flex hoardings with Shah's image on top of that of Rabindranath Tagore continued in Santiniketan, the bard's abode. The party's student wing is staging a daylong sit-in at Jorasanko, the birthplace of the bard in the city, to protest "this insult meted out to Tagore", the minister said. Among others, TMC MP Sudip Bandopadhyay and state minister Shashi Panja have joined the sit-in. "People coming from outside cannot insult Tagore, who is the pride of our nation. They cannot belittle our luminaries. The poster (flex) has insulted Tagore and scores of people in the country. It shows that the BJP has no respect for our icons," Mukherjee said. Flex hoardings, with a photo of Shah on top, the image of Tagore in the middle and that of BJP leader Anupam Hazra underneath appeared in parts of Shantiniketan ahead of Shah's visit to Visva-Bharati and a roadshow in Bolpur. The posters have also drawn the ire of Left parties and Tagore's family members. Amid the outrage, the BJP claimed that the posters, which bore the name of a cultural organisation, were put up by the TMC to "defame the saffron camp". Taking a jibe at BJP national president J P Nadda over the attack on his cavalcade earlier in December, Mukherjee said, "A person of his stature should not spread false information. He has been given Z-category security but still broke protocols. Many unauthorised cars were seen joining his convoy during his visit to Diamond Harbour." The senior TMC leader alleged that Shah was dishing out misinformation about the construction of a farmer's house in Paschim Medinipur district. "After having lunch at a farmer's residence, Shah said that the house was built entirely from the prime minister's housing project for the poor. The fact remains that the state and the Centre share the burden of this project. "A total of 33.87 lakh housing units were built in the state since 2011 at a cost of Rs 39.993 crore, a large portion of which was borne by the state. Figures speak for themselves. It is shameful to dish out facts suiting one's own interest," he said. Claiming that the TMC government, with its 'Duare Sarkar' initiative, has already reached out to over 1.9 crore people, he said "it is a historic development." "This move by our government should not be ridiculed by opposition parties. Similar measures should, in fact, be adopted by the Centre and other states," he added. Reacting to TMC's assertions, BJP state vice president Jaiprakash Majumder said his party has great respect for Bengal's cultural icons. "The BJP has great respect for our icons like Tagore, we invoke their words, their views, their writings in our actions. It is the TMC which is falsely implicating our party to give it a bad name," Majumder said. Referring to the outsider tag given to the BJP's top leadership by the state's ruling party, he said, "This is a divisive ploy by the Trinamool for cheap political dividends, aimed at dividing the pluralistic society. The TMC won't be able to mislead people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah promises Bengal a BJP chief minister 'from the soil'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday promised Bengal a BJP chief minister “from the soil” to counter Mamata Banerjee’s relentless attacks against them for allegedly being the bohiragawto (outsider) trying to deprive the bhumiputro (son of the soil). “I am telling Mamata Banerjee directly. The task of defeating you (Mamata) will be undertaken by Bengali workers of the BJP… and after defeating you, the BJP’s chief minister will also be someone from this soil,” said Shah in television interviews on the sidelines of his Midnapore events. Through the day, Shah and others in his entourage — including latest Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — kept trying to portray Mamata as a “narrow-minded regionalist” to offset her offensive of how the bohiragawto from Gujarat would rule Bengal if the BJP  came to power . Shah’s visit, in the wake of a few gaffes amid the party’s desperate bid to establish its connect with Bengali culture and tradition, began with a visit to Swami Vivekananda’s north Calcutta residence, and included prayers at the Siddheshwari and Mahamaya Devi temples and floral tributes to a Khudiram Bose statue in Midnapore. At every stop, he addressed the bohiragawto issue. “I want to say this to those practising narrow politics in the state… Khudiram Bose as much the nation’s pride as he is of Bengal,” said Shah at Midnapore, garlanding the freedom fighter’s statue at his ancestral home. “At the age of just 18, the immensely valiant youth fought the British empire and showed exemplary courage in kissing the noose, holding the (Bhagvad) Gita.” A Trinamul MP pointed out Shah could not refrain from bringing up the Hindu scriptural element. “I have never heard them say how, till his execution, Bhagat Singh had been reading Reminiscences of Lenin, authored by German Marxist Clara Zetkin…,” the MP said. Shah also brought up the martyrdom of Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqulla Khan and Roshan Singh, three other icons of the freedom struggle, who were hanged on this day in 1927. “The immortal heroes who fought for our Independence could not even imagine such petty politics of regionalism,” he said. The itinerary of the Union home minister’s Bengal tour this time was carefully drawn up to include visits to places associated with three of the state’s leading icons. On Sunday, he is scheduled to spend a lot of time at Visva-Bharati set up by Rabindranath Tagore. “Earlier this month, our social media cell committed a regrettable faux pas when they tweeted that Tagore was born at Visva-Bharati and had wrongly attributed it to our national president J.P. Nadda. Mamata made a major issue of it. We believe Amitji’s Visva-Bharati trip will undo the damage,” said a state BJP leader. He admitted the party was yet to recover from the damage from incidents such as the demolition of Bengal Renaissance stalwart Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust last year or the incorrect identification of an anonymous statue as that of tribal icon Birsa Munda last month. On Friday, a display board welcoming Shah to Bolpur and Santiniketan had triggered protests as it had placed a sketch of Tagore below that of the Union home minister. Sources in the BJP hoped the increasing inclusion of prominent Bengali faces in the state leadership, such as Suvendu Adhikari, will help the party in neutralising the outsider perception. In his debut address after joining the BJP, Adhikari also took the bohiragawto bull by the horns for his new political bosses. “The BJP, the largest political party in the world, talks of nationalism and pluralism… Trinamul talks of outsiders to divide the people. How dare they call the likes of Amit Shah and Kailash Vijayvargiya outsiders?” asked the Trinamul turncoat. “All of us are Indians first, then Bengalis,” he added. Sources in his party said that unsure of how the “outsider” label would impact the BJP electorally in the state polls, the likes of Shah, Nadda and Modi will leave “no stone unturned” to try and convince the people of the state that the party does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. For instance, every social media post from or regarding Shah was put out in Bengali first. “In a state where religion-based minority appeasement has been key to ascending to power, we are trying to appease the language-based majority — the Bengalis,” said a state unit functionary. “We do not expect minority votes (from a third of the state’s electorate) to come to us. If a chunk of Hindu votes are denied to us over this Bengali sentiment, our chances (of winning the Assembly polls) could be seriously dented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC seeks quick-fix Didi rally in Nandigram||Trinamul’s East Midnapore leaders urged the party’s state leadership to request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to hold a massive rally in the district, preferably in Nandigram, by early January to rally forces and glue the fissures caused by the region’s tallest party leader Suvendu Adhikari defecting to the BJP. Adhikari accepted the BJP colours from Union home minister Amit Shah in Midnapore on Saturday. “We saw this coming, but we need to meet the challenge triggered by Suvenduda’s defection. Suvenduda has not roped in other big leaders from the district yet, but he can, so we need to act in advance,” said district zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. The district Trinamul leadership is eager to hold the rally at Nandigram because it is Adhikari’s political turf and key to his “son of the soil” persona for his role during the land movement that helped propel Mamata’s party to power in 2011. “There’s no shortage of massive tracts of land in Nandigram for a mega rally that is Didi’s signature. We need to do this immediately. People are still with Didi and it doesn’t matter that Suvenduda has switched sides,” Sufian added. In the evening, Trinamul took out huge rallies in Haldia and Nandigram and burnt Adhikari’s effigies dubbing him a traitor. Sources said Adhikari left home around 11.50am on Saturday for the Midnapore rally, where Trinamul Contai MLA Banasree Maity and district leader Sukumar Das also accepted saffron party colours from Shah. Adhikari, who was reportedly dismissive of reporters on Saturday in contrast to his former rapport with the media, was not accompanied by his father or brothers. Sources close to the Adhikaris said Suvendu’s father and younger brother Dibyendu, both Trinamul MPs, did not switch sides to avoid falling foul of the anti-defection law. The lack of adequate numbers in forging a split in the party or switch sides, as laid down in the law, could also lead to disqualification, a situation the Adhikaris want to avoid, a source close to the family said. Turncoat Das said Shah’s Midnapore rally marked the beginning of a turn in fortunes for East Midnapore. “Suvenduda will hold massive rallies soon and you will see even more people coming over to the BJP. Just listen to their cheers,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Santiniketan seethes on Amit Shah visit eve||Students at Rabindranath Tagore’s university town on Saturday protested against Amit Shah’s proposed Sunday trip to Bolpur and Santiniketan, denouncing the BJP’s alleged attempt to use Tagore as a political tool. “The BJP is trying to saffronise the campus. There was no reason for Shah’s visit to Santiniketan at a time farmers are protesting against farm laws on Delhi borders,” said SFI leader of Visva-Bharati Somnath Sow. Around 100 Visva-Bharati students took out a rally on Saturday evening from Upasana Griha to protest Shah’s visit to the campus and the BJP’s “insult” to Tagore on Friday with flex banners welcoming Shah with a sketch of Tagore below Shah’s picture. Though the BJP took down the banners within hours, protesters did not let the matter die down. Varsity students burnt effigies of Shah, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty near the varsity central office. Cultural outfit Bolpur-Santiniketan Sanskritik Mancha also marched against this purported “insult” to Tagore. The CPM and Congress took out a rally condemning Shah’s visit to Santiniketan at a time farmer protests were on. “This shows the party top brass’s insensitivity towards farmers,” said a CPM leader. “We had urged the VC not to allow Shah on the campus as he and his party represents an ideology that Tagore was opposed to. The VC has ignored our appeal and we have no option but to protest,” said Falguni Pan, a student leader. Sources said varsity authorities wanted to ensure Shah’s visit was “apolitical”  and requested BJP leaders not to accompany the Union home minister on campus on Sunday. Varsity authorities had a bitter experience when Modi visited the campus to inaugurate Bangladesh Bhavana on May 24, 2018. “Many BJP workers entered the campus and chanted Jai Shri Ram slogans. The incident had drawn flak. So, we don’t want any BJP leader during Amit Shah’s visit to the campus,” said a varsity official. A senior varsity official claimed Sunday’s event was “a completely apolitical programme”. “We did not invite anyone other than Union home minister Amit Shah. But we will not be able to restrict entry if he (Shah) brings them along,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Two Trinamul tribal leaders join BJP, finger at Gurung ||Two prominent tribal faces of Trinamul in the Dooars, Nagrakata MLA Sukra Munda of Jalpaiguri and former Alipurduar MP Dasrath Tirkey, joined the BJP in Midnapore on Saturday in the mass exodus led by Mamata Banerjee’s former minister and colleague Suvendu Adhikari. Trinamul insiders said that for the past few weeks, Munda and Tirkey were discontented over the party’s decision to approve Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Bimal Gurung’s support of Mamata Banerjee, especially as Gurung stands firm on his separate statehood demand. In the Dooars and Terai, a strong sentiment against Gorkhaland prevails among the tribal population. “I decided to quit Trinamul as many of us could no longer work because of the series of changes in the style of functioning of the party. Earlier, Didi ran the party in a different manner. These days, it seems some others are making decisions,” said Tirkey. Munda said over the phone that he faced neglect from party leaders for years. “People voted for me but whenever I approached state ministers, I was made to wait for hours. Nothing was done for my constituency. The party went on ignoring me and never gave me a chance to share my opinion on various issues,” said the Nagrakata MLA. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta in October after three years, and reached Siliguri early this month, spoke on separate statehood while supporting Mamata at public rallies in Siliguri and Birpara. On Friday, at an event in Odlabari in the Dooars, Gurung even proposed a Trinamul candidate for the Malbazar Assembly seat. Mamata, speaking at a public meeting in Jalpaiguri earlier this week, had also said it was only her party that could come up with a “permanent political solution” for the hills, borrowing the term coined by the BJP. “Gurung’s remarks and endorsement of his support from Trinamul’s highest levels put these tribal leaders under pressure. They had to answer to their supporters who are vehemently against separate statehood,” said an observer. Trinamul district president K.K. Kalyani tried to scotch Gurung’s remarks on the Malbazar candidacy. “Whatever he said is his personal opinion. We are sending a letter to the state leadership saying that a Scheduled Tribe candidate will be fielded from Malbazar.” Among others who joined BJP from north Bengal include Dipali Biswas, Trinamul MLA of Gazole in Malda. In the 2016 state elections, Biswas had been elected on a CPM ticket but she defected to join Trinamul. On Saturday, she left Trinamul for BJP. Satyendranath Roy, the former Trinamul MLA of Gangarampur (in South Dinajpur), Kartick Pal and Ashish Dutta (former civic heads in North Dinajpur and Alipurduar) and some other district leaders also joined the BJP. Prafulla Burman, a district vice-president of Trinamul and the husband of zilla parishad sabhadhipati Kabita Burman, denied joining the BJP. “BJP leaders announced my name at the public rally in Midnapore. This is nothing but a political ploy to try and malign my image. I have asked my party leaders to take legal steps against BJP,” Burman told journalists. In the evening, some BJP supporters protested in some areas of Kumargram block of Alipurduar against the inclusion of Dasrath Tirkey. The former MP, who had also been an MLA, had not done anything for the region during his tenure, they alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar defies state preferences on new VCs||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday tweeted that Rajendra Prasad Dhakal and Shanti Chhetry were appointed founding vice-chancellors of the new Darjeeling Hills University and Alipurduar University, respectively, defying the “order of preference” of a search committee appointed by the state government. With Dhankhar’s tweet, this is the first time two Gorkhas are appointed founding vice-chancellors in Bengal. These past couple of days, education minister Partha Chatterjee had tweeted names of three candidates each for both varsities recommended by the state search committee. For Darjeeling Hills University the names in order of preference were: “1. Dr. Dilip Kumar Sarkar, Registrar, North Bengal University: 2: Dr Pujan Sarkar, Principal, Polytechnic Inst, Jalpaiguri; 3. Dr Rajendra Prasad Dhakal, Principal, Kalimpong College.” The tweet for Alipurduar, similar in wording, had these names in order of preference: “Prof. Mahendra Nath Ray, Professor of Chemistry, North Bengal University: 2. Prof. Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, Professor of Economics, North Bengal University; 3. Dr. Shanti Chhetry, Principal, P.D. Women College, Jalpaiguri.” In both tweets Chatterjee stated “sent to the Chancellor for formal nod”. Dhankhar, however, chose to make his own decision. The Bengal governor adhered neither to the ‘order of preference’ nor ‘formal nod’, an observer said. “It seems there is a lot more than meets the eye in the charged political atmosphere of north Bengal,” said the observer. Bimal Gurung will climb the hills for the first time after three-and-half years on Sunday. He will be addressing a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand. Anit Thapa of the rival Binay Tamang faction on Saturday said he would take part in a padyatra (march) from Sonada to Darjeeling next Saturday. “During this march I want to gauge the number of people who want change in the hills,” Thapa, addressing an ex-servicemen’s meeting at Kurseong on Saturday, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Water usage award for Malda school||A state-aided school in Englishbazar has received an excellence award for utilisation and preservation of water in larger interest by the Union water resources ministry. Using water conservation and harvesting techniques, the Sovanagar High School, located some 15km from Malda district headquarters, farms vegetables and fish on its rooftop, the produce meant for students’ midday meals. In view of the pandemic, the award was conferred virtually on the school. Rattanlal Kataria, Union minister of state for water resources, was present at the virtual awards ceremony on Thursday. A couple of months back, a team of Unesco visited the school and appreciated its projects to preserve and utilise water in socio-ecological interest under the “Jol dhoro, jol bhoro” scheme of the state government. Unesco’s recommendation helped the school bag the central award. “Cabbage, cauliflower, pumpkin and bottle gourd are grown on the roof and are used in midday meals. The 3,500sqft roof is spacious enough to produce vegetables for our 2,800 students,” said headmaster Hariswami Das. He said another 1,000sqft area on the roof was developed into a pond for farming fish such as rohu and catla. “We hope these fish will be ready to be served to students when they start coming to school again,” Das said. The school also has a rooftop nursery for flowering and medicinal plants. Another attraction is a globe shaped water tank with prominently marked countries, major cities and capitals. “The tank helps students quench their thirst and strengthen their geography,” a teacher said. On the premises, an underground reservoir stores water. The school offers students pure drinking water filtered through reverse osmosis and ultra-violet purification processes.  In 2019, the school had also been chosen for the Jamini Roy award oby the Bengal government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid active cases under 18,500 in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 2,717 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,155 new infections and 43 deaths, of which nine were reported from Calcutta. Active cases, 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami 54 days ago, have dropped to 18,460, undoing the damage of five months, said a minister. The state’s recovery rate, rising for 58 consecutive days, is now 94.81, a little behind the national rate of 95.48. The mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national 1.45 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 8.02, better than 8.27 on November 20. “We are taking the same number of tests but getting fewer infections,” said the minister. With 42,257 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count rose to 66.66 lakh, at 74,608 tests per million people. In these 54 days since the end of Puja, the state has recorded nearly 1.97 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.81 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state now has a total of 5.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.07 lakh recoveries and 9,320 deaths. Of the total deaths, 7,825, or 84 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. Bengal reported 17.56 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.38 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-268
20-12-2020||North East||BJP sweeps Tiwa council polls||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday swept the Tiwa Autonomous Council (TAC) elections in Assam but the outcome once again established the free fall of the Congress, which could manage only a lone seat. The BJP has won 34 of the 36 seats with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Congress winning a seat each in the polls held on Friday. The council is spread over four central Assam districts — Nagaon, Morigaon, Hojai and Kamrup Metropolitan districts. This is the BJP’s second victory in a week after having taken over the Bodoland Territiorial Council, spread over four lower Assam districts, through a post-poll coalition with the United people’s Liberal Party and the Gana Suraksha Party. While the BJP’s electoral prospects for next year’s state elections continue to soar, the Congress continues to grapple with loss and erosion in its rank with two sitting MLAs — Ajanta Neog and Roselina Tirkey — likely to join the BJP very soon. If that were not enough, Bithika Baruah, a PCC secretary, resigned on Saturday, accusing PCC president Ripun Bora of misconduct. In her resignation letter to AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, Baruah has said the party is “not safe” under Bora. Singh cancelled his two-day visit to Guwahati from Sunday two days ago but sources said it could be linked to the developments surrounding Neog and Tirkey. The AICC on Saturday appointed three secretaries attached to Jitendra Singh in the poll-bound state. They are Anirudh Singh, MLA, Vikas Upadhyay, MLA and Prithviraj Prabhakar Sathe. Aitting party MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi said they hoped to get a new state leader to lead the fight in the state polls. “These are tough and testing times for the party. We are losing polls after polls, losing MLAs and now this misconduct charge against our president. The party leadership should get to the bottom of these developments and take corrective measures,” a PCC insider said, reflecting the overall mood in the state unit. In the last polls in 2015, the Congress had won 17 and BJP three seats. However, the Congress members shifted allegiance to the BJP after it came to power in 2016. BJP state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass thanked the voters of reposing faith in the party. State minister Pijush Hazarika said the outcome suggests the party will win all seats in central Assam in the state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
20-12-2020||Opinion||What does the term mob mean? ||What is so odd about looking up words? Yes, they are common words, but sometimes common can befuddle, no? I am looking up words. The British English word mob, for instance, is derived from the Latin phrase mobile vulgus, meaning fickle common people. The adjective mobile has been derived from the Latin mobilis, which means movable, easy to move, not firm. 'Mob' when used as a noun means a large, disorganised and often violent crowd of people. This sense of the term has been in use from the 17th century. According to Collins dictionary, people sometimes use the word to refer in a disapproving way to the majority of people in a country or place, especially when these people are behaving in a violent or uncontrolled way. Chicago Mob Some of the Thesaurus options for synonyms of mob are --- clan, crowd, flock, gang, horde, mass, riot, swarm, throng and troop. Others are assemblage, body, cabal, camp, coterie, crew, drove, gathering, rabble, riffraff… Mob is also one of the many terms for the Italian-American organised crime families operating in the United States since the early 1920s. The Chicago Mob is one such crime syndicate based, but obviously, in Chicago. The mob is also referred to as the mafia, the outfit and the office. In New Zealand, 'mob' placed at the end of the words 'mighty mongrel' becomes the name of a notorious street gang. In Australia, mob is used to refer to indigenous people and oftentimes used to connote family or community. It is also used to refer to a group of animals. For instance, a mob of kangaroos, a mob of sheep, a mob of cattle. This usage, as many point out, is free of judgement. farmer (n) Mob, in the context of video games, is short for mobile object blocks or the generic term for any non-player entity whose primary purpose is to be killed for experience or game objective. Non-player entity... hmm... sounds like pawns to me. But not all common words are so versatile. Take, for instance, the word farmer. It means a person who owns or manages a farm. Etymology, did you say? Sorry, I cannot dwell so on every common word. There is a long list --- citizen, government, democracy, justice... Sometimes you think you know a word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||An old obsession||“‘My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:/ Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’/ Nothing beside remains. Round the decay/ Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare/ The lone and level sands stretch far away.” Shelley’s sonnet about the futility of what may be called ‘stone-ego’ has not deterred the mighty from building, rebuilding, demolishing, raising on the debris of what has fallen. Only to find their place taken by a successor debris, a successor hubris. Some have done it with great taste and their creations have survived. Like the magnificent Brihadisvara temple at Tanjore, the Sun temple at Konarak, the group of monuments at Hampi, the imposing forts at Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Mehrangarh, Golconda, Sinhagarh, the exquisite one at Orchha, the dreamy Peri Mahal of Dara Shukoh overlooking the Dal Lake in Srinagar and, of course, Shah Jehan’s Taj Mahal. The British raj followed this tradition and left us the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta and Lutyens’ New Delhi, of which Parliament House is the sceptre and Rashtrapati Bhavan the crown. And less known but not less admirable ones like the High Court building in Bengaluru, the Viceregal Lodge at Simla, the Governor’s Houses in Ooty and Darjeeling (rebuilt sensitively under the supervision of Governor John Anderson after the disastrous earthquake of 1934). These have not just survived but are alive with an outer and inner life of their own. Independent India has some outstanding examples of public architecture alongside far more thoroughly disastrous ones. The Somnath temple (raised under K.M. Munshi’s pioneering initiative), the Gandhi Mandapam (built in traditional stone architecture) in Chennai, the very Buddhist Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi (rebuilt, after a vicious fire, under the supervision of the late Uttar Pradesh civilian, M. Varadarajan), the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru (mentored by Kengal Hanumanthaiya), the Muziris Heritage Project (Architect: Benny Kuriakose) in Kerala are admirable examples. And so if one may share Shelley’s disdain of stone-ego, one may also see and acknowledge a beneficent vein of good taste and good sense in several building initiatives. There has never been, in India, a time when public funds deployed for raising or restoring a building could not have been better used for the public weal. Poverty has been and is rife in India and may be expected to be so for the foreseeable future. And one may imagine someone somewhere (if not the department of audit & accounts) having tut-tutted each and every time all of these rose and said, ‘Can we afford this?’ For that matter, there may well have been the odd wiseacre who decried in Shah Jehan’s time the lavish spending from out of the treasury for the Empress’s grave. Famine was ravaging the Deccan, Gujarat and Khandesh then as a result of three main crop failures resulting in two million deaths due to starvation. And yet it was when India was in such a state that Shah Jehan thought of the grand mausoleum. That famine lost to memory, the Taj stands in all its glory. Irony is the story of India. And so, today, when there is a pandemic on, calling for unprecedented outlays, with clear marks of recession, acute distress among farmers, and the possibility of tensions along our international borders igniting a war, the reported allocation of Rs 22,000 crore for a new Central Vista in New Delhi, including an outlay of Rs 971 crore for a new Parliament House, seems ironic. Is this the time to spend scarce public money on breaking existing structures and building new public monuments? The matter has been taken to the Supreme Court. How it will be disposed of, no one can tell. It may choose to not interfere in what, all said and done, is a time-honoured executive prerogative. But while doing so, it could also do something more. Justice M.C. Chagla and Justice S.T. Desai, in a major decision on corporate funding of political parties in 1957, had ruled that the law of the day permitted it and said the Bombay High Court (before which the matter lay) would not interfere. But Their Lordships did something more. They said in a stellar obiter: “Before parting with this case we think it our duty to draw the attention of Parliament to the great danger inherent in permitting companies to make contributions to the funds of political parties. It is a danger which may grow apace and which may ultimately overwhelm and even throttle democracy in this country.” The two Hon’ble Judges performed their duty by the law and their duty by their consciences, both. Stone-ego is as old as the hills on which the great forts that I have mentioned stand. What the National Democratic Alliance government today is planning to do is not, in its essentials, different from what others have done — for example, the Commonwealth Games spendings of 2010 which included huge outlays on construction and renovation. The proposal for a new Central Vista reflects an old, worn obsession with the use of monumentalism to ‘leave a mark’ without realizing that not every such enterprise becomes a Brihadisvara or a Taj. The project is seen and shown up as being necessary and, in fact, as visionary. Is it? Our iconic Parliament House, a marvel of architecture and now a site of historic voltage, let us be realistic and admit, has become far too congested for functional efficiency. Hon’ble MPs sit cramped in the Lok Sabha. The office spaces given in its circular confines to parties are self-defeatingly small and, because of partitioning and cubby-holing, ungainly. With the Houses’ strength scheduled to go up on account of the highly overdue increase in women’s representation and after the delimitation due in 2026, the present building will be simply incapable of coping. India’s Parliament needs another site. No getting away from that. But it is short-sighted to find that ‘another site’ in Delhi. If Parliament House is overcrowded, the national capital is even more so. Its air became briefly clear when the city was under a total lockdown. But with unlocking, it is ‘back to normal’, which is to say it is claustrophobic. Delhi will choke without a lockdown, it will starve with it. Delhi needs fewer, not more, buildings. Air quality apart, we have forgotten something absolutely, foundationally, vital. The earthquake zoning map of India divides India into four seismic zones (Zone 2, 3, 4 and 5). Zone 5 expects the highest level of seismicity. Delhi stands, with precarious heroism, on Zone 4. It is time, high time, Delhi began shifting not just Parliament House but much of itself not to other parts of its crowded self but to other parts of India. And not after an earthquake has shaken the daylights out of it but before. The people of Delhi deserve this deliverance. South Africa — no small country — has one executive capital (Pretoria), one legislative capital (Cape Town), one judicial capital (Bloemfontein) and one business capital (Johannesburg). Why must the Republic of India remain a slave to Moghul and British raj geopolitical cartography? A five-year plan to thin the capital out into four different venues, with its Diplomatic Corps also relocated in a place that is safe for the lungs of its privileged population, is what we need. Anything short of that would be cosmetic, palliative. And by virtue of its ignoring environmental and seismic realities, dangerous as well. Looking into the future the Supreme Court will see this to be true. Will this not cost more than we can afford? It will cost less than what we may have to bear. India needs not a new Central Vista but a new decentralized vision, a turning of the page of India’s political history. And as such will save the national capital of India from becoming Ozymandias.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||The Congress family and The Family ||A section of leaders in the Congress does have reservations about Rahul Gandhi’s leadership and the raging discourse regarding family control over the party. Some political observers have also launched a campaign to suggest that the idea of India cannot be subjugated to one family. But that’s not what the truth of the Congress is. Congress workers across the country are deeply worried about the possibility of Rahul Gandhi not returning as president. Their only hope in that case is Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. It is difficult to find one party worker who suggests the names of other people for the role of party leader even as they acknowledge their importance in the party. Talk to any worker — be it from Gujarat, Bihar, Delhi or Madhya Pradesh — they are all praying for the leadership to remain within the family. They have no concerns whatsoever about the dynasty debate. Almost all of them believe the party will disintegrate if somebody else is made the Congress chief, although some are not averse to the experiment of Rahul Gandhi’s central role as the face of the party while some senior leader looks after the organization. But they are not amenable to any scheme without the centrality of the family. They vociferously criticize senior leaders who see the family as a burden, and are not ready to rid themselves of the belief that only Rahul or Priyanka have the charisma to revive the party with their pan-India appeal. This sentiment is not rejected fully by a majority of senior leaders, even those who are sceptical about Rahul’s leadership skills, and would prefer a collective leadership mechanism under the patronage of the family. The next few weeks are indeed critical for the Grand Old Party, which has witnessed countless upheavals in its long life. Politicians are known for changing their tune, but the Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has surprised many in the Bharatiya Janata Party. The adjectives that the veteran leader has been using these days to hail the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has amused many old timers of the saffron party. On Friday, while welcoming the PM to address a farmers’ convention in his state, Chouhan called Modi “hriday ke haar” or “the necklace of my heart”. This was surprising, since the fourth-term CM had been known to be a competitor to Modi ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Not only was he a three-term CM at the time like Modi, but was seen as a more widely acceptable face to lead the party nationally. He used to wear a skull cap and hold iftaar parties. Unlike Modi in Gujarat, Shivraj had a cordial relationship with the Muslim community in his state. Gone are those days now. Sadly, Chouhan now is trying to follow Yogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh CM, who is junior to him. The Madhya Pradesh government recently declared it will pass a law against ‘love jihad’, imitating what Adityanath did in his state. Currently, with the Central government in a difficult spot over the intensifying farmers protest, every CM from the BJP is in a race to please Modi. They are organizing farmers’ conventions to show big support for the new farm laws. Chouhan does not want to be left behind lest he gets edged out. Resort politics is being witnessed in Assam after the outcome of the Bodoland Territorial Council election, where a post-poll alliance of the BJP, the United People’s Party Liberal and the Gana Suraksha Party, with 22 seats, came together to keep the Bodoland People’s Front — the single-largest party with 17 seats — at bay in the 40-member house. As the anti-defection law does not apply to Sixth Schedule areas, the elected members of the three-party alliance have reportedly been kept in a hotel in Guwahati — it is around 226 kilometres away from the BTC headquarters in Kokrajhar — since the results came out on December 12, for fear of defection. The BPF, too, is said to have kept its members in Kokrajhar and a few in a hotel in Phuentsholing, a border town in south Bhutan, about 138 km from Kokrajhar. The alliance rank has swelled to 24 with the lone Congress member and a BPF member switching sides, but they are still seen travelling between Kokrajhar and Guwahati. The development, however, has exposed the insecurities of the BJP even though it is the ruling party in the state, kingmaker in the BTC and host to the BTC members in Guwahati. Losing the BTC after pulling out all stops to unseat the BPF will be more than embarrassing for the BJP before next year’s state polls. The Gauhati High Court directive to the elected members to maintain status quo till December 22 — when it will hear a BPF plea challenging the formation of the council — is only going to add to its insecurities. For the BPF, which had ruled the BTC since 2003 and which still considers itself an ally of the BJP in the state government, has not given up yet, matching BJP in muscle and money power — besides, of course, resort politics. At a time when the BJP enjoys a clear edge in attracting leaders from Opposition parties, it would be wrong to conclude that the Congress has lost its charm. Just when the Congress needed some young blood, its Karnataka state president, DK Shivakumar, held discussions with the independent member of the legislative assembly, Sharath Bache Gowda, the son of the BJP parliamentarian, BN Bache Gowda, who is set to join the party. After rebelling against the BJP, Sharath had contested and won as an independent candidate in the 2019 bypolls. The BJP had promptly sacked him. Now that the state is set for panchayat polls, Sharath’s arrival is expected to energize the youth in the Congress. As a party chief who wants to prove his mettle after losing the recent bypolls, Shivakumar is trying to inject new blood. One veteran that the Congress is missing in Kerala is AK Antony. Considered a clever tactician, the leader, who enjoys a rapport with the high command, has been out of action, and perhaps out of sync with the current crop of leaders in the state. The debacle in the local body polls is expected to send many to the doorstep of the diminutive Antony to realign the party. He still commands respect as someone who can bridge the gap between warring factions ahead of the state polls next summer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||Virulent unreason: Pandemic can root out voice of unreason, misogyny||Sir — Not even a pandemic can root out the voice of unreason and misogyny. The Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, is proof of this. While launching the country’s mass inoculation programme he said that he would not be receiving the vaccine and went on to stoke doubts about the efficacy of the most promising Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Further, he said that the vaccine could turn people into crocodiles or, worse, make women grow beards and give men an effeminate voice. Bolsonaro’s ideas went out of fashion after the stone age. It is frightening to think that he is the leader of a nation.  Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — At a time when protesting farmers have resolved to continue their agitations, a group of eminent economists have written to the Centre, requesting the government to repeal the farm laws, which they claim are not in best interests of small and marginal farmers. They have put forward five reasons why the three laws are fundamentally harmful for small farmers. Interestingly, the Supreme Court has asked the Centre to consider deferring the implementation of the contentious farm laws as a step towards resumption of dialogue with farmers’ unions. Earlier the court had suggested the formation of a panel to resolve the issue. In the meantime, more farmers continue to lose their lives and livelihood. One of them suffered a cardiac arrest, while another was killed in a road accident. So far, 30 farmers from Punjab and Haryana have died. Against this backdrop, the adamance of the Union government is inexplicable. It refuses to be reasonable. Instead, the minister for agriculture has written a letter to the farmers, repeating the government’s claims about the benefits of the three farm laws and criticizing the Opposition for allegedly misleading them. Considering the present imbroglio, the prime minister must take immediate steps to break the ice between the government and the agitating farmers’ unions. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Even though the Supreme Court asked the Union government to look into suspending executive action on the three farm laws till the deadlock with agitating farmers was resolved, the Bharatiya Janata Party decided to forge ahead with its intensive outreach programme to farmers, explaining the advantages of the laws. The stalemate between the farmers and the government thus continues. Each side is waiting for the other to cave as peaceful agitation shows no signs of ending even in the biting cold of Delhi. The court would have to intervene more firmly for this to end. C.K. Subramaniam,Mumbai Sir — Angry farmers’ unions have objected to and criticized the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, for linking their protests with Opposition parties and declared that they will continue peaceful agitation till all the three farm laws are withdrawn. Rather than underlining the problems in repealing the three farm laws, Modi undermined his position as an accountable head of government. By linking the farmers’ protest to Opposition parties in order to divert people’s attention from the real problem the government is only trying to cover its mistakes. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The pandemic has already pushed the Indian economy into a deep contraction. The ongoing protest against the new agricultural laws threaten to exacerbate the economic angst. For over two weeks now, thousands of farmers have been staging demonstrations, especially in Delhi. It is really unfortunate that talks between the government and representatives of farmers have failed to break the deadlock. Millions of small-scale farmers have lost their incomes owing to the falling prices of crops and rising transportation and storage costs. The Narendra Modi-led government must shed its ego and engage in constructive talks with farmers and amend the contentious Acts or formulate completely new laws. After all, it is the farmers who keep India fed. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||The old man's back||They better not cry, they better not pout, ’cause Santa Claus is coming to town. In a world filled with uncertainties in a year of sea change in their lives, the World Health Organization has assured children that Santa Claus is immune to Covid-19 and will be delivering gifts like he does every year. It further added that Santa is not bound by travel restrictions. Cynical adults may see red at this — not because the portly, jovial old man in a red dress brings goodies only for children. ‘What business does a scientific-minded body like the WHO have, certifying the existence of a man flying around the world in a sleigh led by reindeers in this Age of Reason?’ could be their query. The rational world, after all, has held myths in contempt. Plato, consumed by his admiration for logos, dismissed myth as old wives’ tales. Rousseau measured the progress of the arts and sciences with the thermometer of reason. This tension between myth and reason has intensified further with the advent of modernity, wherein fantasy and the fantastic are looked down upon for being antithetical to science. Yet Santa Claus has survived Plato and Rousseau. Several surveys show that more than 80 per cent of children around four years of age continue to believe in the existence of a man who, his long years notwithstanding, remains ageless. Indeed, Santa’s endurance explains why myths endure. For these stories and their creatures are meant to be a balm on a primal human anxiety — the uncertainty that is the result of an ever-changing world. Hearteningly, the WHO has realized that during a year that changed the world — a vector has shut down schools, kept friends at a social distance, made adults moody — the unfailing arrival of Santa Claus can soothe children who can neither grasp the reasons for these transformations nor fully express their fears. Even rationalists and therapists have lauded the WHO’s ingenuity in tapping into the potential of myth to act as a salve on children’s fears. Studies have shown that a majority of children across the globe are experiencing loneliness and anger on account of the disintegration of familiar social institutions such as a large, supportive family. Their separation from, or loss of, grandparents may have amplified their troubles. The stuffed stockings this year would bring not just joy but also reassurance. India has a rich history of myths that offer a healing touch in divisive times. But the growing chasm between myths and rationality as well as the regressive political practice of dividing people through toxic mythology have led to a perception that myths are meant to lead societies astray. But there could be a case to argue that the vilification of myths is made possible because of their misinterpretation as an inferior form of reasoning. Unadulterated reason is being neutralized by social neurosis: otherwise, the dawn of the post-truth world could have been averted. Mythology, enriched with healing, compassion and even belief in flying oldies with hearts of gold, must be renewed to replenish the human spirit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Opinion||Those on who the sky fell  ||There has been an accident. As happens to accidents, this one too has morphed into BreakingNews, and that accident is now on a screen close to you. BREAKING: The sky is breaking! In fact, if you look up, although it is not advisable to look up, you can see it as it happens, live and exclusive only on... We’ll be right back after a short break, but while the sky breaks, keep watching. Welcome back, we are counting our BreakingNews of the sky is breaking and falling to pieces and coming down as we speak... there are live pictures, bhaaiyon aur behnon, yeh to hona hi thha... The sky was always going to break, and having broken, it was always going to fall. What were you thinking? You elect disaster and the disaster will stay at home? Disasters are exhibitionists by nature, a disaster that cannot become BreakingNews is a slur on the reputation of disasters; a disaster that doesn’t bound about and resound is like art that begins with an F, just what it never set out to be; shapeless, odourless, useless. Look up. Oh no, but don’t look up, it’s falling. No? Oh! Change of headline. BreakingNews: The sky isn’t falling any more. The sky has been stopped. But what happened? This could be a bigger disaster — the end of gravity. Oh no! Now we are going to all float up, helplessly and unintentionally, and come to hit that thing that has been hitting us. The sky is no longer falling, we are going to fall upon the sky. Beware sky, here we come, freed from gravity, freed of chains, zooming all the way up, and bring all the clanging of our shattered chains to the breaking sky! What an unmitigated mash of whipped pish and pother, people, but yeh toh hona hi thha... Let’s fall upon the sky, OnYourMarks, GetSet, Po! BreakingNews! We are falling upon the sky, these are live pictures we are bringing you, there is no viewer discretion advised because you are the viewer. So be discrete as you fall, you are live, no guarantees you will be alive at the end of this. If you can see above me, these are live pictures, for the first time ever, exclusive and only on this channel, images of the sky being fallen upon! This has never happened. But after all those wasted decades of NothingHappened, we promised you Happenings. And Happenings are happening. Never before Happenings. We could not afford the sky breaking and falling upon us, so we are falling upon the sky, even if the sky breaks again, even if we get broken in the process. The sky we must now allow to fall upon us. Look at how the sky has broken, those ominous splinters shaped like clouds, or disguised as them. Those are not clouds, they are bits of broken sky. They look like drifting, but they are not drifting. This way or that way. That’s their trick. They create the illusion of drifting, this way or that way. It’s a conspiracy, like everything is. They are actually coming down on us. The sky is falling. ChickenLicken was right, but, my apologies, I ate up ChickenLicken as she was panicking away from the falling sky. I let a wee piece of the sky fall on her. It killed her and then I ate her. Right off the skewer, gut and gizzard and all. I left nothing for FoxyLoxy either for FoxyLoxy had the same idea — let ChickenLicken call the sky upon herself, then gobble her up and go to sleep on the pillow of your swollen tummy. But no, I foxed FoxyLoxy and I ate ChickenLicken, sky and all. But there was always going to be more where the sky came from. And it is falling. And it must be stopped. We must fall upon it. Because if the sky falls on us, you know what will happen and there will probably nobody remain to say, yeh toh hona hi thha... Band karo, band! The trick to keep safe the flock Is a trick none knows, just I Hurry, you fools, fetch a lock And turn the key on the sky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Now, world-class sports amenities at Dhanbad club||Coal city’s oldest club has donned a new avatar. Thanks to a slew of initiatives taken by its management, the Dhanbad Club, established way back in 1917, the club, now has several new facilities that will appeal to the young and sports enthusiasts. Located in the heart of the town, a squash court, yoga cum Zumba training center, besides an upgraded gymnasium and a billiard room, was inaugurated this evening by the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, who is also the ex officio chairman of the club. Two lawn tennis courts of US open standard and a cricket alley comprising two cricket nets will also be inaugurated in the club. Later this month, the swimming pool of the club will also be upgraded. Talking to the media during a press conference organised at the club auditorium, prior to the inauguration, Sanjeev Beotra, secretary of the club said, “We will not have any Christmas celebration on December 25, as we will usher in the New Year December 31 following government’s guidelines. The crowd will be smaller, keeping the safety of our members in mind, unlike the previous years.” He added, “The club is open to our members so we have added a range of facilities including a lawn tennis arena comprising of two tennis Courts, a cricket alley comprising two nets, a squash court, etc.” All the facilities are of the international standard, he maintained. “For the senior members of the club and others who won’t be using the gymnasium facility we have set up a yoga-cum-Zumba training center to help them keep fit. We will be hiring yoga and Zumba trainers who would be providing training from January 1 onwards” informed Beotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||No takers for government’s residential flats in Chas||A housing scheme with 640 flats, planned by the Chas Municipal Corporation, is having no takers even after the apartments are on sale for Rs 3.11 lakhs only. With only a handful of people showing interest in booking the flats, CMC is all set to organize a fair to boost the sale of the flats. The scheme aims to provide modern housing facilities in the Kalapathar area. Chief executive officer (CEO) of CMC, Shashi Prakash Jha, revealed that as little as 19 individuals have registered for the flat. “We had not expected such a poor response. It could be the location of the proposed housing complex that is deterring people from buying the flats.” He added, for the convenience of the residents, registration will be done on different days in the five zonal offices. As per the housing scheme’s rules and regulations, only those with an annual income lesser than Rs.3,00,000 can purchase a flat in this complex. The buyer should also be a resident of an urban slum area from June 17, 2015. Barring that the buyer or any member of his family shouldn’t be the owner of any pucca house in India. According to Jha, those interested in booking the flats could do so by simply depositing Rs 5000 at the CMC office. The price of the flat has been kept at Rs 5.61 lakhs. As per norms, the residents have to pay only Rs 3.11 lakhs, the rest amount of 2.50 lakhs will be paid by the government. The beneficiary can also opt for making payments in easy installments. Each flat will be built in an area of 320 square feet. Each unit will also have proper water supply, electricity, parking, roads, barbed wire walls, infrastructure, parks, children’s playgrounds, and other necessary facilities. Sujit Kumar a resident said, “The housing units are being offered at a lucrative price, but the housing complex is located in the outskirt area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over a dozen shops gutted in Sakchi market fire||Over a dozen shops were completely gutted due to a fire that broke out at the Sakchi commercial hub on the wee hours of Sunday. The fire was allegedly caused by a bonfire, past midnight at around 12:15 am. It took seven fire tenders from both Tata Steel and the state fire department over six hours to bring the fire under control. The seamlessly packed shops in the congested Shiv Mandir Line were saved from severe damages due to the prompt action taken by the fire department. District fire service officials reached the spot within 25 minutes of being informed. “Sakchi police informed us about the fire around 12.20 am. We immediately sent off four fire tenders from our department and two from Tata Steel and one from Tata Motors to the spot. The fire was finally brought under control around 7 am,” said Ravinder Thakur, duty officer at the fire station in Golmuri. According to eyewitnesses, the fire started at a cloth store and spread to other shops, including a general store, a grocery store, a musical instrument shop, and a couple of tailoring shops. According to shopkeepers, the loss caused by the fire could add up to several lakhs. Shopkeeper Niranjan Singh, one of the affected businessmen of the commercial hub said, "A bonfire was lit near a shop at the Shiv Mandir Line to beat the intense cold. Unfortunately, it was not doused properly and could have caused the fire." He ruled out the possibility of a suspected short-circuit. The affected shopkeepers who rushed to the spot on getting the news post-midnight also alleged that the lone hydrant failed to function. "We tried to operate the hydrant but couldn't. Had it been alright the action of dousing the flames would have been fast," said a shopkeeper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gaganjeet Bhullar is the champ at Tata golf 2020||Gaganjeet Bhullar saw it home with a hard-fought four-under-68 despite a bumpy ride on the final day of the Tata Steel Tour Championship on Sunday. Bhullar, who totalled an outstanding 24-under-264 for the week, thus collected his 10th trophy on the PGTI and first in nine years on the tour. The final round of the Rs 1.5 crore event was witness to an absorbing contest as Kapurthala’s Bhullar, Bengaluru-eans Chikkarangappa and Khalin Joshi, Calcutta’s SSP Chawrasia and Noida’s Amardeep Malik were all in the lead or joint lead at different stages. Chikkarangappa ended the week as the runner-up after his fourth round of 68 moved his total to 22-under-266. Chikka’s second place finish lifted him from 11th to second position in the PGTI Order of Merit. Khalin Joshi (69) finished third at 21-under-267, Calcutta’s Rahil Gangjee, who fired the day’s best score of 67, was tied at fourth place at 20-under-268 along with SSP Chawrasia (72). Amardeep Malik (73), the joint third round leader along with Bhullar and Chawrasia, closed the week in sixth place at 19-under-269. Bhullar said, “Honestly, I was not at all expecting to win this week. This week the first goal for me was to make the cut. But I kept gaining momentum with each passing round and played four solid rounds where my putting was very consistent. “I did shoot a nine-under on day two but it was the third round of 64 that really put me in contention. That’s when I knew that I had a really good chance to win. I was aware of the fact that whenever I have been in contention in recent times, I have gone on to win. On Sunday, the leading 27 players out of 53 played their first nine holes at Golmuri and second nine holes at Beldih. The remaining 26 players played at Beldih first and then Golmuri. The 32-year-old Gaganjeet Bhullar (69-63-64-68), a winner of 10 international titles with victories on both the European Tour and Asian Tour, brought all his experience into play by coming through despite dropping five shots (three bogeys and a double-bogey) in the final round. Gaganjeet, who holds the Indian record of nine wins on the Asian Tour, consolidated his position at the top with a flurry of early birdies on the first, third and fourth holes thanks to his accurate iron and wedge shots. Bhullar’s troubles began on the fifth where he double-bogeyed after finding the hazard. He missed an up and down on the next hole to drop another shot. Gaganjeet, a part of the Indian team that won the silver medal at the 2006 Doha Asian Games, pulled one stroke back with a 15-feet birdie conversion on the eighth before conceding another bogey on the 11th. The broad-built six-footer from Punjab then added two more birdies on the 12th and 13th before finding trouble once again on the 15th where he landed in the trees and as a result made bogey. Bhullar was two behind Chikka and Joshi after 15 holes but the match turned on its head when Gaganjeet chipped-in for eagle on the 16th and sank a 20-footer for birdie on the 17th. As Chikka and Joshi stumbled on the 18th with a bogey and double-bogey respectively, Bhullar went on to seal the title with a two-shot margin after a par on the final hole. Gaganjeet took home the winning cheque worth Rs. 24,24,750 and is now likely to make major gains in the world ranking from his current 807th position having earned five Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points for his win on Sunday.  Bhullar said, “I believed in myself on the final day despite the up and downs during the round. The eagle and birdie on the final stretch came just at the right time for me. It’s been great being back on the PGTI and registering my first win on the tour since my 2011 victory in Chandigarh. “I played two events on the PGTI this month and the competition has been very intense which is a great sign of things to come for Indian golf. I would like to thank Tata Steel for staging this fabulous event and supporting Indian golf and the PGTI even in such difficult times.” While runner-up Chikka mixed seven birdies with three bogeys during his 68, third-placed Khalin sank five birdies at the expense of a double-bogey for his 69. Among the other prominent names, Anirban Lahiri (68) took 11th place at 14-under-274, Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar (72), who continues to lead the PGTI Order of Merit, finished 14th at 12-under-276, Shiv Kapur (69) was tied 16th at 10-under-278 and Jyoti Randhawa (81) was tied 30th at five-under-283.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||New facilities and scenic beauty draw tourists at Topchanchi Lake||A trickle of tourists visited the Topchanchi Lake on Sunday from different parts of Dhanbad, as overflowing water and the new facilities at the litchi garden situated on its bank have enhanced the natural beauty of the place. The ongoing ‘picnic season’ of winter makes the lake, situated about 37 kilometers from Dhanbad, a major attraction. By the end of the day, sources said , there were around 700 visitors on Sunday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kamraj Prasad, who was at the spot with his family, said, “The hillocks situated all around the lake give it an exclusive look and some structures like the old pavilion add to its ethnicity.” “I have been a regular visitor of Maithon and visited Topchanchi for the first time today, but can conclude with conviction that the natural beauty here is better than Maithon. Its tourist potential can be further harnessed with the development of facilities like a children playing arena and better accommodation facilities like guest houses,” he added. Talking about accommodation issues near the lake, Prasad said, “Though some provisions are being made in the surrounding areas of the place, more more proactive steps are required to bring it at par with the major tourist places of the country.” Ajay Kumar Mahato, a roadside vendor in the area said, “The nature and the rains over the past few days have restored the beauty of the lake after a long time and we expect large numbers of tourists this year despite the Covid-19 constraints.” Manoj Kumar Mahato, the contractor looking after the renovation and beautification work of the lake said they have installed six gazebos at the cost of Rs 12.60 lakhs. “We have also constructed 30 concrete recliners at Rs 13.50 lakhs in the litchi garden and laid paver blocks all around the park as part of a comprehensive project of around Rs 1 crore of the state building division.” A contract for the repair work of a stretch of 5.5 kilometer road around the park has been finalised by the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, under whose jurisdiction the lake falls. Executive engineer and technical member of the authority, Indresh Shukla said, “We will gradually develop the other facilities around the lake after the completion of the renovation and beautification work of the litchi garden, which is likely to be completed within a week.” Topchanchi, an artificial lake developed in 1924, is a major tourist attraction as the wildlife sanctuary situated near it also draws a large number of people. Surrounded by several hilloks, the place was once a favourite shooting spot for filmmakers and actors. Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Mazhar Khan, Girish Karnad and Suchitra Sen have visited the sport for shooting their films.  A large number of migratory birds also visit the place every year. These include the black cormorant, pink duck, black winged stilt, common teal, gadwall, brown headed gull, spoonbill, red crested pochard and common coot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Most schools will not resume classes from Monday||Several leading private schools of Ranchi will not be resuming regular classes for class 10 and class 12 from Monday as there is a lack of clarity on the number of parents who would be willing to send children to schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Faculty members of Delhi Public School (DPS) and JVM Shyamli, two renowned Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)-affiliated schools in the city, are holding online meetings with parents to seek their consent. But very few parents have agreed to send their children to school from Monday. Some students, who were staying outside Ranchi during the lockdown, are yet to return, while some parents have shown reluctance in sending children to school due to the fear of contracting Covid-19 infection. “We have been holding online meetings with parents to get their consent for resumption of regular classes. The process is still not complete,” said JVM Shaymli principal Samarjeet Jana. “We cannot resume regular classes for hardly five or six students. Offline classes will begin only after we get consent from parents,” he added. An official from the DPS administration said their school was likely to reopen next week once the process of getting consent from parents was completed. “We would need consent from parents of at least 50 per cent students in order to resume classes,” he said. Surendranath Centenary School is planning to resume regular classes in the first week of January. Samita Sinha, the principal, said on Sunday that the school authorities were getting consent letters from parents and the classrooms were also being readied for classes. “We have started sanitising classrooms and getting consent letters from parents. Classes will resume in the first week of January,” said Sinha. On December 15, the Jharkhand government decided to resume regular classes for students of class 10 and class 12 with immediate effect. However, a day later, the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) stated that parents’ consent letter stating that they were aware of the Covid-19 restrictions and willing to send their children to school was a prerequisite for regular classes. Now, Jharkhand Parents Association (JPA) has sought for a meeting between the various school authorities and government representatives in order to make the process of reopening schools easier for parents. “Some parents are reluctant to send their children to schools. I think all stakeholders should meet and decide the future course of action instead of simply reopening schools without addressing the concerns of parents,” said Ajay Rai, president of JPA. Sudhir Kumar Das, father of a class 10 student in Sacred Heart School, Ranchi, said he wanted online classes to continue for now as the threat of Covid-19 was very much alive. “We also have senior citizens in our family. If my daughter gets infected at school, then the entire family will be at risk of falling ill,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau police crack challenging murder case of farmer in 10 days||The Palamau Police on Sunday said they have cracked a kidnapping and murder case of a farmer, Vishwanath Yadav, of Matnag village, the case of which was registered under the Panki police station. At a press briefing on Sunday, SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said the farmer was kidnapped not for any ransom but because the captors wanted to kill him. The ransom was just a ploy to keep the local police in the dark. Yadav was kidnapped on December 10 evening and killed on the same night by nine people, Kumar added. He said that Yadav’s close acquaintance Guddan Miyan, who used to have financial relations with him, gunned him down. Miyan had loaned a large amount of money from Yadav but did not have any intention to give it back. The police, however, could not ascertain the exact reason of the murder -- whether it was because of financial or any political reasons. They said they are depending on information from Yadav’s mobile phone, which was recovered from Miyan’s possession. Kumar said the captors had used this phone to make a call to the farmer’s family demanding a random of Rs 10 lakhs. The police have also recovered a gun, a local ‘Katta’, but said they need to confirm if it was the weapon used to kill Yadav. The three accused, Miyan, Shamshad and Aftab, were nabbed and sent to judicial remand on Sunday evening. Kumar acknowledged that the case was challenging and there was a good amount of external pressure on them to put certain people behind the bars, against whom the police had no proof. Sources said BJP MLA Shashibhushan Mehta had tweeted to the Chief Minister and the Directorate General of Police, Jharkhand, against the murder of the farmer, demanding actions against the Panki police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 200 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day in Jharkhand||Jharkhand reported more than 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection for the second consecutive day on Saturday, taking the number of active cases above 1700 after a significant drop reported in the figure since the beginning of December, data compiled by the state health department revealed. As many as 247 people were found infected across the state in the past 24 hours, while 234 patients recovered during the same period. On Friday too, the fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered the recoveries as 274 people were found infected and only 195 patients recovered, government figures highlighted. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from Dhanbad and Gumla, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1010, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Saturday's fresh death took the toll in Dhanbad to 100. Until Saturday, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum had reported more than 100 Covid fatalities among the 24 districts. As many as 355 Covid patients have died in East Singhbhum so far, while 209 have died in Ranchi. On Saturday, Ranchi reported 128 cases against 110 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 35 cases against 29 recoveries. The number of active cases in Ranchi drew close to 800 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 226, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 12 cases against 15 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 14 cases against three recoveries. As per government data, at least six districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. The government on Saturday collected swab samples of 16,516 people and around 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 46.23 lakh people and tested around 46.09 lakh of them. Around 14,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 405.28 days against the national average of 326.80 days. At least 110125 of the 112835 people infected by the virus have recovered in Jharkhand so far, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state to 97.58 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate is 95.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Shooting, arson at coal project site in Latehar district||The henchmen of jailed gangster Sujit Sinha in collusion with Peoples’ Liberation Front of India, a splinter group of the CPI(Maoist), opened fire and set four trucks on fire at Tetariakhar coal project of Central Coalfield Limited (CCL) under Balumath police station in Latehar district, around 109km northwest of Ranchi, on Thursday night. Four persons have received bullet injuries. Sources in Latehar police said literature left behind at the site of the carnage revealed that the gangster’s men and the PLFI had joined forces. “We received a handwritten paper from the site written by Pradeep Ganju, a self-styled commander of the PLFI in the name of Sujit Sinha warning that attacks would continue till the outsourced private companies engaged in different work at the colliery do not pay the levy. There have been earlier attempts by members of Sujit Sinha's gang to extort levy from the contractors. Various extremist factions with common interest seem to have forged unity with Sinha’s men and the PLFI,” a senior police official said. According to local residents, unidentified armed persons were waiting near the road barriers at the coal project site around 7.30pm. As the coal trucks arrived at the barrier, they took control of the vehicles and torched them, leaving the staff to flee for their life. They also started firing indiscriminately, leading to three cleaners of the trucks — Pintu Yadav (a native of Pindrakum), Vansh Ropan (Chandwa) and Anil Yadav (Kuriam, Balumath) — sustaining bullet injuries. Another driver, who could not be identified, also sustained injuries. The firing led to people scampering from the coal project site. The armed men continued to threaten the truckers and the workers at the site for nearly half an hour and fled from the site after seeing police. Initially, police believed that it was the work of TPC or a PLFI faction after spotting posters at several places in Balumath calling for stopping of coal-loading work at the site. Latehar SP Prashant Anand claimed that the activities showed growing desperation among rebel factions who are now resorting to taking help from gangsters to extract levy. “The firing and the burning of trucks have been done jointly by the men of Sujit Sinha and PLFI leader Pradeep Ganju. It shows their desperation as the security forces have been exerting pressure on them from all fronts with successive combing operations, which have resulted in the recovery of a large numbers of arms and ammunition. On Saturday, too, we had two encounters with the rebels. We are determined to flush out the criminal elements, be it the rebels or gangsters,” Anand said. Following the encounter between security forces and rebels at Salaiya Gulariyatand, an AK-56 and an SLR had been recovered. There was also an encounter with rebels at Chandwa that yielded an AK-47 and an SLR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
