21-12-2020||Calcutta||Sweet shoots of recovery: Calcutta bakeries||Business, slow for the past eight months, has started picking up in the run-up to Christmas, said owners of confectioneries and bakeries in Calcutta. For some, business has been gaining in momentum since the beginning of December, and for others, demands soared over the past five days or so. “December has been much better and the sale has gone up by up to 25 per cent. It is definitely better than what it was during Diwali. But it is still not what it was in other years,” said Lovey Barman, director, Kookie Jar. The popular picks at Kookie Jar include Christmas fruit cakes, Christmas pudding with brandy butter and cakes with Santa Claus and Christmas tree. Saldanha’s offerings include walnut cakes and the coconut macaroons, while Mrs Magpie fare of 40 items have among them fruit cakes, date and walnut cakes, marzipans and mincemeat cake loaves. The owners of confectioneries and bakeries hope the demand uptick would sustain at least till the first week of January. “Orders have been picking up over the last five days and we hope the trend will continue through the festive season,” said Saldanha owner Debra Alexander. “In previous years people would plan in advance. But this year we are getting more last-minute orders…. We are happy that our clients are back. In fact, the last few days have exceeded our expectations.” With an upswing in sales, Mrs Magpie has started a “Christmas pop up” at Survey Park, which will later be turned into a cafe. “For us things started returning back to normal post-September. It has been a challenging year. In the current situation, everyone is tired of being at home and are coming out,” said Sohini Basu, the proprietor of Mrs Magpie, which has been getting Christmas orders since the beginning of December. At Convent Lane’s Cafe & Bakery, an initiative of Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre, it was a busy Sunday. “We had thought that we would not be baking this year, but inquiries started coming from November and we started baking on December 10. It will continue till December 24,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC. “It is good because we can make up for some of the losses the Cafe suffered during the lockdown.” The Cafe & Bakery baked 50kg on Sunday and slots were given to clients to collect their cakes mixed and baked. Kookie Jar has slashed its Christmas cake variety this year. “We would have 20 special items in previous years, but this year we have five or six. Usually, in winter there would be people from across the world and country in Calcutta, but it has not been so this year,” said Barman, of Kookie Jar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||People throng city malls on last Sunday before Christmas||People thronged malls in the city on the last Sunday before Christmas, brushing aside Covid-19 fears and ushering in a spirit of festivity that is typical of this time of the year. Long queues of private cars and app cabs were seen entering City Centre in Salt Lake, South City Mall and Acropolis Mall from afternoon and the crowds swelled as the evening set in. The malls were all decked out for the occasion, with giant Christmas trees and other installations. Babysitting fathers standing outside shops with little children unable to stay still mirrored the mood as much as hassled mall guards struggling to spray sanitisers on the hands of visitors. Here’s what Metro saw at three malls in different corners of the city. The lights and the decoration on the mall’s facade drew admiring glances from passing motorists as well as those headed for shopping. The entire ground floor has been decorated with lights and models depicting a Santa-themed fairground. Outside, there were lit-up Christmas trees. Traffic along the mall-bound flank of Prince Anwar Shah Road from the Jadavpur crossing was slow. For every five cars moving down the road, three were seen entering the mall. By 5pm, the mall’s parking lot, which can accommodate around 2,500 cars, was nearly full. New Town resident Suman Kandoi and her husband Pradeep were at the mall with their son Aryan, who is in preschool, on Sunday afternoon. Suman said she was well aware of the risks of being in a crowded place but she and her husband were keen on showing the Christmas decorations to their son. “This is the time of the year when children and adults alike look forward to Santa Claus. We could not sit back home. We are all wearing masks and brought sanitisers,” said, Abir Mukerjee, a resident of Behala, who had gone to the mall to catch up with friends. The group had an adda session at the food court before settling down for lunch at one of the restaurants in the mall. The mall’s general manager, Deep Biswas, said that footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend. On Sunday, he said, the footfall crossed 50,000. The footfall on Friday and Saturday were 20,000 and 30,000, respectively. “We have decorated the entire mall to spread the Christmas cheer and many people are coming to have a look at them. People are taking photographs before shopping or heading for the food court or one of the restaurants in the mall,” Biswas said. The store manager of a denim wear outlet said the number of shoppers had increased compared with last month. “Sales are picking up…. This weekend has been quite promising,” he said. The Salt Lake mall saw a steady crowd all afternoon and evening. While many shoppers said they were there to pick up winter wear and accessories, there were many who headed to restaurants at the mall. The food court did brisk business, too. Suranjana Ray Chaudhuri, an undergraduate student at St Xavier’s College, caught up with friend Aindri Panja at the decked-out mall. “We are here to buy a few jackets. We will also eat before stepping out,” said Suranjana. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said crowds had been swelling since Friday. “We have been getting a good response over the past couple of days. The crowd peaks in the evening, when all the decorations are lit up. We are expecting the tempo to sustain throughout this month,” Mukherjee said. The mall’s façade and the entrances were decorated with huge red bells, which turned out to be among the most sought-after backdrops for selfies. Inside, snowmen, Santa Claus driving a sleigh and a huge Christmas tree added to the cheery ambience. A steady stream of private cars and app cabs headed for the dropoff point and the parking lot of the Kasba mall. Sonam Agarwal, 28, was shopping for faux jewellery and accessories. “I have come here to get some accessories like earrings and a top for New Year’s Day. My shopping is almost done, but I could not resist the temptation to come out here with my friends,” said Agarwal. The group would have dinner at a pub in the mall before heading out. “Sales in December are down to 74 per cent of previous December, but we expect 2021 to be as good as or even better than 2019,” said mall general manager K. Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Zoology graduates in Howrah hold off ‘hunters’||Three young men in a Howrah village confronted a group of alleged hunters armed with spears and axes and carrying a kill of animals on Friday. The three, in their early 20s, stood firm for over three hours, not letting the group of six escape. Some other villagers accompanied them in the vigil. A team of foresters eventually arrived at the spot and apprehended the alleged hunters. The three men are zoology graduates from Shyampur Siddheswari Mahavidyalaya in Howrah, around 75km from the heart of Calcutta. They are also members of a local environment club started by a zoology teacher of the college. Soumyadip Santra, Suprakash Adak and Supriyo Dhara, who live in Benapara village in Bagnan, were out on a round of birdwatching in the morning when they got a call from a resident of a neighbouring village, Chandanapara. A group of alleged hunters had entered the village and killed an Asian palm civet. “We rushed to the spot. The group had six members with spears and axes. The carcasses of a male palm civet and five squirrels were at their feet,” Santra told Metro. The men were chasing a female palm civet when Santra and his friends confronted them. A group of villagers who had been bystanders till then now joined the protest. The stand-off started around 11.30pm. Seeing the protesters’ ranks swelling, the hunters tried to escape but were stopped by Santra and his friends. “We stood in the way and made it clear we were not going to budge,” said Santra, who is pursuing a master’s in biotechnology. Santra and his friends are volunteers of Human and Environmental Alliance League (HEAL), an NGO. On Friday, Santra called up a HEAL member, who in turn alerted the forest department. A team of forest officers arrived after 3pm and arrested the alleged hunters. The men, charged under Section 9 (hunting) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, face a jail term ranging between six months and three years if convicted. “The arrested persons are residents of West Midnapore. They visit forests of south Bengal and collect honey and kill animals and birds for food,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. “All credit goes to the young men. They showed great courage and determination.” Santra, Adak and Dhara are members of Eco Club, a local platform for nature lovers started by Prosenjit Dawn, assistant professor of Zoology at the Shyampur college. “They are active members of the club and conduct regular awareness campaigns in schools in Bagnan and Shyampur blocks. The campaigns are pictorial so that the children do not get bored. They tell children not to kill snakes and help them identify different types of snakes,” said Dawn, who joined the college in 2017 and started the club a year later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Howrah-Haldia monsoon rally brings cheer||The rally season is here with Just Sportz organising their Monsoon Drive, a Time-Speed-Distance (TSD) rally between Panchla in Howrah and Haldia in East Midnapore on Saturday. More than a dozen cars fought it out in the rally. Rallyists from across Calcutta, as well as from Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, drove for nearly 250km after they were flagged off from the Country Roads Resort in Howrah’s Panchla. They drove around the picturesque banks of the Haldi river on the way to Haldia. Once in Haldia, the drivers and navigators had a challenging course set on a field that had to be negotiated at night. Unlike a speed race, the winner in a TSD rally is not the motorist who crosses the finish line first. Instead, moments before the flag-off, the navigator is handed a “tulip”, which is a booklet with directions related to distance and speed motorists need to maintain at different stages of the rally. The team with the most accurate speed and time record wins. A number of such events had to be cancelled since March because of the Covid pandemic. Monsoon Drive came as a breath of fresh air for rallyists. Joydeb Ghosh, who participated in the rally with brother Arindam on the co-driver’s seat, said they had been itching to be on the rally tracks again. “There have been nearly no events this year in and around Calcutta. Rallying is a sport that requires continuous practice and we were cooped up in our houses. When this event was announced, we knew we had to be here,” said Ghosh, a veteran of several rallies. For Sheikh Alivia, for whom this was the first rally, it was “quite a challenging experience”. “It was a great experience for me and I am hooked to the adrenaline rush,” said Alivia, a resident of Haldia. Suchandan Das, one of the organisers of the event, said that despite having nearly no sponsors, they decided to go ahead with the event simply for the love of motorsports. “It has been a difficult year for everyone. We love motorsports and we have to keep organising events so that more and more people join this sport,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Through the stained glass, vividly||Seated in the drawing room of her Auckland Square apartment, Katayun Saklat, painter and stained glass artist, though not necessarily in that order, speaks about her exceptional life and her art, as a number of her assistants come and go, pleasantly interrupting her for instructions. Saklat, 82, is a charming and exuberant personality and the room is a bit like her. But then it is also her gallery, Gallery Katayun. There are paintings on the floor, against the tables and chairs, and of course on the walls — a mix of still lives and portraits. An easel, with work in progress, stands near a door. Above the settee hang three large paintings. The one in the middle is a striking portrait of an old Parsi woman, who was an older friend of Saklat, sitting inside the Tower of Silence. Another shows her parents. Two others feature another striking old Parsi woman, who suffered from Alzheimer’s. The people in her paintings are distinct presences, sometimes disturbingly. Gallery Katayun, started in 1989, used to hold regular shows till a few years ago here. Now it still holds shows, but at other addresses. Saklat also uses the apartment for her stained glass work. It has been her home since the early 70s. But speaking of homes, Saklat goes back to her first one. She grew up in a large three-storey house in Grant Lane. “It was a happy house. There was always something happening there,” said Saklat, trying also to explain the constant activity around her now. Saklat was born in a Parsi family settled in Calcutta. Her father worked in the Singer sewing machine company. He was the first Parsi to be born in Srinagar and had settled in Calcutta after his marriage. In the Grant Lane house, each whimsical floor had its own spectacle. The family — Saklat was the youngest of three sisters — led its own bustling life. And there were lots of people. “We never locked our doors in that house,” she said. Later, through her, a lot of contemporary art would also move in. But art was there already. “We never bought pictures to hang on the walls,” said Saklat. Her father was a natural artist. All the frames on the wall contained monochromatic sauce pen stick sketches, mostly landscapes, by him. Her mother painted in oil on satin fabric — on saris and cushion covers and tea cosies household objects. Those were finely detailed. After studying at Calcutta Girls’ High School, Saklat had enrolled at JJ College of Arts in Mumbai, then Bombay. But she did not like being taught commercial art at JJ and came back to Calcutta to enrol at Government Art College first and then at Indian College of Arts and Draughtsmanship. She thinks that the teaching of art can really improve here. What are we taught here?... Not even anatomy, she said. But at Indian College of Arts she had met graphic artist Arun Bose as a teacher. Here she also met her group — young artists who would set up a studio together, at the Grant Lane house. Other than Saklat, this group included Bikash Bhattacharjee, who would become famous later, Amal Ghosh, Mrinal Danda, Maya Danda, Smriti De Roy and Panchunarayan Gupta, “a fine watercolourist”. These were the early 60s. The studio was set up by the artists themselves on the first floor of the Grant Lane house. They put together everything themselves, from the easels to a loft for paintings. Bhattacharjee’s famous doll series was inspired by a doll that belonged to Saklat’s niece. Saklat also painted the chubby doll in a white dress. But by the time the artists were done with it, the niece had grown up enough to not want the doll any more. On the floor below, artists Lalu Prasad Shaw and Suhas Roy were tenants, who had decided that the Saklats would be their landlords. One can imagine the heady atmosphere in the house, the young minds fired by imagination, the laughter, the conversation. “But we had to wind up by 8pm every day, as our family had to have dinner together,” said Saklat, who has always supported young artists and stressed the need for encouraging environments. As it often happens, some of the artists in the group moved away. But Bhattacharjee remained a regular. When in the early 70s the Saklat family moved to the Auckland Square apartment, Saklat, one of her sisters and Bhattacharjee set up Gallery 52 in Chowringhee Road. The Grant Lane house features on the cover of the catalogue of an exhibition in 2009 that was held in Gallery K2, with which Saklat was associated closely. The painting, beautifully done, shows the top two floors, as if standing on their own. Soon after the family to the new apartment, Saklat’s life would take a turn. In those days, she was also feeling a little guilty about being dependent on her father financially. Saklat was beginning to get known. However, even if art wins appreciation, it often pays very little. In 1973, she was in the UK and got three grants from the British Council. She had always wanted to learn an old craft. So when she heard about the noted stained glass artist Patrick Reyntiens, who taught stained glass making in Buckinghamshire, she decided to learn it from him. In her first encounter with Reyntiens, she saw him perched two-storeys high, fixing something. He showed her two small bits of blue glass, from that height, and asked which one she liked. “There are 3,000 shades to choose from. The glass here is like pigment in painting.” The effect can light up the dreariest building. Perhaps it was not a coincidence that Saklat chose stained glass. One can see how light and colours appeal to her. “Stained glass can change the environment,” she said. Two of her best works have been installed in the city. One is a glass wall, which is ceiling to floor and wall to wall, a landscape with birds, butterflies and an island in the middle. This is owned privately. The other is a large window of several panels, inside the Fire Temple, depicting the seven Amesha Spentas (seven archangels) with Zarathushtra in the middle. In 1998, she held a 100-piece stained glass exhibition for Art Today in New Delhi. The exhibition space looked stunning. Her stained glass works abound with fishes and mermaids. Stained glass cannot be installed anywhere; there must be light falling on it. “The north light is good for stained glass,” she said. And the work changes, with every change in light. Very recently, Saklat has taken up the challenge of metal staining work. It looks like a brave new work. But the past is always present. The paintings she is working on now seem to take her back to the past. One is a family portrait, of herself with her parents and sisters. The other of her principal at Calcutta Girls’. The third features a lot of butterflies. She has borrowed them from her mother’s tea cosies. “I cannot do them so well, though,” said Saklat. “It’s only now that I realise that she was a much better artist than I am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Santa lands with gifts for kids in two villages||Santa came calling on hundreds of underprivileged children in two pockets on the southern fringes of the city on Sunday, days before the festival that celebrates the spirit of giving. Most of the children are Muslims. They received gifts — new clothes, cakes and stationeries — from a group of Jesuit priests from St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. The drive was organised by the association of former students of the college, most of whose current members are Hindus. A team of volunteers from the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association, led by Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, and a couple of other priests, was part of the drive on Sunday morning. The team’s first stop was Pailkahala village in Nepalganj, South 24-Parganas, around 40km from the heart of Calcutta. The alumni association has been running a free primary school in the village since 1999. Around 100 children who are students of the school were given new clothes, cakes, chocolates, pencils and notebooks. Over 100 residents of the village, parents of the students, got blankets, mosquito nets and hand sanitisers. “The true celebration of the birth of child Jesus has to be with the children, especially those who are less privileged, as Jesus himself was born among the poor. Santa has, this time, brought a permanent gift to the children of the village as the efforts are on to upgrade the school,” said Father Savio. Pailkahala is a Muslim-majority village. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, many villagers worked at garment manufacturing units, in Metiabruz and adjoining areas as well as in other states. The pandemic had forced the closure of many units, posing livelihood challenges to the residents. “The school now is till Class IV. We are planning to upgrade it till Class VIII and introduce meals for the children once the school resumes. We are committed to the all-round development of the children,” said Firdausul Hasan of the alumni association, who was part of Sunday drive. The team’s next stop was a rural campus run by the college at Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas. Around 150 students of the Raghabpur campus also got new clothes, cakes and stationeries. “We need to help Jesus in the helpless, who are knocking at our hearts. Christmas prompts us to do loving things – not only to those we love, our families and friends, but also to reach out to those who have nothing to celebrate because of their sad and desperate situations,” Father Savio said at Raghabpur. Sanjib Koner, the secretary of the alumni association, said “the gift boxes gave us the scope to become secret Santa Claus”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST norms for fair test on digital platform||IIEST has set a slew of conditions so students could be brought under invigilation during the semester exams from Monday, which the Shibpur institute will conduct through a digital platform. “During the entire period of examination, camera of your (students’) device (webcam or mobile camera) has to be kept on and audio to be kept off and you shall be proctored by the faculty members. Adoption of any unfair means shall be dealt with as per institute rules and practices,” read a notice issued by the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) on Friday. Proctored examinations are timed exams during which the faculty monitors the examinees’ computers and webcam video and audio through a platform called Google Meet. Through the monitoring the institute wants to ensure that the students do not consult books or online articles or take help from others while writing the answers. “The audio of the device has to be muted so that an examinee does not get to speak to anyone else. On Google Meet the provisions like switching on the camera, muting the audio are available. As we don’t let the examinees talk to each other while they write the test sitting in a hall, we won’t allow them to talk to each other during the exam on a digital platform,” said an IIEST official. “Sharing and copying answers, or part thereof, shall be treated as unfair means. Examinees adopting such means can have their papers cancelled. The examinees shall not communicate with each other during the examination,” said deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharya, who signed the notice. Metro had on December 10 reported that IIEST had initially wanted to hold the semester exams on the campus to ensure the process remained fair and transparent. But the proposal had to be dropped because a large number of students declined to enter the campus amid the pandemic. “We have introduced a slew of mechanisms so that the tests being held on digital platforms could involve invigilation and be conducted in a transparent manner,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. The notice issued by the deputy registrar (academic) stated that a Google Classroom would be created for the tests and the examinees would be added to it. “The examinees have to join the Google Classroom at least 10 minutes before the start of the day’s exam,” said an IIEST official. “Fifteen minutes will be given after the end of each day’s test for the examinees to upload scanned copies of their answer scripts on the Google Classroom, failing which the answers will not be evaluated.” Kurukshetra University, in Haryana, had in September decided to get the invigilation done through Google Meet and WhatsApp video call during online exams. A member of the IIEST Senate said that since the final-year BTech students had last month written the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus, the institute was exploring the possibility of holding the mid-semester exams (the ones that will start on Monday) in the same way. But while only 59 students had written the supplementary exams, held on November 11 and 12, over 3,000 will write the mid-semester tests, to be held over December and January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Covid survivors campaign against waste burning||A group of Calcuttans is running awareness campaigns in the city urging people to refrain from burning waste, which damages lungs and can have serious impact on people who have recovered from Covid-19. The novel coronavirus, which causes Covid, is known to affect the functioning of the lungs. A good number of people suffer from breathing problems even weeks after recovering from Covid, doctors said. Several members of the group, Covid Care, are putting up posters with the message to not burn waste. The group, comprising mostly people who have recovered from Covid or their family members, was formed to help Covid patients in home isolation get their essential supplies such as medicines and food. But its members are now also focusing on issues like air pollution. “Covid-19 is leading to lung fibrosis, which is scarring of the tissues of the lungs, in many recovered people. This is affecting breathing. Burning of waste generates a lot of toxic elements, which, if inhaled by people with lung fibrosis, will further worsen the condition of their lungs,” said Sudipa Mukherjee, a founder member of the group and a doctor at Howrah District Hospital. The posters, written in Bengali, have been pasted at many places in Dhakuria, Selimpur, Behala, Howrah and Shibpur, said Mukherjee. It says that people should not burn fallen leaves, plastic bags, discarded crates of eggs and other waste. The posters point out that the smoke generated by these items when they are set on fire damages lungs. “People should refrain from burning waste for a better environment, for one’s own health and everyone else’s health,” the posters read. Metro has reported several times about the practice of waste burning in Calcutta. The ultra fine particles, especially PM2.5 (so called because they are smaller than 2.5 micron in size), emitted during the burning of waste can enter deep crevices of the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments. The particles float in the air close to the ground for a long duration during winter. Since air close to the ground is cold, it does not rise up and get replaced by fresh air. As a result, the emitted particles remain trapped close to the ground and enter the lungs. Every winter, Calcutta’s air quality routinely becomes poor, very poor and severe. Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said the smoke emitted by waste burning can lead to hypoxia — a condition marked by inadequate supply of oxygen to tissues — in people with reduced lung functioning. Many people who have recovered from Covid have to deal with reduced lung functioning because lung tissues get scarred. “People who have lung fibrosis because of Covid-19 already have a problem in the exchange of gases, which is the main function of the lungs. They were given oxygen support at hospital  because their lungs could not take in adequate oxygen. When these people are discharged, they have to depend on oxygen in the ambient air,” said Sarkar, clinical director at Peerless Hospital. “When the percentage of oxygen in ambient air further drops , because of waste burning, these people can have serious problems because they will not get adequate oxygen necessary for the body to perform its functions.” Covid Care members are also urging ward coordinators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to spread their message. “We have started mike campaigns from autos. We are also approaching ward coordinators to campaign against waste burning in their wards,” said Subir Gupta, a group member whose wife had contracted Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Business||Sensex plummets as new virus strain spooks global markets||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,407 points on Monday as panic over a new strain of coronavirus in the UK led to a massive selloff in global equities. The 30-share BSE index plunged 1,406.73 points or 3 per cent to close at 45,553.96. The broader NSE Nifty crashed 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to 13,328.40. All Sensex components ended in the red, with ONGC leading the pack by tanking around 9 per cent. IndusInd Bank, M&M, SBI, NTPC, ITC, Axis Bank and PowerGrid shed up to 7 per cent. "Domestic equities witnessed sharp selling pressure on Monday and wiped out more than Rs 7 trillion of investors' wealth in a single day," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns of new COVID-19 strain in the UK and emerging doubts over the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccination dented investors' sentiments globally, he said, adding that Indian market was among the worst performers as profit-booking also took place at higher levels. Notably, the volatility index witnessed a sharp jump of 25 per cent, indicating more volatility ahead, he asserted. Several European countries, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy, have banned flights from the UK with the British government warning that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control". The UK has imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday in London and other regions. India too has suspended all flights from the UK between December 23-31. Stock exchanges in Paris, Frankfurt and London were trading up to 2.50 per lower in early deals. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul settled with mild gains. Global oil benchmark Brent crude futures plummeted 5.30 per cent to USD 49.49 per barrel. Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and HDFC were the biggest drags on Sensex. The four accounted for more than 500 points loss in the 30-scrip index. Analysts say the rally in the domestic markets was driven by liquidity which is why any negative news warranted a deep correction. "It is a bit too early to say anything, but there could be more of this healthy correction in the coming days. The markets are highly leveraged and lack of follow-up buying by foreign institutional investors ahead of Christmas holidays tripped the markets to fall off their own weight," AK Prabhakar, head of research at IDBI Capital Markets, told ndtv.com. "However, investors will always be waiting to buy in a bull market; so any major correction can only happen after the Budget," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
21-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points on Monday, tracking weak cues from global markets amid concerns over a new strain of the virus leading to fresh restrictions in European countries. The 30-share BSE index pared the gains to trade 202.44 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 46,758.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 66.75 points or 0.49 per cent to 13,693.80. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, SBI, ONGC and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, L&T, Reliance Industries, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled at a record 46,960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent, while Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,760.55 -- its new closing high. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,720.95 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a new and faster-transmitting strain of the virus in the UK is an area of concern. Acceleration in the number of cases in the US and poor economic data are other dampeners. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. However, the US Congress agreement on USD 900 billion of fiscal stimulus is likely to support markets. High valuation continues to be a concern in India. But the power of FII-driven liquidity is overshadowing all negative news, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 3.20 per cent lower at USD 50.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
21-12-2020||Business||Reliance Home Finance bids stir controversy||Six suitors, including Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) and Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited (Arcil), have submitted bids for Reliance Home Finance, part of Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group. Only two bidders submitted compliant and binding bids while four bids are non-binding and not compliant with bid conditions, sources said. Lenders have decided to further extend the bidding timeline till January 31, 2021, in order to accommodate the four non-compliant bidders, sources added. The two compliant bidders have opposed the move by the lenders and have threatened to walk away from the alleged non-transparent process, they said. The two compliant and binding bids are from US-based Avenue and Arcil, an asset reconstruction company (ARC), as a joint bid and other from Authum Investment & Infrastructure Limited, a listed non-banking finance company (NBFC). Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) and Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprise Limited (ACRE) have submitted non-binding bids with several conditions, including exclusivity, and has also asked for additional time of two months to complete due diligence, even after the deadline which was extended multiple times, sources said. The other two ARCs namely, Invent and Alchemist, have also submitted conditional bids which are non-compliant with the bids condition and have not paid the mandatory bid bond of Rs 10 crore, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Bid to pare local coal levies||The coal ministry wants a cut in levies to bring domestic coal on a par with the imported varieties. Industry officials said the statutory levies on G8 grade coal (5000 kcal/kg) come to around 46 per cent of the price to consumers. This includes taxes such as royalty, contributions to national mineral exploration trust, district mineral fund, GST of 5 per cent and a flat GST compensation cess of Rs 400 per tonne. The levies on comparative grade of imported coal from Indonesia work out to around 15 per cent. On the higher grades of domestic coal, the levies could even go to 60 per cent. There are also charges on transportation and evacuation of coal. Railways typically have dynamic pricing for peak- and non-peak seasons and busy- and non-busy routes besides development surcharges on railway freight. “Coal at various stages is almost taxed between 45 per cent and 49 per cent. While the cost of digging and excavating is low, the cost of transportation, evacuation, GST, GST compensation cess, DMF, NMET all put together pushes up the cost of coal when it reaches the industry. That is one reason why imported coal is very competitive and sometimes cheaper than domestic coal,” said M. Nagaraju, additional secretary, ministry of coal at an mjunction organised event on Thursday. “I think we need to relook the taxation policy on coal so that it may have an impact on reducing import of thermal coal,” he said. A rationalisation of the taxation structure would be a key component towards the Centre’s plan to bring down the import of thermal coal. Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi earlier this year had announced that thermal coal imports into India will stop from 2023-24. Coal being on the open general license, domestic consumers imported a total of 248.54 mt  in 2019-20. Another import substitution measure is to increase domestic availability through the auction of blocks. But despite auction and allocation, only a handful of blocks have become operational because of  various regulatory and legal hurdles. The Centre had earlier auctioned  98 blocks of which 33 are in operation and more recently 19 blocks have been auctioned  for commercial mining. The estimated additional coal available through these blocks is around 200-220 million tonnes per annum. An official of a corporate bidder who took part in the last round of auction said that clearances related to land, environment and rehabilitation are among the major challenges that any developer  would have to keep in mind while participating in the auction. “There is no standard compensation rate in any state. It becomes difficult to estimate the rehabilitation and resettlement spend,” the official said. Easier transfer of land and frequent meeting between officers of Centre and state government along with corporate bidders for stock taking of allotted blocks are among the other industry suggestions for faster operationalisation of blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Vijaya, Dena merger with Bank of Baroda complete||Bank of Baroda (BoB), the country’s third-largest public-sector bank (PSB) by assets, has completed the integration of 3,898 branches of erstwhile Vijaya Bank and Dena Bank with itself, the lender said on Sunday. Vijaya Bank and Dena Bank got merged with BoB on April 1, 2019. As part of the process, more than 2,000 branches of Vijaya Bank and over 1,700 branches of Dena Bank were merged with the lender. BoB said it completed the integration of 1,770 erstwhile Dena Bank branches in this month. It had earlier finished the integration of 2,128 Vijaya Bank branches in September. With this, the integration of both the erstwhile banks with BoB stands completed much before the committed timeline, a statement from the PSU lender said. The bank added that following the three-way merger, over five crore customer accounts were migrated to the bank. In addition to branches, all ATMs, POS (point of sale) machines and credit cards have also been migrated. The customers of the three banks will now have access to 8,248 domestic branches and 10,318 ATMs in the country along with BoB’s digital channels such as Baroda Connect and M-Connect Plus. Customers whose accounts have been migrated can get information such as account number, IFSC code using any digital channels or call centre or any branch. Debit cards already issued by the erstwhile banks will continue to function until their stipulated expiry. “We have completed fully integration of erstwhile banks with the BoB amid the challenges faced under the Covid environment. With the successful integration, the bank is well poised to derive and consolidate the benefits arising from this amalgamation of the three banks, apart from driving synergies,” Sanjiv Chadha, MD & CEO, BoB, said while commenting on the timely completion of the integration. Shares of BoB settled at Rs 63.10, a drop of 1.02 per cent on Friday at the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||CII's case for many bad banks||Industry body CII on Sunday said it has urged the government to consider the creation of multiple bad banks to address the adverse impact of non-performing assets (NPAs) accumulated by public sector banks in the recent past, that got further accentuated during the pandemic. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in its pre-budget memorandum recommended that the government consider enabling Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) and Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) to purchase NPAs. “In the aftermath of Covid, it is important to find a resolution mechanism through a market determined price discovery. With huge liquidity both globally and domestically, multiple bad banks can address this issue in a transparent manner and get the credit cycle back in action,” CII president Uday Kotak said. A robust market-based mechanism will encourage public sector banks (PSBs) to sell their bad loans without fear of questions being raised later. With cleaner balance sheets, PSBs should be able to raise capital from the market, obviating the need for recapitalisation by government, a bill which the government can ill afford to foot at this point of time, the CII said. Economic Survey 2017 had also suggested the creation of a bad bank called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency (PARA) to help tide over the problem of stressed assets. Lenders have been making a case for setting up a bad bank to ease pressure of bad loans on them in these difficult times. Currently, banks sell their bad loans to asset reconstruction companies as per the prudent norms of the Reserve Bank of India. “As the economy recovers, credit demand from industry will expand. Banks need to gear up to meet this demand. Market mechanism based multiple bad banks can help clean up banks’ balance sheets, encouraging them to lend,” the CII stated. The government had put in Rs 80,000 crore in bank recapitalisation in 2017-18, Rs 1.08 lakh crore in 2018-19 and Rs 70,000 crore in 2019-20. In September this year, Parliament approved another Rs 20,000 crore capital infusion into PSU banks. Public sector banks (PSBs) are planning to raise about Rs 25,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt in the next three months to support credit pick-up and meet regulatory requirement. In the last few months, lenders including State Bank of India, Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank (PNB) have raised about Rs 40,000 crore from the market, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said. “Banks have been able to raise a lot of money from the markets. About Rs 40,000 crores have been raised by the public sector banks both in the form equity and also AT1 and Tier II bonds.  “We will expect another Rs 20,000-25,000 crore during the remaining part of the financial year,” he said. Earlier this month, Canara Bank raised Rs 2,000 crore, while Punjab National Bank (PNB) raised Rs 3,788.04 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Car parts exports exceed imports||The industry for car parts suffered a contraction in the first half of the fiscal even as exports outstripped imports for the first time though both reported a falling turnover. The industry witnessed a contraction of 34 per cent in the first half of the current financial year with a turnover of Rs 1.19 lakh crore compared with Rs 1.82 lakh crore in the corresponding period a year ago. This was revealed in the industry performance review conducted by the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (Acma), the apex body of the  industry. There was a 42 per cent contraction in components purchased by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) in the first half; exports fell 23.6 per cent and imports 32 per cent during the same period. Component exports stood at Rs 39,000 crore, while imports were at Rs 37,710 crore. This was mainly because India was able to export to regions that did not face stringent lockdowns, while its imports remained restricted because of supply chain constraints. Vinnie Mehta, director-general of Acma, said, “The auto industry witnessed a downturn in 2019-20, the situation further aggravated with the outbreak of the pandemic and the lockdown. hile the first quarter of 2020-21 was significantly stressed, with the unlocking of the economy, the sales of vehicles witnessed improvement, month-on-month, in the second quarter The component industry, in tandem, posted a subdued performance.” Acma president Deepak Jain said, “While the performance of the industry during the festive season has been heartening, there are indications that vehicle demand in the coming months will be sustained.” He said the increased focus by the industry on localisation and the announcement of PLI (production-linked incentive) schemes for the sector  augur well towards making the industry self-reliant. “We are also hopeful that the government would consider PLI or appropriate manufacturing schemes for auto-electronics and EV components as well.” Acma also released a survey done jointly with PwC on 2021-22. Despite concerns of another wave of pandemic, the industry is cautiously optimistic about the prospects of the economy and the sector for 2021-22. Companies have mostly recovered and are back to moderate financial health, after the lockdown. Financially healthy and growth focused companies are also actively focusing on Capex and acquisition / merger opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Gold imports  fall 40% to $12.3 billion||Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, declined 40 per cent to $12.3 billion during April-November because of a  fall in demand in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to data from the commerce ministry. Imports of the yellow metal stood at $20.6 billion in the corresponding period of 2019-20. The imports, however, recorded a year-on-year growth of 2.65 per cent in November to $3 billion. Silver imports during April-November 2020, too, dipped 65.7 per cent to about $752 million. The decline in gold and silver imports has helped in narrowing the country’s trade deficit, the difference between imports and exports, to $42 billion during April-November 2020-21 against $113.42 billion in the year-ago period. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to demand of jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually. Gems and jewellery exports declined 44 per cent to $14.30 billion during the first eight months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Govt plans to slap higher import duties on China-origin items||The government plans to slap higher  import duties on a wide range of items that are made in China but are routed into India from countries with whom New Delhi has free trade agreements, meaning they are available cheaply at the expense of local manufacturers. The items range from soybean to auto-components, electronics to vegetable oil, leather goods to textile products. New  Delhi also plans to tighten its rules of origin to boost domestic production, senior commerce ministry officials said. They said many Chinese products are being rerouted from other countries taking advantage of India’s trade agreements with them. This has resulted in the country’s market being flooded with counterfeit goods or cheaper-quality versions of well known brands in segments such as footwear, clothing, leather, watches and electrical equipment such as chargers. An inter-ministerial committee has said “stringent checking” of identified HS codes items such as footwear, apparel, leather products, clocks and watches, electrical machinery and equipment could limit the import of counterfeit products and potentially save $15 billion. It also found that between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of products imported into India come under the ‘‘other’’ category, accounting for around $130 billion of imports, and this is primarily done to avoid duties and taxes. The committee also found a sharp surge in their imports from Singapore and Hong Kong after India imposed an anti-dumping duty on the import of the items from China. “We have found re-routing of products originating mostly from China through countries with which we have FTAs to take advantage of lower duties. These include electronics, leather products and textiles,” officials said. In September, the government had notified customs rules which allow officials to demand proof of significant value addition for goods imported under preferential duty agreements. The committee pointed that there has been a massive surge in soybean oil imports from Nepal and Bangladesh after the  South Asia Free Trade Area agreement or SAFTA. There was a 23,500 per cent increase in soybean oil imports since 2016-17 despite the fact both countries have limited production of soybean, and limited capacity to crush it. “Soybean from China was in this case being routed through Nepal or Bangladesh by flouting WTO rules of origin for getting duty exemption provided under SAFTA,” it said, stressing the need to review existing preferential trade agreements that have placed Indian manufacturers at a disadvantage position. The Department of Revenue has notified the “Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020“ which came into force in September. These rules “shall apply to import of goods into India where the importer makes a claim of preferential rate of duty in terms of a trade agreement,” it said. The “rules of origin“ provision prescribes for the minimal processing that should happen in the FTA country so that the final manufactured product may be called originating goods in that country. Under this provision, a country that has inked FTA with India cannot dump goods from some third country in the Indian market by just putting a label on it. It has to undertake a prescribed value addition in that product to export to India. Rules of origin norms help to contain dumping of goods. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and ASEAN members. “Despite complaints from importers of red tape, we still find a considerable re-routing as the spike in electronics imports shows,” said finance ministry officials. The government is considering bringing in self certification under rules of origin to address genuine importer concerns, while enforcing random checks to see that rules are being adhered. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech had stated that the government would review “rules of origin” requirements, particularly for certain sensitive items,“so as to ensure that FTAs are aligned to the conscious direction of our policy”. She had also said that it has been observed that imports under FTAs are on the rise and undue claims of FTA benefits have posed threat to the domestic industry and such imports require stringent checks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Bengal makes a mark in oil and gas||State-owned explorer Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) took advantage of a newly prescribed policy of the Centre to position Bengal on the oil and gas map of India following its discovery at the Ashoknagar block, even as the long-term commercial viability of the hydrocarbon asset remains to be ascertained. Around 375 barrels of crude oil, whose quality is said to be even better than India’s most prolific oil asset Bombay High, have been extracted from a well on the outskirts of this North 24 Paraganas town since September, making it the most potent hydrocarbon discovery ever made in the state. Bengal’s Gangetic plain has always been touted as a promising place for oil and gas, but a commercially viable discovery has so far eluded ONGC which has been exploring the state for the last six decades, pouring in Rs 3,358 crore in the process. “ONGC has finally brought success to Bengal after decades of effort. It is a momentous day in the history of the state and the country,” Dharmendra Pradhan, Union petroleum minister, said after formally switching on a sucker rod pumping unit, which lifts oil from the well, at the site. Asked how much recoverable reserves the Ashoknagar block holds and what could be the production level and if the same would be commercially viable, the minister appeared cautious. “It is a very good beginning. Let us keep it at that for today.” Three more wells will be drilled by January 2022 to ascertain recoverable reserves from the field and if it could be brought to a sustained commercial production thereafter. Senior ONGC officials, including chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker, who spent the early years of his career looking for elusive oil and gas in Bengal, sounded optimistic of the prospect. A year to go before he demits office, Shanker is convinced that Ashoknagar holds the brightest prospect to put the state in the oil and gas map that can spur economic development in the region. “From the look of it, this has all the potential to become viable,” he told The Telegraph. Early signs buoyed ONGC to acquire three more blocks adjacent to Ashoknagar, which will be explored simultaneously over the next three years and 13 more wells will be drilled. The total capex will be around Rs 425 crore. ONGC officials said the field appears to have more natural gas reserves than oil. The upper layer, around 2,268 metres beneath the surface, holds oil while the gas sits another 100 metres below. A second well will soon be drilled to test the gas but it would not be sold commercially as the gas price remains low. An ONGC official said the block may be viable if the crude oil price remains at $50-55 a barrel. Benchmark Brent crude is now ruling at $52 a barrel. “Commercial viability would depend on how big the installation would be. It is going to be a factor of cost incurred and recoverable reserve,” an official said. ONGC drilled the solitary well at the site in September 2018 and found hydrocarbons. Around 800 barrels of oil were extracted then. After the new DGH policy came into force, it swung into action again and 375 more barrels were produced. It sent 172 barrels to IOC in September and another 200 barrels by tankers in November. With the state election round the corner, an early development plan for Ashoknagar 1 was approved by the DGH and the petroleum mining lease was granted on October 21 for 5.88 square kilometre area. However, a challenge before ONGC would be to acquire enough land to start large scale commercial production. If the volume is high, a pipeline must be built to evacuate gas/oil. Pradhan sought the co-operation of the local people and assured they would be looked after first. ONGC has initially asked for 12 acres from the state government but more would be needed later. Even though the area identified initially is vested with the state, the occupiers are demanding jobs at the site. The company has given temporary jobs to 14-15 local youth so far. The PSU declared Ashoknagar a producing field based on two years of exploration, taking advantage of the policy of early monetisation of hydrocarbon discovery declared by the directorate of general hydrocarbon (DGH) on June 25, 2020. Under this programme, a discovery need not go through the time tested process of appraisal, declaration of commerciality and submission of field development plan before selling oil or gas in the market. ONGC sold crude oil extracted from Ashoknagar block to Indian Oil Corporation and found the product to be of superior quality. Given that ONGC started to commercialise the small quantity produced during the exploration stage from Ashoknagar, located about 55 kilometre north-east of Calcutta, and shared part of the proceeds with the government as per contract, Bengal basin has been elevated as the 8th producing basin of India. Bengal basin — Ashoknagar only a small part of it — is spread over 1.22 lakh square kilometre, two-third of which is offshore. Had it not been for the new policy, which is aimed at fast tracking energy security of the country, ONGC would have to assess the recoverable reserve, make a field development plan, ascertain commercial viability and sign a petroleum mining lease, encompassing three to four years, before starting producing commercially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Some tips on retirement planning||The perfect retirement plan is as elusive as a smog-free winter morning in Calcutta, and even as you read this on Monday morning, the average retired person is grappling with bigger shortfalls, declining yields, widening gaps between what he has saved and what he really needs in his twilight years. The trouble is, while a dreaded winter will inevitably lead to a cheerful spring, a malfunctioning retirement plan can go from bad to worse. There may well be serious challenges on the way; steep inflation rates will, for example, forever remain a grave concern for the retiree. An unanticipated spell of high expenditure can suddenly reduce his corpus, and a much-cherished investment can go belly-up for reasons beyond anyone’s control, thus hitting his portfolio in a debilitating manner. The truth about retirement planning is not easy to digest, its bitterness can be felt at every turn — on mornings when newspapers record a Rs 50 hike in cooking gas prices, on afternoons when a favoured debt security loses its credit rating, on evenings when a government report signals economic growth numbers that are far from satisfactory. You just grin — no, sigh — and bear it all. Let us dedicate ourselves not to such imperfections, but to ways in which retirement plans can be generally fortified against the impact of these challenges. In a backdrop marked by nearly-constant price hikes, relentless taxes and uncertain market conditions, how can the average individual still generate a sense of comfort, courtesy his retirement plan? Here are some considerations for you: ⦾ A substantial part of your corpus must be allocated to fixed-income securities, including ones that provide you with assured returns. These will come to your succour when the rest of the market (read: the part that wallows in uncertain performance) fails to live up to your expectation. ⦾ A portion of your overall portfolio needs to be invested in market-driven performers as well. These will, as you no doubt understand, be risky as returns may not be generated in the desired manner. However, in this day and age, when market-determined yield is supreme, you cannot simply do without these assets. ⦾ Your single-minded goal must necessarily be driven by the need to beat the impact of taxes and inflation. The two of these are enough to keep you on tenterhooks for the rest of your active life. And for a retired person without an active income stream, this is by far the most serious consideration. The higher-stronger-smarter objective can be achieved if the individual has started allocating resources sufficiently early in life. This means, the perfect retirement plan is a function of time — a luxury that many of us do not have. “Start early and invest methodically” needs to be a motto for all. That motto, I must point out, can be actually rendered more efficient if the individual concerned keeps an eye on costs. Managing the latter poses a grave task for a retiree. Further, to be simply aware of costs is one thing, to really keep them on a tight leash happens to be a totally different challenge. In this context, I will draw your attention to the following issues: ⦾ Management of costs is very much part of your investment strategy. Brokerages, commissions, loads and sundry other expenses (including compliance fees that you may pay for audits and similar exercises) can add up to be a formidable number at the end of the year. ⦾ Too many transactions will augment your costs. The higher is the number of transactions, the more is your aggregate cost of transaction. So if you have purchased and sold a stock many times, you will pay a tidy sum to your stock broker. ⦾ Your net returns must be calculated after you account for these costs as well as other deductibles, including taxes. Net figures, which are often a good distance away from what are actually advertised, help you stay rooted to reality. You get to know what you have finally earned, and whether your money has truly grown on a year-on-year basis. It is far too easy to suggest that an individual should ideally explore other avenues to earn after retirement. Rare is the man who does it with elan in his golden years; rarer still is the willingness to learn new trades or weigh other professional alternatives. No, all the best-laid plans are built on the same foundations — early start, methodical investment regimen, financial discipline, efficient asset allocation, cost management and so on. The perfect individual will take care of all these, but he will also do more. He will pare expectations, perhaps delay gratification as well. Such an investor will, nevertheless, forever keep his eye on the ball. Risk control will be his preferred mantra at all times. Risk and returns are of course never too far away from one another, their relationship being a sacrosanct tenet in the realm of investment. The higher the risk, the higher is the potential return. Let that be gospel truth in your case too. In other words, the average retiree like you needs to be completely aware of your risks. Each asset class you have invested in has its set of risks to contend with. Equities and commodities are generally riskier, while debt has a relatively stable orientation. The risk-return scale can never be too far away from your radar. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||India||Congress veteran Motilal Vora passes away at 93 after Covid complications||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora, a staunch Gandhi family loyalist who had a political career spanning almost five decades, died at a hospital here on Monday following post-Covid-19 complications, his family said. He was 93. Vora was admitted to the Escorts Hospital in Okhla here a few days ago with a urinary infection. He developed a severe lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said. He completed 93 years on Sunday. He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where he stayed most of his life. Vora, a two-time former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh and also a former governor of Uttar Pradesh had served as a Rajya Sabha member four times and as a Lok Sabha member once. He started his political innings as an MLA in 1972 and remained a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly till 1992. He was the chief minister of the state from 1985 to 1988 and elected to the office again in 1989. He remained active in the party till earlier this year. He was the party's treasurer for a long time and last held the position of AICC general secretary (administration). President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political leaders including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to the departed leader. "Sad to hear that veteran Congress leader Shri Motilal Vora is no more. He was humility personified and belonged to a generation of leaders who carry their politics with unflinching conviction till the end. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," President Kovind tweeted. Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman said he was deeply saddened to learn about Vora's demise who commanded great respect and love across the political spectrum. "When I came to Rajya Sabha in 2014, I used to listen to his speeches and watch his behaviour in the House closely. For me, he had the qualities of an ideal Member of Parliament. "His dedication, loyalty and contribution to his party is recognised by all. His work against malnutrition in children, especially in Chhattisgarh, has now started giving good results," he said. "In Vora ji's demise, the country has lost an honest, simple and committed leader. It is an irreplaceable loss not only to the Congress party but also to the country," the vice president said. PM Modi said he was saddened by the demise of the Congress veteran. "Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti," the PM said in a tweet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to express their condolences. Condoling Vora's demise, Rahul Gandhi said, "Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much. My love and condolences to his family and friends." Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said every Congress leader and worker is feeling personally pained by Vora's death. "Vora ji was a symbol of loyalty, dedication and patience towards the ideology of Congress," she said. She also said Vora was present at every party meeting even at the age of 92 and expressed his views openly on every issue. "Today, while bidding him goodbye I feel sad that an elder member of the family has left us. We will all miss him very much," she added. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "A giant is no more. Sh Moti Lal Vora was the epitome of commitment, dedication and loyalty. He inspired an entire generation with his untiring attitude and capacity to brave every adversity. My heartfelt homage." The Congress party also tweeted through its official handle, "We offer our heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of stalwart Congress leader, former Union Cabinet Minister and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Motilal Vora. Congress has lost a guiding light. May his soul rest in peace." Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora, a staunch Gandhi family loyalist who had a political career spanning almost five decades, died at a hospital here on Monday following post-Covid-19 complications, his family said. He was 93. Vora was admitted to the Escorts Hospital in Okhla here a few days ago with a urinary infection. He developed a severe lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said. He completed 93 years on Sunday. He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where he stayed most of his life. Vora, a two-time former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh and also a former governor of Uttar Pradesh had served as a Rajya Sabha member four times and as a Lok Sabha member once. He started his political innings as an MLA in 1972 and remained a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly till 1992. He was the chief minister of the state from 1985 to 1988 and elected to the office again in 1989. He remained active in the party till earlier this year. He was the party's treasurer for a long time and last held the position of AICC general secretary (administration). President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political leaders including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to the departed leader. "Sad to hear that veteran Congress leader Shri Motilal Vora is no more. He was humility personified and belonged to a generation of leaders who carry their politics with unflinching conviction till the end. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," President Kovind tweeted. Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman said he was deeply saddened to learn about Vora's demise who commanded great respect and love across the political spectrum. "When I came to Rajya Sabha in 2014, I used to listen to his speeches and watch his behaviour in the House closely. For me, he had the qualities of an ideal Member of Parliament. "His dedication, loyalty and contribution to his party is recognised by all. His work against malnutrition in children, especially in Chhattisgarh, has now started giving good results," he said. "In Vora ji's demise, the country has lost an honest, simple and committed leader. It is an irreplaceable loss not only to the Congress party but also to the country," the vice president said. PM Modi said he was saddened by the demise of the Congress veteran. "Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti," the PM said in a tweet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to express their condolences. Condoling Vora's demise, Rahul Gandhi said, "Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much. My love and condolences to his family and friends." Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said every Congress leader and worker is feeling personally pained by Vora's death. "Vora ji was a symbol of loyalty, dedication and patience towards the ideology of Congress," she said. She also said Vora was present at every party meeting even at the age of 92 and expressed his views openly on every issue. "Today, while bidding him goodbye I feel sad that an elder member of the family has left us. We will all miss him very much," she added. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "A giant is no more. Sh Moti Lal Vora was the epitome of commitment, dedication and loyalty. He inspired an entire generation with his untiring attitude and capacity to brave every adversity. My heartfelt homage." The Congress party also tweeted through its official handle, "We offer our heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of stalwart Congress leader, former Union Cabinet Minister and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Motilal Vora. Congress has lost a guiding light. May his soul rest in peace."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Vietnam important partner in India's Indo-Pacific vision: PM Modi at virtual summit||Describing Vietnam as an important partner in India's Indo-Pacific vision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said cooperation between the two countries can contribute to maintaining peace and stability in the region. At a virtual summit with Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Modi said India looks at its ties with Vietnam with a long-term and strategic perspective. "Vietnam is an important pillar of India's Act East policy," Modi said in his opening remarks, adding the scope of the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries has expanded significantly. "Peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region is our common aim. Our cooperation can make an important contribution in maintaining peace and stability in the region," said Modi. He also complimented Vietnam for the way the country handled the coronavirus pandemic. India and Vietnam upgraded their relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2016 and defence cooperation has been one of the most significant elements in the fast-expanding bilateral ties. Both countries have stakes in the Indo-Pacific and are aiming to explore the potential for further cooperation in the region. At the East Asia Summit in Bangkok last year, Prime Minister Modi proposed setting up of the Indo-Pacific Ocean's Initiative (IPOI) to conserve and sustainably use the maritime domain and to make meaningful efforts to create a safe and secure maritime domain. The 10-nation ASEAN has reflected its vision for the region in a document titled 'ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP)'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||India suspends all flights to and from UK from Wednesday||All flights from the UK to India and vice versa will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Monday in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. Moreover, the ministry said passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday would be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airports "as a measure of abundant precaution". A number of countries like Canada, Turkey, Belgium, Italy and Israel have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. The Civil Aviation Ministry tweeted: "Considering the prevailing situation in UK, Govt. of India has decided that all flights originating from UK to India to be suspended till 31st December 2020 (23.59 hours)." This suspension will start after 11.59 PM of December 22 and consequently, flights from India to the UK shall also stand temporarily suspended during the above said period, it added. "As a measure of abundant precaution, passengers arriving from the UK in all transit flights (flights that have taken off or flights which are reaching India before 22nd Dec at 23.59 hrs) should be subject to mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival at the airports concerned," it mentioned. A chorus was growing within the political corridors of India to ban flights from UK with many countries around the world opting for a similar approach. Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. "New mutation of coronavirus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately," Kejriwal tweeted. In a tweet, Gehlot said India was late in banning international flights when COVID-19 had started spreading, leading to a drastic spike in cases in the country. "The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. GoI must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same & also immediately ban all flights from the UK & other European countries," he tweeted. "India needs both a preparedness plan as well as steps to restrict any movement from affected countries. Our medical experts must be ready with a treatment plan in case of any outbreak of the new strain of virus. Health protocols must be adhered to even more strictly," the chief minister said. Earlier, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "The government is fully alert about everything. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic the way we are seeing in this press conference," the minister said amid concerns about the new strain. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19. Responding to a question on the panic and a demand to ban flights from the UK, Vardhan told reporters, "I would say this to all that all these imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic... don't involve yourself in this." The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of the new strain in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||No need to panic, assures health minister on new Covid strain||The government is vigilant, and there is no need to panic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday amid concerns over the emergence of a new coronavirus strain in the UK. The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the new strain, which has led to a surge in the infection rate in the UK. Responding to a question on the panic and a demand to ban flights from the UK, Vardhan told reporters, "I would say this to all that all these imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic... don't involve yourself in this." "The government is fully alert about everything. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic the way we are seeing in this press conference," the minister said. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. Several European countries -- France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy -- have banned flights from the UK with the British government warning that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposing a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week said a fast-moving new variant of the virus that is 70 per cent more transmissible than existing strains appeared to be driving the rapid spread of new infections in London and southern England in recent weeks. But he stressed "there's no evidence to suggest it is more lethal or causes more severe illness," or that vaccines will be less effective against it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Kejriwal, Gehlot ask govt to ban all flights from UK in view of the new Covid strain||Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday demanded that the Centre ban all flights from the UK immediately in view of the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus there. The Union Health Ministry has called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group on Monday to discuss the emergence of the new strain in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there. "New mutation of coronavirus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately," Kejriwal tweeted. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. Expressing concern over the new coronavirus strain in the UK, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday asked the Centre to take prompt action and prepare a contingency plan. In a tweet, Gehlot said India was late in banning international flights when COVID-19 had started spreading, leading to a drastic spike in cases in the country. "The new strain of novel coronavirus emerging in the UK is a matter of great concern. GoI must take prompt action, prepare a contingency plan to contain the same & also immediately ban all flights from the UK & other European countries," he tweeted. "India needs both a preparedness plan as well as steps to restrict any movement from affected countries. Our medical experts must be ready with a treatment plan in case of any outbreak of the new strain of virus. Health protocols must be adhered to even more strictly, the chief minister said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the government is alert and there is no need to panic. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. PTI SDA||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||Hathras rape-murder case 'exposed' UP govt, says Akhilesh Yadav||The Uttar Pradesh government has been "exposed" in the Hathras rape-murder case and it will also face the same treatment in the "false cases" against Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday had filed a charge sheet against the four men accused of the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district. The findings submitted by the CBI left top Uttar Pradesh Police officials red-faced as they had claimed that no evidence of rape was found in forensic tests. In a tweet, Yadav said, "The way the lies of the BJP government have been exposed in the Hathras incident, the process of exposure of false cases in UP has started." "Believing in the judiciary and democracy, we are confident that the government will also lose the false cases against Azam Khan and he will get justice very soon," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted. Khan, who represents Rampur in the Lok Sabha, is currently lodged at the Sitapur jail after he surrendered at a Rampur court in a case pertaining to fake birth certificate produced by his son Abdullah for the last assembly elections. The Samajwadi Party MP, among many other cases, faces charges of encroachment of land around Mohammad Ali Jauhar University, where he is the chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
21-12-2020||India||More than 24,000 Covid cases, 333 casualties in a day ||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,55,560 with 24,337 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 96 lakh, according to Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,45,810 with 333 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,06,111, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.53 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent, according to the data. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the 15th consecutive day. There are 3,03,639 active coronavirus cases in the country which comprise 3.02 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,20,98,329 samples have been tested up to December 20 with 9,00,134 samples being tested on Sunday. The 333 new fatalities include 98 from Maharashtra, 40 from Bengal, 30 from Kerala and 26 from Delhi. The 1,45,810 deaths reported so far in the country includes 48,746 from Maharashtra followed by 12,009 in Karnataka, 11,983 in Tamil Nadu, 10,277 in Delhi, 9,360 in West Bengal, 8,196 in Uttar Pradesh, 7,076 in Andhra Pradesh and 5,201 in Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Copper Age relics unearthed in Bihar along Kosi river||The remains of an ancient site, said to be around 3,500 years old, have been discovered along the Kosi river in Bihar. The site, located at Naugachhia in Bhagalpur district, around 260km east from state capital Patna, has come as a surprise find for historians and archaeologists because the area had never yielded such antiquity till now. Located near Guwaridih village under Bihpur circle, a portion of the site was exposed due to erosion of a huge mound spread across 25 acres by a stream of the Kosi during monsoon this year. It has yielded items like terracotta pottery, burnt bricks, brick walls, brick structures, copper and iron tools, punch-mark coins, beads of terracotta and semi-precious stones, ornaments, animal fossils, triangular bricks, weights and other objects in significant numbers. Chief minister Nitish Kumar flew to inspect the settlement on Sunday after it became a talking point among the locals, historians and archaeologists. He gave instructions for an intensive exploration of the place and its adjoining areas to unravel the spread of the particular culture, its connections with other archaeological sites and civilisations. “I had asked a team of experts to visit the place after one of our MLAs informed us. The team recently submitted a small report saying it seemed to be an ancient archaeological site. I have come to visit the place and at first glance it does seem to be a very old one going back to thousands of years,” Nitish told reporters. “A branch of the Kosi river is eroding the site. I have asked the water resources department to divert the flow of the river to preserve the site. Our experts would explore the place and the adjoining areas to understand its expanse and value. If they confirm its importance, we will excavate and conserve the entire area and we will also acquire land from the villagers if needed,” Nitish added. Experts said that more similar sites could be found in the vicinity because the area is dotted with mounds. Extensive exploration would reveal whether it was an urban settlement or something else, they said. Bihar Heritage Development Society executive director Bijoy Kumar Choudhary, who accompanied the chief minister, said that the settlement seemed to be going back to the chalcolithic (Copper Age) period. “The site’s antiquity is going back to the chalcolithic period, which in Bihar is considered to be around 1500 BC. The punch-mark coins of copper indicate that the site existed around the 6th century BC. The potsherds indicate that it continued till the Kushana period and later in the first few centuries of AD. We are going to intensively explore the place on the chief minister’s instructions,” Choudhary said. He said that the discovered site could be connected to the Anga “Mahajanapada” (one of the 16 important states in ancient India). He also said that the enthusiasm of a local villager — Avinash Chaudhary — was of much help as he collected and protected many of the antiquities found at the site. Recently, a 2,000-year-old archaeological site was found at Chanan in Banka district in the state. It is currently located in the bed of Chanan river. Nitish has instructed the water resources department to divert the course of the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Change in antigen norms ‘shuts out’ Indian firms||An industry body has accused the Centre of abruptly increasing the accuracy thresholds for rapid antigen tests used to detect the novel coronavirus, effectively granting a South Korean company a monopoly and eliminating Indian companies from government orders. The Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMED) has questioned the Centre’s decision to “all of a sudden” change the required accuracy thresholds — a sensitivity of 84 per cent from 50 per cent and a specificity of 100 per cent from 95 per cent. Sensitivity measures true positives while specificity measures true negatives in the tested samples. A sensitivity of 84 per cent and specificity of 100 per cent would mean the test should yield no more than 16 per cent false positives and zero per cent false negatives. High false negative rates are worrying because such tests could misleadingly label infected people as “negative” and contribute to spreading the infection. The guidelines require that anyone with symptoms who tests negative should be confirmed as negative through the more reliable RT-PCR diagnostic test. The association on Saturday told the Indian Council of Medical Research — the government agency designated to validate all Covid-19 tests — that the revised specifications for rapid antigen tests are “discriminatory” and favour a South Korean company. The specifications for tenders in the government e-marketplace portal have been changed “to match the results” of Korea’s SD Biosensor’s new test approved by the ICMR, the AIMED said in a letter to ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava, the health ministry and other government departments. Officials in the ICMR and the health ministry did not respond to queries from this newspaper seeking their perspective on AIMED’s concerns. “Indian manufacturers will sit idle and not be able to participate in tenders while SD (Biosensor) will again get a monopoly with 100 per cent government tender business and sell this product at very high prices to government agencies,” AIMED wrote in the letter. AIMED’s forum coordinator, Rajiv Nath, said the diagnostic test manufacturers appreciated the need to upgrade accuracy thresholds over time as technology improved, but were questioning the abrupt change, which came without any intimation and sought a match with the specifications of a single company. The chief executive of one diagnostic company said the new 84 per cent sensitivity threshold for rapid antigen tests exceeded the 80 per cent sensitivity criterion set by the US Food and Drug Administration. “Everyone views the US FDA as setting the gold standard — yet for this specific requirement, they have even surpassed the levels required by the US FDA,” said the executive, who requested not to be named because he did not want to appear critical of the Centre. The South Korean company, according to AIMED, has supplied over 80 per cent of the rapid antigen diagnostic tests used by government agencies across the country. “They sold their product at over Rs 400 per test until several Indian players entered the market with tests costing Rs 50,” Nath said. The rapid antigen tests, which look for viral proteins, are easier and faster but less reliable than the RT-PCR tests that look for viral genetic material. But many states have increased their use of the rapid antigen tests and the Union health ministry has urged states to confirm, whenever necessary, negative antigen tests with RT-PCR tests. “Domestic companies have helped reduce the price but the new technical specifications appear designed to provide exclusive opportunities to the South Korean company,” the executive said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Undaunted, farmers announce intensification of their agitation||The farmers on Sunday announced an intensification of their agitation to exert political, diplomatic and economic pressure on the government, including a high-decibel protest aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They issued a call to supporters to clang vessels to drown out next Sunday’s instalment of Modi’s monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, turning the Prime Minister’s own idea against him. Modi had in March asked all Indians to beat utensils and clap hands at a specific time to applaud the frontline workers in the fight against the pandemic. “Now, we urge all farmers and others who support our cause to drown the Prime Minister’s broadcast through the programme,” Jagjit Singh Dallewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) said. The call, through which the farmers tried to tell the government they were tired of its monologue, came on a day Union home minister Amit Shah hinted at another round of talks this week. Late in the night, the government sent a letter to the farmers to spell out their concerns about the amendments it had proposed and to pick a date for talks. However, with Modi now leading the defence of the new farm laws, the farmers are not particularly optimistic of an early resolution and indicated at their news conference that the protests could spill over to the new year. They also announced a slew of protest programmes to keep up the momentum, undaunted by the government’s attempts to prevent mobilisation and intimidate them with income-tax raids in Punjab on their commission agents. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to stage relay hunger strikes at all the protest sites from Monday, free the toll plazas in Haryana for three days beginning December 25, pressure the BJP’s allies to take a stand, and mobilise farmers across the country. The BJP has already lost its oldest ally, the Akali Dal, over the farm laws while another ally, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, too has decided to throw in its lot with the farmers. The farmers are tapping their contacts among the diaspora across world capitals to have protests held outside the Indian missions. The SKM has extended its boycott call from Jio SIMs and accessories to Adani’s products, emboldened by reports of Reliance complaining about losing subscribers to rivals. On December 23, observed as Kisan Divas, all farming households will forgo a meal in support of the movement, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said. He alleged that farmers were being stopped from proceeding towards Delhi. Still, the farmers have been able to block one carriageway of the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Shajahanpur. Farmer leaders said the raids in Punjab suggested a panicky government was trying to intimidate the commission agents, who had contributed substantially to the protests. Farmers have decided to gherao income-tax offices in Punjab. Darshan Pal, a farm union leader, cited reports that said several singers who had supported the movement were being targeted by the government, and that questions were being asked about the funding of some of the farmer unions. The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab’s largest farmer organisations, said a central agency had asked it to furnish details of its FCRA registration, which allows it to receive foreign funds, PTI reported. Otherwise, the Centre has said, the donations from abroad “would be sent back”, the outfit’s leaders said. They accused the government of “using all tactics” to try and “defeat the agitation”. The protesting farmers observed Sunday as “martyrs’ day” in memory of those who died while participating in the protests. Candlelight marches were held in the evening in memory of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi visits gurdwara; farmers left in the lurch  ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a visit to the Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi, staging what appeared his latest attempt to reach out to Punjab’s Sikh farmers who are leading the protest against the new farm laws. “This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was cremated,” Modi said, posting a series of tweets and pictures of his visit. “I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindness of Guru Teg Bahadur Ji.” Modi, whose extensive homage to Guru Nanak on his birthday last month too had been interpreted as an attempt to mollify the Sikh farmers, posted the tweets on his gurdwara visit in Punjabi apart from Hindi and English. It was an unscheduled visit and even the gurdwara authorities were apparently informed at the last moment. If Modi has visited a gurdwara in New Delhi since becoming Prime Minister six years ago, no one this newspaper asked could readily recall such a visit. Among the many videos and pictures of the visit circulated on social media, one video posted by a few journalists stood out. It shows Modi interacting with the gurdwara authorities as a priest, the granthi, recites from the holy Guru Granth Sahib in the background: “No matter how many religious texts a man reads, it is all a waste unless he thinks about the welfare of humanity…. And when the end comes, where and how long will he run?” Critics questioned Modi’s wooing of Sikh farmers at a time when his government was stonewalling the protesters’ demands to repeal the new farm laws and his party colleagues were maligning the protesters as “Khalistanis”. “Who is Modi trying to fool by going to the gurdwara? The Guru’s Sikhs are sitting in lakhs on the roads. Instead of going to the gurdwara, go to the farmers and apologise,” Congress MP Ravneet Bittu said during a TV debate with the BJP’s Harjit Grewal. “What do we say, who does God reside in? In humans. People have been forced to sit on the roads....” For all the government’s efforts and ploys to break the farmers’ agitation that has besieged Delhi’s borders since late November, the movement continues to grow and intensify. That Sikh farmers from Punjab, known for their grit and valour in battle, are at the forefront of the protests has made matters particularly difficult for the authorities. Gurdwara Rakab Ganj stands at the site where the body of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh guru who was beheaded on Aurangzeb’s orders for resisting persecution of Hindus and Sikhs, was consigned to flames. The government recently brought out a booklet to highlight Modi’s “special relationship” with the Sikh community, but Sunday’s gurdwara visit was his first direct attempt at using religious symbols to court the farmers. “It is the special kripa of the Guru Sahibs that we will mark the special occasion of the 400th Prakash Parv of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji during our government’s tenure,” another tweet from Modi said. “Let us mark this blessed occasion in a historic way and celebrate the ideals of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji.” None of the outreach efforts seems to have worked so far on the farmers, who have expressed outrage at BJP leaders’ slander and what they see as the government’s efforts to fob them off with empty words.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath govt faces cowshed project complaints||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s claim that protecting the “mother cow” is his priority is being tested by complaints that his government stopped funding its cowshed project months ago, leaving the animals to starve to death. Over a dozen panchayat chiefs from Banda district in Bundelkhand have written a joint letter to Adityanath saying they would release all the cattle from the temporary cowsheds under their care unless the funds and the arrears are released by December 25. “We have been running 43 cowsheds since 2018, when the state government erected shelters for unclaimed cattle and allocated funds,” the letter says. “But we haven’t received any funds since April 2020 and have been running the shelters with our own resources in the hope that the money would be released soon.” Gyan Singh, a signatory and a leader of the district’s Gram Pradhan Sangh, told reporters: “Our tenures as village panchayat chief will end on December 25. We’ll then release the cattle so they don’t die of hunger.” He said the 43 sheds housed and fed 15,000 stray cows. After December 25, the panchayat chiefs will hold their posts as caretakers till the upcoming rural polls. The election process is to begin next week. The state government is supposed to pay the village panchayats Rs 30 per day per cow. However, for unexplained reasons, the funds stopped flowing to most districts since February this year, and to the rest since April, government officials said. “We have not only forwarded multiple complaints from the panchayat chiefs but also written from our side to the government several times,” a senior veterinary department official in Bundelkhand said on the condition of anonymity. Adityanath had in February last year allocated Rs 613 crore towards cow welfare for the financial year 2019-20. No such allocation was made for the current fiscal. Stray cows are a big problem in Uttar Pradesh, roaming the highways and causing accidents, or entering agricultural fields and destroying crops. An ex-serviceman allegedly shot a cow dead in anger on December 17 at village Devpur-Kamalpur in Azamgarh district after stray cattle destroyed his crops. Accused Chunnu Lal has been arrested under the Arms Act and the Gowansh Nivaran Adhiyam, a law against the torture or killing of cows. He could be jailed for 10 years if convicted. Vijay Pal, one of the panchayat chiefs who signed the letter to Adityanath, said: “We have spent a lot of our own money to feed these animals. There will be none to look after them once our tenures end on December 25. Keeping them in the sheds thereafter would simply mean killing them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||China picks new military commander; will look after India border||Chinese President Xi Jinping has appointed a new commander of the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command which looks after the country’s border with India, amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Sources in the Indian Army termed the appointment as “routine”. Gen. Zhang Xudong succeeds 65-year-old Gen. Zhao Zongqi who is retiring. President Xi has promoted four senior Chinese military and armed police officers. Among them was Gen. Zhang, commander of the Western Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), state-run Xinhua news agency reported on Friday. Not much is known about Gen. Zhang, especially his association with Western Theatre Command, as he reportedly served mostly in other theatre commands of the PLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Punjab farmer organisation asked to submit foreign fund details||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of Punjab’s largest farmer organisations protesting against the farm laws, on Sunday said it has been asked by a central agency to submit its registration details that allow it to receive foreign funds. The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president, Joginder Ugrahan, and its general secretary, Sukhdev Singh, said the “Centre is using all tactics as their sole purpose is to defeat the ongoing agitation”. “They are asking for details about NRI funds. The NRIs from Punjab help us with donations from their hard-earned money. They are supporting our agitation, what is the problem in that? Back home too, people support us,” Ugrahan said. Singh said that “a department under the Centre has sent an email which we received through our bank’s branch in Punjab. In the email, it was stated that we should give registration details in respect of these donations from abroad otherwise they will be sent back”. The Foreign Contribution Regulation Act stipulates mandatory registration of any outfit receiving foreign funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Fraud charge on Nirav Modi's brother||Nehal Modi, younger brother of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, has been indicted here on the charge of fraudulently obtaining diamonds worth over $2.6 million from one of the world’s biggest diamond companies in Manhattan. Nehal, 41, faces the charge of grand larceny in the first degree, Manhattan district attorney Cy Vance Jr said in a statement on Friday. “While diamonds may be forever, this flawed scheme was not, and now Modi will face the clarity of a New York Supreme Court indictment,” Vance said. Interpol had earlier issued a red-corner notice against Nehal on charges of money laundering that are being probed by India’s Enforcement Directorate. Nehal, a former member of Noble Titan Holdings, had allegedly made false representations to obtain over $2.6 million worth of diamonds from LLD Diamonds USA on favourable credit terms and consignment, and then liquidated the diamonds for his own ends. Vance’s statement said Nehal, “who comes from a well-known family in the diamond industry”, had initially been introduced to the president of LLD Diamonds through industry associates. In March 2015, he allegedly got LLD to provide him with several diamonds, worth nearly $800,000, claiming he was pursuing a relationship with Costco Wholesale Corporation and wanted to present the diamonds to it for a potential sale. After LLD provided the diamonds, Nehal allegedly lied to the company saying Costco had agreed to buy them. Subsequently, LLD allowed him to buy the diamonds on credit, with full payment required within 90 days. Nehal then pawned the diamonds at Modell Collateral Loans to secure a short-term loan, Vance’s office said. Nehal is said to have later taken diamonds from LLD several times for purported sale to Costco and some payments to LLD, but allegedly used most of the proceeds for personal use and other business expenses. Nehal’s brother Nirav, 49, is wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering. He has been in a London prison following his arrest in March last year. The New York Post quoted Nehal’s lawyer Roger Bernstein as saying “this is a commercial dispute” and “Nehal is not guilty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Farmers convert roadside wall into 'wall of goodness'||It was a normal roadside wall of brick and mortar till a day ago, but now it is called the “neki ki divar (wall of goodness)”. From clothes to toiletries to medicines, the protesters who are continuing their sit-in at Delhi’s Ghazipur border against the Centre’s new farm laws, can get these things by writing their needs on this wall. “We have set up a ‘neki ki divar’ today. The idea is to ensure all our farmer brothers and sisters are well equipped to be a part of the protest and keep themselves warm in Delhi’s harsh weather,” Survinder Kisan, one of the protesters at the Ghazipur border, said. Two kiosks have been attached to the roadside wall at the protest site. “At one place people can leave what they want to donate and the other side is for protesters who can collect things as per their needs from the existing stock,” he said. “If what they need is not available, they can write it on the wall and it will be provided to them,” Kisan said. Space has been left on the wall and chalks have been kept, so that people can leave messages about their needs, he said, adding a register will also be maintained. They are providing masks, sanitisers, medicines, toiletries, beddings, and woollen clothes. “We will add more items. Food is already being served at langars,” Survinder said. The protesting farmers also observed Shraddhanjali Diwas on Sunday to pay homage to those who had “died during the ongoing agitation”. “We are paying homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. It will be a pity if we let go of their sacrifices without getting our demands met,” said Ratan Jhadola, another protester. The Ghazipur border was closed on Thursday because of the farmers’ protest. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at various borders of the national capital for almost four weeks now as formal talks between the government and representatives of farmers’ unions remained deadlocked with protesting peasants refusing to accept anything less than a repeal of the three newly enacted laws. The Supreme Court on Thursday acknowledged the right of farmers to non-violent protests and mooted the idea of putting on hold the contentious farm laws to enable negotiations with agitating farmers which was opposed by the Centre, saying agriculturists would then not come forward for the talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-475
21-12-2020||India||Congress asks Narendra Modi to visit farmers, withdraw laws||The Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to concede the demands of the farmers instead of relying on hollow symbolism, which would not undo the “injustice” done by his government. After Modi tweeted pictures of his visit to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi to pay tribute to Guru Teg Bahadur on Sunday morning, the Congress pointed to the verse the priest was reciting from the Guru Granth Sahib that was heard in the background in videos of Modi speaking to officials at the gurdwara. The message heard in the background was about the futility of religiosity unless the devotee changed his thinking and served mankind. Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala posted that video along with this tweet: “Modi ji, pay heed to the essence of the message: ‘No matter how much religious matter how many texts a man reads, it is all a waste unless he thinks about the welfare of humanity…’ Wish the Prime Minister adopted the message from Guruwani instead of showing cruelty to farmers and using this visit to Gurudwara for mere photo opportunity.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also tweeted: “Modi ji, you can’t undo your mistake only by visiting Gurudwara. Farmers have been humiliated by calling them Khalistani, terrorists, agents of China and Pakistan, Naxals, Maoists. Their rights have been trampled by the new laws. Atone for this sin. Shed arrogance and withdraw these laws. Don’t take the curses from farmers.” Later at a news conference, another spokesperson Shama Mohamed said: “It is always a good thing to go to a gurdwara, go to a mandir. You know, we Indians are very spiritual people and I appreciate the Prime Minister’s going there. But there are these farmers who are protesting at the border. Thirty-three farmers have died due to extreme cold and ailments; you know it is very cold even sitting inside the house, we need heaters, now they are on the roads out there.” She added: “Has anybody in the government expressed condolences for the death of 33 farmers? Why can’t the Prime Minister go there and console them? Where is the empathy? He can console the families; just imagine what is going through those families, their children; they are also there at the Delhi borders. Instead of just going to religious places, which we understand is a good thing, but, he must give justice to these farmers and repeal these black laws and re-enact new laws in consultation with farmers, opposition parties and other stakeholders.” Criticising the callousness and insensitivity of the government she added: “I want to know why is our Prime Minister silent on so many deaths and the sufferings of lakhs of people in this cold? Why is home minister Amit Shah quiet? He can go to Bengal to campaign for election, which is far away in May, but not utter a word on the death  of 33 farmers. The All India Kisan Sabha is observing Shraddhanjali Divas today. But not a word from the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-476
21-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP trying to destabilise WB govt, Pawar will unite Oppn: NCP||The BJP is "using" the Centre to "destabilise" the West Bengal government, the NCP alleged on Monday and added that its chief Sharad Pawar and other leaders will unite the Opposition in future. Speaking to reporters, Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) national spokesperson Nawab Malik said that West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC president Mamata Banerjee called up Pawar on Sunday and discussed the issue. Malik said the issue will be discussed by leaders of Opposition parties in Delhi. "Sharad Pawar will himself visit Kolkata, if need be," he added. The West Bengal government has locked horns with the Centre over the latter directing three IPS officers from the state to join in Central deputation for their alleged dereliction of duties following the recent attack on the convoy of BJP president J P Nadda. "The way the BJP is using the Central government to destabilise the West Bengal government, it is very serious. The IPS officers have been withdrawn without the consent of the West Bengal government, which is very dangerous. West Bengal Chief Minister has discussed the issue with Pawar saheb," Malik said. He said the BJP's "programme to destabilise" elected governments in states "is not right and not in line with democracy". "Somewhere, Pawar saheb and other leaders will unite all opposition leaders in the future," Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Prashant Kishor, BJP in Twitter war over Shah's Bengal poll claim||The BJP will not cross double digits in the West Bengal assembly polls, election strategist Prashant Kishor claimed on Monday, making light of the coup Home Minister Amit Shah pulled off with a parade of TMC leaders into the saffron party. Kishor, who managed Narendra Modi's sucessful campaign for prime ministership in 2014, has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party's prospects in the West Bengal assembly polls likely in April-May next year. Kishor said he will quit Twitter if the saffron party does any better than what he has predicted, setting off a war of words with BJP leaders on the microblogging website. "For all the hype amplified by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal," he tweeted. "Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!" Kishore added. The BJP had got a huge a shot in the arm on Saturday when political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, nine MLAs and a TMC MP joined the party in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah, considered the architect of the BJP's resurgence in West Bengal, had asserted that his party will win over 200 seats in the upcoming polls. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party's pointsman in the state, took a swipe at Kishor, saying the country will end up losing a poll strategist after the West Bengal elections. "Given the ongoing BJP tsunami in Bengal, once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist," Vijayvargiya quipped in Hindi on Twitter. "Very happy that an 'Expert' who can make such a 'Statement', is leading the Poll Campaign of @AITCofficial & @MamataOfficial?? Which world does he stay, what diet has #TMchhi put him ONGreat thing is, come 2021, na rahega Saanp (TMchhi) na bhajegi (PK ki) Bansuri @BJP4India," Union minister from Bengal Babul Supriyo said in a snappy wisecrack. Assembly elections are likely in West Bengal in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Prashant Kishor makes bold claim on Bengal election next year||A day after Home Minister Amit Shah left Bengal, following his two-day high-voltage campaign in the state, election strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday claimed on Twitter that the BJP will struggle to cross the double-digit mark in assembly polls. Kishor, who has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to strengthen her party's poll prospects, said that he would quit the microblogging site if the saffron party does any better than what he predicted. "For all the hype amplified by a section of supportive media, in reality, BJP will struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal," he tweeted. "Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!" Kishore added. The saffron party, which recently received a shot in the arm after political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, a TMC MP and nine MLAs joined its camp, has asserted that it would win over 200 seats in the upcoming polls. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, in response to Kishor's tweet, said the country would end up losing a poll strategist after Bengal elections. "Given the ongoing BJP tsunami in Bengal; once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist," Vijayvargiya quipped on Twitter. Assembly elections are likely to be held in Bengal in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP's wife joins TMC in Bengal||Sujata Mondal Khan, the wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, switched over to the TMC from the saffron camp on Monday, claiming that she did not get her due recognition even after taking several risks to get her husband elected during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. She alleged that "newly inducted, misfit and corrupt leaders" are getting more importance in the saffron camp than the loyal ones. "Despite enduring physical attacks, sacrificing so much to get my husband elected to Parliament, I got nothing in return... I want to work under our beloved leader Mamata Banerjee and our dada Abhisek Banerjee," Mondal Khan said, after joining the party in the presence of TMC MP Saugata Roy and its spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Asked about the reaction of her husband, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state unit chief, she said it was up to him to decide his future course of action. "I hope he would realise one day... Who knows he might be back in the TMC one day," the newly inducted leader of the Bengal's ruling party said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Strike to hit Petrapole operations||Export and import operations with Bangladesh are likely to take a hit at the Petrapole land port starting Monday following an announcement of strikes by three truck drivers’ unions to protest against the “non-cooperation of immigration, BSF authorities”. Sources said the strike was announced out of “desperation” by drivers who alleged they had been stranded in Bangladesh’s Benapole port “for days on end” owing to “administrative incompetence and neglect”. “We are being forced to stay here for the entire unloading period of two-three weeks in precarious condition with no facilities. Even our attempts to return leaving the vehicle being was prohibited by the BSF,” said one driver. The 11 striking organisations have termed the delays a violation of protocol set up by the Bengal government, and have formed the Petrapole Sthal Bandar Jeevan o Jeevika Committee. They marched outside Petrapole and in Bongaon town on Sunday. “The troubles are also extending to porters since they are not being allowed to enter there,” said a source. S.S. Guleria, DIG (G), BSF’s south Bengal frontier, said: “We are just following the guidelines by higher authorities. However, we will talk to the people concerned so that border trade is not hampered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Seven injured in clash over land dispute||At least seven persons were injured in a clash between two groups over possession of a tea plantation in North Dinajpur on Sunday. Sources said two families, residing in neighbouring villages, had a dispute over the possession of a tea plantation spread over an area of seven cottah located in Balabari village under Daspara panchayat of Chopra block. On Sunday, Haripada Mondal, representing one of the families, went to the plantation and tried to put boundary pillars on the plot. Jatin Roy, who represents the other family, objected and soon both the families and their associates attacked each other with daggers, iron rods and sticks. The sources said five persons from Roy’s family and two from Mondal’s family had sustained injuries. They had been admitted to the NBMCH. A police team is deployed in the area to monitor the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||As BJP andh bhakt, got nothing: Bimal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung received a rousing welcome on his arrival at Darjeeling after more than three-and-half years where he confessed that he had been an “andh bhakt (blind supporter)” of the BJP for the past 12 years before starting his tirade against the saffron party. Gurung said he only recently realised that the BJP was only “using” him, obliquely citing the innumerable cases slapped against him by the state government. Gurung has over 100 cases slapped against him and his supporters, which he claimed were now in the process of being withdrawn by the state government. “We had been an andh bhakt of the BJP, supporter without any condition….this belief was for our people, community, permanent political solution, tribal status but in 12 years they (BJP) gave us nothing,” said Gurung. The last straw, according to Gurung, was the Centre’s decision to change the tripartite talks agenda from Gorkhaland to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) on October 7, allegedly because of pressure from state BJP leaders. In his speech, the hill leader talked extensively of his conversations with BJP leaders. “They said they were providing me with security when they had not even deployed a constable for me. They did not even enquire about our well-being,” said Gurung. The security issue was highlighted as Gurung was on the run from the state government for the past three-and-half years because of various cases following the Gorkhaland violent agitation of 2017. “The BJP has not just betrayed Bimal Gurung but the entire Gorkha community...the BJP took 12 years of our age,” said Gurung and promised his support to Mamata Banerjee’s party in the 2021 Bengal elections. Gurung and other speakers of his faction, however, also repeatedly highlighted that they would support any party that takes forward their Gorkhaland demand in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. In the same breath Gurung also expressed confidence that Mamata would find “a permanent political solution” for the region and at one point of his speech, Gurung talked about a development council for Terai and the Dooars without going into the specifics. Apart from BJP, the rest of the tirade was reserved for his rivals, Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, leaders of the Morcha’s breakaway faction and also Trinamul allies. From levying allegations of corruption in utilising “Rs 1,700 crore” that the state government gave the GTA last three years to the flawed process of recruiting school teachers, Gurung said hill people did not back Tamang and Thapa as they had “betrayed” them during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation. Tamang and Thapa had joined hands with Trinamul in 2017. So did Gurung in October 2000. Gurung, however, said that he would not blame Mamata for joining hands with Tamang and Thapa as she is running a government. “I am very happy today on seeing your love and support,” said Gurung and added he had come to “keep the heads (of Gorkhas) high.” A cavalcade of motorbikes and cars, which was stopped by supporters on various points, escorted Gurung to the hills on Sunday. Many people danced to popular party songs. Some supporters had arranged musicians with traditional instruments to welcome him. Gurung said that he would be staying in Darjeeling for “10 to 15 days” before starting his focus on Terai and the Dooars. The party has decided to organise another public meeting in Kalimpong on January 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Drama festival in the lap of nature||A two-day drama festival organised at Salbagan near here on the bank of the Mara river concluded on Sunday. The event was inaugurated by north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh on Saturday. “It was one of the finest events that I attended in recent months. The organisers held a nice festival at a place that is surrounded by greenery and avian population,” said the minister. The festival, which was organised by theatre group “Cooch Behar Anasristi” in association with the Paschim Banga Natya Akademi, was christened as “Anu Natok ebong Antoranga Natyotsav 2020”. The show commenced at 10am and continued till 3pm. During the fest, performers staged a total of 10 short plays in an open arena amid nature. The organisers pointed out that Salbagan, a plantation of trees that exists since the days of the Cooch Behar royals, was one of the prominent locations which was getting defamed because of some anti-social activities. Salbagan is around 5km from here. In a bid to re-popularise the location, they felt it pertinent to host the event here. Theatre groups from South 24-Parganas, Malda, Nadia and neighbouring state of Assam, performed at the fest. “We did not build a formal dais and the usual wooden plank was missing. Instead, we attempted to create an ambience, with the natural surroundings forming both the dais and the backdrop. We offered a sapling to each spectator who came here and enjoyed the dramas. During the play, a group of painters exhibited their talents on the canvas,” said Ruma Saha Dey, the president of the local theatre group. “We also planned to disseminate a message among people about the need to conserve nature,” she added. Sanjit Saha, the divisional forest officer of Cooch Behar, said: “It was really a good show. Participants have sent a nice message for conserving nature and its resources through the drama festival.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Crowd-puller leopard no more||Sachin, a male leopard at Bengal Safari Park on the outskirts of Siliguri, who had shot to fame in January 2019 for escaping from his enclosure and coming back on his own, died on Saturday. He was 12. Officials of the state forest department confirmed that the adult leopard was ill and undergoing treatment. “The 12-year-old animal died of cardiac arrest on Saturday,” said V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state. The male leopard was brought to the park in 2017 and hit the headlines immediately for his name. Foresters named him Sachin after Tendulkar, one of the greatest batsmen the country has produced. Next, on January 1, 2019, the leopard hit the headlines again as he escaped from his enclosure. Foresters started a massive search operation and around 100 forest guards combed different areas of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary adjacent to the park. Even pet elephants of the department were deployed to find the leopard. But Sachin surprised everybody — and gained cult status in the process — as he returned to the enclosure after three days on his own. “We have tried to provide the leopard the necessary treatment at the park. But the animal could not survive,” Badal Debnath, the director of the wild animal park, said. Nick Doley, the vet of the park, along with Joy Dey, his counterpart from the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park of Darjeeling, conducted the post-mortem of Sachin’s carcass. According to the vets, the death appears to be natural. Doley, when asked about the animal’s death, said, the leopard died around noon on Saturday. “We did the post-mortem and found that it had died because of cardiac arrest. Nonetheless, the samples of the carcass have been sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biological in Calcutta,” the vet said. “Normally, a leopard can survive about nine to 10 years in the wild. But in captivity, it can survive a couple of more years,” said a wildlife expert. With Sachin gone into the blue yonder, the Bengal Safari Park has four leopards remaining, Sourav, Sheetal, Kajol and Simba. While Simba is only two years old, and the rest are fully grown. The Bengal Safari Park had introduced the leopard safari on July 1, 2017. One of the most popular tourist destinations of the region, it is spread over 290 hectares and the leopard’s enclosure is located over an area of around 20 hectares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah pledges to transform Bengal into 'Sonar Bangla'||Union home minister Amit Shah wrapped up his two-day Bengal visit on Sunday evening after launching the party’s campaign for next year’s Assembly polls. A pledge to transform the state into “Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal)”, if voted to power, was the recurring theme of his visit. Shah spared no effort in attacking the Mamata Banerjee government. Accusing the government of many ills, from encouraging illegal infiltration from Bangladesh to pushing the Bengal economy into dire straits, he rolled out a long chargesheet during his two public speeches — one in Midnapore on Saturday and the other in Bolpur on Sunday — and a news conference before leaving. Here are the highlights of what he said and the questions that were left unanswered: Infiltration What Shah said: On all the three occasions that he spoke during his 44-hour Bengal visit, Shah referred to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh and accused the Mamata Banerjee government of encouraging it as part of her “appeasement politics”. Shah asked: “Do you think that the Trinamul government can bring an end to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh?” Questions: The surprise was not in Shah broaching this issue — a divisive weapon in the saffron camp’s armoury. But there was a striking divergence from his pre-2019 speeches as he was silent on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) this time. At the news conference, this correspondent asked him what had happened to the “chronology” he would often mention, saying the CAA would be implemented first and the NRC later rolled out across the country. Shah said the CAA rules were yet to be framed because of the pandemic and that the process would start once vaccinations for Covid-19 began. On a nationwide NRC, he said, “Let the first step happen.” Bengal economy What Shah said: The biochemist who was called an alchemist after scripting the Uttar Pradesh success story of 2014 donned the hat of an economist at the news conference on Sunday. He reeled off a wide variety of economic data — from Bengal’s slide on indicators such as per capita income to the lack of employment opportunities in the state — to buttress his claim that Bengal was on the path of decline. He said he was referring to the numbers as he wanted a discussion on the real issues before the Bengal polls. Questions: The concerns Shah raised about the Bengal economy or the human development indices cannot be brushed under the carpet and there is little doubt that there is indeed scope for improvement. However, Shah was silent on the magic wand the BJP would use to turn Bengal’s economy around. The Narendra Modi government also owes answers to questions such as why India’s per capita income is projected, according to the IMF, to slide below that of Bangladesh in 2020. Posers on why India recorded its highest unemployment rate — 6.1 per cent — in fiscal 2017-18 still remain unanswered by a government that came to power with the promise of “achchhe din”. State farmers What Shah said: He took care to explain that Bengal’s farmers were losing the benefit of the PM Kisan scheme — under which they get Rs 6,000 a year — because of the state government’s decision to stay out of the central scheme for political considerations. He said the decision flouted the principles of federalism. Questions: There cannot be any argument that farmers in Bengal as well as the rest of the country deserve a better deal from the state and central governments. Shah, however, was evasive on questions about the farmers protesting outside Delhi seeking the repeal of three contentious laws that they believe will rob them of their land and livelihood. ‘Outsider’ tag What Shah said: Shah was bitterly critical of the Trinamul for labelling the BJP “outsiders”. He reminded Mamata, who was in the Congress before floating Trinamul, that Indira Gandhi and other senior national Congress leaders used to come regularly to Bengal. Throwing the gauntlet at Mamata, he said the BJP leaders in Bengal did not need anyone from Delhi to obtain the seat of power in Bengal. Questions: Most BJP leaders in Bengal concede in private that central leaders micromanage the affairs of the party. The Bengal BJP’s Delhi dependence has also grown exponentially in recent months, with a clutch of leaders from other parts of the country having been dispatched to the state for the upcoming poll battle. Nor can Shah deny that a series of gaffes — such as mentioning Visva-Bharati as Tagore’s birthplace — have offered Trinamul an opportunity to attach this tag. Besides, the overzealous effort by the BJP’s central leaders —Shah said in Santiniketan on Monday that he would have been happy to spend seven days in Tagore’s abode — to prove their Bengali credentials have helped Trinamul keep the debate alive. Dynasty and graft What Shah said: One of the central themes of Shah’s attack on Mamata has been that her primary objective is to keep the chief minister’s chair warm for her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “She doesn’t think about the 10 crore people of Bengal. Her only aim is to make her nephew the chief minister,” Shah said in Midnapore and Bolpur. He accused the Trinamul government of spearheading corruption in Bengal before promising that the BJP, if voted to power, would rid the state of corruption. Questions: The discourse on dynastic politics is an old one in India and Trinamul alone cannot be blamed for this trend. The BJP too has its share of dynasts — Anurag Thakur, Dushyant Singh, Poonam Mahajan, Pritam Munde, Pravesh Sahib Singh Verma and B.Y. Raghavendra all sit in the lower House of Parliament. Besides, the latest addition to the saffron camp in Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari, hails from a political family that has four lawmakers. The pledge of ridding Bengal of corruption sounds a little rich, considering that some of the BJP's converts from Trrinamul face multiple corruption charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah offer to calm poll aspirants||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday tried to pre-empt any rebellion within the BJP by assuring poll aspirants, who fear losing out to new entrants during distribution of tickets, that such leaders would be accommodated in “various government posts” if the BJP came to power in Bengal. Shah made this assurance to party colleagues at a closed-door meeting, which was held in the backdrop of growing discontent in the Bengal BJP over “random inductions” of leaders from rival parties into the saffron camp. BJP insiders said Shah’s remark was an attempt to quell any possible coup that would happen in the aftermath of distribution of tickets for the Bengal polls. “Yeh larai sabko milkar larna hai (this fight has to be fought together),” Shah is said to have exhorted colleagues at Saturday’s meeting. “We will have many posts when we come to power,” he added in his bid to assure party old-timers who are worried that their chances of getting tickets to fight the Assembly polls might become less with the influx of leaders from the Trinamul Congress, CPM or the Congress. A senior state BJP leader told The Telegraph that Shah made it clear that the primary goal for the party was to win the Bengal election and, though he didn’t mention it, he hinted that winnability would be the sole criterion while distributing tickets. “There is a possibility of rebellion from those who might lose their potential seats to someone new. Hence, Amitji assured the leaders that even if someone didn’t get a ticket, there was always a chance of him getting a government post later,” the leader said. However, the leader added that for Shah to take so much pain to assure party colleagues of accommodation in the power structure went to show that the Bengal BJP was still a divided house. “Someone of Amitji’s stature had to intervene today so that there isn’t any internal feud later. Why wouldn’t the leaders listen to the state president?” a source asked. The other area of concern of Bengal leaders — security during polls — was addressed by Shah at the meeting. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said Shah had assured them that “enough security forces will be deployed” for a free and fair election. “Amitji knows how lawless Bengal is right now. He assured us that there would be such heavy deployment of central security forces that not even a bird would be able to fly away,” Basu said. Basu added Shah had reiterated his claim that the BJP would rule Bengal “with no less than 200 seats”. To accomplish the mission of 200 seats, the BJP has decided to unleash a battery of ministers — from the Centre and other states — who will be visiting the state to hold public meetings across Bengal till the election gets over. BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and Shah formally introduced five Union ministers — Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Sanjeev Balyan, Arjun Munda, Nityanand Rai — and three ministers from other states — Keshav Prasad Maurya, Narottam Mishra and Prahlad Singh Patel — to the Bengal leaders at the Saturday meeting. These leaders will generally come during the weekends and hold public meetings at places that the BJP feels are “terror-prone”. “Since these are central ministers or cabinet ministers from other states, the state police will be bound to provide adequate protection to them. This will give us a chance to hold public meetings peacefully,” a leader of the party’s youth wing said. Shah has told the Bengal leadership that there should be at least five wall graffiti in each booth across the state by January 15. He asked the leaders to ensure that booth level workers visited every single household to scrutinise electoral rolls by January 15. Suvendu Adhikari, former Trinamul minister who joined the BJP on Saturday, was present at the meeting. Sources said Adhikari told Shah at the end of the meeting that he was “a kid in the party right now” and expressed his desire “to learn from Shah and others in the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||State government blamed for convoy attack ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday held the Trinamul government and its party apparatus responsible for the attack on the convoy of BJP national president Jagat Prasad Nadda while it was on its way to Diamond Harbour on December 10. The attack on Nadda’s convoy, which triggered a fierce sate-Centre confrontation, was the first issue that he broached in his opening remarks at a news conference here on Sunday evening before leaving for Delhi. “The BJP condemns the attack on the convoy of BJP’s national president... The state government and the Trinamul supporters were responsible for it. I think the attack was not only on the national president of the largest political party in the country, but the attack was on the democracy of Bengal,” he said. Shah said the Union government had attached three Bengal IPS officers for central deputation “as per the rule”. “The step of the central government is constitutional and as per the rule. It was done following the federal structure,” Shah said. Unlike Nadda, Shah’s Bengal visit, which included a road show along a narrow road in Bolpur, passed off without any trouble. The mega road show in Bolpur was “unprecedented” and posed a serious challenge to the force because of the turnout along the road through which Shah’s convoy passed, said a senior police officer. Police sources said over 1,100 cops, including 50 senior officers, were brought from different districts over and above Birbhum’s force and deployed at every strategic point. Around 1,000 civic volunteers were also deployed across Bolpur. The sources said the police took the unprecedented decision of stopping traffic in the small varsity town as a precautionary measure. “We can’t assess the footfall today in the roadshow of our home minister Amit Ji. I can only say that there were around a lakh people in town and more than a few thousand could not enter Bolpur,” said Shyamapada Mondal, Birbhum BJP president. Trinamul, however, countered that BJP claim and said thousands of people were brought from neighbouring Jharkhand, West Burdwan and East Burdwan. “I am showing you the photos of buses and cars that came from Jharkhand, West Burdwan and other places,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul president in Birbhum who showed several photographs from his mobile phone of buses registered in Jharkhand and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata thanks CMs, talks to Pawar for supporting her on BJP stand-off||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday issued a statement to attack the BJP-led Centre over its allegedly brazen interference with the state government’s functioning and thank several key non-BJP leaders for their show of support. The Bengal chief minister, according to sources close to her, also spoke to NCP chief Sharad Pawar in the morning on the need for non-BJP forces across the country to stick together amid the saffron camp’s “marauding onslaught”. “Centre is brazenly interfering with State Govt functioning by transferring police officers,” Mamata tweeted, referring to the unilateral transfer of IPS officers from Bengal by the Centre in the wake of the attack on BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy in South 24-Parganas earlier this month. “My gratitude to @bhupeshbaghel @ArvindKejriwal @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 & @mkstalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal & reaffirming their commitment to federalism. Thank you!” she added. Former BJP stalwart Yashwant Sinha has also supported Mamata in this stand-off. On her talks with Pawar, sources close to her said the NCP leader assured her of not only his party’s support but also that of many key regional players. “They discussed the possibility of a major rally of non-BJP forces in Calcutta next month, like the United India rally at Brigade (Brigade Parade Ground in Calcutta) in January this year…. Pawar has taken up the responsibility...to make it happen,” said a source in Trinamul. “The discussion took place in the wake of increasing aggression from the BJP and its government at the Centre towards Bengal, amid attempts to engineer defections from our party,” he added. According to the source, Pawar had told Mamata that the others were in the know and all the non-BJP-ruled states had been facing similar problems. “They are aware of the sort of things that have been happening during such visits by Amit Shah or J.P. Nadda,” he added. A senior Trinamul MP said besides Mamata herself, poll consultant Prashant Kishor – handling her party’s assignment in Bengal – has also been actively trying to forge a pan-India alliance between his current and former clients in multiple states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||17,771 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported 55 consecutive days of decline in total active Covid-19 cases since Vijaya Dashami, which dragged it to 17,771, back almost to where the number of infections was on July 20 exactly five months ago. On Sunday, the state logged 2,627 recoveries, 1,978 new infections and 40 deaths, of which five were from Calcutta. Total active cases, which stood at 37,190 on Dashami, October 26, have fallen by 19,419 in these 55 days. “Over the past week or so, there has been yet another acceleration in the drop in active cases, with the gap widening between daily recoveries and new cases. At this rate, we could well end the year with less than 15,000 active cases when our target was to keep it below 23,000,” said a minister. The recovery rate, rising unhindered for 59 consecutive days, is now 94.95 per cent, improving by 8 per cent during this period. The national rate now is 95.49 per cent. “On Monday, we expect to cross 95 per cent in recovery rate,” the minister added. In 55 days since Dashami, the state reported over 1.99 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.83 lakh infections. Bengal now has 5.36 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.09 lakh recoveries and 9,360 deaths. With 40,243 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count rose to 67.06 lakh, at 74,515 tests per million people. Positive confirmation rate is 8 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is still 1.74 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of total deaths, 7,854, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. Bengal reported 16.69 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.4 lakh telemedicine consultations. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over the festive October-November months for Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers indicate the court’s instructions had been effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva Bharati students allege house arrest ahead of Amit Shah visit||Four Visva Bharati students were reportedly put under house arrest by district police starting Sunday morning to stem what police sources termed “potential security breaches” by student leaders aimed at Union home minister Amit Shah’s road show, though the Birbhum police chief denied having issued such orders. Undergraduate economics students Falguni Pan and Somenath Sow, the latter of whom is also an SFI leader, and research scholars and All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) leaders Amit Mondal and Beauty Saha were all identified and rounded up by police personnel between Saturday night and Sunday morning, and reportedly confined to their homes and student accommodations, with the police even providing them breakfast and lunch in order to keep them indoors. The move came on the day Shah held a massive rally in the varsity town, traditionally known as a bastion of Bengali culture related to Rabindranath Tagore, a day after same student unions held vociferous protests in and around the town condemning Shah’s imminent visit and burnt his effigies. “We received inputs that these student leaders might gather people to create unsavoury incidents around Shah’s motorcade, so we acted in advance,” said a police officer. Sources said Mondal and Saha were apprehended early on Sunday on their way back from Khowai where they had organised a smaller rally to condemn Shah’s visit. Both were reportedly escorted home and monitored, whereas Pan and Sow were identified at their respective paid accommodations and ordered indoors till “Shah left Birbhum”. Birbhum district SP Shyam Singh denied orders for house arrest but said that routine police surveillance might have been mistaken for it. “We did not confine anyone to house arrest,” he said. Student leader Pan refuted police claims and said students’ “right to non-violent protest” had been stifled by “an abuse of power”. Sources said students were also irate at the fact that BJP leaders such as Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Kailash Vijayvargiya were allowed on campus grounds with Shah. “We had been told no one other than the home minister would be allowed on campus,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||West Bengal||No amity song, but extra roti for Shah at baul home lunch||Folk singer Basudeb Das Baul may have wanted to regale Union home minister Amit Shah with a song on “amity and peace” before the lunch he hosted at home on Sunday, but could not. There seemed to be just no time for the song Basudeb had planned, Orey manus dekhbi jodi bhogoban (o human, if you want to see god), which talks of religious tolerance. Basudeb could just sing a welcome song in front of the home minister before being “prodded” for lunch. Shah, who lunched on rice, dal, roti, potato and pointed gourd fritters, alu-posto, among other simple vegetarian Bengal dishes, however, asked for a third roti after the first two. Basudeb, however, said later in the day that he was “grateful” that the home minister of the country had dined at his modest home. He added that he was unable to sing his chosen repertoire after the welcome song Tomay hridoy mahje rakhbo (I will keep you in my heart) in front of Shah or discuss the plight of Baul singers during the lockdown months with him. The Telegraph had reported on Friday that the Baul singer had planned to do both on Sunday. “Unfortunately, I did not get to sing the songs of peace and amity that I had chosen. I was ushered away for lunch just as my welcome song ended, and that particular song (that was sung) did not have much to do with amity but rather with affection,” Basudeb said later at his Subhas Pally home near Visva-Bharati campus. Sources said it was unclear what stopped the song on religious tolerance from being sung in Shah’s presence, given that local BJP leaders had reportedly cleared it. “It seems that Amit Shahji wanted to move on to lunch sooner than was expected,” said a source. Shah and his entourage had landed in Santiniketan 40 minutes late on Sunday. Shah was accompanied by senior BJP leaders such as Swapan Dasgupta, Mukul Roy, Dilip Ghosh, Kailash Vigayvargiya, Rahul Sinha, Anupam Hazra, among a host of others. However, the tenor of the Union home minister’s hurried lunch at Basudeb’s home in Santiniketan echoed the reports of his visit to Bankura district last month. There, Shah again had lunch at a tribal leader’s home but left reportedly without listening to his host who wanted to talk about his diabetic teenage daughter. “I had really wanted to discuss the plight of the Bauls and their sufferings during this (pandemic-induced) lockdown (with the home minister). But I was unable to. Perhaps I should be satisfied that someone of his stature (Shah) even stepped inside my home,” Basudeb added. The song that went unsung is among those that are also well-known as “Bhoba Paglar gaan” (the songs of Bhoba Pagla, who is considered an icon of the Baul community). Some of its lines are “Chhere de tor bhinno bhed, dekhna shastro dekhna Ved/ Bible Koran noire probhed, shon re Hindu shon Mussalman (Leave your habit of discriminating against people, look into the Shastras or in the Veda/ There is no difference between Bible and Koran, the Hindus and the Muslims)”. “The lyrics of the song give out a message of communal harmony, secularism and tolerance and requests people not to discriminate against human beings on the basis of their religions,” the folk singer had told The Telegraph on Friday. “Throughout this song, you will find this message of humanity. As a Baul, I believe in humanity and communal harmony,” Basudeb had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-267
21-12-2020||North East||Stand up for what is right: Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Sunday appealed to the public to stand up for what is right and against injustice to “reclaim our Republic” which is “experiencing” a crisis like never before under the BJP-led government. Addressing a citizens’ convention organised by Axom Nagarik Samaj in Guwahati online, Bhushan said there was an “assault” on the economy, on dissent, on truth, on civility, on the judiciary, on Parliament, on the media and on government institutions, among others, under the ruling dispensation. “We are seeing a full-blooded communal and fascist attack on every institution and every value we hold dear in a democracy and in our Constitution. We are experiencing a crisis of a kind which we have never seen before in the country since Independence. So the task is to somehow reclaim our Republic,” he said. He added: “And for that, all of us who value the Constitution, value civilised discourse, value dissent, value fundamental rights, must stand up together to face this assault. We must not be fearful of being labelled or targeted or being sent to jail... Together we need to stand up for what is right and against injustice. It is not merely a crisis or an issue regarding the implementation of the Assam Accord or the NRC. It is a much deeper crisis of democracy and of civilisation that we are facing.” The convention comes two days after the Samaj released an appeal signed by over 300 intellectuals, artistes, public figures and writers highlighting the “divisive agenda” of the BJP-led government before next year’s state elections instead of fulfilling the “tall promises” made by it in its vision document before the 2016 Assembly polls. Bhushan, who was in August held guilty by the Supreme Court for contempt of court for two tweets against the judiciary, said the BJP government has “betrayed” the people of Assam in implementing the 1985 Assam Accord by “converting” the NRC exercise into a religious and communal exercise by “specifically” excluding Muslims from the register and “somehow” including Hindus, who may not be citizens, through the “backdoor” by using the Citizenship Amendment Act. “It is part of the BJP’s design to divide the people of this country on religious lines, divide them into Hindus and Muslims, polarise the people and spread hate against the Muslims in order to win elections. We are seeing this across the board, not only in the manner in which the CAA was brought or the NRC is being implemented. It is also being seen in the cow slaughter laws being brought across the country or the manner in which ‘love jihad’ laws are being brought in state after state. The whole objective is to victimise and terrorise the Muslims and make them into second class citizens...,” he said. The convention touched upon the need to protect the state’s culture and identity, solution to flood and erosion problem, implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, scrapping of the “divisive” CAA, rights over the state’s natural resources, listing and auditing the state’s assets, checking corruption and securing its secular fabric because the Samaj strongly feels that the “divisive narrative and instigating propaganda” of the BJP-led government should be “countered” by stressing on the “humanistic cultural & social identity of the people of Assam”. Intellectuals Hiren Gohain, Abdul Manan, Dr Toufiq Rahman Borbora, former Archbishop Thomas Menamparampil, author Arupa Patangia Kalita, senior advocate H.R.A. Choudhury, senior journalists Haidar Hussain and Prasanta Rajguru, among others, attended the convention. The convention adopted two resolutions — taking to the people an alternative political discourse that is secular and inclusive to defeat the divisive political forces by uniting all regional and national anti-BJP forces and extending all support to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws as well as seeking their repeal, Samaj general secretary Paresh Malakar told The Telegraph. Reacting to Bhushan’s criticism, BJP state unit chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said they are professional people without any ideology. “Their observation has no value. But people across the country have faith in the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, a reason for the party’s growth,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
21-12-2020||North East||Former vice-chancellor of Ashoka University's call to reclaim Constitution ||Former vice-chancellor of Ashoka University Pratap Bhanu Mehta on Saturday said that the Constitution at present seems “so powerless — like words on paper”. Delivering the 17th Dr Amitabh Chowdhury Annual Memorial Lecture on “India’s Second Republic: The Collapse of Liberal Constitutionalism”, Mehta said: “... If we meet 10 years from now or 15 years from now and we say what kind of a Constitution India has, we will not be saying that India has a liberal democracy; we will be saying that India is an authoritarian ethnocracy.” Dwelling on topics from the judiciary to the political system to “love jihad” which have been in the limelight recently, Mehta said in his televised address that “constitutional developments around us signal a near collapse of the Constitution”. He urged citizens “to renew that constitutional faith almost as a second freedom struggle and this will mean public articulation, the creation of new solidarities, occasionally even public protests”. Mehta referred to the 10 markers of growing authoritarianism in India, including “dissent is treason”, “control of the information order”, “ruling dispensations everywhere”, “empowering vigilantes to either take the law into their own hands or to, in some senses, perform the function of law” and “making citizens more transparent to the State but making the State more opaque to the individuals”. Quoting American civil rights activist Frederick Douglass, Mehta said: “Power concedes nothing without a demand. It never did and it never will.” “And at this moment when our Constitution seems so powerless — it seems like words on paper — we will have to demand more of ourselves and more of each other.” Referring to the beauty of the Constitution, he said it gave India a new identity. “Unlike the preambles to many constitutions that will begin with a reference to God, that will begin with reference to a particular historical identity, burdening you with the weight of the past, our Constitution was meant to set us free. This is not because God is not important or may not be important for people... but the Constitution’s beauty was to say — new India is free to imagine God, history and identity in whichever way it chooses... the references in the Preamble are all to the dignity of the individual.” According to Mehta, the identity of the nation is being defined in Hindu terms while former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru remembered and defined India as a palimpsest on which every civilization has written its history. “India is a Hindu country, Muslim country, Christian and Parsi country, Sikh country; India is an Asian power; the Indian Constitution represents the best of European enlightenment... This idea of India as a palimpsest no longer commands political credibility... This is no longer a source of pride for us, this is a source of embarrassment, this is a source of fear, this is a source of conflict,” he said. Referring to the recent ordinance on “love jihad” promulgated by the Uttar Pradesh government, Mehta said: “We have a new law in the state of Uttar Pradesh — without embarrassment we called it the ‘love jihad’ law. This law is a double travesty on our Constitution. It denies in some significant sense the freedom of religion. It says to every ordinary citizen that even an act of love has to be authorised and stamped by a State through its communal prism. I hope the Supreme Court strikes it down....” Referring to the role of the judiciary, Mehta said: “There are still judges, there are still high courts passing extraordinarily brave orders, extraordinary constitutionally correct orders… yet it has to be said even at the risk of sounding somewhat graceless, that if you look at the overall framework that the Supreme Court has provided over the last few years — it’s becoming increasingly clear that the application of constitutional law, that’s what I am talking about in particular, has become dependent on the arbitrary whims of the individual judges so much so that constitutional terms no longer have any meaning... In practice it means very weak protection of civil liberties, an unusual degree of deference to State power especially in constitutional matters… of late the Court has also become excessively concerned with its own leash majesty, like a sacred monarch it cannot be seriously criticised or mocked.” The lecture was televised this year in view of the pandemic. The lecture is organised every year in memory of Chowdhury, who was a leading cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon, under the aegis of the Dr Amitabh Chowdhury Memorial Trust, Guwahati. Past lectures were delivered, among others, by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, James Michael Lyngdoh, Prof. Yash Pal, Ramachandra Guha, Wajahat Habibullah, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Prof. Andre Beteille and Prof. Rudrangshu Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
21-12-2020||Opinion||Free fall: indices of progress||India continues to perform poorly on global indices of progress. With the largest number of internet shutdowns in the world, India has recorded a third consecutive year of declining online freedom; it ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020; and eight states have registered an alarming fall in sex ratios in the latest National Family Health Survey. But even tempered expectations are not enough to cushion some of the other blows. India has fallen two notches on the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Index, which measures standards of living, education and per capita income, to rank at 131 among 189 nations. It has also slipped an appalling 17 spots on the 2020 Human Freedom Index to stand at 111 out of 162 countries. The fact that India ranks higher than Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh on human development cannot be any consolation; more so since the rankings have alarming implications for political and civil rights in the country. India’s unsatisfactory performances on development indicators reveal steep contradictions as well as challenges that are interlinked. Life expectancy, for instance, has fallen in a nation with the world’s most extensive food security programme. Rising malnutrition is being expedited by climate change, which, in turn, has increased migration, widened income gap and posed significant challenges in the paths of girls’ health and education. What is mystifying is that India has elected the same government twice in spite of the nation’s dismal performance on such crucial parameters. This raises interesting questions. Is electoral success concomitant with pledges to improve the health and living conditions of the people? This query is pertinent because Narendra Modi’s successive and impressive election victory has coincided with marked deterioration on the ground — for the first time since 1998-99, India’s declining child malnutrition curve has been reversed, and child wasting has risen rapidly. Meanwhile, the ‘health’ of democracy is suffering as well. The passage of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the stripping of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the pushing through of three agriculture laws in the name of reform without representative consultations reveal the government’s unwillingness to accord weight to allegations of weakening constitutionalism. Discouraging data, however, are unlikely to make a difference to a dispensation that has reduced the ideas of democracy and development to aggressive nationalism, a majoritarian ethic and the cult of personality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Hollow bellies: child undernutrition in India||Sir — The fifth round of the National Family Health Survey reveals disturbing trends as far as the burden of child undernutrition in India is concerned. Across the 22 states and Union territories for which the NFHS-5 has released fact sheets, the percentage of children aged 6-23 months who do not meet the minimum dietary adequacy is 83.9 per cent. This is a decline of over 2 percentage points from what was observed in NFHS-4. It would not be surprising if this situation has worsened with the spread of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown and job losses. Worse, the prevalence of anaemia among children has increased by about eight percentage points from 51.8 per cent to 60.2 per cent. These figures are based on anthropometric observations — children are defined as stunted, underweight or wasted if their standardized height-for-age, weight-for-age or weight-for-height ratios, respectively, are more than two standard deviations below the World Health Organization Child Growth Standards median. This does not take into consideration the adequacy and sufficiency of dietary intake. One shudders to think how many more undernourished children India would have if they were to be pathologically tested. A disproportionate focus on anthropometric measures inadvertently impedes meaningful and direct engagement with strategies and data necessary to address diet and food security concerns. India does not have a targeted nationally representative survey on the dietary intake and nutritional status of children or adults. A modern data initiative combining aspects of the NFHS, the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau and the National Sample Surveys that would collect data on detailed household-level consumption and expenditure on various food items should be considered. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Sir — Early data from the first phase of the NFHS paint a grim picture. This setback does not come as a surprise though. There have been several indicators of the slowing down of economic growth and employment distress, which are bound to have an effect on hunger and nutrition. The 2017-18 National Statistical Office report, for instance, showed a dip in consumption expenditure for the first time in decades. The economic crises precipitated by the pandemic-induced recession must have set India back further. India had made significant gains in alleviating hunger. But one after another faulty government policy and a general apathy towards the health of India’s women and children are the primary causes behind this sorry situation. The gender disparity in Indian society, which leads to poor education, lack of reproductive choice and inadequate nutrition from childhood, perpetuates a vicious legacy of undernutrition. Add to this misguided, religiously-motivated decisions like the one to knock off eggs — one of the cheapest sources of protein for children — from mid-day meal and anganwadi menus have finally taken their toll. The government has failed the future generations of India. Chandran Nallathambi,Chennai Intriguing life Sir — It was saddening to hear about the demise of John le Carré. He was working in MI6 — the British foreign intelligence service that the dashing fictional spy, James Bond, was written to have worked for — when he began writing fiction under an assumed name. Unlike Ian Fleming’s conspicuously heroic Bond, le Carré dealt with the real world where agents and double agents operate — he wrote about the human condition. Le Carré’s works can be re-read again and again and still be enjoyed anew; there is always some fresh nuance waiting to be discovered — few thrillers can make a similar claim. S. Rehman,Calcutta Sir — John le Carré, who was employed by the MI6 in the 1950s as an intelligence officer drew from his own rich experience to flesh out his novels. His novels made espionage terms like “lamplighters”, “cousins”, “moles” and “scalp hunters” so popular that it is said that even real British agents began to use them too. His works will be missed by fans of his writings around the world. English literature has lost a man of great wit, humour and intelligence. R. Mukherjee,Noida  Streetside delights Sir — It was delightful to know that hawker culture in Singapore has been added to Unesco’s list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Who better than a Calcuttan to understand the importance of hawkers? Be it shopping on the pavements of Gariahat, gulping down hot momos near Exide or sampling the delights that line the streets around the New Market area, life in Calcutta would come to a standstill without them. With patronage from the State — Singapore appealed to Unesco on behalf of them — hawkers could benefit financially and also not create a nuisance by blocking streets. Puranjit Sanyal,Kalyani Parting shot Sir — The mention of Ram Lalla raises hackles on all sides of the political divide. But it was a pleasant change to read that the deity has been given a blower heater in the temple, and been covered with a blanket. This is reminiscent of the gentler culture where gods are treated like family members — many Bengali households adorn their gods with sweaters and monkey caps in winter. These deities are unlike the vengeful Hindutva god. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||With care: personal laws and the state||There are numerous hurdles in the way of a country of multiple religions, languages, ethnicities and social arrangements trying to reach balance as a democracy. For example, uniformity in civil laws, such as in those of marriage, divorce or adoption, is thought to be a solution to the inconsistencies arising out of the practice of personal laws by different religious communities. Yet a uniform civil code has never been formulated: politicians baulk at the possibility of losing votes and are also reluctant to appear insensitive to deep-seated beliefs. The Supreme Court recently expressed its wariness about encroaching on personal laws while responding to two public interest litigations asking for equality for all citizens in the laws regarding divorce, maintenance and alimony. The petitioner presented the constitutional provisions violated by the functioning of different personal laws in this sphere and asked for one gender-neutral and religion-neutral law for divorce and its associated issues. The theme of the petition was that personal laws discriminated against women, as did the laws of maintenance and alimony of India’s largest minority community. The Supreme Court bench, headed by the Chief Justice of India, reportedly said that this was in effect asking for the nullification of personal laws, something the court could not do. When the petitioner mentioned the Supreme Court’s 2017 ruling that the practice of instant triple talaq was unconstitutional, the court pointed out that Parliament had legislated in that instance, which was not so in this case. The State had to intervene if personal laws encroached on fundamental rights; the court could neither abolish nor encroach on personal laws. The Supreme Court decided to examine the petition only with “caution”. It said that the government must decide on a uniform civil code since it had the “pulse of the people” — or it should have. The qualification is pertinent in the present context. The Bharatiya Janata Party is a loud advocate of the UCC, but has earned the distrust of minority communities by its Hindutva bias. Many considered the outlawing of instant triple talaq  with its stringent provisions a first step towards a BJP-favoured UCC. It is feared that such a UCC would be driven by the party’s agenda, not the principle of equality. The Supreme Court’s sensitive approach is salutary from that point of view.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Violated core: Trampling over tourist zones||The vacation urge is riding the wave in this season of Yuletide, with hopes pinned on a vaccine to expedite the exit of a pandemic-riddled year. Home-shackled residents are booking touristy destinations with alacrity. The flip side of this verve is that VIPs in our democracy (Z-category ones included) often head to government-run facilities and disrupt the plans of the ‘common man’, sometimes exposing even wildlife to such overdose. Several political leaders are touring such holiday destinations now on the pretext of electioneering, unveiling projects or even escaping the wrath of farmers. With an unwieldy entourage in tow, they trample through tourism zones, their movements curbing the freedom of those who pay for their holidays and wait for months for a week’s respite. This is often the case with Kanha, the largest national park in Madhya Pradesh. It hurtled into the limelight again during the autumn festive season when legal luminaries of our nation landed in the tiger sanctuary in a helicopter and spent three days in the wildlife habitat. National parks in our country often witness VIPs camping in core areas, with forest officials desperately trying to please them by “arranging” big game sightings. I was witness to one such circus at Kanha when the chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and his wife arrived in a gleaming helicopter that landed right inside the buffer zone. Certain routes (like Trail 7) where tiger sightings are likely were immediately closed to tourists, who pay through their noses for the open jeep safaris. Forest department elephants were appropriated to herd tigers to the trail along which the chief minister’s jeep traversed. Nearly a dozen tigers were sighted (read paraded) for their benefit. The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, amended in 2006, specifies that the core zones or ‘critical tiger/wildlife habitats’ must be inviolate. The forest rest house, where the VIPs camp, is, however, located in the core area.First among equals In July 2012, the Supreme Court issued an interim ban on tourism in core areas of tiger reserves. In October that year, the apex court lifted the ban, but tourists can no longer stay in the core area. The VIPs are exempted of course; ours not to question why! Unfortunately, this scenario is prevalent everywhere in India, the world’s most populous democracy, where the voter is deprived at the cost of the leader he elects. Fresh pugmarks and loud alarm calls by deer and langurs do not always guarantee an encounter with the larger species. This leaves many visitors disappointed, but politicians arm-twist the forest management into breaking rules. In contrast, at Sasan Gir in Gujarat, the Asiatic lion habitat, a former state tourism ambassador failed to sight lions even after seven safaris, but was gracious enough to accept that catching a glimpse of the lord of the jungle is a matter of luck. Gir now has a safari park around 7 kilometres away from the sanctuary with some leonine inhabitants to assuage the disappointment of those who fail to sight lions on the forest safaris. Most national parks, however, do not have such a placebo for eminent visitors who disturb the wildlife and disrupt schedules of genuine tourists. Ironically, positive conservation activity is seldom harped on. Diligent volunteers from Calcutta have been training Kanha’s forest guides for years, making them the best in the country. Instead of lauding these efforts, we watched aghast as bureaucrats and local leaders, and even the forest ranger, raced through Kanha to pay obeisance to the VIPs. Surely a democracy underscores the need to restrain the first among equals? Be it the right of way or a vaccine, the VIP takes precedence. Has the Preamble to our Constitution (upholding ‘equality of status and opportunity’) been reduced to a ramble?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
21-12-2020||Opinion||Cause for cheer||We had begun to believe that the Bharatiya Janata Party is striding ahead with its steady demolition of secularism and free speech because the courts are not resisting its agenda. But a closer look at what happened in the courts this year offers cause for cheer. This has been a significant year for media practitioners and citizens in the courts. While the cases involving the Republic TV anchor, Arnab Goswami, grabbed the headlines, there were pushbacks in the Supreme Court against hate speech, with television anchors peddling such speech being refused relief. The courts also made observations decrying the addition of sections pertaining to sedition in first information reports. In Goswami’s case, none other than the frequently maligned Chief Justice of India observed that what his channel puts out is “not the kind of public discourse we should have.” This year’s judgments in the apex court have pushed back on hate speech in no uncertain terms. This month, a bench of the Supreme Court refused to quash the FIR registered against the News18 anchor, Amish Devgan, for his remarks against the Sufi saint, Moinuddin Chishti, while holding a debate on the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991. The judgment observed, “In a polity committed to pluralism, hate speech cannot conceivably contribute in any legitimate way to democracy and, in fact, repudiates the right to equality.” In September, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court took a dim view of the lawyer, Shyam Divan, trying to make out a free speech case for the TV programme, Bindas Bol, which wanted to telecast an episode called ‘UPSC jihad’. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud disagreed. “This is not a freedom of speech issue. When you say students of Jamia are part of a conspiracy to infiltrate civil services, that is not permissible. You cannot target one community and brand them a particular manner. This is an insidious attempt to malign a community,” he said. And added, “As a Supreme Court of the nation, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating civil services.” This year, two high courts — the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Bombay High Court — also rejected the invoking of sedition laws in cases which they felt did not deserve to be registered under Section 124A. While granting bail to a man who had vented on Facebook Live about the handling of the pandemic by the Centre and the state government, a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court observed that the State needed to be more tolerant and circumspect while invoking laws pertaining to sedition and religious disaffection. And that being intemperate and abusive against government officials and elected representatives did not amount to inciting disaffection towards the government established by law. Likewise, the Bombay High Court, during the hearing of the Kangana Ranaut case, expressed concern over the ‘trend’ of adding the offence of sedition (Section 124A IPC) in FIRs. “If anybody does not fall within the line of the government, will that be sedition?” the presiding judge of the division bench hearing the matter asked the senior counsel representing Mumbai police. The offence of sedition has been added in the FIR registered by the Bandra police against the actor and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, over alleged communal tweets. This year has seen more than 3,000 protesters against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act being charged with sedition in January. So judges questioning the trend are to be applauded. Given that the term, ‘godi media’ (lapdog journalism), has gained much currency, the travails of the country’s most contentious television anchor have demonstrated that there are limits to how far aligned journalism can take you. When Arnab Goswami took on a non-BJP government, he lost the immunity his politics gave him, and his trajectory through the justice system in Maharashtra showed what politicized journalism can come up against. Even if the Central government and the ruling party bat for you, aggressive Opposition-ruled state governments can become your nemesis. That Centre-state politics moves the registration of FIRs first became evident this year in Chhattisgarh. The Maharashtra cases came later. Goswami’s first hearing this year in the Supreme Court in April came about because no less than 101 FIRs were filed across the state of Chhattisgarh against him for comments he made on his channel about Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, with those against the latter being particularly offensive. Newslaundry reported that FIRs were filed in at least 20 of Chhattisgarh’s 27 districts, all of them by local Congress leaders and party workers. (The anchor posted a video on Twitter claiming that there were more than 150 FIRs, profusely thanking the Supreme Court for upholding his constitutional rights). The Maharashtra police for its part booked Goswami and his company executives later in the year in three or four different cases, and finally arrested him at home on November 4 after reopening an abetment to suicide case. The Bombay High Court denied him interim bail in that case, but the Supreme Court later granted it, reasoning that it was doing so because courts should ensure that “criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment of citizens.” (Arnab Manoranjan Goswami vs. the State of Maharashtra & Ors.) In October, while hearing the Maharashtra government’s challenge to the Bombay High Court’s June 30 stay on its investigation against Goswami, the apex court told his counsel, Harish Salve, that freedom of the press did not mean that a journalist should not be asked questions. The investigation was based on two FIRs filed against Goswami for allegedly inciting communal hatred through his coverage of the Palghar lynching and a gathering of migrants at a Bandra bus station during the coronavirus lockdown. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde sought an assurance of responsibility in reporting from Goswami, Bar and Bench reported, and told the anchor who has built his brand on baiting, “You can be a little old fashioned in reporting. Frankly speaking I cannot stand it. This is not the kind of public discourse we should have.” In December, Goswami’s company, ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, was back in the Supreme Court seeking protection for the group and its employees in the cases lodged against them in Maharashtra, including the charge of manipulation of television rating points. A bench headed by Justice Chandrachud declined to entertain it, describing the protection sought in the plea as “ambitious”. The bottom line then is that the Central government’s favourite journalists are no longer invincible. And the courts have begun to push back on hate-mongering and the bullying of the press and the citizenry by the police. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-100
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deputy commissioner inspects Jharia rehab||In the wake of a tragic incident of a 30-year-old woman buried alive in subsidence prone zone of Jharia on last Friday, Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on Monday carried out an on-site inspection of the newly developed quarters in Belgarhia, 6 km from Jharia. The quarters are meant for rehabilitating people and Singh who is also the ex-officio managing director of Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) gave a host of instruction to JRDA authorities to accelerate the process of rehabilitation. Singh who was accompanied by senior officials of the JRDA including its advisor Sunil Dalela; Rehabilitation and Resettlement in-charge, Gulzar Anjum and others including Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto instructed the JRDA authorities to accelerate the rehabilitation work and also ensure regular availability of basic facilities like water supply, etc. Singh, meanwhile taking cognizance of complaints of people’s representatives including Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, took a note about the use of substandard material in the ongoing construction work of the quarters. Talking to the media after the inspection, Singh said, “We have instructed the complete the shifting of 1034 non-legal titleholder (also known as unauthorized occupants or encroacher) families from the subsidence prone zone to the safer places within one and a half month in the ready to move in quarters of Belgarhia on a priority basis.” So far around 4,500 families out of a total of 1.04 lakh families living in the 595 underground fire-affected areas have been shifted in 11 years of rehabilitation which began on March 25, 2010. “Some issues of lack of basic amenities like irregular water supply were also found during the inspection of the colony and we have instructed the authorities to fix the problem at the earliest,” said Singh. He had also instructed to constitute the committees of the newly rehabilitated people for different zones in the colony on the line of apartment committees to look after the management of water, power supply and other facilities. “The district administration will also conduct a probe with regard to the complaints of use of substandard material in the quarter construction work,” said Singh. When asked about the lack of employment opportunities for rehabilitated people at Belgarhia working as a deterrent to the people of Belgarhia from the fire-hit areas, Singh said, “Yes indeed the lack of employment opportunities or source of livelihood at a new place is the biggest challenge before both the district administration and JRDA. We will have to find out a solution to the problem and will also seek the guideline of the state government in this regard,” When asked about the protest of local residents of Baliapur over the proposed shifting of RSP College Jharia from Belgarhia to Ropeway Colony of BCCL at Digwadih in Jharia, Singh said, “The issue will have to be solved through mutual discussion between the people of both Baliapur and Jharia as the demand of local residents of Baliapur to have some higher education institution also seems to be based on some logic as there is a lack of higher educational institution in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Raid on illicit liquor manufacturing unit at Kadma||Acting on a tip off, a team of Jharkhand Excise Department’s Jamshedpur office raided a small illicit liquor manufacturing unit in a densely-populated area in Kadma on Monday morning. The operation was being run from a residential house in Green Park residential area under Kadma thana. The team arrested a 55-year-old woman as part of the racket, but the man who ran the unit managed to escape. Officials seized 40 litres of spirit, different Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) labels, corks, sealing machines and various kinds of colouring materials. "When we raided the place, we found a 55-year-old woman alone there. After interrogating her, identified as Urmila Das, we got to know that the house belonged to her.  We asked her about who ran the liquor unit, but she did not divulge any details," Excise inspector Mahendra Deogam told The Telegraph Online. "The racket of manufacturing duplicate IMFL was running during the lockdown period when licensed shops were closed.  But the racket continued even after liquor sale resumed from September," he added. The arrested woman is still in the custody of the Jharkhand Excise office at Dhalbhum Road in Sakchi. According to sources, Excise officials are trying to find out localities where the duplicate IMFL bottles were being supplied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital resumes OPD services from Monday||After a gap of more than nine months, the Outpatient Department (OPD) services resume in Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad on Monday, with the services of nine general physicians in two shifts. The OPD services which were launched in the hospital last year after the construction of the hospital building were discontinued since the outbreak of Covid-19 crisis in March as the hospital was initially converted into a quarantine centre and later used to conduct Covid-19 testing. Finally, it was converted into a 50-bed Covid care centre for patients with mild symptoms. As the Covid situation has improved in the district and the number of patients has also decreased, the Covid care facility has been discontinued and the district health department decided to re-launch the OPD services in the hospital. The Covid testing facility including the trueNat and RTPCR test facility, however, will continue in the hospital along with the OPD services. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Dr Rajkumar Singh, in-charge of Sadar Hospital Dhanbad said, “Though we have re-launched the OPD service today, we are also gearing up to start the facility of emergency services in the hospital after a week for which preparations are on.” “We have the necessary equipment and beds for the launch of the emergency services in the hospital which can be carried out within a week or next ten days,” said Singh. Elaborating more about the OPD services, Singh said, “Though initially, we have launched the services in two shifts from 9 am to 1 pm and again from 3 pm to 9 pm but we will ensure continuous OPD services from 9 am to 9 pm in three shifts.” Notably, emergency services will be launched in the hospital for the first time after the development of its new building. Construction work of the 300-bed two-storey building complex, for which the administrative approval of an original estimate of Rs 4.88 crore was given by the government way back on June 17, 2008, began in 2009. The estimate was later revised to Rs 9.07 crore as there was a delay in the construction work in 2012 due to various reasons and finally, the construction was completed in May 2019. However, the OPD services were launched in the hospital in March 2019 after the appointment of doctors and purchase of necessary equipment carried out by the district administration through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Government schools reopen in steel city after eight months||Government schools reopened in East Singhbhum district on Monday amid strict Covid protocols after a shutdown of over eight months since the first week of April. Students of Class X and XII were allowed to enter their respective campuses after a thorough check pertaining to masks and use of sanitisers and thermal scanners. "All government schools resumed classes for X and XII as per state government guidelines. Only those students producing consent letters of their parents were allowed into classrooms," said district education officer Sachidanand Tigga. The East Singhbhum district has 130 government schools. A.K. Ghosh, a senior teacher of Sakchi High School, said, "It's good to see students returning to the campus after a gap of over eight months. On the first day on Monday students of Class X were asked to submit their answer sheets for Unit II examination which was conducted online last week." Sources in the education department revealed that on an average, government schools recorded attendance between 30 and 49 per cent on the first day. School authorities were optimistic about more students attending class. "Monday being the first day, the turnout of students was less. But we are expecting good attendance from Tuesday onwards, " said a teacher of Rajasthan Vidya Mandir in Sakchi. Students looked happy to be back on campus. "Classroom study is definitely different from online classes. We are hopeful that things will gradually become normal in due course of time,” said Pushpa Kumari, a Class X student of People's Academy in Baradwari. A student of Kadma-based Tata Workers' Union High School said, "Covid protocols were strictly followed. Apart from masks, use of sanitisers and thermal scanners, social distancing norms were also followed. Only one student was allowed in a bench. We enjoyed classes on the first day."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chas SDO conducts surprise inspection of Bokaro Airport||Chas sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh conducted a surprise inspection of the ongoing expansion work of Bokaro airport on Monday. This followed a complaint he received regarding anti-social elements creating disturbance in development work - cattle are being sent inside the premises and the existing boundary wall is being breached at several points. Airport AUthority of India (AAI) has deployed two supervisors to safeguard the 1671 meters long runway from cattle - cow dungs can damage the runway surface. Bokaro Airport is owned and maintained by BSL, but AAI has undertaken the Rs 48 crore development work. AAI management has informed the district administration about the growing disturbance and also pointed out that this is causing a delay in the completion of work. A release issued by Bokaro Public Relation Department (PRD) mentioned that "SDO along with the Circle Officer (CO), Chas, Diwakar Prasad Dwivedi and police officers of police station visited the airport and inspected the entire premises thoroughly". The PRD release also stated that "SDO after assessing the situation directed the airport management to provide a written complaint against anti-social elements who are involved in encroachment to the district administration. So that punitive action can be taken against the miscreants after identifying them. At the same time, SDO instructed Officer-in-Charge of Sector-12 police station and city police station to identify anti-social elements and take action against them by patrolling from time to time". The December 11 complaint said local people residing in the area adjoining the boundary wall at Gumla Nagar, Sector - 12, and Dundi Bagh are causing disturbance during execution of the boundary wall work. About 80 percent of the work has been completed. The rest of the work, if executed smoothly, is expected to be completed within four-five months. Bokaro airport presently manages non-scheduled flights. Once civil operations begin, the airport will connect the steel city to Patna and Kolkata under RCS-UDAN. Project work includes the construction of the terminal building with 300 passenger peak hour capacity along with strengthening and re-carpeting work of runway, apron, and taxi track for ATR-72 aircraft, AAI sources informed. It has been almost two years since the foundation was laid down for the expansion, but commercial flights are yet to become operational here. Once work gets completed, AAI will have to obtain a license from DGCA to begin flight operation. Sources said that the 72-seater flight probably of Spice Jet will launch its service in Bokaro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Security forces gun down PLFI ‘zonal commander’ in Khunti||A rebel belonging to the banned PLFI, who carried a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head, was gunned down in a joint operation of the state police and CRPF on Monday morning at a jungle in Murhu block of Khunti district, around 60km south of the state capital. “Our forces have gunned down PLFI zonal commander Jidan Gudia after a brief gun battle. No casualties have been reported on our side,” said Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar, adding that search operations were on in the adjoining areas to nab his associates who could be in hiding in the jungles. Shekhar said that the encounter occurred at 8.30 am on Monday. Security forces recovered an AK-47 rifle and live cartridges from Gudia’s possession after shooting him dead. Earlier this month, Jharkhand police had released a picture of Gudia and announced a prize of Rs15 lakh for anyone with information about his location. Secret informers disclosed Gudia’s location to police in Khunti and the security forces subsequently planned a surprise strike Sunday night, sources said. Sources in the CRPF said the rebels opened fire at the security forces and Gudia was killed when the security personnel retaliated. Gudia’s aides, however, escaped taking advantage of the dense forest. Founded by self-proclaimed ex-army man Dinesh Gope, PLFI is one of the 17 splinter outfits in Jharkhand.  The rebel outfit, according to police, has unleashed a reign of terror on innocent villagers in parts of Khunti, Ranchi, Simdega and Gumla. They extort money from businessmen, police said. Gudia, who was the prime accused in several cases of arson and killings, had escaped the clutches of security forces a couple of times in the recent past. The state police had recently intensified operations against Left Wing Extremist (LWE) groups and announced a bounty on at least a dozen rebels. State DGP M.V. Rao had said last week that police were seeking the help of local residents to trace insurgents. On December 3, police arrested PLFI area commander Krishna Yadav from a village in Lohardaga district. In the same week, a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from a PLFI hideout in Latehar. As per figures with the Union home ministry, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are over a dozen splinter outfits like PLFI active in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Season’s coldest day for Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Daltonganj||The biting cold across Jharkhand is likely to stay for the next three days with IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealing on Monday afternoon that minimum readings in most parts of the state will remain three to four notches below normal. Jamshedpur recorded its lowest minimum temperature this season at 7.6°C against 8.7°C on Sunday. Several other parts of the Kolhan region, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan also witnessed a new low of around 7°C. Ranchi continued to record 7.2 °C for the second consecutive day on Monday, while in Kanke on the outskirts of the state capital, the Celsius nosedived to 5.7°C. Daltonganj and Bokaro too experienced the season's coldest day with minimum readings of 6.1 °C and 6.2 °C respectively. The north-eastern parts of the state, including Pakur and Sahebganj, were relatively warmer as the minimum hovered around 9°C. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Calcutta said conditions were favourable for a fresh Celsius plunge. “The entire state is in the grip of the bitter cold north-westerly winds, which is resulting in temperature drops. Minimum readings are expected to slide by another degree or so in hilly areas,” said a duty officer, adding that the weather would also remain dry for the next five days. Residents are dealing with the extreme temperatures in their own way. “For the last two days, I have stopped venturing out of my house after sunset because the chill is so intense. I have delayed my morning walk by an hour or so,” said Amritesh Singh, a resident of Sonari. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Meteorological Centre noted the absence of a significant system over Jharkhand."A weak western disturbance is likely to pass through northern parts of the country around December 24 but it won't have any impact in Jharkhand, " said a senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town schools reopen after nine months||All government schools reopened in the district as per the state government order observing the laid guidelines on Monday. In some public schools pre-board examinations were held observing the state government guidelines but a majority of the public schools have decided to open two-three days later after making necessary preparations. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Monday, Principal of BSS Ucchh Vidyalaya, Anjali Gupta said, “We have opened the school today for Class X and XII observing all the Covid guidelines like carrying out sanitization of the entire campus, ensuring all students and staff are wearing a mask, obtaining the consent letter of the parents, etc.” “As the classes being held on rotational basis, only 30% of such students who have brought the consent of their respective parents have been allowed,” said Gupta. Khusi Kumari, a Class X student of BSS Ucch Vidyalaya who attended the class on Monday said, “Though classes were being held online but returning to the campus after a gap of 10 months and attending classes face to face, we realised the advantage of classroom study.” “My father is a roadside tea stall owner and a non matriculate but he realises the significance of education and didn’t think twice before giving his consent for attending classes for me,” said Kumari and added that as their board examinations are likely after two months and the time of school reopening is very crucial as it provides them to clarify their doubts on various topics. Payal  Kumari another Class X student of the school said, “Though the ongoing online teaching is no  way inferior but studying in classrooms helps to develop a sense of competition among students and propels students to excel which is slightly missing in  virtual classes.” Echoing sentiments with their counterparts in government schools, students of Rajkamal Saraswati Vidya Mandir Dhanbad, a public school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education in Dhanbad where pre-board of Class X and Class XII began on Monday also welcomed the reopening of the school. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Abhishek Singh, a Class XII pre-board examinee of Rajkamal Saraswati Vidya Mandir - Dhanbad said, “We are happy returning to the campus after a gap of more than nine months and expect that the situation will normalise in the coming days and all activities will return to the campus.” Alok Nayan Kashyap another pre-board of Class XII examinee of the same school said, “With the beginning of the examinations on Monday we expect other activities like practical classes will resume in school as for Science students practical classes in the laboratory are quite crucial.” Principal of DAV Public School Koylangar, Rakesh Singh while talking to media this morning said, “We will resume classes after December 23, after completing all necessary preparation like obtaining the consent of parents and comprehensive sanitization of the entire campus is being carried out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jobs for youths will be govt focus in 2021, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday said that one of the key agendas of his government for 2021 will be to generate employment opportunities for the youths Set to complete a year in office by the end of the month, Hemant unveiled his future plans to the media in Dumka. “To begin with, we have decided to recruit about 15,000 youths across different departments through special drives in the first phase to fill the vacant posts,” he said. Currently, on a tour of Santhal Parganas, the chief minister said the decision to accelerate recruitments had been taken following an exhaustive fortnight-long review meeting of the government’s functioning earlier this month. “The idea was to take stock of the government’s progress in the last one year and set future targets. Our first year mostly went in tackling the global pandemic, which is still not over. Despite many shortcomings and challenges, we rolled out several measures to reduce distress among people. Now, we have decided to accelerate our efforts to provide jobs and employment opportunities to youths both in urban and rural areas. “At the same time, focus is also on rebooting every sector that had suffered problems due to the Covid-19 lockdown for the overall development of the state,” he said, adding that the government would launch several new schemes and initiatives on the occasion of completing a year in office on December 29. Hemant also criticised the Opposition BJP for being irresponsible towards the well-being of the state. “They are still in shock after being voted out of power and hence have no other job than to criticise the government. If it (BJP) cared about the state then it would not have been silent when the Centre blocked our funds, or auto-debited money from our account in the Reserve Bank towards pending payments to DVC. He said it was because of the BJP’s wrong policies, that Jharkhand was steeped in debt. “The BJP is also silent about the Union government banning admissions to three of our medical colleges. All that the BJP is interested in is to topple governments through misuse of power, money and resources,” he said. With Bengal scheduled to hold Assembly polls next year, Hemant said his party, the JMM, would fight elections in the neighbouring state in all seriousness. “JMM has been fighting elections in Bengal. We will do so, this time too. Our teams are undertaking field visits to assess the ground situation to be able to finalise the number of seats we will contest,” said Hemant. On Sunday, the chief minister visited Tarapeeth with his family to offer prayers. He indicated that the JMM wasn’t averse to forging alliances with like-minded Opposition parties. “If the situation demands, we shall obviously go to alliances. I also learnt through the media that the West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is planning to call a meeting of non-BJP parties in view of the elections. We too shall take part, if invited formally,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases above 100 only in Ranchi and East Singhbhum now||Only two of 24 districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, had more than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection after recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in the state on Sunday, bringing the number of patients down to 97 from 102 in Bokaro, the third district to have a triple-digit-figure of active cases until Sunday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per government data, Pakur had only one active case of Covid-19 infection on Sunday and could become the first district in Jharkhand with zero Covid patients soon. Giridih and Simdega had six Covid patients each, and were in the race to bring the number of active cases down to zero soon, health officials said. While the state reported 172 cases against 182 recoveries, no Covid fatalities were reported in Jharkhand on the day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 108 recoveries against 71 fresh cases brought the active cases in Ranchi down at 759 – the highest among all the districts in the state. At least five districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while four districts registered a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases and the same number of recoveries on the day, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 10 recoveries. At least 12 cases surfaced in Ramgarh, while three patients recovered there. So far, the state has reported 1010 Covid casualties, and at least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi, on the other hand, has reported 209 Covid deaths, while 100 people of died of the infection in Dhanbad. All the remaining 21 districts have reported less than 100 Covid casualties in Jharkhand, keeping the mortality rate in the state at 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 10,346 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 46.39 lakh people and tested 46.24 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state was 1,13,025, while there were only 1708 active cases of infection. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 418.44 days against the national average of 329.67 days. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.59 per cent against the national recovery rate of 95.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Kasturi Mahila Sabha distributes blankets, warm clothes for the poor||Kasturi Mahila Sabha, an outfit of the spouses of officials of Ranchi-based Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, on Saturday distributed around 150 blankets to the poor. The Sabha, which is over four-decades-old, distributed warm clothes and blankets to the workers of Birsa Primary School and Birsa High School, Gondwana and Recreation Club boys and contractual workers of the institute on the premises of the CMPDI, a subsidiary of Coal India Limited, a Maharatna company. Sabha president Meeta Saran said they have already carried out similar social activities and would continue to do so in the future using their own resources to alleviate the sufferings of the poor and the unfortunate. CMPDI chairman-cum-managing director Shekhar Saran praised the initiative of the Sabha. “It is a commendable feat of the Sabha to arrange funds of their own to help the poor of the society. Such work needs to be carried out in the future too. We should fulfil our responsibilities towards deprived and needy people in whatever way possible,” he said. The distribution event was attended by Usha Mishra, wife of K.K. Mishra, director (training), and Neeraja Gomasta, wife of S.K. Gomasta, director (training and CRD), among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
