22-12-2020||Calcutta||CAMRI Hospital asked to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation||The CAMRI Hospital in Burdwan was on Monday asked to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a patient party by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission after it was found that a doctor, with a diploma in gynaecology, had operated a patient for breast tumour. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, told a news conference that doctor members of the commission said during the hearing that a doctor with a degree in gynaecology could not conduct a breast tumour surgery. “A Burdwan resident complained that a doctor with a diploma in gynaecology had performed a breast tumour surgery on a patient,” said Banerjee. “Fortunately, nothing happened to the patient, who was later treated at Burdwan Medical College and Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai.” The commission asked Woodlands Hospital to pay Rs 20,000 to a woman who complained that her one-month-old son had developed an infection in one of his legs because the nurses did not check the condition of his skin after fitting an oximeter in one of his legs. Banerjee said the woman sent a picture of the boy’s leg on Monday and there were marks of the infection in the skin. “We found the nurses’ conduct negligent and asked the hospital to pay Rs 20,000 to the family,” he said. The commission asked Sanjivani Nursing Home in Hooghly’s Sheakhala to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a woman who was admitted there when she was pregnant. “The woman gave birth to a baby but she developed an infection, for which the family had to spend Rs 1.5 lakh. We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 50,000 to the family,” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Medica Superspeciality Hospital to offer Rs 10 lakh discount to the family of a 45-year-old man who died there from Covid. “The hospital had billed Rs 39 lakh for the treatment. We decided to fix a rate of Rs 1 lakh for ECMO (an advanced type of mechanical life support) treatment for each day,” said Banerjee. “At Rs 1 lakh a day, the bill should be Rs 31 lakh for 31 days. We also asked the hospital to offer another Rs 2 lakh as discount. The man’s father said they had already paid Rs 27 lakh and had spent all their savings to clear the bill,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal govt asks hospitals to follow rates and refund||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked Nightingale Hospital to accept the rates of the Bengal government’s health scheme and return to a government employee the portion of a surgery’s cost that will not be reimbursed under the scheme. The employee, 40, alleged that the hospital had forced her husband to sign a declaration that they would not claim reimbursement under the health scheme. The woman underwent an orthopaedic surgery at the hospital in September 2019. She also complained that the doctor who performed the surgery told her that the implant she needed would cost much more than the rate offered by the health scheme and she had to pay the price fixed by the hospital, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The declaration made by the woman’s husband will become null and void. We have asked the woman to file reimbursement claims under the West Bengal Health Scheme. The hospital has to pay back the woman the amount that will not be reimbursed under the scheme,” said Banerjee. “The woman complained that she had been charged Rs 71,000 extra for the implant. The health scheme rate says the implant would cost Rs 5,500, but the hospital charged her Rs 76,789,” Banerjee said. The bill for the surgery was Rs 1.33 lakh. “The woman said the doctor told her that the surgery could not be done at the rate mentioned in the health scheme. She also said her husband had written the declaration under duress,” said Banerjee. An official of a private hospital said the implant rates mentioned in the health scheme were for indigenous implants, whereas most doctors were trained in handling imported ones. That is why many doctors do not want to perform implants on patients admitted under the health scheme, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Gariahat tram depot to be converted to set up a 'Tram World'||A part of the Gariahat tram depot near Ballygunge Phari has been converted to set up a “Tram World” to commemorate 140 years of the tramways by the Calcutta Tramways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. The Tram World will have old tram bogeys, some of them built as early as 1938, displaying old pictures and replicas of tram cars, including a few from other countries like the US and Australia. It will also have a special section for vintage cars, curated by the Classic Drivers Club of Calcutta. The Tram World will house a concert area, lounges, waiting room, food court apart from a photo gallery capturing history of the tram movement over the ages in Calcutta. The museum will be thrown open on December 23 for eight hours from 10am against an entry ticket of Rs 30. “The idea is to capture the glory of the tramcars from the bygone eras and present them to the youths of this generation in a mix of art, music and love for heritage,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Khidderpore. As more and more tram tracks got laid across the city, the number of tramcars grew, helping the service survive several political and social turmoils including the two world wars and India's battle for independence. In 2014, the transport department had inaugurated “Smaranika” a tram museum by refurbishing a vintage 1938 tram car and showcasing tram memorabilia. Over the years, the number of visitors to this car has dwindled prompting a section of tram conservationists to wonder if the state government was really keen on preserving one of the cleanest modes of transportation in Calcutta. “The seating arrangement in Swaranika doesn’t reflect the tramcar of the 1930s. It has been converted into a restaurant. So, it is anything but a museum,” said Debasish Bhattacharya of the Calcutta Tram Users Association. “The rolling stock of several models of the early years, the eight-wheel cars, have not been preserved so what will be on show inside the museum? Some of the trams inside this so-called museum have been apparently painted in red, blue, green which is a pity.” Experts, who have been advocating for a clean and green transportation system, have often cited how governments around the world have been investing on streetcars, trams and light rails to make commuting more accessible. Berlin, for instance, has improved upon its ageing tram systems. Over the last few years, service of trams in Calcutta has taken a severe beating. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, only six routes covering about 20km were left operational till Amphan happened. Now five routes have been restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Something is amiss with our planet’||The Covid-19 pandemic shows how globalisation can trigger changes in the much longer-term history of the planet, a historian based in the US told a Calcutta audience at a virtual programme on Friday. Dipesh Chakrabarty, professor of history at the University of Chicago, gave the Alexander Duff Memorial Lecture organised by Scottish Church College. The lecture was initiated in 2013 to commemorate “the association of the college with its founder”. The topic of this year’s lecture — The Planetary Age in Human History. “My personal pleasure is actually enhanced by the fact that my father was a student of this college. He took his honours degree in physics sometime soon after the college changed its name from Scottish Churches College to Scottish Church College,” Chakrabarty said at the outset. His lecture straddled between capitalism, globalisation and climate change, true to the speaker’s introduction by Supratim Das, the vice-principal of the college. “He has been driven by the question — what history is, what it was yesterday and what it may be tomorrow. We find an amazingly expansive range in his writings, from a genealogy of the discipline of history in late colonial India to the way of thinking about the dilemmas in which humans find themselves today in the wake of climate change, the pandemic and other related problems,” Das said of the speaker. Some excerpts from Chakrabarty’s lecture and answers to questions that he took later. The current pandemic, the rise of authoritarian and xenophobic regimes and sentiments across the globe, discussions of renewable energy, fossil fuels, climate change, extreme weather events, global warming, loss of biodiversity, the Anthropocene and so on — all signal to us, however vaguely, that something is amiss with our planet and that this may have to do with human actions. The Covid-19 pandemic is the most recent and tragic illustration of how the expanding and accelerating process of globalisation can trigger changes in the much longer-term history of the planet. The current moment of the Covid-19 pandemic belongs not only to global history of capitalism and its destructive impact on human life, it also represents a moment in the history of biological life on this planet when humans are acting as the amplifiers of a virus whose host reservoir may have been some bats in China for millions of years. Bats are an old species. They have been around for about 50 million years. Viruses for much, much, much longer. In the Darwinian history of life, all forms of life seek to increase their chances of survival. This new virus, the novel coronavirus, thanks to the demand for exotic meat in China, jumped species and has now found a wonderful agent in humans that allow it to spread worldwide. Because humans, very social animals, now exist in very large numbers, in very big urban concentrations on a planet crowded with them and most of them are extremely mobile in pursuit of their livelihood opportunities. Humans will win their battle against the virus, and as a human being I really hope we do, but the virus has already won the war. This pandemic is no doubt an episode in the Darwinian history of life and the changes it causes will be momentous both in our global history and in the planetary history of biological life. I think the lockdown strategy worked very well in slightly richer countries where you not only locked down people but you also gave them money to subsist on. Australia, for instance, introduced a wage contract, whereby they paid people almost 70 per cent of their wages for a whole year. A lockdown works well if the entire nation decides to undergo some privation, so that the national savings are spent more on the vulnerable people. But if you don’t give the poor any money and just simply lock them down, what will they eat and how will they eat? It very much depends on what kind of social contract the nation represents. In my own sense, about India, unfortunately, is that it does not represent the kind of social contract that welfare states do. Planetary processes — like the carbon cycle, the hydrological cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the way the ocean water circulates or the glaciers — have until now operated mostly independent of human activities. But they have been central to the flourishing of human and other forms of life. The more we acknowledge our emerging planetary agency, the clearer it becomes that we now have to think about aspects of our planet that humans normally just take for granted as they go about the business of their everyday life. Take the case of the atmosphere and the share of oxygen in it. The atmosphere is as fundamental to our existence as the simple act of breathing is. For the last 375 million years, since the evolution of large forests, the concentration of oxygen has been maintained by certain processes of the planet at a level that ensured that animals did not suffocate from the lack of oxygen and forests did not burn up from an over-abundance of it. Dynamic and diverse processes maintain the atmosphere in its current equilibrium. Oxygen is a reactive gas. So, the air needs a constant supply of fresh oxygen. Some of this oxygen comes from tiny sea creatures called the plankton. If human activities affecting the sea and raising the temperature completely destroyed the plankton — which might happen if the sea level temperature rose by six degrees Celsius, we would thereby destroy a major source of oxygen. In short, humans have acquired the capacity to interfere with planetary processes but not necessarily, at least not yet, the capacity to fix them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to offer concession in fees in the next semester||St Xavier’s University will offer a concession in fees in the next semester, from January to June, to those who will need it because of the pandemic-induced financial constraints. “We will offer the waiver in the coming semester as well. There could be students whose families are still coping with financial constraints because of the pandemic. So, if they apply, we will offer them a waiver. The waiver could go up to 50 per cent,’’ Father Felix Raj said. In the last semester, the university had offered a blanket 20 per cent concession in semester fees to all students. When asked whether the applicants for the concession have to produce any documents like income certificates, Father Felix Raj said: “They don’t have to produce anything. We have faith in our students.’’ The semester fee at St Xavier’s University ranges from Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000. An official of the university said the earnings from the fees had dropped by several crores following the blanket 20 per cent concession in the last semester. “Still we decided to come to the aid of the students who are feeling the pinch of the virus-induced shutdown. Already we have received four to five applications,” he said. Another official said many had suffered a pay-cut or even lost jobs. “Those who rely on business are reeling under a slump. We have to think about the problems of our guardians,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee decries religious hatred ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated Calcutta’s biggest public Christmas festival on Monday and said a “typical type of religious hatred” is brewing across India, threatening “secularism” and “the Constitution” of the country. “We love our Constitution. It is our pillar. But can you tell me whether this Constitution is being thoroughly nurtured, accepted? And in real sense, is secularism in India (being nurtured)? No. I am sorry to say, it is a typical type of religious hatred, policies going on,” Mamata said at the opening of the 10th edition of the Christmas festival at Allen Park on Park Street. Her comments came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah ended his two-day tour of Bengal and said the process of framing Citizenship (Amendment) Act rules -- part of a citizenship matrix that many communities have said is divisive — would start once vaccination for Covid-19 begins. “I want to condemn this (politics of hatred) today because this is a place where I can raise my voice," Mamata said. She stressed that the Christmas festival “stands for unity, stands for peace, stands for solidarity, stands for love and everything”. She underscored that this spirit of unity and solidarity stemmed from participation of people irrespective of their religion in the festivities. “This is the only place in our country where we celebrate festivals like this. It is like Puja... Just like this we celebrate our Id, our Christian festival and all the festivals. Because we are one, we are together. Unity is our strength and divided we fall, that’s why we pray for unity,” said Mamata. At last year’s programme, too, the chief minister had referred to religious hatred and spoken about ways to combat it. She had referred to the Centre’s move to do away with the seats reserved for the Anglo-Indian community in Parliament and wondered whether it was possible to exclude one community by scrapping seats. At Monday’s programme, seated on the dais with Mamata were Reverend Thomas D’Souza, the archbishop of Calcutta, and Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. In the audience were people from all walks of life and from all communities. From Allen Park, the chief minister went to St Xavier’s College to inaugurate the Pre-Christmas Programme. There, too, she stressed the need for peace and unity. “Christmas brings unity, peace, happiness to love each and every person…. It unites the world family,” Mamata said at the college. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, spoke of how the joy of Christmas encompassed everybody, going beyond the confines of the religious border. “Christmas is the most wonderful time of the year with so much joy all around. Not just for Christians, but all for various reasons,” the principal said. “Today more than ever, Jesus needs to be born in our life and in our world. Our world is darkened by human selfishness, pride and sin,” he said. Also present on the occasion was Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University. Reflecting on the spirit of the Christmas festival, Father Felix Raj told Metro: “In Bengal, Christmas is now going beyond caste and religion…. Everyone participates in the Christmas festival.” Referring to the chief minister’s message for maintaining unity, he said: “We must stand up to religious hatred to protect our secularism and the Constitution.” The chief minister praised St Xavier’s College and said it was one of the best institutions in the world. “I want to see St Xavier’s College as the number one,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Cheating after chats on site for matrimony||A man from Nigeria has been arrested from his rented accommodation in Faridabad in Haryana for allegedly duping a Lake Town woman, who had posted her profile on a matrimonial website, of more than Rs 80,000, police said. Edwin Ngoesine Anideh, 29, was arrested on December 17 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake in August, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The woman had mentioned in her complaint that she had posted her profile on a matrimonial website. A few months ago, she was contacted by a man who identified herself as Kalpesh Patel, an Indian settled in Canada, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the complainant was contacted by the man from Nigeria, who had posted a fake profile on the matrimonial site pretending to be an Indian staying in Canada,” the officer said. The two started chatting over the matrimonial website’s messenger service and eventually exchanged cellphone numbers. “A few days later he told her that he had sent her gifts, including jewellery and cosmetics. from Canada. He then called her and said the bag containing the gifts had been seized by the airport authorities and that she had to pay customs and other duties to retrieve it. The man then gave the woman another cellphone number and asked her to transfer Rs 80,800,” the officer said. The woman transferred the amount but no gifts reached her. She then tried calling up the man several times but could not get through to him. Finally both cellphone numbers ceased to be active, prompting her to lodge a complaint. The cops, too, faced delays in tracking down the man because the phone numbers were inactive. No clues emerged even after putting the numbers under electronic surveillance. Edwin was produced in a court in Haryana and brought to the city on transit remand. “It seems he has cheated several women in this fashion,” the officer said. He has been charged under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). A few days ago, the Nigerian used one of the numbers and the police tracked it down to Faridabad. A team was sent there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Great conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn decoded||The year 2020 is full of surprises. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, almost everybody on Earth is affected. But the objects in the sky move on in a regular manner, without any change in their pattern. Often you come across celestial events which are rare and spectacular. On the night of December 21, there was a rare event of the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. Jupiter and Saturn appeared extremely close to each other, and to the naked eye, for those who could see them through the evening haze, it was quite an effort to separately identify them. The angular difference between the two was about 0.1 degree. In comparison, the full moon subtends an angle of about 0.5 degrees. Jupiter takes 11.86 years to go round the Sun once, whereas the orbital period of Saturn is around 29.5 years. That is the reason why every 19 years and seven month apart, Jupiter makes an extra turn around the Sun, and comes in conjunction with Saturn. So, the Great Conjunction occurs periodically after every 20 years on average. But their apparent separation varies at every conjunction, depending on their position compared to Earth. A conjunction is an apparent phenomenon caused by the observer’s perspective: the two objects involved are not actually close to one another in space. Two celestial bodies visually appearing close to each other, as seen from Earth, is called a conjunction. These two giant planets have not appeared so close since July 16, 1623, and that is the reason sky lovers and enthusiasts were getting excited about this celestial treat. Before that, the closest observable Jupiter-Saturn conjunction was in the medieval times, in 1226. The next occasion when these two gas giant planets will come comparably close will be March 15, 2080. But seeing is not always believing. Though the two planets will be almost on top of one another, on the December 21 night their actual distance from each other was around 735 million km. For the city of Calcutta and its neighbourhood, the sunset was around 4.57pm, whereas the Saturn-Jupiter duo went below the horizon around 7.10pm. So, starting from some time after the sunset, with the brightness of the sky going down, enthusiasts in large numbers were ready to observe this rare celestial treat for just over an hour. The response was mixed. Some people could see the event nicely and a number of them enthusiastically arranged for live streaming over social media using small telescopes, but for some, mostly within the city limits, dust and light pollution in addition to low-lying fog disrupted proper viewing. The enthusiasm and interest generated by the people from all sections of society and among all age groups was very encouraging from the point of view of public interest about celestial events and the awareness of our cosmic environment. December 21, 2020, was special. In addition to the second closest conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn since the invention of the telescope in 1609, it was the longest night of the year as well! December 21 was the winter solstice day in the northern hemisphere, when the earth’s north pole is tilted at its maximum away from the Sun. This causes the longest night time of the year. The night time duration in Calcutta was about 13 hours and 15 minutes. Debiprosad Duari is the director, research and  academic, MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research, MP Birla Planetarium||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Motorists may be asked to count fingers or walk straight to check whether they are drunk or not||This season, motorists may be stopped at random and asked to count fingers shown by a traffic cop or walk in a straight line to check whether they are drunk or not. The old and familiar tests may not be the best, but there are few alternatives to curb drink driving at a time the use of breathalysers has been ruled out because of Covid-19. If anyone is found faltering at the manual tests on the road, cops will ask him or her to accompany them to hospital for an alcohol test. The police have not been using breathalysers over the past few months to prevent possible transmission of the Covid-19 virus. As a result, the prosecution rate for drink driving has come down and that led to an increased possibility of accidents. Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma had on Friday asked his traffic team to think of ways to tackle the problem of drink driving amid the pandemic. Lalbazar sources said senior officers of the traffic department had been contemplating different ways to detect drink driving without the use of breathalysers. “I have asked traffic personnel to take action against drink driving as this aspect had got slightly de-prioritised because of the pandemic. They have been asked to work out measures for having the person driving under the influence of alcohol tested, keeping all prescribed safety measures for Covid in place,” Sharma told Metro. In the absence of breathalysers, the police have been depending on their instincts to stop and check motorists at random. Some of those who are suspected to be drunk are being taken to government hospital for an alcohol test. “We cannot sniff a person these days because of the fear of Covid transmission and social distancing norms. We have to guess whether a person is drunk or not. But it is very difficult to convince motorists to visit hospital for the test without any evidence,” said a traffic cop. A source said that as a part of the test, a driver may be asked to count the number of fingers shown by a traffic cop. An incorrect answer might indicate the driver is not in his senses under the influence of alcohol. “A motorist may also be asked to walk in a straight line. Those who are drunk are likely to flunk the test,” the source said. “Those who will fail the test will be taken to hospital. If the test at the hospital confirms the presence of alcohol, he or she will be prosecuted under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act,” an officer said. The permissible alcohol content is 30mg per 100ml of blood. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if the alcohol content in his or her blood is found to be more than that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||20,000 volunteers to vaccinate 6 lakh health-care workers in Bengal ||The state health department is talking to voluntary organisations to draw up a list of around 20,000 volunteers who will vaccinate around six lakh health-care workers in Bengal in the first phase of Covid vaccination. Officials of the health department said they talked to representatives of several voluntary organisations on Monday seeking their support in providing volunteers. Such talks will continue over the next few days. According to the plan, each vaccination facility will be run by a representative of the health department and four persons from an outside agency. Each facility will vaccinate 100 people a day. If the infrastructure permits, more than one vaccination facility can be set up in one compound. “We have started making preparations for these facilities in medical colleges and hospitals across Calcutta. We will also support private health-care facilities with more than 100 employees enrolled for vaccination to set up vaccination centres,” said an official of the health department. The department has started training key personnel in handling Covid-19 vaccines once they reach the cold-chain systems. The state has around 20,000 vaccinators. On Friday, a training session was held for some of them at an address off EM Bypass. Those who attended the programme will visit districts and train other vaccinators. The second round of training will be held in Siliguri from Wednesday. A vaccination facility or a booth will have three rooms. There will be two big rooms, where recipients will gather and wait for some time after taking a shot. The vaccine will be administered in the third room. According to preliminary estimates, 6,000 such facilities will have to be set up across the state in the first phase of the vaccination drive, “A recipient will have to wait for at least half an hour in the resting room after taking a shot. Two persons will monitor his or her condition during the period,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said.  “There will be a gap of 28 days between the first and the second dose of the vaccine. A recipient will be certified as ‘vaccinated for coronavirus’ a fortnight after administering the second dose.” According to the plan, a health-care worker who has registered for vaccination will be assigned the centre closest to his or her registered address. The recipient will be informed about the date and time of the vaccination. Once a candidate turns up at a facility or a booth, a guard will check the registration details and ask him or her to wait in the designated room. A volunteer, to be known as Vaccinator-II, will run another round of checks to confirm the identity of the recipient and that she or he is scheduled to receive a dose that day. The candidate will then be taken to the vaccination room, where a trained vaccinator from the health department, to be known as Vaccinator I, will administer the dose. After the jab, the recipient will be guided to the resting room where two other persons will keep a watch for any ailment that might develop after the shot for at least half an hour. If the candidate develops no complications within this period, he or she will be free to step out, health department officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Business||Sensex rebounds 453 points, ends at a little over 46,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 453 points on Tuesday, tracking strong recovery in IT and banking stocks amid encouraging cues from European markets. After gyrating 968 points in a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46,006.69. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13,466.30. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, L&T and Nestle India. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, HDFC, Bajaj Finance and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered sharply from the day's low in a volatile trading day mainly aided by strong buying in IT stocks, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Investors once again started focusing on safe counters which are considered to be resilient from the pandemic and IT, pharma, telecom, FMCG and chemicals were in focus, he noted. "While concerns of a new strain of coronavirus do not augur well for the markets globally, India still looks to be better placed compared to others. However, markets are likely to remain volatile in the coming days until clarity emerges about new virus strains and efficacy of ongoing vaccinations," he asserted. European markets witnessed sharp recovery after German pharmaceutical company BioNTech said it was confident that its coronavirus vaccine would work against the new UK variant. The variant, detected mainly in London and the southeast of England in recent weeks, has sparked concern worldwide because of signs that it may spread more easily. While there is no indication it causes more serious illness, numerous countries in Europe and beyond have restricted travel from the UK as a result. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 1.67 per cent to USD 50.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and ITC amid weak cues from global markets as concerns over the new coronavirus strain continued to spook investors. The 30-share BSE index rallied over 384 points in the opening session but soon pared the gains to trade 307.60 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 45,246.36. After similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 99.90 points or 0.75 per cent to 13,228.50. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ONGC, ITC, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv and Dr Reddy's Lab. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Infosys, TCS, Tech Mahindra, HDFC and Power Grid were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex plunged 1,406.73 points or 3 per cent to close at 45,553.96. This was its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year. Nifty also tanked 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to finish at 13,328.40. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) turned net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 323.55 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities appear to be better placed now despite weak global cues, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Yesterdays' sharp sell-off in domestic markets was not surprising given Nifty witnessed a rally of over 16 per cent in the last two months and outperformed global markets. "While concerns of a new strain of COVID-19 do not augur well for the markets, India still continues to look better placed compared to others. However, markets are likely to remain volatile in coming days until clarity emerges about new coronavirus strains and efficacy of ongoing vaccinations," he said. US equities, despite recovering sharply from the day's low, ended mostly lower as concerns over a new virus in the UK and South Africa dampened investor sentiment. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.45 per cent lower at USD 50.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Home launches drop in Calcutta||Fresh supply of housing stock, a barometer of builders’ confidence in the prospects of the realty market, fell in Calcutta most among the top seven cities of the country, a report published by brokerage and consultancy Anarock noted. Only 3,530 units were launched by developers in Calcutta in 2020, a year marked by disruption because of the Covid-19, down 63 per cent from the previous year when 9,420 units were launched. The fall is most among the seven cities surveyed and also below the cumulative average 46 per cent. A steep decline in new offerings, while limiting the choice of buyers in general, proved to be beneficial in the clearing up of old stocks. Unsold inventory dropped 8 per cent in Calcutta, the most among markets surveyed by the report, indicating that developers focused on generating cash flow by liquidating old stock. Except for Chennai and Hyderabad, sales were more than launches. In Calcutta, top grade builders sold 7,150 units in 2020, down by nearly half from 2019 when 13,930 units were sold. Put together, the seven cities reported a 47 per cent decline in housing sales. While much of the damage to the markets happened during the March-June period, when the country was under severe lockdown, buyers returned to the market from August onwards. “Anarock data reveals that the festive quarter (October-December period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra,” Anuj Puri, managing director of Anarock said, adding the growth has set the stage for a revival in 2021. The year also saw buyers preferring branded players and well established names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Luxury auto makers announce price hike of 2% for its vehicles ||Luxury auto makers have announced a price hike of 2 per cent for its vehicles with most citing a weakening rupee against the euro and rising input costs as the reason. While Mercedes Benz India was the first to announce the hike, Audi and BMW followed suit. BMW Group India on Monday said it will increase prices by up to 2 per cent across its portfolio. It will introduce the revised 2021 pricing for all BMW and MINI models effective January 4, 2021.The price rise has been necessitated by the rising input costs, said Vikram Pawah, president of BMW Group. Mercedes Benz India had already hiked prices since October this year. There has been a 2 per cent increase in price across a select model range. Audi India too will increase prices of all its models by up to 2 per cent from January 2021. To somewhat cushion the price rise, Mercedes Benz India will continue with its financial packages like Wishbox 20 and a host of other service packages. Audi is offering service packages that will make ownership of the car a bit easier for its customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||KKR India announces Sanjay Nayar as new chairman||KKR on Monday announced that Sanjay Nayar, CEO of KKR India, will transition to a new role as its chairman. Nayar will don this role from December 31. The global buyout major also disclosed that Gaurav Trehan, a recent hire from rival TPG, will replace Nayar as head of KKR India. Trehan joined KKR earlier this year from TPG Capital Asia, where he was a partner in the India office. “We are grateful to Sanjay for his role in establishing our business in India, partnering with and empowering local entrepreneurs to build their businesses into local and global champions, making KKR a leading investor in India, and helping to grow our Asia Pacific business,” Joseph Bae, KKR’s co-president and co-chief operating officer, said. KKR entered India in 2006 and established its Mumbai office in 2009. It has so far deployed $5.8 billion in private equity bets and $10 billion across other assets, the statement said. Nayar will “advise and assist KKR’s India business” by leveraging his connections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||SsangYong Motor Company files for bankruptcy||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Monday said its loss-making South Korean arm SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) has filed for bankruptcy. SYMC has filed an application for the commencement of rehabilitation procedure with the Seoul Bankruptcy Court under the Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act of South Korea, M&M said in a regulatory filing. The troubled auto maker has also applied for an autonomous restructuring support (ARS) programme which is a court-designed process. “If the Court approves the ARS, SYMC will continue to function under the supervision of its board and will negotiate with stakeholders to reach an understanding about a revival package which may include equity and debt financing and other related actions,” M&M said. However, some of its decisions will be subject to court approval, it noted. The Seoul Bankruptcy Court will deliberate and review the application and relevant documents submitted by SYMC to determine whether or not the court will commence the restructuring process of SYMC, M&M said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||GMR demerger of non-airport vertical business approved||GMR Infrastructure Limited on Monday said it has received consent from the stock exchanges, with no adverse observations, on its proposed restructuring involving the demerger of its non-airport vertical business. The company said it will file the restructuring scheme with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) within six months. “The company has received consent of the stock exchanges, with no adverse observations, to file the scheme with the National Company Law Tribunal, within six months,” GMR Infrastructure said in a regulatory filing. The company said it had filed an application to “the BSE and National Stock Exchange of India towards the composite scheme of amalgamation and arrangement amongst GMR Power Infra (GPIL), GMR Infrastructure Limited (GIL), GMR Power and Urban Infra Limited (GPUIL) and their respective shareholders (scheme)”. In August, GMR Infrastructure had unveiled a group restructuring plan involving the demerger of the non-airport vertical business. The board of GIL together with other group companies — GMR Power Infra Limited (GPIL) and GPUIL — have decided on a “composite scheme of arrangement involving vertical split demerger of the non-airport business (energy, EPC, urban infrastructure, etc) of GIL into GPUIL, as a going concern”. Along with the rejig, GPIL would be amalgamated with GMR Infrastructure Ltd (GIL) as a step preceding the demerger. the firm had said. “Separate listing of both the airport and non-airport businesses will also help in simplifying the corporate holding structure. The vertical split demerger will go a long way in facilitating deeper understanding of the airport business independently as compared to other business verticals within the group,” the statement said. The GMR group operates the country’s busiest airport, Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, and Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. It also operates the Cebu airport in the Philippines. Once the scheme is implemented, the statement said GIL would emerge as the India's only pure play-listed airports company and all existing GIL shareholders would continue to have their same shareholding in the company. The appointed date for the scheme, being the date on which the undertakings shall vest in the respective resulting companies, has been fixed as April 1, 2021. The scheme is subject to customary approvals from stock exchanges, Sebi, NCLT, shareholders and creditors. The scheme is to create "mirror shareholding of GIL in GPUIL with all existing shareholders of GIL becoming shareholders of GPUIL in the same proportion". It also envisages issue of 1 additional share of Rs 5 each of GPUIL for every 10 shares in GIL of Re 1 each as on the record date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Govt to issue expression of interest for the sale of Container Corporation of India||The government plans to call for bids to sell its stakes in the Container Corporation of India and the Shipping Corporation of India. The expressions of interest (EoI) for the strategic sale of the railway PSU, with management control, will be announced later this month. While the government plans to offload 30.80 per cent of its 54.80 per cent stake in Concor, it would continue to retain 24 per cent post sell-off but without any veto powers. For Shipping Corporation, the bids for privatisation may be called in the coming week and buyers will be given time till mid February to submit EoIs, an official said. The government plans to sell the entire 63.75 per cent stake in Shipping Corporation along with transfer of management control. The EoI for Concor will be issued soon after cabinet clearance to the railways’ revised land licensing policy. However, the sale process could spill over to next financial year because of  paucity of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Mittals claims  repayment of security deposits worth Rs 82 crore from Ruias||The Ruias and the Mittals are slugging it out in court over the repayment of security deposits worth a little over Rs 82 crore. The deposits had been placed by Essar Steel — which is now owned by the Mittals —  with two Ruia-owned companies for the right to occupy space in the 22-storey Essar House at Mahlaxmi; and for a support services pact that got terminated in May 2014. The Bombay High Court has directed Essar House (EHPL) and Essar Services India (ESIL) to deposit Rs 35.5 crore and Rs 47.41 crore, respectively, as security deposits in a dispute with Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel India Ltd (AM/NS India). In Essar House, AM/NS India sought a deposit of Rs 35.5 crore as security for their claim in arbitration. In 2016, the then Essar Steel entered into a rental agreement with Essar Housing to occupy the ground floor, podium and 20 upper floors of the Essar House. The agreement was extended by consent to operate until March 31, 2019. On September 2018, Essar Steel entered into the Business Centre Agreement for the insolvency resolution period with EHPL, to take business centre facilities on six floors of Essar House. This agreement subsumed the rental agreement. However, later on November 27, 2019, EHPL asked Essar Steel to vacate the premises covered by the agreement after the latter was acquired by AM/NS. While this was done, the charge is that the refundable security deposit was not returned and EHPL had adjusted the amount against receivables from Essar Steel. In ESIL, the dispute arose after AM/NS India sought deposit of Rs 47.41 crore as refundable security upon termination of a support services agreement of May 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Tesla joins S&P 500 with a market value of $600 billion||In the middle of last year, Tesla’s losses were piling up, sales weren’t enough to cover expenses and big debt payments loomed. The situation was so bad that one influential Wall Street analyst raised the possibility that Tesla wouldn’t be able to pay its bills and would have to be restructured financially. Since then, the electric car and solar panel maker’s shares have skyrocketed, rising over 700 per cent this year alone. Monday morning it joined the prestigious S&P 500 index with a market value of over $600 billion. It’s the largest addition in the history of the index. Tesla’s rise to become the world’s most valuable auto maker and rank among the top 10 biggest US companies is a surprising accomplishment considering that the company lost $1.1 billion in the first half of 2019. The increase is so stunning that even CEO Elon Musk has said the shares are overpriced. Global sales hit a record of almost 140,000 in the third quarter, debt has been reduced with proceeds from stock offerings, and Musk’s company is building two huge factories. On Monday, the Tesla stock tumbled 4.5 per cent to $663.46 after its inclusion in the S&P 500 index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Fear of new strain of coronavirus in the UK  grips stocks ||Stocks on Monday received a severe jolt as the new strain of coronavirus in the UK led to fears of the global economic recovery hitting a speed bump. Amid negative global cues, the Sensex snapped its six-session record-setting streak and tumbled almost 1407 points. The intensity of the crash was such that more than Rs 6.59 lakh crore of investor wealth was wiped out. While investors were in a profit booking mode from the steady gains made recently,  sentiment nosedived as European markets cracked and safe-haven assets such as gold and the US dollar strengthened. This came after the UK government reported a new strain of the coronavirus that was up to 70 per cent more contagious. Soon, the UK imposed a fresh lockdown in London and southeast England, warning that the potent new strain of the Covid-19 virus was “out of control”. Various European countries, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy, have banned flights from the UK. India too has suspended all flights from the UK till the year-end while the Maharashtra government announced a night curfew. The 30-share index opened marginally lower at 46932.18 and remained rangebound till noon. However, shares were in for a free fall and the gauge soon hit a low of 44923.08 and later settled at 45553.96 — a fall of 1406.72 points or 3 per cent. This was its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to finish at 13328.40. All Sensex components ended in the red, with ONGC leading the pack by tumbling 9.15 per cent. “Today’s correction validated our recent cautious stance and this is how the market traps participants. Despite the market hitting new record highs in the last couple of weeks, we have been repeatedly advocating on booking profits and staying light. “With today’s fall, we can see the last twelve day’s gains going for a toss, a classic revenge from the mighty bears,’’ said Sameet Chavan (chief analyst-technical and derivatives, Angel Broking, said. One of the major reasons behind the recent bull run was the participation of foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Market circles, however, feel that their participation will be relatively low during the Christmas holidays and this could lead to volatility. Provisional data showed they were net sellers to the tune of Rs 323 crore in Monday’s trading. “We expect equities market to witness further volatility in the near term. Nevertheless, correction after big rally is always a healthy sign for the market and provide good opportunity to add quality stocks for investment purpose,” said Sanjeev Hota, head of research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Delhi High Court refuses to grant interim injunction to Amazon||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a plea of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to restrain Amazon from interfering with its Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance. In an 132-page order, Justice Mukta Gupta declined the grant of an interim injunction as sought by the Kishore Biyani company. Justice Gupta further said the statutory authorities or regulators can take a decision (whether to approve the transaction) in accordance with the law. However, the judge said, the board resolution of FRL on August 29 for the sale of its business to Reliance is valid and is in accordance with statutory provisions or the articles of association of FRL. The matter had gone on to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), which on October 25 passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. During the proceedings at the Delhi high court, FRL had claimed the order from the emergency arbitrator (EA) is without jurisdiction and a nullity as the EA lacked legal status under Part I of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (A&C Act) and the parties even by consent could not have conferred jurisdiction on the EA as it was “coram non judice” (not before a judge). However, Justice Gupta held the order given by EA is valid. “The EA prima facie is not a coram non judice and the consequential EA order not invalid,” the order said. The Delhi High Court also observed that the shareholder agreements between Amazon and the Future group show that the latter has acquired control rights over FRL and that in the absence of government approvals, this is contrary to Fema and FDI rules. In its plea, FRL has sought an interim restraint on Amazon from interfering with the transaction or taking any steps that would come in the way of the deal, pending consideration before the regulators and statutory authorities. “The present application is disposed off, declining the grant of interim injunction as prayed for by FRL, however, the statutory authorities/regulators are directed to take the decision on the applications/objections in accordance with the law,’’ Justice Gupta said in the order. According to Gupta, the trinity of the principles for the grant of interim injunction — prima facie case, irreparable loss and balance of convenience are required to be tested. The Future group, however, claimed that Monday’s verdict actually went in its favour. The court said that it was “prima facie of the opinion” that the conflation of the three agreements — the two shareholder agreements at Future Retail and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the share subscription agreement at FCPL — had not only created protective rights in favour of Amazon for its investments but also transgressed to “control” over FRL, which required government approval. Since this had not been obtained, Amazon’s agreements with the Future group ran contrary to the FDI rules under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the court added. This is an argument that Amazon had tried hard to rebut with its counsel arguing that FCPL had only a 9.82 per cent shareholding in Future Retail and the investment in Future Coupons had given Amazon only an indirect 2.58 per cent stake in Future Retail. Further, Amazon’s investment in FCPL did not violate the Foreign Exchange laws as the government permitted foreign investment up to 51 per cent under the government route in entities engaged in multi-brand retail trading. Moreover, foreign investment up to 100 per cent is permitted under the automatic route in FCPL, which is engaged in “cash and carry wholesale trading/wholesale trading”. The court, however, did not buy Amazon’s argument. Significantly, the court also said that by asserting that the Future Retail board resolution of August 29 this year (which ratified the deal with the Reliance group) was void, Amazon “would fall foul of the freedom of FRL and Reliance to enter into the transaction thereby causing loss to both FRL and Reliance which would be a civil wrong actionable by both FRL and Reliance in case they suffer any loss.” The court went on to add that FRL had “been able to make out a prima facie case of tortious interference by Amazon” by seeking to block the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||India||Farmers defer decision on talks to Wednesday ||Farmer unions on Tuesday said they will make a decision regarding holding talks with the Centre on Wednesday, while agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar remained hopeful of a discussion soon. As the farmers’ protest against the three agri laws entered its 27th day, union leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said that 32 farmer organisations from Punjab held a meeting and discussed the next course of action. Addressing a press conference, he said the decision regarding talking to the Centre will be taken on Wednesday when farmer leaders from across the country will discuss the agenda. Sandhu said that they would also write to Britain MPs, urging them to press their Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to attend India's Republic Day celebrations on January 26. Union Agricultural Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal on Sunday had written a letter to 40 farmer unions, asked protesting leaders to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments in the laws and choose a convenient date for the next round of talks so that the ongoing agitation could end at the earliest. Meanwhile, Tomar said he was hopeful of resuming the talks, the sixth round of which was cancelled on December 9. “Representatives of different farmers' bodies had come to tell that the laws are good and are in the interest of farmers. They had come to urge the government not make any amendments to the laws,” Tomar said after meeting two groups supporting the laws. “I am hopeful they (protesting farmers' unions) will soon complete their internal discussions and come forward for talks. We will be able to find a solution successfully,” he said. UP-based Kisan Sangarsh Samithi (KSS) and Delhi-based Indian Kisan Union (IKU) are among those farmer groups that have extended support to the laws in the last three weeks. The previous groups were from Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. However, nearly 40 protesting farmers’ unions have maintained that the new laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has been saying that these apprehensions are misplaced. Tomar on Tuesday further asserted that the new laws will bring in a fresh era in Indian farming, saying that the agricultural sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. He was interacting with members of international media from the Foreign Correspondents' Club of South Asia. “The minister reiterated that reforms have been made in the interest of farmers and will bring about a new era in Indian agriculture. The Government has had many rounds of talks with farmer unions and is willing to continue the dialogue on contentious issues, clause by clause, with an open mind,” an official statement said. Tomar, along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, has been holding discussions with 40 protesting unions. Tomar described the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities Amendment Act 2020 as the biggest agricultural reforms in the country so far. “These reforms will provide farmers market freedom, encourage entrepreneurship, access to technology and transform agriculture,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers show black flags at Haryana CM’s convoy||A group of Haryana farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws, showed black flags to the convoy of state Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar when he was passing through Ambala city, sources said. According to them, some of the farmers tried to block Khattar’s motorcade but the police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister. Khattar had come to Ambala to address public meetings in support of party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said that they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are not repealed. A large number of police personnel were deployed near the Chowk. The farmers had gathered at the grain market and also tried to block the Ambala-Hisar highway. On December 1, a group of farmers had shown black flags to Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria in Jandli village adjoining Ambala city. Kataria is a BJP MP from Ambala. Almost two weeks later, BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini faced the ire of farmers in Yamunanagar as they raised slogans against the Centre for not repealing the three agri laws. Saini, an MP from Kurukshetra, was visiting Khurdi village to lay the foundation stones of some projects and inaugurate a community centre. The protesters had thrown black paint on the foundation stones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||New Covid strain to have no impact on emerging vaccines, assures govt||There is no cause of concern or panic over the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, the government said on Tuesday, noting that no similar or significant mutation has been seen yet in the coronavirus strain in India. Addressing a press briefing, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said that the mutated SARS-CoV-2 strain detected in the UK has no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines. "As of now, based on our discussions, deep understanding of data available and our deep assessment, there is no need to panic but it is a cause to be more vigilant. This new challenge we have to counter with our comprehensive efforts. We will be safe if we suppress the genomic sequence," Paul said. There is no change in treatment guidelines due to this mutation and the vaccines that are being developed, particularly those in the country, will not be impacted, he said. Paul said that mutation might result in the virus becoming more infectious and spreading more easily between people. "It is also being said that in these viruses, the transmissibility has increased by 70 per cent, you can also call them super spreader in a way but it does not increase the propencity of death, hospitalisation and severity of the disease. What is affected is tendency to affect more people that by itself is a cause of concern. It is an adverse development," he said. Paul said that there is no need to "panic" and added that "we are yet to spot such a virus in our country". Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there has been a sustained decline in COVID-19 cases in India since mid-September. "India has reported 124 COVID-19 cases per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 588. India has reported two COVID-19 deaths per million population in the last seven days as against the global figure of 10 deaths," he said. Bhushan said that 26 states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases of Covid-19. The government has issued standard operating procedures listing the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled to or through the UK in the past four weeks, from November 25 to December 23, he said. The Union health ministry said that 61 per cent of Covid-19 deaths reported in a span of 24 hours were from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh. While, 57 per cent of COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours were from Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
22-12-2020||India||Centre issues fresh SOP for passengers coming from UK||Passengers coming from the UK should undergo RT-PCR test and isolated in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive, stated the Health Ministry's standard operating procedure issued on Tuesday in view of the new variant of coronavirus detected there. India has suspended all passenger flights connecting the United Kingdom from Wednesday till December 31 or till further orders in the wake of the emergence of a mutated strain of the virus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban. The SOP by the Health Ministry for epidemiological surveillance describes the activities to be undertaken at the point of entry and in the community for all flyers who have travelled from or transited through the UK from November 25 to December 23. It stated that all travellers from the UK will be required to declare, according to the existing procedure, their travel history of past 14 days and fill up the self-declaration form to be screened for COVID-19. All passengers coming from the UK from December 21 to 23 would be subjected to the RT-PCR test on arrival and this has to be ensured by respective state governments, the SOP stated. Those found negative in the RT-PCR test at the airport would be advised quarantine at home and followed up. The passengers who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate unit coordinated by the respective state health authorities. They would earmark specific facilities for such isolation and treatment, it said. A spike gene-based RT-PCR test should also be performed by an appropriate laboratory in case of a positive sample, the health ministry recommended. Also, contacts of such travellers who were found COVID-19 positive at airport testing would be subjected to institutional quarantine and tested according to ICMR guidelines. "Necessary action to send the samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, or any other appropriate lab for genomic sequencing will be initiated at the facility level." In case the report of the sequencing is consistent with the current SARS-CoV-2 virus genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol including home isolation and treatment at the facility level as per case severity may be followed, the SOP stated. "If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2, then the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. While necessary treatment as per the existing protocol will be given, the patient shall be tested on 14th day, after having tested positive in the initial test. "In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, the further sample may be taken until his two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative," the guidelines stated. It stated that state-wise passenger manifest of the flights from the UK landing at various airports in India for the past four weeks from November 25 to December 23 shall be conveyed by the Bureau of Immigration to the state government and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) so that the data would be provided to the surveillance teams. The list of passengers travelling between December 21 and 23, who are found RT-PCR negative at airport testing, shall be shared with the states by the Central Unit of IDSP. They shall be advised quarantine at home and tested as per ICMR guidelines. Their monitoring would be ensured by the state governments and IDSP. Those travellers from the UK who arrived in India from November 25 to December 8 will be contacted by district surveillance officers advising them to self-monitor their health and in case of development of symptoms would undergo RT-PCR test. The list of travellers who arrived in India between December 9 and 23 will be shared with respective states and district surveillance officers for daily follow up till 14 days after their arrival in India. "The district surveillance officer has to ensure daily follow up of passengers under observation for 28 days starting from the date of arrival," the SOP stated. The new variant of the SARS-CoV 2 virus has been reported by the Government of United Kingdom to the World Health Organization. This variant is estimated by the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC) to be more transmissible and affecting the younger population. The new variant is said to be 70 per cent more transmissible, though health experts say there is no evidence that it is more deadly or would react differently to vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Suresh Raina, Sussanne Khan held for violating social distancing norms||Thirty-four persons including cricketer Suresh Raina and Bollywood celebrity Sussanne Khan were held after a raid at a posh club near the Mumbai airport on Tuesday for violating social distancing norms, police said. Thirteen women who were among those held were allowed to leave after being served notices while the men were shown as arrested and granted bail later, police said. The raid took place at the Dragonfly Experience club near the Mumbai international airport at around 3 am, police said, adding the 34 also included seven staffers of the club. They were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC, police said. "Party (Nahin) Chalegi Till Six In The Morning! A raid was conducted at a nightclub in Andheri at around 3 am, for flouting COVID prevention norms. Action has been initiated against 34 people, out of which 19 were from Delhi & Punjab, including some celebrities #NewNormal," Mumbai Police tweeted. The raid was conducted after the club establishment remained open beyond the permissible time limit and did not adhere to coronavirus norms, police said. "Suresh was in Mumbai for a shoot which extended to late hours and was invited by a friend for a quick dinner post the same prior to him taking his flight back to Delhi. He was not aware of the local timings and protocols," a statement on behalf of Raina said. "Once pointed out, he immediately complied with the procedures laid out by the authorities and regrets the unfortunate and unintentional incident. He always holds rules and laws laid down by governing bodies with the highest regard and will continue to do so in the future as well," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Covid: Delhi to check health conditions of those arriving from the UK||Amid rising concerns over a new variant of the coronavirus discovered in the United Kingdom, the Delhi government on Tuesday announced that it will check the health conditions of passengers who have arrived to the national capital from the country. The Delhi government will visit their houses to do so. State Health Minister Satyendar Jain said all passengers arriving from the UK are now being tested for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport. “The Delhi government is on alert in the wake of a mutated coronavirus strain detected in the UK. The situation is being closely monitored and mandatory tests are being conducted at the Delhi airport for all passengers arriving from that country,” he told reporters. Jain said that the Delhi administration has fought difficult battles against Covid-19 and all efforts will be made so that the improvement made in curbing the pandemic is “not reversed”. The Civil Aviation Ministry on Monday suspended all flights from the UK to India and vice versa from Wednesday till December 31 owing to the newly detected strain of the virus. “In the last two weeks, about 6000-7000 people have landed at Delhi airport, many of whom would have travelled to other places like Punjab from thereon,” Jain said. “We will go house-to-house and do check-up of passengers to assess their condition, and also advise them to isolate themselves for some time,” he added. According to sources, passengers coming to India from the UK are undergoing RT-PCR tests at the airport. If someone tests negative but has symptoms, they will be subjected to institutional isolation. Those testing negative will also be advised to go to self-isolation for seven days, they said. Jain has also urged those who have recently come from the UK to monitor their health and go for tests at the slightest of Covid-like symptoms, and inform the government. Asked about the threat of the new virus strain entering Delhi, he said, “CM Kejriwal had appealed to the Centre to close flights from the UK, and it had been done. So, we are doing everything possible to contain the spread”. “A new vaccine is being prepared to treat Covid-19,” he said. Asked if the new strain could negate its efficacy, he said, “Only scientists and ICMR can comment on it.” Delhi recorded 803 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the lowest since August 17, taking tally to over 6.17 lakh, even as the death toll increased to 10,304 with 27 new fatalities. “We recorded such a low number of cases and a positivity rate of 1.29 per cent,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Automated system flagged Kisan Ekta Morcha's page as spam, clarifies Facebook||Social media giant Facebook said Kisan Ekta Morcha's page had been taken down after its automated systems found increased activity and flagged it as spam, and that the page was restored in less than three hours. Facebook had faced criticism from various quarters after the page - which is run by a farmers' collective - was taken down on Sunday evening. "As per our review, our automated systems found an increased activity on the (Kisan Ekta Morcha) Facebook page and flagged it as spam, which violates our Community Standards. We restored the page in less than three hours when we became aware of the context," a Facebook spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that the review showed that only the Facebook page was affected by the automated systems while the Instagram account remained unaffected. While a vast majority of work fighting spam is done automatically using recognisable patterns of problematic behaviour, the company also relies on human review team to work on cases where human expertise is needed to understand the context of a particular situation, the spokesperson said. "In Q3 2020, out of the 1.9 billion pieces of content removed globally for violating our policies on spam, we restored 74.9 million pieces of content globally, when we identified issues ourselves," the spokesperson added. Protestors at the ongoing farmer's agitation had said social media is crucial for their movement as it allowed them to share their views. Many had seen the shutting down of the Facebook page as an attempt to silence them. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech recruits 13,000 volunteers for phase III trials||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced the recruitment of 13,000 volunteers and continued progress towards achieving the goal of 26,000 participants for the Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' across multiple sites in India. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, Bharat Biotech said in a statement. The indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV), it added. "Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated 2 dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses," Bharat Biotech said. According to the company, the vaccine is developed and manufactured at Bharat Biotech's BSL-3, biocontainment facility. The company has successfully recruited 13,000 volunteers for the Phase III clinical trials of the vaccine and the target is to have 26,000 participants, as per the statement. "This is an unprecedented vaccine trial ever to take place in India, and we are overwhelmed with the steady rise in participation," Bharat Biotech Joint MD Suchitra Ella said. The company had started the phase III clinical trials in mid-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Amid new variant concerns, six passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19||Six passengers who entered the country on Air India’s London-Delhi flight have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, a senior government official said on Tuesday. This comes at a time when a new strain of the coronavirus has led to millions entering a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK from Sunday, with non-essential shops and businesses now closed. The flight landed around 11:30 pm on Monday. “Five passengers were found Covid-positive at the Delhi airport. One passenger, who took a connecting flight to Chennai, was tested there and found positive,” the official said. In a separate case, two passengers from the UK were found positive for Covid-19 after they arrived at the airport at Calcutta, health department officials said on Tuesday. A flight carrying 222 passengers from the UK arrived at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) airport on Sunday night, they said. “Twenty-five passengers did not have Covid reports with them. So they were taken to a nearby quarantine centre, and their coronavirus tests were conducted. Two tested positive,” the West Bengal Health and Family Welfare Department official said. The Centre on Monday announced that all UK-India flights will remain suspended from Wednesday to December 31 owing to the emergence of the new variant of the virus. It also said all passengers coming from the UK on Monday and Tuesday would be compulsorily tested for coronavirus on arrival at airports. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Twitter that the passengers who are found Covid-19-positive would be sent for institutional quarantine set up by states or union territories (UTs). “Those found negative should be advised to isolate at home for seven days and will be medically monitored by states/UTs,” Puri added. Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harsh vardhan on Monday assured that the government is vigilant, and there is no need to panic over the emergence of this new starin. He said the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year. The scientific community, he added, had very ably risen to the occasion, continuously striving and contributing to whatever was needed to combat and understand any aspect of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena takes a dig at PM over gurdwara visit||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday wondered what will be the outcome of the ongoing farmers' protest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a gurdwara and sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose followers are among those protesters. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' was referring to Modi's visit on Sunday to Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi where he paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice. Guru Teg Bahadur, whose death anniversary was observed on Saturday, was cremated at the Gurdwara Rakabganj. Thousands of farmers, including Sikhs, have been protesting near the Delhi borders since November 26 against the Modi government's three new farm laws. The editorial in the Marathi daily said farmers from Punjab did not flinch even when Modi reached the gurdwara, "turning his back towards the Sikh peasants' protest", and continued with their demonstration. "Prime Minister Modi sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur. Happy about it. Thousands of Sikh fighters are also fighting (protesting) from the same inspiration near Delhi border. Hence, it is a question of what will be the outcome of the battle," the editorial said. It said 'Gurbani' was being played when the prime minister reached the gurdwara. The Gurbani says services and devotion towards God will be of no use if one does not change his/her thoughts, the editorial noted. The Gurbani says reading the holy religious book several times will be of no use if one does not understand its teachings, and also asks what will one do when his/her time comes and an account of his/her deeds is checked, it said. The gurbani mentions that none could defend himself from time, it added. It is "not right" that Modi's political opponents criticise him for anything he does, the editorial said in a cryptic remark and asked what is there to be restless if he visited the gurdwara. Modi's opponents are alleging "politics" behind the prime ministers visit the gurdwara and asking why are the farmers from Punjab protesting in the cold if he loves Sikhs so much, it said. "...but none should question Modi's faith. Guru Tegh Bahadur was a great saint. The Guru accepted martyrdom for humanity, principles and ideals...he was the protector of religion. Hence, not only Sikhs, everyone on this land should bow before Guru Tegh Bahadur," the editorial said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||CBI convicts priest, nun in 1992 murder case of Sister Abhaya||A Central Bureau of Investigation court at Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday found a nun and a priest guilty in the murder case of 21-year-old Sister Abhaya. Her body was recovered from the well of a convent in Kottayam in 1992. CBI special court judge J.Sanal Kumar pronounced the verdict in regard to the case. The verdict in this regard was pronounced by CBI special court judge J Sanal Kumar. The quantum of the sentence will be pronounced on Wednesday. The court said the murder charges against Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy guilty will stand. Both are in judicial custody. Another accused in the case, Fr Poothrakayal was discharged earlier over lack of evidence. The judgement comes 28 years after the young nun was found dead in the well of St Pius convent, where she stayed. Abhaya's parents Thomas and Leelamma passed away a few years ago awaiting justice for their daughter. First local police and then crime branch investigated and concluded that it was a case of suicide. The CBI took over the investigation of the case in 2008. The trial in the case began on August 26 last year and many witnesses had turned hostile. According to prosecution, Abhaya was attacked with the handle of an axe because she was witness to some alleged immoral activity involving the three accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Development should not be seen through political prism, says Modi at AMU event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said political and ideological differences should be set aside for the sake of national goals, asserting that politics can wait but development cannot. Addressing the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), he said development should not be seen through the political prism. Without elaborating, he said some elements driven by self-interest and negativity are bound to feel uneasy when everyone comes together to achieve common goals. "We have to understand that politics is an important aspect of society. But in society there are also issues other than politics, Modi said in the speech delivered through video conference to a university he called a mini-India. He said there is space beyond siyasat' (politics) and 'satta' (power), which should be explored by campuses like AMU. It is natural to have differences in society, he said. But when the issue is securing national goals, these differences should be set aside. He listed economic development, education, the standard of living and nationalism (rastravaad) among the common goals. These are some of the issues on which we cannot differ in the name of our political or ideological (vaicharik) compulsions. This was the first time in over five decades that a prime minister participated in an AMU event after Lal Bahadur Shastri attended one in 1964. The PM's address also comes against the backdrop of sporadic protest by AMU students in past months over issues like the new Citizenship Amendment Act, and the targeting of the campus by some BJP leaders. Modi stressed on development and said it should not be seen through the prism of politics. When we come together for this goal, it is possible that some elements feel uneasy. Such elements are found in every society in the world. These are people who have self-interests and to fulfil them they can adopt any device and all types of negativity. But the space occupied by such people will shrink when the goal is to make a new India." the PM said "Politics can wait, society can wait. But the country' development cannot wait," he said. Modi said the poor, the poor, the deprived and the youth do not want to wait any longer. We should not waste time in 'matbhed' (differences) and move forward on a common ground to build a new India, that is 'Atmanirbar Bharat'," he said, stressing on self-reliance. Modi lauded the AMU's 100-year-old heritage, recalling the contribution of its alumni. "We have to unitedly work to ensure that the feeling of 'Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat' (One India, Great India) gets strengthened day by day on the AMU campus," he said. He said over 1,000 foreign students are studying at AMU and it is important to showcase the country's greatness to them. The prime minister said as the country progresses, nobody should be left behind due to their religion. His government's motto is "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas" and it is functioning without discrimination towards anyone, Modi said, listing several welfare schemes. On the Swachh Bharat campaign, he claimed that with the construction of lakhs of toilets the rate of Muslim girls dropping out of schools has reduced sharply. Over one crore Muslim girls have also been given scholarships, he said. He said 35 per cent of the students in AMU are women and congratulated the university for this. The prime minister said the government is working on increasing opportunities in higher education and gave statistics showing the rise in a number of institutes since a BJP-led government came to power in 2014. The PM advised AMU scholars to conduct research on unknown freedom fighters and highlight their contribution. Modi said AMU produced great personalities over the past 100 years and has shaped the lives of many. He also praised the AMU efforts in fighting coronavirus by conducting free COVID-19 tests, setting up a plasma bank and contributing to the PM Care fund. He called AMU "mini India". Urdu and Hindi, Arabic and Sanskrit are all taught on the campus, he said. Along with Quran, the translations of Gita and Ramayana are kept in the library. "This diversity is the country's strength. We have to neither forget it nor let it get weakened," he said. Earlier, Education Minister Ram Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor also addressed the virtual event. Before Modi, Lal Bahadur Shastri attended an AMU event as prime minister in 1964. Before him, Jawaharlal Nehru visited the campus four times, beginning with 1948 when an honorary doctorate was conferred on him at the annual convocation. This was followed by visits in 1955, 1960 and 1963.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Fresh Covid cases below 20,000 after nearly six months||The number of daily new coronavirus infections reported in the country was recorded below 20,000 after nearly six months while the Covid-19 active caseload fell below 3 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,75,116 with 19,556 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,46,111 with 301 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,36,487 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.65 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below 3 lakh. There are 2,92,518 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,31,70,557 samples have been tested up to December 21 with 10,72,228 samples being tested on Monday. The 301 new fatalities include 55 from Maharashtra, 41 from West Bengal, 27 each from Kerala and Delhi. A total of 1,46,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,801 from Maharashtra followed by 12,016 from Karnataka, 11,995 from Tamil Nadu, 10,304 from Delhi, 9,401 from West Bengal, 8,212 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,078 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,212 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-472
22-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly session on farm laws||The Kerala government has decided to convene a special session of the state Assembly on December 23 to pass a resolution against the farm laws. Two weeks after it took a call not to implement the controversial laws that have led to nationwide protests, the state government held a cabinet meeting on Monday to decide on the special session to formally register its opposition to the three farm laws. A source at the chief minister’s office said the cabinet has recommended state governor Arif Mohammed Khan to convene the one-hour session on Wednesday morning. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would move the resolution, leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress and heads of all parties would be allowed to speak on the motion before passing it. The government had earlier decided to challenge the contentious laws in the Supreme Court. State agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar told The Telegraph that the government would send a strong message against the NDA government for steadily usurping the rights of the state governments. “Since agriculture is in the concurrent list, the Centre should have consulted the states. Instead, they went ahead and hurriedly passed the farm laws that are detrimental to the interests of the farmers across the country,” Kumar said. “Such tendencies are against the spirit of federalism enshrined in the Constitution and would eventually leave the states at the mercy of the Centre,” the minister said. He said the state government would soon approach the apex court against the farm laws. He said Vijayan would move the motion in the hour-long special session where leaders of all political parties would get to air their opinions. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government was among the first to come out in support of the agitating farmers, thousands of whom have assembled in Delhi with the demand of repealing the laws that allegedly favour corporate companies. On November 1, Kerala became the first state to fix minimum support prices for vegetables. Left leaders have been actively participating in the agitation against the farm laws. Acting secretary of Kerala CPM A. Vijayaraghavan on Monday took part in the protests in Ghazipur in the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and assured all support from his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||CBSE exam rules can’t refuse name change: Allahabad High Court||Allahabad High Court has ruled that people have a fundamental right to change their names, which the examination rules of the Central Board of Secondary Education cannot override. The high court has allowed a plea from a former CBSE student that challenged the board’s rejection of his application to have his first name changed on his Class XII certificates. The single-judge bench of Justice Pankaj Bhatia cited several Supreme Court and high court rulings and said the right to change one’s name was part of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It said such rights were subject to reasonable restrictions but not by an organisation like the CBSE that was a registered society and not a statutory authority. “The rules as framed by the CBSE do not have any statutory flavour and cannot be considered to be the ‘law’ as required for placing reasonable restrictions on the rights enshrined under Article 19(1)(a), in terms of Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India,” the December 2 judgment said. Ravi Bhardwaj, a senior lawyer with long experience in fighting education-related cases, said the judgment had questioned the sanctity of the rules framed by the board. He feared that students, teachers and schools might now begin questioning the CBSE’s rules on examinations and school affiliation. “The government should now consider enacting a law to give the CBSE a statutory character. This has been long due. Considering the extensive presence of CBSE schools in India, it’s time this requirement was given due importance,” Bhardwaj said. The petitioner, known as Rishu Jaiswal when he cleared his Class XII boards in 2015, had later changed his name to Kabir Jaiswal. When he sought to have the name change reflected on his certificates, the CBSE refused. The court has allowed the change. According to the CBSE’s exam by-laws, a candidate’s name or those of her parents can be changed on board documents — following a court directive and a gazette notification — only before the candidate’s results have been published. If the results have been published, only corrections in the spellings of the names of the candidate and her parents are allowed, that too within five years of the publication of the results. Also, the candidate must get her school to forward the application along with the admission records. “I agree with the judgments of Kerala High Court as well as Delhi High Court to hold that change of name is an expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India,” the December 2 judgment said. Bhardwaj said the right to change one’s name was not directly mentioned in the Constitution, but had been interpreted by the courts to lie within the ambit of one or the other fundamental right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Britain Covid mutant ‘not seen in India yet’ ||The unusual mutant variant of the novel coronavirus observed in the UK and a few other countries has not been seen in India yet, according to scientists familiar with the genome sequences of over 4,000 viruses from India. The variant named B.1.1.7 has an unusually large number of genetic changes and scientists believe one of these mutations helps the virus gain efficiency at entering human cells while another mutation appears to help the virus evade human immune responses. Several of the mutations have emerged in the coronavirus spike protein that the virus uses to enter human cells and is the focus of most vaccines against the coronavirus disease designed to generate immune responses against the spike. “Mutations by themselves are not surprising in viruses, but this set of mutations is something we need to note and watch,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, a lab engaged in analysing genome sequences. Agarwal told The Telegraph that B.1.1.7 has not been detected among Indian coronavirus samples sequenced so far. An online database of coronavirus genomes maintained by the IGIB has until now analysed 4,338 genomes and found 5,574 unique variants. While the mutations appear to increase the efficiency of transmission, Agrawal said, there is no evidence yet that they have any implications for either the severity of the infection or the need for hospitalisation. A consortium of UK scientists studying the coronavirus genome has reported that the earliest genomes belonging to the B.1.1.7 lineage were collected in September in Kent and Greater London but the cluster has grown rapidly over the past four weeks. By mid-December, Andrew Rambaut at the University of Edinburgh and his colleagues across the UK had compiled 1,623 genomes of the B.1.1.7 lineage of which 519 were sampled in Greater London, 555 in Kent, 545 in other regions of the UK and four in other countries. The UK scientists have pointed out that one of the mutations in B.1.1.7 named N501Y helps the virus increase its binding affinity to molecular gateways the virus uses to enter human cells. And another mutation 69-70 del could arm the virus with the capacity to evade the human immune response. A study by two US researchers had last week suggested that mutated versions of the novel coronavirus could retain the ability to bind to human cells even while evading antibodies and underlined the need for smarter vaccine designs. The researchers analysed around 147,000 viral genome sequences and found several mutations that could disrupt the spike protein-antibody interface in such a manner that the virus is able to continue binding to its entry gateway into human cells. The findings have “two important implications,” Paul Axelsen, professor of pharmacology, biochemistry, biophysics and medicine and his collaborator wrote in their paper describing their analysis of these mutations. Mutated versions of the coronavirus may be able to reinfect people who have recovered from an earlier infection and vaccines with only one variant of the spike protein may induce little protection against variants already circulating in human populations, the researchers wrote. Vinod Scaria, a senior bioinformatics researcher at the IGIB said there is already significant evidence for the emergence of such antibody escape mutations in coronavirus variants. “There are around 100 such variants with the capacity to evade various antibodies,” Scaria told The Telegraph. “It is a theoretical possibility that when vaccines are widely deployed, the virus might undergo a selection pressure and develop mutations biological advantageous to evade specific antibodies.” Scientists say the findings point to the need for continued surveillance for viral mutations after vaccines are deployed. “There is no way to say what mutations will come up when vaccines get deployed in large parts of the world,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School for Biosciences at Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). “Vaccine escape mutants could come up but how they will affect virus fitness is unknown,” Jameel said. “It would be a very thin edge for the virus to escape a vaccine but not reduce its virulence and fitness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||UP cowshed owner kills labourer trying to chase away cow||A 43-year-old father of four was thrashed to death in Kanpur on Monday afternoon for trying to drive out a cow that had entered his home by beating it with a stick. A witness said Raman Kumar alias Kallu, a labourer from Darbhanga in Bihar, was trying to chase out the cow that had entered his rented house. Ayush Yadav alias Bauwa, the owner of the cow, saw this and attacked Kallu. Deepak Bhuker, additional superintendent of police of Kanpur, said: “The accused allegedly beat to death the victim with a lathi. We have registered a case on the basis of the complaint of a family member of Kallu. The attacker, who has a cowshed in the area, is absconding and would be arrested soon.” Kallu’s wife Maya, who works as a maid, said she took her husband to a local nursing home with the help of her neighbours. “He was referred  to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” she said. Kallu and Maya Devi have  three daughters and a son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Karnataka High Court stays mass amnesty for BJP leaders||Karnataka High Court on Monday stayed a state government order to drop 61 criminal cases against a posse of BJP lawmakers and functionaries, including ministers, apart from allies and political aides. On a plea from the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, the division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty said no further steps should be taken on the August 31 government order. The court order had not been uploaded till late Monday evening. Among the beneficiaries of the government order were law minister J.C. Madhuswamy, tourism minister and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, agriculture minister B.C. Patil, MLA Halappa Achar, Lok Sabha member Pratap Simha, BJP-backed Independent MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, and the chief minister’s political secretary, M.P. Renukacharya. Madhuswamy and Ravi face charges of unlawful assembly, rioting and wrongful restraint in connection with a sectarian clash in Mysore in November 2015. Patil had been booked in 2012, when he was in the Congress, on the charge of damaging police vehicles during a Ganesh idol immersion. Simha is accused of injuring a police officer by speeding and breaking down police barriers during a Hanuman Jayanti procession in December 2017. Law minister Madhuswamy had justified the government order and claimed the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular too had dropped criminal cases against their leaders when they were in power. Political observers said the Congress and the JDS had not withdrawn cases on this scale. The state government had issued the order under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which allows a public prosecutor to withdraw a case with the court’s consent. It’s not clear whether the government had sought the individual lower courts’ consent by the time the PUCL petition took the matter to the high court on October 23. PUCL counsel Clifton Rozario told The Telegraph that the high court had on Monday directed the state government to file its statement of objections by January 22. The next hearing is on January 29. At the previous hearing on December 1, the high court had said that the public prosecutor “cannot act like a post box or act on the dictates of the state government and he has to act objectively as he is also an officer to the court”. The court had noted that the public prosecutor could disagree with a government decision to drop cases. It emphasised that action under Section 321 of the CrPC “can be taken only with the permission of the court”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi writes to Yogi Adityanath on cow deaths in Lalitpur district||Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the death of cows in Lalitpur district, alleging administrative neglect and corruption leading to the painful tragedy. Accusing the BJP government of doing nothing for the cows despite lofty promises and cow-centric propaganda, Priyanka said, “We are not aware how so many cows died in Lalitpur’ Saujana but the photographs of the bodies are disturbing. It appears the cows died of starvation. It is apparent the tragedy occurred because they were not fed for days together. This is not the first incident. Who is responsible for these deaths?” She added: “Several promises were made for cow protection before the BJP came to power but the truth is that the government has miserably failed. It is true that cowsheds were opened but there are no arrangements for feeding them and corrupt officials have shown gross insensitivity, leaving the cows to starve to death. On the other hand, there is a new problem of stray animals which has troubled the farmers across the state. The farmers are spending thousands on fencing of their fields to protect their crops.” She advised the Yogi government to learn from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh where Godhan Nyay Yojna has effectively tackled the stray cattle menace and bolstered rural economy. Under the scheme launched last July, the Bhupesh Baghel government buys cow-dung for Rs 2 per kg and use it to manufacture natural fertiliser that is sold at Rs 8 per kg. She claimed that cowsheds are now becoming financially self-sufficient as the government is buying cow dung worth Rs 15 crore every month. This scheme has encouraged cattle-rearing and compelled the owners to keep the cows at home to collect cow-dung, controlling the damages caused by stray cattle to the standing crop. Women self-help groups have been engaged to prepare vermicompost from it, which will also reduce the farmers’ dependence on chemical fertiliser and boost fertility of soil. The Congress is also confronting the Yogi government on this issue to expose their hypocrisy about cow protection and challenge its monopoly over this emotional issue which feeds Hindutva politics. By citing Chhattisgarh’s example and recalling how strongly Mahatma Gandhi felt about cows, Priyanka is conveying a message that cow protection is not a Sangh Parivar agenda, a perception cultivated over years because other parties were not vocal about these basics. The Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh had also taken innovative measures on cow protection and taken care to publicise them with a clear objective of countering the RSS-BJP propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Hathras victim's family wants to leave Uttar Pradesh||The Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s family on Monday said they feared harm in their village and wanted to shift to Delhi, and hoped that Allahabad High Court would accept their plea to transfer the case out of Uttar Pradesh. The high court had in October ordered CRPF security for the family after they alleged intimidation by state police and cited meetings by local Rajputs in support of the four accused, who belong to their caste. “We understand that our CRPF security is not forever and will be withdrawn in future. It will then become difficult for us to live here. The situation is volatile,” the 19-year-old Dalit victim’s father told reporters. He said the CRPF had put up barbed-wire fencing around his house on Saturday, a day after the CBI filed a chargesheet accusing the suspects of gang rape and murder. “A dozen CRPF personnel are guarding us. Now the fencing has been put up. This suggests they have some intelligence (about a possible attack) from somewhere. We are tense and don’t want to live in fear,” the father said. Many Rajput leaders of the area had publicly threatened to harm the victim’s family if they didn’t withdraw their allegations against the four accused. “We want to dispose of everything we have in the village and move to Delhi, and will be comfortable if the case too is transferred to Delhi,” he added. A relative said the family hoped their house and small plot would fetch Rs 10 lakh. They have about Rs 40 lakh in the bank, which includes compensation received from the state government and assistance from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “Their elder son has worked in Delhi in the past and knows the place. He may be able to start some sort of business there,” the relative said. “This is why they feel they would be safe in Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||AMU told: No reason to brag about Narendra Modi addressing event||Celebrated historian Irfan Habib has said it’s “not a matter of pride” for Aligarh Muslim University that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would address the inaugural event of its centenary year celebrations as chief guest. “There is no reason for AMU to boast of a PM’s participation. He represents Indian culture in a wrong manner. AMU is for scholars and not for those who believe in their own divisive culture,” the 89-year-old AMU professor emeritus told reporters in Aligarh on Monday. Modi will address the event online on Tuesday. Several student groups at AMU have threatened to show him black flags because he “was not honest in checking the communal riots in Gujarat in 2002 when he was chief minister”. “The PM’s address doesn’t make any difference to the university. It is not a matter of pride for AMU; it will not add anything to the respect the university enjoys because of its academic activities,” Habib said. “The Bharatiya Janata Party government (in Uttar Pradesh) has passed an ordinance against what it calls ‘love jihad’. The policies of the BJP are poisonous. Its agenda is to bring out polluted research. The PM is watching all this silently.” He added: “The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh was against the Muslims even before Independence, and the BJP believed that it would keep getting votes by following that agenda.” Habib’s comments came a day after the AMU teachers’ association issued a statement welcoming Modi’s participation. “We all welcome the Prime Minister of our motherland to be a part of our centenary celebration, and sincerely hope that his presence will help in the quantum jump in overall autonomy and development of the institution,” the teachers’ statement said. However, an AMU professor told reporters on the condition of anonymity that most of the teachers would skip Modi’s address. “Over 70 per cent of the teaching staff have decided not to attend the opening day function. It will not be an official boycott but we would prefer staying back as we don’t accept Modi’s presence even online,” the professor said. Aligarh senior superintendent of police Muniraj G. said the administration was “keeping a watch on social media” to prevent any attempt at mobilising anti-Modi protests. Rakesh Kumar Malpani, additional district magistrate (Aligarh city), said security forces had been stationed around the AMU campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Indian physicist and designer create web series on astronomy ||A physicist and a designer in Calcutta have jointly produced a 13-part homegrown Web series on astronomy inspired in part by similar but independent initiatives decades ago by a British scientist and an American astronomer. The first episode of Cosmic Quest, created by Partha Ghose, former professor at the S.N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences and Tridibesh Sanyal, a visual communicator, will premiere on December 24 on India Science, a web channel of India’s science and technology ministry. The series will span the 13.8-billion-year history of the cosmos — from its origin or the Big Bang and the evolution of galaxies and stars to the emergence of human beings and cognition and the gradual accumulation of astronomical knowledge. Both Ghose and Sanyal say they were inspired by similar series, The Ascent of Man by British scientist Jacob Bronowski in 1973 and Cosmos by the American astronomer Carl Sagan in 1980, but Cosmic Quest will feature unique India-specific angles never attempted before. “We want this to be a gentle way to introduce astronomy to everyone — through angles that others have left largely untouched,” said Ghose, who has conceived, written and anchored the series. “Similar efforts in the past have been mostly Euro-centric.” The series plans to use a mix of 3D animation and graphics, location shoots, possibly even enactments to drive the narration as Ghose seeks to take viewers across billions of years, while featuring contributions from India — from Vedic astronomy and the links between geometry and astronomy that emerged in the Indus valley civilisation to the discovery of zero by 5th century BC astronomer Aryabhata and his other ideas to India’s orbiters to the Moon and Mars. “We’re relying hugely on special effects,” said Sanyal, visualiser and director of the series who also composed its music. “We’re aware that our target viewers are familiar with the visual effects in movies like Avatar and The Avengers.” The series, its makers say, will seek to provide education through a movie-like and immersive experience using visual and sound effects and musical compositions. The School of Educational Technology at Jadavpur University provided the platform for animation for the series. “This new series is part of our efforts to carry science to the masses through India Science,” said Nakul Parashar, director of Vigyan Prasar, the science communication unit of India’s science and technology department. “We’re aiming to telecase one episode per week.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||Dalit scholarships plagued by bureaucratic delays||The next time she hears Prime Minister Narendra Modi preach “minimum government, maximum governance”, a PhD Dalit student from Maharashtra may well put on a wry face. The young woman, who declined to give her name for obvious reasons, said red tape was threatening to derail her hopes of earning a doctorate in science from a British university. “I had applied to join the University of Manchester’s PhD programme on reproductive science and got the unconditional offer letter for admission in June,” she told The Telegraph last week. “In September, I received the provisional selection letter from the Centre for the National Overseas Scholarship (NOS), which would enable me to study abroad. But three months on, I’m still to receive the final award letter, with just a fortnight left before the January 1 deadline within which I have to forward it to the university.” Foreign universities and their countries’ visa-granting authorities insist on outstation students proving in advance their ability to pay the tuition fees and living expenses. For students like the Maharashtra girl, this guarantee is provided by the NOS, supposed to be given annually to 100 students from poor Dalit families and a few other vulnerable groups to help them pursue master’s and PhD programmes at foreign universities. But the scholarship is habitually blighted by bureaucratic delays, students and Dalit activists say. An official in the social justice and empowerment ministry, which awards the scholarship, acknowledged that for the past three years, only about 60 of the 100 expected beneficiaries had been receiving the final award in time to secure admission overseas. The Maharashtra girl said she had written to Modi and social justice minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot to speed up the final award. “The government wants to increase women’s participation in science and technology, yet it’s creating hurdles before women like me who want to research a core field of science,” she said. She has already once deferred her admission, originally slated for September, and will not be allowed a further deferment. Her classes start from January 1. The scholarship takes care of the tuition fees, visa charges, the two-way air journey, health insurance premium and the living costs, the last in the form of a “maintenance allowance”. Applications are received in April and July. The corresponding provisional lists of the awardees are published in July and September, respectively, after the ministry checks the applicants’ documents to see if they meet the eligibility criteria relating to academic credentials and income. The ministry then forwards the details to the Indian missions abroad to verify the students’ claims about receipt of the admission offer letter and the volume of the tuition fee. The final award letter is issued after a further scrutiny of the original documents. “The entire process should not take more than 15 days,” said Amol Meshram, an IIT Kharagpur alumnus who runs the non-profit Centre of Excellence of Garib Dalit Pidit and is helping the girl negotiate the bureaucratic labyrinth. However, the ministry forwarded the documents of those selected for the provisional list in the first week of September to the missions only on December 17, an official said. Sometimes, the process can take over a year. A student from Odisha, who wants to do his PhD on pesticides and their health impacts from the University of South Castle in Australia, said he had applied for the NOS last year and was provisionally selected. “But my date of admission arrived in May 2020 and I had still not received the final award letter. On my request, the university has postponed my admission till January 30. I got the final award this month,” he said. His struggle isn’t over, though. The Australian university is holding classes online because of the pandemic, and has sought another letter from the sponsoring body (social justice ministry) agreeing to pay the student’s tuition fees for the period he participates in the virtual lessons from India. “I wrote to the ministry 25 days ago but haven’t received any response,” he said. Apart from the delays, Meshram said, the NOS maintenance allowance is always lower than the sums recommended by the visa-granting foreign missions, based on estimates of living expenses in the cities the students are headed for. They are also lower, he said, than the estimates of Indian missions in their advisories for Indian travellers. For example, the NOS grants a uniform £9,900 (Rs 9.9 lakh) as annual maintenance allowance for Indian students in the UK, despite some cities like London being more expensive than others. “You need to show the visa officer £1,334 (Rs 1.3 lakh) for each month of your course (at a London institution), for a minimum of nine months. This comes to £12,006 (Rs 12 lakh),” Meshram said. Which means the applicants have to arrange the balance £2,106 (Rs 2.1 lakh) by themselves — an uphill task for the impoverished students the scholarship is meant for. “The delays in issuing the sponsorship letter and the inadequate living allowances are an act of government-sponsored atrocity on Scheduled Caste students,” Meshram said. Ambedkarite scholar Anil Wagde said the delays brought both mental trauma and career setbacks. “Many applicants travel to Delhi at their own cost to receive updates on their case since they risk losing a year. Yet, they seldom get answers and end up losing a year -- sometimes admission as well,” Wagde said. “The government must adhere to a timetable. This will save the students a lot of anxiety, expenses and most importantly an academic year and their seat in the foreign university.” Responding to an email sent to the social justice ministry on December 14, its secretary, R. Subrahmanyam, said the scheme had been revised in 2020. “This is one scheme which we have comprehensively reformed this year and you would be happy to note that largest ever number of students have joined/are joining the universities before Feb 2021 despite the Covid scare,” Subrahmanyam wrote. “The requirement of police verification has been done away with this year.” The decades-old NOS used to be awarded to a maximum of 30 students a year till 2016-17, when the figure was raised to 100. Officials said the scholarship was always plagued by delays, mostly owing to the requirement of police verification that was in place till last year. Asked why the delays have continued this year, another official said that while filling in the foreign universities’ forms, the students often carelessly ticked an option that prevented the institution from disclosing the tuition fee to a third party. When the Indian missions sought the fee details for these candidates, therefore, the foreign universities declined to answer. “But we still try to help the student and ask him to contact the university and consent to the fee information being shared. Once that is done, the award letter is given,” the official said. He said 77 students had been provisionally selected this year, of whom 24 had been issued with the final award letter by December 15. The files of 17 others were at an advanced stage of processing. Document verification was going on for the remaining 36.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-473
22-12-2020||India||India halts UK flights till New Year||India on Monday suspended flights to and from the United Kingdom till December 31, citing the emergence of a fast-spreading mutant strain of the novel coronavirus in that country. The suspension starts from 11.59pm on Tuesday. Till then, all the passengers flying in from the UK would be tested on arrival at the airports and quarantined if found positive, the government said. The objective is to shield the country against the possible entry of the mutant coronavirus variant that is believed to have caused 70 per cent of all the new infections in the UK and forced its government to impose a stricter lockdown. Several other countries like France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Iran and Turkey too have temporarily suspended flights to and from the UK. India had anyway suspended all scheduled international flights on March 23 because of the pandemic, and they remain suspended at least till December 31. Currently, the only international flights allowed are special flights like chartered flights, international passenger flights under air bubble arrangements, and repatriation flights. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines to each others’ territories under restrictive conditions. India has air bubble pacts with 23 countries, including the US and the UK. At present, Indian airlines like Vistara and Air India operate flights to the UK (which have now been suspended). Vistara operates daily flights between Delhi and London, and three weekly flights between Mumbai and London. National carrier Air India operates three weekly flights each from New Delhi and Mumbai to London and back. British Airlines has six weekly flights between Delhi and London, and five weekly flights between Mumbai and London. Virgin Atlantic operates four weekly flights each from Mumbai and New Delhi to London and back. The Union health ministry had on Monday requested the suspension, citing concerns about the new B.1.1.7 variant of the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Scientists say the B.1.1.7 variant — not detected so far in India — contains an unusually large number of genetic changes whose full implications remain unclear but are believed to increase its transmission efficiency. India has since mid-September witnessed a sustained decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases as well as the number of active patients. “In this scenario, any interjection of the coronavirus variant through passengers with air travel history could pose critical risks for pandemic management in India,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the civil aviation ministry. India’s total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases has exceeded 10 million but the epidemic has been shrinking since mid-September’s peak of over one million active cases. The health ministry on Monday recorded 24,284 new cases and around 300,000 active patients. British health authorities recorded over 35,000 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Analysts said the flight suspension would have a “negligible impact” on the travel industry since air traffic on international routes remained low. “Due to current environment of Covid and the quarantine rules, tourism to the UK in any case had not picked up,” said Nishant Pitti, CEO, EaseMyTrip.com, an online travel agency. The flight suspension was suggested by a joint monitoring group headed by the director-general of health services, a vaccine task force headed by the principal scientific adviser to the government, and the member (health) in the Niti Aayog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||Farmers say govt talks offer ‘smokescreen’ not agenda||The protesting farmers on Monday described the Centre’s Sunday night offer for talks as a smokescreen meant to deflect attention from its unwillingness to consider their demand for repeal of the three farm laws they have been opposing from the ordinance stage in June. Stating that the farmers have always been open to talks, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said it was the government that had turned a deaf ear to their demands while keeping up the pretence of being accommodative. The AIKSCC has not specified any day for resuming negotiations while sending a detailed response to the agriculture secretary’s letter inviting them to talks on a date of their choice. The AIKSCC has decided to organise protests on Tuesday at the offices of the Ambanis and the Adanis at the Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai, where farmer union leaders from Punjab are expected to address farmers. Reports from Punjab and Haryana spoke of farmers removing Jio towers from their land and gheraoing offices and outlets of the Ambanis and the Adanis, who they believe stand to benefit the most from the three new laws. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah, in whose name the response has gone from the AIKSCC to the Centre, said: “There is no indication in the letter of any change of heart within the government; they are repeating the same thing over and over again. So, what’s the point in suggesting a date when they are not willing to talk to us on our agenda? Give us an assurance that they will take up our agenda — which is very limited — and we are always ready to talk.” The AIKS is a member of the AIKSCC. Referring to the repeated detailing by the government of the points it is willing to concede, the AIKSCC underlined that from June, several representations had been submitted to the government, first for withdrawal of the ordinances and then for repeal of the laws after they had been enacted. The “Dilli Chalo” call was given when all such efforts failed. While the government has shown willingness to amend the laws on eight points, the farmers insist this is cherry-picking from the various infirmities in the laws they had pointed out as the reason for demanding repeal. The farmers contend that tweaking the laws will not change their intent which, by the government’s own admission, is to encourage trade in food. The AIKSCC letter contests all the claims made by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in his open letter to the farmers. The letter listed the benefits the farming community would reap from the three new laws. The farmers contend that instead of being the silver bullet the government is making the new laws out to be, the three pieces of legislation would turn farmers into labourers and allow corporate groups to gradually take over their land. Apart from the government’s refusal to even consider a repeal, the farmers’ letter makes it clear, their position has also been hardened by the treatment meted out to them -- first the water cannoning and road-digging by the BJP government in Haryana while they were approaching Delhi nearly a month ago, and then the sustained vilification of the agitation. With the protests finding an echo in world capitals, all Indian missions are aggressively tweeting English translations of Tomar’s letter while the AIKSCC has urged the diaspora to step up the protests overseas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||Main accused in Pari case arrested||The special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government to probe the kidnapping and murder of five-year-old Pari from Nayagarh district has arrested the main accused in the case. The accused, whose name is yet to be disclosed by the SIT led by senior IPS officer Arun Bothra, will be produced in a Nayagarh court. He will be taken on remand for further interrogation. Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in Nayagarh’s Jadupur village on July14 and her skeletal remains were found dumped in a gunny bag in the bushes behind her house on July 23. The case had triggered public resentment in the state and Pari’s parents had attempted self-immolation alleging police inaction in the case. They had also alleged that the accused were being shielded by higher education minister Arun Sahoo who hails from Nayagarh. This is the first arrest made by the SIT in connection with the case and the accused, according to sources, also happens to be from Jadupur village. A few days ago, the SIT had picked up a college student from Jadupur village along with two women members of his family for questioning. The investigating team released the two women but the young man is still in its custody. The arrested accused has been booked under various sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Further investigation is on to ascertain if more people were involved in the crime. The SIT had earlier said the minor girl was raped before being killed. SIT chief Arun Bothra said the investigating team had sufficient evidence to nail the arrested accused. “He is the prime accused. The investigation is underway to ascertain the complicity of others who had helped him in the crime,” Bothra said. As Pari’s skeletal remains were found near a pond, the SIT suspects that her killers might have thrown the murder weapon into the water body. The team has decided to pump out water from the pond to look for the weapon. The case grabbed the limelight after Pari’s parents attempted self-immolation in front of the state Assembly in Bhubaneswar on November 24. With the BJP and the Congress also stepping up the attack on the government, the chief minister was forced to order a high court-monitored SIT investigation into the murder that also rocked the winter session of the state Assembly. The BJP, which has been demanding a CBI probe into the case, is leading a padyatra from Bhubaneswar to Pari’s native village. The Congress, too, continues to demand justice for the girl’s family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||India||SKM workers benefit from my rule: P. S. Tamang (Golay)||Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) president and state chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) on Monday might have shot himself in his foot by suggesting it was his party workers who had been reaping the benefits of his one-and-a-half-year old government. Addressing SKM’s “Rolu Divas” programme in South Sikkim, Golay had his foot-in-the-mouth moment while urging SKM workers to be patient and keep their faith in the party and government. “Today, who are supplying school uniforms? It is SKM workers. Who is supplying books? It’s our SKM workers. And, who is supplying copies? SKM workers,” he said, citing some other examples where his party workers have benefited. The tenor and tone of Golay’s entire speech seemed to suggest that he was concerned at the impatience being displayed by SKM workers hitherto deprived of the spoils of power. “Please don’t be in a hurry. I want to tell you one thing: Do you want to earn Rs 500 in one year or Rs 5,000 in five years. You decide…Our workers must have patience,” he implored. Citing his own example, the SKM president said had he been impatient and thought only about himself and his family, he wouldn’t have become the chief minister. “I am not like the previous chief minister (Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling) who used to say there was no alternative to him. My alternative has to take birth in this party. I want to provide that opportunity,” he promised. SKM celebrates December 21 as Rolu Divas because on this day in 2009, Golay, while still being an MLA of the SDF, had first called for a change in the leadership of Chamling, who was then the chief minister. Golay eventually quit the SDF in September 2013, six months after he had launched the SKM in February of that year. Golay said he would embark on the tour of those constituencies whose MLAs were not ministers and also hold meetings with party workers at all levels in the days and weeks to come in order to strengthen the party. “Lot of our friends appear hurt when they do not hold any post. Don’t worry. We will revamp the party on February 4 (SKM’s foundation day), 2021 and entrust responsibility to all workers,” he added. Without naming the SDF, Golay also held out an olive branch to its supporters and asked them to join the SKM. “Those who did not help us in 2019 and helped the then government are also Sikkimese and they too love Sikkim. If they like our party’s principles and want to join our family, they can come,” he said while asserting those who chose not to should rest assured of defeat in the 2024 election as well. J.B. Darnal, a spokesman for the SDF, said it was shameful that the chief minister openly proclaimed to being partisan. “It doesn’t behove the office of chief minister to act in such a manner. Work should be awarded on the basis of merit, not on the basis of party affiliation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-474
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah deliberately projecting dismal picture of Bengal: Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday slammed Union Home Minister for “deliberately trying to project a dismal and gloomy picture” of her state during his two-day visit. She claimed that Bengal has been faring well in all development indices, as opposed to the comments made by Shah at his tour. Issuing a point-by-point rebuttal to assertions made by Shah against her dispensation, during his visit to Bengal last week, Mamata cited National Crimes Record Bureau data to state that political killings and other crimes have decreased in the last ten years under the Trinamul Congress rule. “When the home minister of the country says something, it should be backed by data, facts and figures. Bengal is ahead of other states on all development indices. But Amit Shah ji deliberately tried to depict a gloomy and dismal picture of the state. I was challenged... here is my reply,” the chief minister said at a press briefing in Calcutta. Calcutta has been twice accredited with the ‘safest city’ in India honour, she said. “According to NCRB data, political killings, other incidents of crime and rape cases have decreased during the TMC rule. BJP leaders, while pointing fingers at others, should also speak up against the Hathras rape-murder incident in Uttar Pradesh,” Mamata added. Ruling out the charges levelled by the Union minister on development indices, senior TMC leader Saugata Roy earlier mentioned the state's impressive performance in GDP, industrial output, per capita income, construction of rural roads among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Attempt on to create false narrative about Bengal, alleges TMC||Rejecting Union Home Minister Amit Shah's accusation that West Bengal had fared abysmally on development indices under the present dispensation, the ruling Trinamool Congress said on Tuesday that attempts are being made to create a false narrative about the state. Ruling out the charges levelled by the Union minister, senior TMC leader Saugata Roy mentioned the state's impressive performance in GDP, industrial output, per capita income, construction of rural roads among others. At a press conference in Bolpur on Sunday, Shah had accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state of failing to deliver, claiming that West Bengal lags behind most states in the country on various parameters, except on corruption and extortion. Countering the charge levelled by Shah that TMC workers had misused funds meant for Amphan relief, Roy said, the state was yet to receive Rs 32,310 crore earmarked for the SDRF (State Disaster Relief Force) from the Centre. Claiming that election strategist Prashant Kishor has so far helped politicial parties win polls in five states, Roy said, the TMC believes, the figures predicted by the poll consultant in his tweets on Monday that the BJP will not cross the two-digit figure in the West Bengal assembly elections are correct. Kishor has been roped in by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee to boost her party's prospects in the state assembly polls likely in April-May next year. "We support his tweets, he is the election strategist of our party," Roy told reporters at the TMC headquarters here. Asked whether Kishor was taking crucial decisions about the TMC's affairs, Roy said that he is an advisor and gives his opinions as a consultant, while decisions are taken by the party leadership. "Prashant Kishor had similarly advised Narendra Modi during his campaign in 2014 Lok Sabha polls," the TMC MP quipped. Speaking on the performance of West Bengal, Roy said, the state's GDP has increased by 53 per cent, from Rs 4.51 lakh crore to Rs 6.9 lakh crore in the last 10 years. Contrary to Shah's claim that industrial output in the state has decreased to 3.5 per cent, it has increased by 60 per cent, the TMC leader said. The per capita income in West Bengal which was Rs 51,543 in 2010 has increased to Rs 1.09 lakh in 2019, Roy said, noting that it is higher than Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Roy also rubbished the union minister's claim of the jute industry of the state passing through bad times. "Most of the mills are open and the state government has decided to buy 7 crore gunny bags and use of such sacks have been made mandatory for storing rice," he said. The TMC MP mentioned that industrial development of the state is 3.1 per cent, which he said, is five times that of the national average in 2019-20. "In the service sector, they pointed out that the state's growth stood at 5.8 per cent, while we are saying that it has increased by 62 per cent," Roy said. The TMC MP claimed that since 2011, electricity connection has reached 90 lakh households. "In the last one decade, 1.18 lakh kilometre rural roads have been built," he said, denying Shah's assertion about lack of growth in village road infrastructure in the state. Roy claimed that FDI in the state has increased 24 times between 2016 and 2018. The budgetary expenditure in the health sector has increased three times from Rs 3,442 crore in 2010-11 to Rs Rs 11,280 crore now, denying Shah's assertion that healthcare infrastructure in the state was in poor condition. The health portfolio is held by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "West Bengal ranks on the top in the country in terms of the number of hospital beds at 85,627, while the number of doctors has increased from 4,800 to 15,338, registering a 219 per cent jump," he said, adding that the number of nurses have also increased by 51 per cent. In the education sector, he said that 30 new universities have been set up during the TMC regime since 2011, taking the total to 42 such institutions, while 50 new colleges have also come up. Roy claimed that more than 1.87 lakh new classrooms have come up in the state since 2011. With regard to the accusation that people of the state are losing health care benefits under the central government's Ayushman Bharat project, he said that under the state's Swasthya Sathi programme, 1.4 crore families in the state get an annual health insurance benefit of Rs 5 lakh. On the allegation that criminal activities have been institutionalised in West Bengal, the TMC MP said that crime against women has decreased by 21 per cent between 2014-2019 in West Bengal. "NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) has declared Kolkata as the safest city in the country for two consecutive years," Roy said. He claimed that the BJP is speaking about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Viveknananda with an eye on the coming elections in West Bengal. "The RSS or the Hindu Mahasabha did not have any role in the nation's freedom struggle. Even Syamaprasad (Mookerjee) did not go to jail during the freedom movement," the TMC MP said. Documents relating to Netaji, which are in the National Archives, have not yet been released by the central government despite the chief minister's demand, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi to address centenary celebrations at Viswa-Bharati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the centenary celebrations of the Viswa-Bharati University at Shantiniketan, Bolpur, on Thursday through video conferencing, the PM’s Office said on Tuesday. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will also be present at the event, it said. The announcement comes days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited university as part of his two-day visit to the state. Following Shah’s visit, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a “Tagore cultural pride” rally in Bolpur on December 29. Speaking to the media, the chief minister said she would go to Birbhum for a two-day tour from December 28 and take part in the rally on the second day. “Keshto (Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal) and the others will fix everything,” she said. “It (the rally) will be on how Rabindranath Tagore, his culture is our pride. This will be a movement of the people of the soil,” she added, apparently following up on Mondal’s allegations that most in the home minister’s road show were bohiragawto (outsiders). Founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, Visva-Bharati is the oldest central university in the country. Tagore, a Nobel laureate, is one of the most revered icons from Bengal, a state which will go to the assembly polls in the first half of the next year. In May 1951, Visva-Bharati was declared to be a Central University and an institution of national importance" by an Act of Parliament, the PMO noted. The university followed the pedagogy devised by Tagore, though gradually it evolved in the format in which modern universities developed elsewhere. The prime minister is the chancellor of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||DM to hold meeting on jumbo intrusion||The district administration of Jalpaiguri has decided to convene a meeting soon to discuss the issue of elephant depredation in tea gardens and discourage the trend of erecting illegal energised fences which sometimes lead to animal deaths. The decision, sources said, comes after representatives of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) — the largest association of tea planters in the Dooars — met Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, here on Monday and sought her intervention in the recent arrest of the assistant manager of an estate. A few days ago, the assistant manager of Haldibari tea estate (located near Banarhat, Jalpaiguri) was arrested after a wild elephant had been electrocuted in the garden. The arrest was made after officials of the WBSEDCL filed a police complaint, alleging that an illegal energised fence had been put in the surroundings of the estate to prevent elephants from entering the plantations. Elephant depredations are common in tea gardens in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest for self-reliance need skills & loans: specially abled||Some 100 physically challenged persons under the banner of Joint Forum — an apex body of three organisations — held a daylong demonstration at the BDO office in Kalchini of the district on Monday to seek various benefits from the administration and threatened an indefinite hunger strike soon if their demands are not met. The physically challenged demonstrators, including youths, alleged that they were being deprived of education and skill-training opportunities as well as loans and prosthetic aids that would help them become self-reliant. They also added that it was extremely difficult for them to get the disability certificate from the government, as that entails making several rounds in various offices. “We held the demonstration to press for our 14-point charter of demands,” said Labh Kumar Hossain, one of the protesters. “There is no special school for disabled children in Kalchini block and thus they are deprived of education. This greatly reduces their employment opportunities. Also, when most certificates are issued online these days, a disabled person has to make rounds in government offices here and in Alipurduar to get his or her certificate,” Hossain said. In the morning, they assembled at the BDO office premises in ones and twos, carrying posters and placards. After some time, they launched a sit-in demonstration. The protest, they said, had been supported by the Kalchini Disabled Welfare Society, the Dooars Divyang Kalyan Samiti and the Kalchini Khad Divyang Sangh. The demonstrators also said that though the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 states there should be a vocation training facility for the disabled in each block, there is no such infrastructure in and around Kalchini. “There are different state-sponsored schemes for people like us. Among these include loans for self-employment, free distribution of prosthetic aids as well as scholarships. But in this block, these schemes are not extended to us. Even in case of government recruitment, we are not given any priority,” said Amit Lohara, another protester. During the course of the protests, they also wanted the administration to see to it that there was no delay in issuing the disability certificate or disbursing loans for self-employment. The protest made Prashanta Burman, the block development officer of Kalchini, communicate the information to Alipurduar district magistrate Surendra Kumar Meena. “I do not have any authority to give any assurance to them. That is why I have written to the district magistrate, mentioning their demands,” said Burman. Sources in the administration said there was a proposal to reach out to these people during the ongoing Duare Sarkar or government-on-doorstep campaign floated by the state government. “The idea is to help them get all the benefits that they are entitled to receive from the government at the camps of Duare Sarkar,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Narada cash scandal clip removed from BJP channel shortly after Suvendu Adhikari switch||Three turncoats are a crowd — so much so that they have elbowed out the venerable Narada from a BJP platform. A purported sting video that professes to show Suvendu Adhikari and others in what came to be known as the Narada cash scandal was removed from the BJP’s official YouTube channel on Sunday, a day after the former Trinamul minister switched sides in the presence of Amit Shah. The BJP had used the video, shot by the news portal Narada and titled X Files, to project Trinamul leaders as corrupt in the run-up to the 2016 Assembly polls. Some of the figures on the video are seen accepting wads of currency notes. The video was taken down after some social media influencers began sharing it since Saturday, highlighting the BJP’s double standard. For instance, Dhruv Rathee, a YouTuber with over 4 million subscribers, drew 39,000 likes when he tweeted images of the Narada screenshots from the BJP channel and pointed out that “both Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari have now joined the BJP happily”. Another Trinamul leader who features in the Narada tapes had joined the BJP earlier: former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. On Monday, phone calls from this newspaper to Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, social media head Ujwal Parekh and national IT cell chief Amit Malviya went unanswered. “I’ve no idea whether the video was ever there. Nor would I be able to say when and why it was taken down,” said Sayantan Basu, a BJP state general secretary. Asked why the party had removed the video now, a senior BJP leader tried to suggest in private that the video had become unnecessary rather than a source of embarrassment. “Isn’t it obvious that the video would no longer be on the channel? Suvenduda has been our biggest catch after Mukulda (Mukul Roy). What purpose does the video have any longer?” he asked. What didn’t appear “obvious” was why it had not been taken down after Mukul and Chatterjee had joined the BJP. Nor is it clear who took the decision to remove the video immediately after Suvendu came on board. “Maybe the party’s central leadership has big plans for Suvenduda. Maybe the video was kept online just to keep reminding Suvenduda of the weapon we had,” the senior BJP leader said. The purported sting, conducted by journalist Mathew Samuels, featured several ministers and MPs. The video could be accessed from the Bengal BJP’s Facebook page on Monday night. But a list of the Narada accused on the FB page omitted the name of one Trinamul MP. A BJP source said at least three Trinamul leaders accused in the Narada controversy were talking to the party. The only Narada-related videos now available on the BJP’s YouTube channel are those of a rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a television interview of Union home minister Amit Shah. Both are seen accusing Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee of sheltering corrupt politicians. The Narada video became public on March 14, 2016, when it was screened at the state BJP headquarters in Calcutta. Siddharth Nath Singh, now a minister in Uttar Pradesh and then the party’s minder for Bengal, had held a news conference after the screening of the video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Gurung support rings alarm bells for TMC||Bimal Gurung’s assertion on his return to Darjeeling that he would win the three hill Assembly seats even if elections were held immediately has come as a fresh poser for new-found ally Trinamul. The Trinamul is in alliance with both rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Gurung and Binay Tamang, and bitterness has escalated with this assertion. Also, within Trinamul, leaders are questioning how the party can accept the support of someone who openly wants a separate state of Gorkhaland to be carved out of Bengal. Gurung, at a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand on Sunday, had said: “We will sweep the three hill seats. Let elections be held today, tomorrow or anytime. We are now looking at defeating the BJP in 17 seats in north Bengal.” Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp tore into Gurung’s claim: “Let him name the 17 seats that he thinks he can influence in north Bengal. I am sure he will not be able to name them.” Pokhrel’s statement shows these two factions would continue to target each other and any chance of their truce for the Bengal polls appears dim. Sources said the Tamang camp was in no mood to concede all three hill seats to the Gurung camp. “It will be seen as a complete surrender by the Tamang camp to the Gurung camp,” said an observer. A fresh instance of acrimony between the factions came to the fore on Monday with a video clip of a man resembling Kunal Pradhan, a leader of Tamang camp from Kalimpong, threatening Gurung’s life. Gurung supporters hit the streets in Kalimpong in protest. Trinamul seems to have no option but field their candidates and seek support from both factions. But the Trinamul symbol is not popular in the hills. A leader from the Gurung camp at the Sunday public meeting stated she too may not vote for Trinamul and requested the party to leave the hills to them, though the Gurung camp immediately issued a clarification stating it was only her personal opinion. However, grumbles against the Trinamul-Gurung tie-up from within Trinamul are getting louder in the plains. District Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri on Monday distanced themselves from the Gurung camp saying he extended support to them on his own. Khageswar Roy, Trinamul MLA and chairman of the district committee, and Dulal Debnath, a spokesperson of the party in Jalpaiguri, tried to drive home the point that their party did not support Gorkhaland. “We are against Gorkhaland and do not want any division of the state. As far as Bimal Gurung is concerned, we do not have any alliance and it is his own decision to support us,” said Debnath. Party insiders said during the past few weeks, questions were being raised within the party, especially in tribal belts as to how Trinamul could accept support from Gurung who wants Gorkhaland. The recent defection to the BJP of Sukra Munda, Trinamul MLA of Nagrakata, and Dashrath Tirkey, a former Trinamul MP and chairman of Alipurduar district committee of the party, is also over Gurung’s decision to support Mamata Banerjee’s party. Hill team meets Shah A delegation of BJP allies from Darjeeling met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Monday evening. Shah assured them of tribal status for 11 hill communities before Bengal elections, but said a permanent political solution would come after the polls, ABGL leader Pratap Khati said. The other parties in the delegation led by BJP MP Raju Bista included GNLF, CPRM, Sumeti Mukti Morcha and Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Three die in bus-truck crash on NH27||Three persons died and seven others were injured when a bus of North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) rammed against a parked truck from behind at Bidhannagar, some 30km from here, early on Monday. Residents helped the police and firemen to shift the injured to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH). The bus driver fled, police said. The bus, eyewitnesses said, was heading towards Siliguri from Calcutta. As it reached Bidhannagar along NH27, the driver lost control and hit a truck standing off the highway. “Some passengers said the bus was speeding and the driver was talking on his cell phone,” said a source. The deceased were identified as bus conductor Mridul Das, 48, of Dinhata, Cooch Behar, Santosh Mondal, 38, of Malda and Ibrahim Sheikh, 35 of Dhulian in Murshidabad. Tourism minister Gautam Deb went to NBMCH and handed over cheques of Rs 2 lakh as compensation to each family of the deceased and Rs 25,000 to a seriously injured passenger. “The chief minister instructed me,” Deb said. The rest of the injured have been discharged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Fair to keep Pous Mela tradition alive||The state government has given its nod to a social organisation to hold a three-day cultural event and handicrafts fair from December 23 to keep the tradition of Pous Mela alive in Santiniketan. The Bengal government planned the event after the Visva-Bharati decided not to hold the three-day Pous Mela this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The varsity will, however, perform the rituals associated with Pous Mela. Sources said social organisation Bangla Sanskriti Mancha had applied a few days ago to Birbhum Zilla Parishad  seeking the Dak Bungalow ground to hold cultural programmes where local artisans would sell their produce. “Pous Mela is not held this year. But we will organise the festival of Pous Parvan to keep alive the tradition of Santiniketan. It will be not a big fair but we will organise cultural programmes while local artisans will sell their produce there,” said Samirul Islam, the president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha. The district officials said the organisation had been asked to maintain Covid protocol while holding the fair. “We had officially given permission for cultural events on our ground for three days. Local artisans will sell their produce on the ground maintaining social distancing,” said Abhijit Sinha, mentor of Birbhum Zilla Parishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Didi piles CAA heat on ‘cheat’ party||Mamata Banerjee on Monday called the BJP “a cheatingbaaj party (a party of cheats)” over Amit Shah’s apparent shifting of the goalpost on the citizenship matrix and spoke against any of its three components getting implemented in Bengal. On Sunday, the Union home minister had said the rules of the amended Act were yet to be framed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the process would start once vaccinations began. On a nationwide NRC, he said: “Let the first step happen.” A day later on Monday, the Bengal chief minister told the media at the state secretariat that BJP leaders could do or say “anything” for politics. “The BJP is a cheatingbaaj party. In English, we say cheater. The politics of the BJP leaders is that for politics they can do anything, say anything.” “Since they passed the CAA, we have been opposing…. They cannot decide the fate of the citizens. Let them decide their own fate. We are against the CAA, the NPR, the NRC. None of those has been withdrawn yet…. We will keep fighting the battle and not allow anybody to go out of this country,” said the Trinamul chief amid signs of the movement against the citizenship tripod making a resurgence. Before Lok Sabha polls last year, the then proposed CAA was a plank from which the BJP sought votes from many, including the Matuas. The Matuas, lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, determine the electoral outcome in at least 30 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats of Bengal. Now, with Matuas getting restless over the delay in the CAA’s implementation, BJP national general-secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya had earlier this month promised it would be implemented from January. On Monday, BJP’s Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur said in Raiganj that Shah should clarify to the Matuas what its plans on the CAA were. “It is important that the Act is implemented before state elections. Any delay in the process will have its… bad effect,” said Thakur, reacting to Shah’s remarks that were a departure from Vijayvargiya’s “January” promise. Mamata in her response to the issue iterated on Monday: “The Matuas, for instance… they are already, very much, citizens of this country.” Mocking Shah, she said: “Sonar Bangla (Shah’s promise for the state)… does he know what sona (gold) is, what rupo (silver) is, what tama (copper) is? I hope he knows the meaning of armoury, arms, riots, communal, secular?” “Most of the things he said yesterday, total lies, garbage of lies. I will issue a point-by-point rebuttal tomorrow (Tuesday),” she added. “Speaking for a political party, it does not behove a Union home minister to furnish falsities as facts. I would request Amitji, you are the Union home minister. This does not look nice, if you peddle the lies prepared by the party without fact-checking…” On Shah’s defence of his ministry’s transfer of three IPS officers from Bengal in the wake of an attack on BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s convoy, Mamata said: “...From my limited experience as a seven-term MP and two-term CM... there is a Constitution and there is a convention. Such provisions are applied only in times of Emergency,” she said. “Have they announced such a super Emergency in Bengal?” They want to scare officers and we will not cower before them, she said. Resignation accepted Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Monday that he had accepted Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation as the latter had submitted the letter conforming to rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Tagore pride rally lined up||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a “Tagore cultural pride” rally in Bolpur on December 29, a day after the turnout — around 40,000 — at Amit Shah’s road show there drew attention. Speaking to the media, the chief minister said she would go to Birbhum for a two-day tour from December 28 and take part in the rally on the second day. “Keshto (Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal) and the others will fix everything,” she said. “It (the rally) will be on how Rabindranath Tagore, his culture is our pride. This will be a movement of the people of the soil,” she added, apparently following up on Mondal’s allegations that most in the home minister’s road show were bohiragawto (outsiders). Mondal said Mamata would march with party leaders from Dak Bungalow ground to Bolpur Chowrasta, the route of Shah’s Sunday event. “...We will bring at least two lakh people, all from Bolpur,” he said. “The BJP brought thousands from outside...We will prove we don’t need outsiders.” Mamata did not spare the jibes. “I need to do elaborate research (on what Shah said about her politics)…ekatmobad (unitarianism), bohutwobad (pluralism), jatibad (racism),” she said sarcastically. “All that, coming from a party that said Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati...Rabindranath is Rabindranath. The pride of Bengal, India, the world,” referring to the BJP Bengal unit’s blunder of attributing a quote, on Twitter, to BJP president J.P. Nadda that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. She quoted Tagore’s “Where the mind is without fear” and asked the BJP to “do their homework on the inclusive humanism of Tagore, Swamiji, Ambedkar, Birsa”. Bringing up BJP MP Subramanian Swamy’s demand to replace the national anthem penned by Tagore, Mamata said:  “We will not tolerate any contempt of Tagore.” “Those raising questions on even the national anthem now, I am clearly telling them… if they think they will impose their whims on others, we will be prepared to sacrifice our blood. We will not tolerate it,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate past 95%||Bengal on Monday went past 95 per cent in Covid-19 recovery rate, which had been the year-end goal for the state, aided by the 2.01 lakh recoveries logged in 56 days since the end of Durga Puja. The recovery rate, rising for 60 consecutive days, went from 87.44 per cent on October 22 to 95.11 on Monday. The national rate now is 95.57. “By the year-end, we might actually cross (a recovery rate of) 97,” said a minister. “The first goal, of less than 23,000 active cases, was achieved long back. We are now looking at the possibility of less than 15,000,” he added, referring to the 56 consecutive days of drop in total active Covid-19 cases since Dashami. The number of active cases in Bengal is 16,903 now, back almost to where it was on July 19, 155 days ago. On Monday, the state reported 2,342 recoveries, 1,515 new infections and 41 deaths, including nine from Calcutta. In the 56 days since Vijaya Dashami, Bengal logged over 2.01 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.84 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of 5.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.12 lakh recoveries and 9,401 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Of the toll, 7,887 or 83.9 per cent deaths  are attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 29,422 tests on Monday — far less than the 42,000-46,000 tests done daily on an average — the state’s total test count rose to 67.35 lakh, at 74,842 tests per million people. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.99 per cent now, having improved from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal reported 16.32 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 5.42 lakh telemedicine consultations were done so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Rs 8,700cr benefits at door||The Mamata Banerjee government has released Rs 8,700 crore to extend benefits to common people under various schemes after 1.12 crore people visited 20,000-odd camps set up under the Duare Sarkar — a two-month long programme to reach out to people still left out of welfare schemes. “A total of 1.12 crore people visited the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme across the state till December 20. Of them, 71 lakh people have applied for benefits under various schemes. We have released Rs 8,700 crore to various departments to deliver services to those who applied for various schemes,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday after holding a review meeting with top government officials. Sources said the release of a handsome amount to deliver services to those who had applied for the schemes at the camps gave a hint that the state government was serious about meeting the expectations of common people. “It is tough for a cash-strapped government to spend a huge amount on welfare schemes as its own revenue generation has been hit badly because of Covid-19 and assistance from the Centre has also been irregular and a large amount is still due. The chief minister wants to ensure that people are not deprived of their rights during the tough time,” said a senior official.Mamata said the state had already spent more than Rs 9,000 crore under the welfare scheme this year compared to the previous year and the additional release of Rs 8,700 crore would ensure more benefits to more people this year. “Last year (2019-20), we had spent Rs 15,000 crore for schemes to give benefits directly to people. This year, we have already spent Rs 24,255 crore under welfare schemes,” said the chief minister. Sources at Nabanna said the additional amount spent under welfare schemes this year was to give free food grains to people during the pandemic and bring more people under social pension schemes during the pandemic. Moreover, financial assistance was provided to migrant workers who had got stranded outside Bengal during the lockdown. Also, trains and buses were hired to bring back migrant workers, students and pilgrims stuck in various states. “It is good that the government released a handsome amount to give benefits to those who have applied for various schemes at the Duare Sarkar camps. If the funds were not allotted, the purpose of the programme would have been hit badly,” said an official. Government documents state 38.88 lakh of the 71 lakh applicants had already availed themselves of the service since the Duare Sarkar camps started. “The target is to deliver service to all eligible applicants by the end of January next year. This is the reason why additional funds were required,” the official added. The government officials said of the 71 lakh applicants, 42.41 lakh applications were filed seeking inclusion in Swasthya Sathi, which is a state government-sponsored health insurance scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Businessman’s BJP entry triggers clash||The induction of a businessman, who is facing charges of coal smuggling, into the BJP triggered a clash with old-timers in the party attacking his followers to prevent their entry into the venue and the saffron camp in Durgapur on Monday. BJP’s Yogdan Mela (induction rally), which was attended by state chief Dilip Ghosh and MP Arjun Singh, in Durgapur was preceded by clashes and vandalism even before the leaders arrived for the event. As supporters of the alleged coal kingpin Rajesh Jha, alias Raju, who took the party flag from Ghosh, arrived at the rally site with placards and raised slogans in the name of their leader, they were attacked by BJP old-timers with chairs hired for the meeting and whatever they could lay their hands on. They refused to allow them to enter the venue and a clash broke out. The BJP supporters also threw away tables and ransacked the dais in an attempt to disrupt the event. The programme was delayed because of the clash and district president of the BJP’s West Burdwan unit, Lakshman Ghorui, had to rush to the spot to pacify angry party workers. Asked about Raju’s induction and charges of coal smuggling against him, Ghorui said: “This is a coal belt and one may have business linked to coal. This does not mean all are smugglers.” A senior police officer of Durgapur said Jha used to run organised coal smuggling during the Left regime. “He had fled to Malaysia and Singapore to evade arrest after the change of power in Bengal in 2011,” the police officer said. Jha was arrested within a month of Mamata Banerjee becoming the chief minister and sent to jail. Later, he was granted bail but was arrested after the 2016 Assembly polls on charges of transporting fake currencies and unauthorised firearms. Jha to declined comment. Saumitra wife in TMC Sujata Mondal, the wife of the chief of the state unit of BJP’s youth wing and MP Saumitra Khan, joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday. Mondal said in spite of “shedding blood for the BJP” she wasn’t getting any respect and hence, decided to switch over to Trinamul. Khan held a press conference to announce that he had sent a legal notice to divorce his wife for switching over to Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-265
22-12-2020||West Bengal||BSF shoots woman during exfiltration||A BSF team guarding Indo-Bangladesh border in Nadia gunned down a Bangladeshi national to prevent “exfiltration” at Pakhiura village in Hanshkhali in the early hours of Monday. Authorities of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier said the Sahrun Halder, 45, a resident of Khulna in Bangladesh, died in the firing when she, along with several others, was being pushed into Bangladesh by touts around 1.30am on Monday. The criminal had cut a portion of barbed fencing between the two countries to push Sahrun and others into the neighbouring nation. The Pakhiura firing is the second such incident after October 19 firing in Nadia’s Maliapota (Bhimpur), where another Bangla national was gunned down by the BSF. The Pakhiura firing comes as a fresh embarrassment for the BSF amid growing demand made by the Bangladeshi authorities that their Indian counterpart should be cautious and use non-lethal weapons while guarding the international border between the two countries. Asked why non-lethal weapons like “pump action guns” were not used, BSF authorities in Calcutta clai­med all the tr­oops didn’t carry non-lethal weapons. Jawans of Battalion 8 that opened fire early on Monday at Pakhiura did not have non-lethal weapons with them. DIG (G), BSF, SBF S.S. Gul­eria told The Telegraph: “Non-lethal weapons are not available with all personnel. Only around 20 per cent of our personnel have non-lethal weapons.” “BSF troops had fired one round from Insas rifle in safe direction in the air as a warning shot. However, the goons did not pay any heed and they aggressively tried to force |the exfiltration attempt that led the personnel to fire two rou­nds below the knee to prevent the incident,” Guleria added. Early this year, Bangladeshi foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen had urged the BSF to be cautious and use non-lethal weapons during border vigilance. After BSF opened fire on Monday, the touts fled and the BSF picked up Sahrun who was lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to Bogula rural ho­spital, but shifted to Nadia district hospital in Krishnag­ar, where she was declared dead. Police said: “The Ban­gladeshi woman was shot dead apparently while trying to return home from India with the help of touts that operate a racket with Bangla counterparts to help people to cross border illegally.” “It is a well-coordinated attempt of a racket that is involved in infiltration and exfiltration. Our troops foiled such an attempt today (Monday),” said a BSF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
22-12-2020||West Bengal||Finger at varsity over Shah event attendee list||The Bengal government is set to send a letter to the ministry of home affairs following a police report on alleged noncooperation of Visva-Bharati authorities regarding security arrangements for Union home minister Amit Shah during his visit here on Sunday. Birbhum police accused varsity authorities of not providing the list of participants at Bangladesh Bhavan, where Shah had addressed a small group of Visva-Bharati faculty members and employees. Police officers said despite it being decided at the advanced security liaison (ASL) meeting that the varsity would provide the names of participants at the Bangladesh Bhavan meet, repeated appeals of the police to provide them with a list was ignored. The police have viewed the varsity’s behaviour as breach of security protocol. Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh said: “It is true that the Visva-Bharati authorities did not provide us with the names of participants who attended the Bangladesh Bhavan meet. We had sent letters and reminders but there was no response. Though there has been no breach of security, we have informed the competent authorities about the incident.” Sources said as Shah was protected under Z-plus category, the police were required to know details of persons who would come in close proximity of the home minister at an event held in a restricted place. In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and MP Abhishek Banerjee are in the same category of protection. Police officers said the varsity authorities had initially issued a notification asking all faculty members and staff to come at Bangladesh Bhavan for Shah’s event. Sources said the varsity had to change its plan after security officers said only 200 persons could be present at the event. Police sources said after the attack on convoy of BJP’s national president JP Nadda, the state police did not leave any stone unturned for the security of Shah during his visits to Bengal on December 19 and 20. “We were in trouble following the varsity’s role as they did not give us a list. The state government will take up the issue with the MHA,” said apolice source. Visva-Bharati officials, however, refused to comment on the allegations by the police in connection with the Bangladesh Bhavan event of Shah. The officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls and neither did he reply to a WhatsApp message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-266
22-12-2020||North East||Manipur cop returns gallantry award   ||A senior police official from Manipur on Friday returned the gallantry medal conferred by the BJP-led state government after a special court acquitted seven accused, including a former district council chief, in a drug haul case probed by her in 2018, prompting several student and civil society organisations to demand reinvestigation of the case. Additional SP Thounaojam Brinda in a letter to chief minister N. Biren Singh on Friday said since all the accused were acquitted by the Special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (ND&PS) court on Thursday because the “investigation and prosecution have been deemed unsatisfactory” by the court, she does “not consider myself deserving of the honour” bestowed on her by the chief minister. “I, therefore, return the same to the state home department so that it may be given to a more deserving and loyal police officer,” Brinda said in her letter which was also marked to the governor and the chief secretary. In June, 2018, a Narcotics and Affairs of Border (NAB) team led by Brinda had seized drugs worth over Rs 27 crore from different places, including the official residence of former chairman of Chandel Autonomous District Council Lhukhosei Zou, 51, in Imphal. This is the second time that the state’s government’s “war on drugs” has hit the headlines this year. In August, the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU) had highlighted how a sub-inspector arrested in a 2013 drug-trafficking case figured in the chief minister’s police medal for gallantry list. The Manipur government promptly conducted an inquiry and withdrew the award besides placing the cop under suspension. Brinda was conferred the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Gallantry on Patriot’s Day observed on August 13, 2018 as part of the chief minister’s initiative on “War against Drugs”. The AMSU, Democratic Students’ Alliance of Manipur (DESAM) United Peoples’ Front (UPF), Manipur, and Coalition Against Drugs and Alcohol (CADA) have asked the state government to reinvestigate the case. They wanted the government to take all possible steps to get the accused in drug-trafficking cases convicted for the success of its war on drugs. The AMSU and DESAM also sought proper security to the witnesses so that they can testify freely in drug-related cases. AMSU president Peter Laishram told The Telegraph they were pushing for reinvestigation because it appears from the acquittal order that the case was not “properly handled” by the government side. Brinda had last hit the headlines in July for a critical Facebook post against the judiciary for granting bail to Zou in the case. She had even said pressure was created on her to let go Zou in the case. Zou was expelled from the BJP after his arrest. Of the 13 accused in the case, two have been convicted by the ND&PS court. They will be sentenced on December 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
22-12-2020||North East||CAA ‘not forgotten’: Zubeen Garg  ||Popular singer-composer and social activist Zubeen Garg used the concluding function of the 8th North East Festival 2020 here on Sunday night to announce that he has “not” forgotten about the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act and that the protest against the law will be virtual this time. After his first song, Zubeen brought up the law that is set to dominate campaigns for the 2021 Assembly polls. “The CAA is coming. Everybody can change side but not me. But this time, it will be different. This time, it (protest) will not be on the road. It will be through mobile... a virtual CAA protest,” Zubeen said in his uninhibited style. He added, “I was hospitalised. I had a neuro attack. I have forgotten 50 per cent of things, but I have not forgotten CAA... Will not accept CAA. I am not a person to give up on anything without completing it. Are there any BJP or Congress (members) here? I don’t care. I will talk about it (CAA) as we go on.” The CAA is an emotional issue in the state. Those opposed to the law see it as a threat to the culture and identity of Assam and the Assamese people. They want the law scrapped because it makes securing Indian citizenship for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan easy. As his performance was streamed live, the announcement was greeted by Twitter users, fans and followers. “Only one person can openly protest against #CAA on such a big platform like North East Festival. And that person is Zubeen Garg. So, much respect for this man. Much love,” a Twitter user said. The reaction was understandable because Zubeen was at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests in Assam last year before it turned violent on December 11, leading to the death of five persons in the government crackdown. Soon after, Zubeen took ill and flew to Mumbai in March for advanced treatment and to recuperate. The coronavirus-induced lockdown saw Zubeen return only in May. He maintained a low profile amid reports of his growing proximity with the ruling dispensation. In August, Zubeen’s meeting with agriculture minister Atul Bora and the latter’s announcement that they have requested the singer to become the brand ambassador of his department triggered a backlash on the social media. The move was seen as “giving up” on a cause Zubeen had led from the front for months. Such was the ire that he was verbally attacked here by a group of youths “with beer bottles in hand” in August, apparently for his growing closeness to the BJP-led government, which was in favour of the CAA, leaving the singer upset. His wife had then told The Telegraph that he had not accepted any government offer. Zubeen, too, was seen clarifying he was, is and will remain opposed to the CAA. But these were nothing like his announcement on Sunday night, his admirers said. “It was the Zubeen of old, holding nothing back. The timing and platform he chose to announce the digital protest is also significant,” one of them said. The student wing of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) is observing an anti-CAA week from December 24 to 31 by holding a series of protest programmes across the state. The North East Festival is usually held in Delhi but was shifted to Guwahati for its eighth edition because of the pandemic. Still it saw a healthy participation over two days. Four chief ministers, leading artistes, industrialist and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla attended the event. Over 1.5 lakh people watched it online, the organisers said. “The pandemic has made us think differently. The earlier editions of North East Festival were having a large audience in Delhi. Very few people watched this edition at the venue, but a huge number watched it on different streaming platforms. People watched it in the US, Singapore, Calcutta, Bangalore, among others,” Shyamkanu Mahanta, the man behind the fest, told The Telegraph. “A digital audience base has been created. It is here to stay. After the pandemic, we might host the fest in Mumbai, Delhi or Bangkok, but we shall also carry on our digital platform to attract newer audiences,” he added. The festival this time focused more on discussions on entrepreneurship, start-ups and tourism. “North East Festival has become most trusted and largest regional platform of NER,” Mahanta said. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had on Saturday not only highlighted the tourism potential, cultural vividness and diversity of the Northeast but also stressed the need for all northeastern states to work together to harness the region’s development potential.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
22-12-2020||Opinion||Virulent fears: the anti-vaccination campaign||Even as the light begins to emerge at the end of a long dark tunnel, the shadow of misinformation and irrationality is getting longer. While inoculation programmes against Covid-19 slowly gather steam across the world with some vaccines showing promising results, the anti-vaccination campaign has also been gaining strength in a number of countries. Its perverse success cannot be attributed to ignorance alone. Anti-vaccine ‘activists’ seem to be exploiting the uncertainties associated with the pandemic to bolster their agenda. India is not immune to the anti-vaccination rhetoric. A survey conducted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Johns Hopkins University found that in India, 25 per cent of the respondents were sceptical about Covid-19 vaccines. Significantly, social media has been turned into a potent weapon by the anti-vaxxers. Companies like Facebook and Twitter have promised to remove misinformation from their platforms but there is evidence to suggest that it may be difficult to weed out the mischief completely since services like WhatsApp — India’s WhatsApp user base is believed to be between 250-300 million — are protected by data encryption. It is, thus, important to address the root of the distrust. The arguments against vaccines range from the religious — some sceptics believe that the vaccines contain animal by-products — to the reasonable — vaccine trials that usually take years have been completed in less than a year to deal with the coronavirus. The culture of populism seems to have aggravated suspicions. The vaccine had been offered as a sop in the Bihar polls even though there is a lack of clarity about its efficacy, model of distribution as well as relevant protocols. But concerns with vaccines are not new in societies battling orthodoxy and illiteracy. There had been attempts to malign India’s pulse polio campaign with rumours that the vaccine would make people infertile. The bitter experience of some public health campaigns — contraception and sterilization for instance — had also made minorities anxious. Yet, it is the community as a whole that can resolve this challenge. In the United States of America, political leaders cutting across party lines have offered to be inoculated on TV to allay public fears. In India, a similar role can be performed by not just politicians but also doctors and religious and community leaders to assuage fears. These measures to boost morale must be accompanied by a determined effort to contain the spread of malicious information against the medicine. Resistance to vaccination can be dealt with, but it would require policymakers to be sympathetic to people’s anxieties and nimble in devising a counter-strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Poor timing: standing committees' concerns||Appraisal is critical to assess not only the efficacy of legislations and policies but also the functioning of the democratic edifice itself. India’s Parliament is thus armed with several provisions and institutions to bolster such scrutiny. Standing committees, comprising parliamentarians cutting across political lines, play a crucial, supervisory role in this respect. They are expected to engage in critical discussions on issues — be they finance and expenditure, welfare policies or national security — under their jurisdiction. But are these bodies discharging their responsibilities with necessary urgency? This query has to be raised in the light of Rahul Gandhi’s letter to the Speaker, demanding the intervention of the Speaker’s august office to ensure that the agenda of standing committees remain consistent with their roles and objectives. Mr Gandhi’s ‘dismay’ may be attributed to his recent experience of attending a meeting of a standing committee on defence during which the chairman of the panel reportedly got the chief of defence staff and the top brass of the army, navy and the air force to discuss trivial issues relating to uniforms, colours and insignia won by the forces. Astoundingly, these matters — should not the defence establishment have the freedom to decide on these issues? — were taken up at a time when India’s border with China has witnessed considerable disturbances. There have been consistent reports of China encroaching upon Indian territory; brave jawans have had to sacrifice their lives in the course of the stand-off; to add to New Delhi’s troubles, several rounds of discussions with China have neither resulted in the restoration of the status quo nor offered a resolution to the festering tensions. Inexplicably, the standing committee on defence deemed it fit to discuss uniforms with army commanders even though India’s national security remains an area of concern. Another relevant question cannot be ignored either. A standing committee is a platform to strengthen the culture of consensus between the government and the Opposition. It would be difficult to achieve such unanimity between these stakeholders of democracy if standing committees are made to deliberate on all that is inconsequential. Institutional weakness seems to be contagious in New India. The Speaker must address the concerns that have been raised in Mr Gandhi’s letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Digest this: without milk and meat||A family that eats together, stays together. This was my grandfather’s favourite maxim. But mealtimes can be tense affairs in joint families. The latest cause of unrest in mine is my sister’s decision to go vegan. Each course is punctuated by arguments for and against her choice to shun milk and meat. My sister belongs to a growing community of people who believe that they have chosen a lifestyle that is pro-environment. The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the livestock industry generates nearly one-fifth of human-made greenhouse gas emissions. Yet piety isn’t synonymous with veganism; vegans seem to share problematic traits of food shaming and evangelism, the markers of India’s vigilante groups. This militant strain in Indian veganism may have been passed on from the West. The resultant myopia has led to the cult of vegans ignoring local context that must be factored into debates on meat production practices, consumption and, most fundamentally, personal choice. When shrill vegans speak of animal cruelty, the image that they usually have in mind is that of industrialized meat production that often takes place under stressful conditions in countries where per capita consumption of meat is higher than that of India. But context, as they say, is the key. The kochi pantha that floats in a bowl of caramelized gravy of the Sunday lunch has probably grazed on the savannah grasslands of Rajasthan — home to 21.5 million goats, about 14 per cent of India’s total goat population. Livestock farming need not be in conflict with local ecology: Rajasthan’s cattleheads are integral to the survival of the endangered Indian grey wolf. In Rajasthan, people are turning increasingly to animal husbandry in the face of reversals in agriculture. This interconnectedness among landscapes, species, communities, production and food often remains elusive to the raging vegans’ sensibilities. The vegan may respond by waving the ‘ethical’ avocado. Grown in large quantities in Mexico and Chile, where industrialized production of this plant has wiped out indigenous species and damaged biodiversity, this ‘conscientious’ fruit has travelled great distances to grace the vegan plate. Given the energy-intensive, temperature-controlled storage and shipping, not to mention the waste generated from packaging, a locally-made keema pav is likely to have a lighter carbon footprint than the avo-toast. What must also be kept in mind is that the primary drivers of climate change and the resultant disintegration of natural systems are economies that worship ‘infinite growth’, a system where exploitation of resources is proportional to economic growth. Do dear vegans know that producers of soya and almond milk — delicacies in the meat-hating universe — are complicit in this kind of avarice? Unilever, one of the biggest consumer goods firms in the United Kingdom, wants to increase its annual sales of plant-based meat and dairy products five-fold within the next seven years. It has its eye on pocketing an estimated one billion euros by 2027 — but not on the deep carbon footprints of almond and soya milk that are popular products in Unilever’s vegan ice creams. Over 80 per cent of the world’s almonds are grown in California, which has battled severe drought for most of this decade. Yet 6,098 litres of water are being poured to produce just a litre of almond milk. Another vegan favourite, soya, is a serious history-sheeter. Over the past two decades, 300 million hectares of tropical forests have been felled globally to sustain soya cultivation. The politics of food is already a fraught one in India: what one eats can spell the difference between life and death quite literally. The line separating religious bigotry against meat-eaters and the ‘ethical’ vilification of consumers of animal products seems to be blurring. Making personal lifestyle choices to reduce one’s carbon footprint is laudable. But to do so with unshakeable faith in the moral superiority of that choice is unwarranted. The consumption of meat and vegan products raise difficult questions that need to be addressed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Opinion||Double helix||It feels odd to lose James Bond and George Smiley within six weeks of one another. It’s true that Sean Connery had last played Bond nearly 40 years ago, and actually left the classic 007 behind much earlier. Likewise, David Cornwell/John le Carré’s oeuvre consists of a lot more than just the Smiley novels — he had finished the quintessential ones by 1979, again just over 40 years ago. However, Bond was what made Connery a household name and many would say the Smiley novels were the pinnacle of le Carré’s output. The realization hits that the passing of Connery and Cornwell in quick succession signals for people like me the end of a schizophrenic, stereophonic era, a termination of a bifurcated, twinned, double helix of a narrative that spins out over 60 years. I first came across James Bond in the late 60s, in a comic strip serialized in a Gujarati newspaper from Bombay. My parents subscribed to the daily which would arrive in Calcutta irregularly, sometimes nothing for days and then three papers at once, brought back by my father from his office in Barabazar. Not good with either English or Gujarati text, I would wait eagerly till my father unfurled the paper and showed me the four black-and-white panels on one of the back pages. The story was called Moonraker, and one gripping scene I remember going on for weeks was of Bond and a beautiful woman in his convertible Bentley being chased down a highway at night by the German villain, Hugo Drax, in his villainously German Mercedes. There was my father’s voice, reading the English bubbles and then the Gujarati translation given below, and there were the anxiety-making headlights fencing in the black, letterpress night. After a while I began to pick up English via Enid Blyton, and I promptly used it to decipher the scattered writing in the James Bond photo-magazine I’d picked up from the bookstall on Rashbehari Avenue. On the train to Bombay, two young women hesitantly pointed out to my mother that all those photos of women in bikinis and coming out of the bath and being handed a towel by Connery/Bond were perhaps not appropriate for an eight-year-old. My mother was unmoved. “He’ll understand what he does, but he’s mainly interested in the fighting photos.” I wasn’t incurious about the semi-naked women but my mother was right, my main focus was on the fights, the Aston Martin with the side-spikes on the wheels and the SPECTRE conclaves with the button-triggered seats that could eject you into the shark-pool just below the conference room. Much later I realized it was no coincidence that the Bond in the comic-strip looked just like the Bond/Connery in the photos. For a few years I was immersed in narratives that installed establishment-loyal Brits and Americans in a good-guy continuum from the Second World War onwards, with Germans, Russians, Chinese and various swarthies hailing from the Mediterranean, South America and Africa interchangeable as the baddies. But as the reading expanded, those assumptions frayed and then atomized. The Spy Who Came in from the Cold was one of the explosive torpedoes that holed the heavy cruiser of English-American fictional self-valorization. Reading it as a teenager, there was a shock of recognition that le Carré could not have intended: suddenly the Brit spymasters were as slimy and treacherous as those of my teachers I wanted to send down as shark-feed into Ernst Blofeld’s termination pool; the Americans were as bad, plus Yank-uncouth; the Soviets and the Germans remained evil but suddenly assumed three dimensions and nuanced colours; in the le Carré books there were equivalents of characters whom I had till then thought of as wholly desi, the bent cops, the sleazy politicians, the small-eyed, unscrupulous babus, the morals-mukt businessmen. Partly through the early novels of Len Deighton I’d already learned to recognize some of these characters as universal and to laugh at them. Through le Carré’s books they assumed their full rakshasik form, but with human frailties and foibles which the reader also had no choice but to acknowledge. Even if I didn’t then quite understand the hard-wired racism of Ian Fleming, nor recognize the constant, cheerful misogyny of the Bond books and films, the grimness of le Carré’s world connected to India, to Bengal, to bureaucratic file-swamps, and ugly and often meaningless blood-letting. At a basic level, meta-Bond, the novels, the films, the spin-offs and the merch, the spoofs, all of it is a project of denial of the evil of Empire as well as the disintegration of that Empire. With Bond the Empire is shape-shifted into visiting a newer version of the old ‘noble violence’ on deserving enemies, mollusced on to the American Imperium to maintain a morally laudable hegemony. Le Carré’s work is the direct and pitilessly detailed repudiation of these obfuscations and lie-powered fantasies. It is no surprise that the more spectacular, superficial super-spy gave rise to a myriad similar narratives in books, comics, films and computer games, even as the Bond movie franchise continues to put out new films under the ‘brand’, making billions of dollars in profit. Today, more than half a century later, you can see traces of that first James Bond of Casino Royale, ‘cruelly good-looking’ in his dandy clothes, in all sorts of movies from Indian counter-jihad sagas to Hollywood’s effects-bloated superhero productions. More importantly, what has inserted itself into the psyche all over the world is the idea of an amoral protagonist, with or without Bond’s expensive tastes and turbo-charged libido, freely utilizing, often relishing, his or her ‘licence to kill’ in the service of country or cause. Today you can find that Bond DNA in characters Irish or Iranian, Japanese or Jat; what identifies them with their mid-20th century progenitor is the gratification delivered by their usually solo authorship of bomb blasts, blood and gore, violent deaths. The influence of le Carré and his Smiley and his Circus is perhaps more subterranean, and you are more likely to find it in storytelling that aims at some complexity and depicting moral ambiguity, but the effect is nevertheless widespread. Many of us writing fiction in South Asia have no choice but to acknowledge the debt we owe to John le Carré. I can cite many different examples from sub-continental novels of the last twenty-odd years, but my favourite moment comes from Mohammed Hanif’s A Case of Exploding Mangoes, when the ISI officer picks up the protagonist-suspect for ‘a chat’. As they drive off into the night to what could be a fatally terminal interrogation, the officer points to the cassettes of music under the dashboard and courteously asks: “Asha or Lata?” The car is probably Japanese, the dangerous man Pakistani, the music, naturally, from Bombay. The old Cold War narratives may or may not be losing their topical relevance. New narratives have certainly taken over, bringing their own peculiarly gift-wrapped anxieties. A lot of what we face today was unimaginable when Sean Connery gave his first shot for Dr. No or John le Carré wrote the first sentences describing Alec Leamas waiting at a checkpoint for an agent to come across the Berlin Wall. A lot has changed, the future is still dark, but the play of ominous headlights stays constant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deprived of power supply for three hours||The Damodar Valley Corporation from Monday began carrying out power cuts in its command areas including Dhanbad, affecting the electricity supply in the suburban areas of the district. The three-hour power outage began on Monday night and was carried out in two batches of one and a half hours each. However, the Dhanbad town, which falls under the jurisdiction of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, remained unaffected by the incident. The organisation draws extra power from the newly established 250-megawatt capacity Kandra-based power grid substation. The DVC carried out the outage in order to clear its pending duesRs 4141.02 crores from Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. It had recently charged the organisation for not paying Rs 150 crore dues as per an agreement made in September, saying that it had received only 25 crores. Expressing anger at the issue of power cuts, Surendra Arora, a gift shop owner at the Bank More area said, “Power cuts by the DVC has become a regular regular phenomenon and common people here are frustrated over the problem.” Arora, who is former president of Bank More chamber of Commerce and Industry, added, “DVC is using the coal and manpower of Jharkhand but leaves no opportunity to deprive the people here of the power, which is the most essential service nowadays and such an attitude is totally anti-people.” “We pay the bills regularly, then why should we be deprived of power due to a dispute between JBVNL and DVC which has been going on since long,” Dilip Singh, a resident of Hirapur said. General Manager of Dhanbad Electric Supply Area, Ajeet Kumar, said, “Since the commissioning of Electric Grid Substation of our own during the last year, our dependence on Damodar Valley Corporation for power drawal has greatly reduced. So power supply has largely remained unaffected in the Dhanbad town area although we faced difficulty in adjoining localities including Nirsa, Jharia, Tundi and Bokaro.” “We are also in the process of integrating the Jharia, Nirsa and Tundi circuits with the Kandra grid, which will also reduce the dependence of these areas for power supply from DVC,” further said Kumar. “If the power crisis continues in future and outages are further increased then we may face problems. However, efforts are on at the state government level to sort out the issue,” he added. The DVC has threatened to increase the power cuts every week if the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited does not clear its dues. The DVC provides 600 megawatt of power supply in seven districts of Jharkhand including Dhanbad, Bokaro,Giridih, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Ranchi. “The power outage is being carried out due to non-payment of dues by JBVNL,” Chief Engineer (Commercial) of DVC, Manik Chandra Rakshit said, refusing to elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Child labourers rescued from two bakery units in Dhanbad||A team of the district labour department, led by labour superintendent Praveen Kumar, conducted raids at two Bakery units in Baghmara on Tuesday. Following the raids, officials rescued 13 child labourers working in Hindustan Bakery and Bagharma Bakery. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh instructed the bust, acting on complaints of two different NGOs - Bachpan Bachao Andolan and Jharkhand Grameen Vikash Trust. Talking to the media, Kumar said the raid was conducted as per labour laws and the rescued children will be presented before the district child welfare committee through the child line. “We will lodge a case against the factory owner as per labour laws which prohibits employment of child labour,” he said. Kumar added that they have detected several anomalies in Hindustan Bakery with regard to employees and appropriate action will be initiated against the owner in accordance with relevant sections of labour laws. Shankar Rawani, president of Jharkhand Gramin Vikash Trust,and part of raiding team, said, “We have rescued 25 chidren during the last two days, including 12 last night.” “All the rescued children are residents of Jamtara, Deoghar, Madhupur, Narayanpur and Tundi (Dhanbad) and belong to extremely poor families” he further added. The children will be rehabilitated according to instructions from the DC. All of the kids were presented before the child line in the afternoon after mandatory covid tests and medical checkup was conducted. The father of a rescued child hailing from Narayanpur arrived in Dhanbad and said, “Poor financial conditions ate compelling us to send our children to work in bakery units.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bank officer held in Kharagpur for Rs 4 cr fraud||Jharkhand police on Tuesday arrested a former assistant general manager of the Jharkhand State Cooperative Bank (JSCB) from Bengal for misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 4 crore. Sandip Sen, who is understood to have extended undue favours to a businessman in connivance with other bank officials, was arrested from Kharagpur, according to an official statement issued by police headquarters. Sen, who was posted in the Ranchi head office as assistant manager (accounts), is accused of forging account books in connivance with Sunil Kumar Sathpathi, who was the manager of the Seraikela branch, and another staffer, Madan Lal Prajapati, to benefit one Sanjay Kumar Dalmia. A case against Sen was lodged in the Seraikela police station in 2019 under various sections of IPS and Anti-Corruption Act after the fraud came to light, police said. “As many as 12 separate loans were running under the name of Dalmia in this bank. However, Sen along with the other co-accused forged the bank accounts to help him close all the loan accounts without payment. As a result, the bank incurred losses to tune of Rs 4.14 crore,” the police statement said. “Sen is being brought to Ranchi on transit remand following his arrest. CID will file a charge sheet against him soon,” it added. CID sources said the fraud, committed between 2011 and 2016, was estimated to be around Rs 38 crore. “Different bank officials in the Seraikela branch issued loans to Dalmia. But over the years, all his loan accounts went on to become non-performing assets (NPA). In some instances, despite NPAs, he (Dalmia) enjoyed financial favours from the bank because of connivance of a few officials, said a police source. As per the probe, Sen and Co was directly involved in misappropriation of over Rs 4 crore. About a dozen bank officials including Sen were named in the FIR filed in August 2019. Three persons have been named, the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Control room to monitor, troubleshoot Covid-19 vaccination||The state health department has set up a special control room with representation from various stakeholders, including doctors and development partners such as World Health Organisation (WHO), in order to monitor the vaccination programme for Covid-19 across Jharkhand, officials said on Tuesday. The state control room consists of five teams of around 50 doctors with each team assigned a specific task, said Dr Ajit Prasad, a member of the control room. The control room comprises separate teams for technical assistance, data management, communication and demand generation, cold chain and logistics management and capacity building. Each team has around 10 doctors, said Dr Prasad, the second lead in the technical assistance team. Dr L.R. Pathak, a member of the capacity building team, said all stakeholders will meet every week and plan the future course of action in the vaccination programme. The members of the control room will also identify various challenges in running the immunization programme in Jharkhand and troubleshoot, he added. The control room has been given the responsibility of monitoring the storage and transportation of the vaccine once it is made available to the state. “Since every team has been given different sets of responsibilities, it will become easier for them to focus on specific challenges and take up the matter during the weekly meetings,” said Dr Prasad. On Tuesday, the National Health Mission (NHM) answered frequently asked questions related to the Covid-19 vaccine in which it stated that a photo identity proof will be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. The document further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the shots. The vaccine, it said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body in two weeks after taking the second dose. As per figures with NHM, Jharkhand already has 1,666 electrical equipment for running vaccination programmes. These include ice lined refrigerators (ILRs) and deep freezers (DFs). ILRs, officials said, maintain a temperature between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degree Celsius, while DFs help maintain a temperature below 0 degrees for vaccine storage. Deep freezers are also used for maintaining the temperature during transportation of vaccines. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed another 30 to enhance the storage capacity in the state, officials from NHM said. Figures shared by a source in the health department highlighted that Jharkhand has five walk-in coolers and four more are being procured. The state also has three walk-in freezers and two more will be procured soon. Besides, there are 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers available in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Picnickers visiting Dimna Lake to be tested for Covid till January||Police administration is focussing on making picnickers follow social distancing norms and wearing masks at Dimna lake. On Tuesday, about 1,000 picnickers from different parts of the steel city and also from Bengal and Odisha were subjected to Covid tests by the district health department officials with police cooperation. Led by SP Subhash Chandra Jat, a police party first carried out a survey of the picnic spot around 11 am, and subsequently made all picnickers, including women and children, undergo rapid antigen tests (RAT). "Picnic is not prohibited at Dimna lake area, but those visiting  must adhere to Covid norms like wearing masks and social distancing. During the survey we found picnickers without masks and not maintaining social distance.  Hence, we called in district health department officials for carrying out RATs," Jat told The Telegraph Online. "We are also keeping a watch on criminals who come here with intentions of snatching gold-chains, mobile phones and harassing women. But our priority is making the picnickers safe from coming in contact with the coronavirus.  The drive started today and will continue till the first week of January," he added. For picnickers and year-end travellers, Jubilee Park in Bistupur and Dimna lake used to be prime places of attraction.  But as Jubilee Park closed since the lockdown, Dimna lake remains the only place to visit now. Currently, about 1,000 people visit Dimna lake every day. But the year end crowd is expected to swell to thousands, posing a challenge for the police administration.. A senior police officer, part of Tuesday's drive, said that they have started large-scale Covid testing at the lake as a strategy to diffuse numbers. "We cannot prevent people from picnicing at Dimna lake. But, at the same time, we have to ensure that those coming must adhere to Covid norms.  As many people are reluctant to get tested, this might discourage them to throng the spot," he said. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, Dr RN Jha confirmed that health department officials have conducted large-scale Covid tests at Dimna lake area on Tuesday. "We conducted Covid tests on people visiting the lake after being informed by the city police.  Similar tests will continue at Dimna lake till the first week of January," Jha informed The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Church appeals to CM for Christian presence in cabinet||Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo advised the faithful to ensure that Christmas this year is celebrated with simplicity and without grandeur, while the Church appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren to appoint a Christian minister in his cabinet to look after the interests of the minority community. "We welcome all to visit the manger here that will be opened for public viewing for the first time this year, but request them not to bring any cake, gift or flowers," Toppo told the media at Archbishop House on Tuesday morning. Also present was Auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas who highlighted some of the problems faced by the church while running minority educational institutions. "We couldn't fill up vacant posts of teachers in our schools which hampered teaching because the previous government delayed approvals," he said, but added that the Hemant Soren government was, however, looking into the matter. "There's no Christian minister in Jharkhand. I appeal to the chief minister to appoint one who will look into the interests of the minority community, " he also said.  Toppo also advised the faithful of the Roman Catholic Church not to spend money on decorating their houses or bursting crackers. Instead, they should donate the money saved to the poor. "We have invited rikshaw-pullers of the city to join us at lunch at Loyola Ground on Christmas Day," Bishop Mascarenhas said, adding that the event would be in tune with the social work the Archdiocese has been undertaking  during the pandemic by running shelter houses and community kitchens. The Bishop also suggested mangers be prepared at home using old materials and decorated by using a single star of Bethlehem so that the money saved could be donated. "It's a very difficult time and we all should do our bit to help the poor and the needy," the Bishop said. "Churches will organise additional masses to accommodate more devotees while observing social distancing," he said, adding that two online masses would also be organised for those who would like to attend from the comfort of their homes. The state government has, however, allowed congregations not exceeding 200 people. In open-air congregations, 300 would be allowed. All Churches Leaders Council of Jharkhand organised a Christmas gathering at a city hotel on Tuesday afternoon that was attended by senior functionaries of various churches and MLAs. Children sang Christmas carols and presented skits based on the life and teachings of Lord Jesus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Auto-rickshaw unions go on strike in coal town||More than 18,000 auto-rickshaws remained off the roads on Tuesday in Dhanbad as their association of operators launched an indefinite strike on the day. The unions, in their seven point charter, have enlisted a host of demands, including hiking the minimum fare from Rs 5 to Rs 10. The protesters have also demanded for at least a 50 per cent hike on other fare, demarcation of auto stops by the administration, allocation of routes  and fixation of number of passengers on the vehicles among others. The operators as well as auto-rickshaw drivers also pitched for local arrangements to issue permits for their vehicles by the transport department, and waiver of permit charges when the operations remained suspended during the lockdown. The agitators, including members from the Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Auto Mahasangh and Dhanbad Zila Auto Chalak Morcha, staged a demonstration at around 12 noon in the Rangatand area. They claimed that their strike will continue until the administration takes some initiative to solve their problems. Talking to the media after the demonstration, President of the Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union Sunil Singh said they have been demanding to fix the routes as the present scenario leads to traffic jams. “Though the administration had taken some initiatives earlier, the process was discontinued eventually. As a result, both auto-rickshaw drivers and passengers have been facing difficulties,” Singh, a driver by profession, said. Regarding the price hike, Singh said, “The current rates were fixed many years ago. Since then the price of diesel has increased significantly, resulting in a host of issues. We cannot manage our household expenses due to the skyrocketing prices of essential items.” “We are demanding a written order from the district administration deciding the maximum number of passengers to be accommodated in the auto-rickshaw. We have been having regular disputes with the passengers and some policemen also penalise us for carrying more than the allowed number of passengers, which is 10 at the moment.” Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh president Chotan Singh said that the demarcation of auto stoppages are long-pending, and the drivers face the wrath of policemen for stopping at non-designated spots. The strike, called by a joint front of several associations, resulted in an inconvenience for the daily commuters. Hari Sahw, a businessman who arrived in the town from Delhi, said, “As I was away from the town in Delhi for some time and not aware of the strike, I had to wait for more than an hour for an auto-rickshaw. I had to ultimately hire a taxi for Rs 250 to reach Kartas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Six of the 24 Jharkhand districts Covid free for now ||Six of the 24 districts of Jharkhand did not lodge even a single Covid-19 patient although Ranchi and Jamshedpur continued to report double-digit-spikes on Monday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, bringing the count of active cases down at 1675, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 173 people were found infected in the state in the past 24 hours, while 205 patients recovered during the same period, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi reported 82 cases against 86 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 23 cases against 34 recoveries. Among other districts, Bokaro reported eight cases against 23 recoveries and Dhanbad reported only two cases against eight recoveries. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Dumka, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state to 1011. The Covid mortality rate in the state, as per government data, was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 15,347 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 46.54 lakh people and tested 46.44 lakh of them. Of the 46-odd lakh, people tested, at least 113198 were found to be Covid positive. However, as per government data, at least 110512 of them have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 97.62 per cent against the national average of 95.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 431.06 days, while the national doubling rate was 323.01 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. After Monday's findings, there were more than 100 active cases in East Singhbhum and Ranchi. All the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 patients, while at least three districts had less than 19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to boost tourism, jobs||Most of the past one year was spent in tackling the challenges arising out of the Covid-induced pandemic and it’s now the time for bringing the state back on normal track of development. Chief minister Hemant Soren whose government completes one year in office on December 29 said this in Dumka where he had been camping for the past three days. “The pandemic had paralysed normal functioning of the state and the government is now working on bringing it back on track and also giving it a momentum,” Soren said while speaking to the media there. His government would inform the people of its achievements on completion of one year in office on December 29, he further said, adding they were taking some important steps that will be helpful for the people of the state, he added. “We are trying to raise the wage rate for work under MGNREGA and giving jobs to about 15,000 youths of the state by March (2021),” the chief minister said, adding the process of handing over appointment letters had already begun in a moderate way. The state government has also drawn up various schemes for benefits of the people, both in urban and rural areas according to the need, he further informed, adding emphasis was being given for fast development of the tourism sector and boosting self-employment in the state. JMM in Bengal polls “We have our organisation there and the leaders are already working on it,” Soren who is also the executive president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha replied in the affirmative when asked if the JMM would contest in the upcoming Assembly polls in Bengal. Earlier, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya had also hinted in Ranchi that JMM was gearing up for fighting some seats in Bengal. In reply to a question on whether he would attend a poll related meeting if Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee invited him to attend it, Soren said they would response to such requests in a positive way. “Those who are aware know how BJP fights elections with man and money powers,” Soren said when his attention was drawn towards a tweet by poll strategist Prashant Kishor who claimed that BJP would “struggle to cross double digit in Bengal” and added the hype around BJP has been “amplified by a section of supportive media”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
