23-12-2020||Calcutta||Thirty shanties destroyed in fire; traffic hit on Bypass ||More than 30 shanties were gutted near Bengal Chemical on Maniktala Main Road on Tuesday evening and traffic on EM Bypass was severely hit as affected residents gathered on the artery and a stretch of it had to be closed to facilitate fire-fighting. There were no reports of any injuries till late on Tuesday. Flames were detected inside a shanty around 6.30pm and, fanned by the northerly winds, they soon spread through the thickly populated pocket adjoining Purbasha Housing Estate, police and fire services department officials said. Around 20 fire tenders took nearly two hours to control the blaze. As firefighters began their operations, police had to close down a stretch of the EM Bypass, particularly the flank through which Ultadanga-bound vehicles move. Senior officers said the stretch of the Bypass near Bengal Chemical was closed to traffic from around 7.20pm till late at night and traffic had to be diverted through various roads, including Beleghata Main Road and Narkeldanga Main Road. Most of the Ultadanga-bound vehicles were directed towards Salt Lake from the Chingrighata crossing, the police said. On the Bypass, at one point, the snarl extended till the Parama crossing on the Ultadanga-bound flank. Some of the vehicles headed towards Ruby hospital from Ultadanga were diverted through Salt Lake from the Hudco intersection. “Several families ran out of their burning houses with their belongings and gathered on the Ultadanga-bound flank of the Bypass. Traffic had to be diverted till the time an alternative arrangement could be made for their night shelter,” said a senior police officer overseeing traffic movement. According to preliminary estimates, at least 35 shanties were gutted. The fire is believed to have started in the kitchen of a shanty. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, reached the spot and said the displaced families would be accommodated in a community hall nearby. “The CMC will make necessary arrangements for the rehabilitation of the displaced,” Hakim said. “The chief minister has directed that all arrangements be made for those who have been affected by the fire.” The police said residents alerted the fire department only after their attempts to douse the flames failed. A section of residents alleged that fire tenders reached the spot nearly an hour and a half after they were alerted. The delay, they said, caused the fire to spread. “The first set of tenders reached from Maniktala and gradually additional fire tenders started reaching from fire stations nearby. It takes time for these vehicles to reach a particular spot,” said Sujit Bose, the fire and emergency services minister. “A forensic team will visit the site on Wednesday and the experts will be able to ascertain the exact cause of the fire,” said Jag Mohan, the director general of fire and emergency services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Alarm foils Ballygunge Circular Road ATM robbery attempt||A man who allegedly broke the glass barrier of an ATM kiosk on Ballygunge Circular Road and was trying to break open the machine was arrested early on Tuesday after an alarm linked to the kiosk went off at Ballygunge police station. “The alarm at the police station went off half an hour past Monday midnight, indicating that someone was trying to rob the ATM. On rushing to the spot, our team found a youth inside the kiosk. He had smashed the glass barrier of the kiosk and was trying to break the ATM machine,” said an officer at the police headquarters in Lalbazar. The accused was identified as Sukanto Gayen, 20, a resident of the Peyarabagan slum, not far from the ATM kiosk. The kiosk did not have a guard. Last week, Calcutta police had arrested a Haryana-based gang that had allegedly been involved in breaking and robbing ATM kiosks in Calcutta and possibly elsewhere, too. The police said the gang used to smear the CCTV cameras inside ATM kiosks with black paint so that nothing was visible in the footage. They apparently used professional burglary tools to break open ATMs. The youth who was arrested on Tuesday did not seem to have applied the modus operandi of that gang. “Prima facie, this youth does not appear to be a member of that group. He will be subjected to a medical test,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Detentions shed light on New Town fires||Fires on New Town’s grasslands are being lit for reasons ranging from burning waste to scaring away snakes, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. Residents’ resistance groups, the NKDA and police have caught several people setting fires on grasslands. All the men were questioned and a wide range of reasons — driving out snakes, making a safe passage for cattle to graze, waste burning and “starting fires just to see the grasslands go up in flames” — have emerged. Some of the men were found to be waste collectors not listed with the NKDA, the official said. The men said they did not want to carry the non-recyclable items to a dumping ground. The Telegraph had reported on several occasions how fires on grasslands have made it difficult for the residents to breathe. They are forced to keep doors and windows shut because of the dense smoke. The fires also have a devastating effect on the habitat of a variety of birds. A senior NKDA official said they held a meeting with officials from the forest department and NGOs to chalk out a strategy to prevent fires on the grasslands. New Town’s Action Area II has large swathes of grassland that are frequented by birdwatchers from across the city. The grasslands are home to many birds because they provide a steady food supply. The birds include seed eaters like species of munias and weavers, insectivorous birds like Pipit, Lark, Eurasian Wryneck, Siberian Rubythroat, and birds of prey that feed on rodents such as Black Shouldered Kite, Indian Spotted Eagle, Common Kestrel and Pied Harrier, among others. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the NKDA, said that they had sent out a request to all housing complexes, cooperative housing societies and standalone buildings not to hand waste to unauthorised collectors. “If need be, the residents can visit the zero waste shop near the New Town bus stand where there are provisions for segregated collection of waste items,” Sen said. A retro-fitted water tanker has doused 12 fires in different places following alerts from the NKDA cell that gets real-time inputs from drones that scan the township for such fires, he said. The areas where the tanker has doused fires include a large grassland near the Hanuman Mandir behind Eco Park, a grass-land near the headquarters of the Border Security Force’s South Bengal Frontier, and one near Alia University. “We are actively campaigning and putting up signs asking people not to set such fires. Although we have let some people off with stern warnings, we are now mulling legal action and calling the police when we spot anyone starting a fire,” Sen said. Metro had earlier reported that the New Town authorities have formed a cell that flies drones over grasslands and empty plots to try and stop people from setting dried grass, shrubs and waste on fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||CMC to build booster pumping station to boost water supply||The civic body will build a booster pumping station-cum-reservoir at Buroshibtala, bordering Behala and New Alipore, to address water deficiency in the area, an engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said on Tuesday. The station, which will take about 18 months to be built, will benefit about 15,000 people living around Hindustan Sweets, Jyotish Roy Road, Malakar Para and Indrapalli, said the coordinator of Ward 117, Amit Singh. Singh added that the residents had dug trenches in several places in the area to collect the potable water from taps. “The water pressure is so low that water does not reach any tap that has its mouth above the road surface. People have to climb down into the trenches to collect water.” He said all taps in the area have been fitted at a level below the road where the water supply lines run because of the low water pressure. According to the CMC engineer, the semi-underground reservoir with a capacity to hold 13 lakh litre of water, will receive potable water from the Garden Reach water treatment plant. “The booster pumping station will increase the pressure and the flow of water. Once the high-powered pumps push the water into the network, the pressure will increase and people will receive more quantity of water,” he added. The chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, will lay the foundation stone of the pumping station on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus strike threat over dues ||Private bus operators of around 10 routes across Calcutta have threatened to suspend their operations from Wednesday till the state government clears the dues for transporting personnel and materials during the lockdown and even after the unlock process started. Operators said that between March 26 and September 30, the state government had hired their buses to ferry personnel from hospitals and other government-run establishments to different locations. After the lockdown was withdrawn in phases, the transport department said it would pay the amount it owed to the operators but that has not happened till date. “Over 40 buses and minibuses were hired during the period. The outstanding amount is in excess of Rs 52 lakh. The owners of the buses on around 10 routes have told us that they would suspend their operations from tomorrow till the dues are cleared,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Mini Bus Owners Association. “The owners have been struggling to remain afloat during the pandemic and the state government has made the situation even worse by not clearing the dues. Unless the owners get their dues, they can't pay their workers.” The buses the government hired run on the New Alipore-Ruby, Park Circus-Purbachal Housing Estate (Salt Lake), Majerhat-Kidderpore, Rajabagan-Howrah, Esplanade-Akra Phatak and Pailan-Howrah station routes, among others. On Tuesday, a section of bus owners and their staff demonstrated at the office of the transport department in Kasba demanding that the dues be cleared immediately. The agitating owners and employees said they would wait for another 10 days before heading to Nabanna with their demands. “The price of diesel is around Rs 78 a litre. There aren’t enough passengers and even then we have to keep running the buses because the service is considered essential. But what about our payments? Isn’t it essential?” asked an owner, whose bus runs on the 42C route. Transport department officials said buses were hired during the lockdown for Rs 1,910 a day and minibuses for Rs 1,580 a day. The state government provided fuel and paid money to the staff to buy tiffin. “The bulk of the payment has been done. The rest is in the process of getting clearance from the finance department,” said an official of the transport department. The operators said they had been paid part of the promised amount in June. Since then, they have not got anything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s postpones convocation to February||St Xavier’s College has postponed its convocation from January 16 to February 28. The ceremony will be held on the campus but on a smaller scale because of the Covid pandemic. Although 2,700 students (undergraduate and postgraduate) have graduated, the college will invite only the 35 medal recipients to receive the honours in-person. “The convocation ceremony is usually held on January 16 every year, which also marks our foundation day. But this year’s pandemic has changed the situation temporarily and the ceremony has been deferred to February 28,” principal Father Dominic Savio told Metro. Swami Atmapriyananda, the vice-chancellor of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University, will be the chief guest. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms like the college’s Facebook page and YouTube. The recipients who to go the campus will have their temperatures checked with thermal guns and security and volunteers will ensure all protocols are followed, a college official said. The college will courier the degree certificates. The students can also go to the campus in a staggered way to collect their degrees from their department. “The college will upload the digital version of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository so that the students could download them,” said Dominic Savio. Why has the convocation been deferred? The odd-semester (first, third and fifth) exams that are usually wrapped up by December got delayed and will be held in January, because of which the college thought it prudent to hold the ceremony in February, a college official said. “This year, the academic session started in September instead of July because of the Covid-induced shutdown. As a consequence, the exams will be held only in January. Teachers and other officials will be busy conducting the exams so we thought it would be wise to hold the ceremony in February,” the official said. Father Savio said they wanted to push back the event expecting the situation to improve by late February. “According to some health experts, the virus is expected to get more virulent during the winter. So, we wanted to choose a time that would be well beyond winter,” he said. If the medal recipients want to attend the convocation with their families, they have to alert the college authorities so necessary arrangements to maintain distancing can be made, another official said. “We want to keep the congregation comprising medal recipients, their family members, teachers, officials within 200 in keeping with the norms set under unlock VI guidelines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Vehicle that killed air hostess identified||Police have identified the goods vehicle that had fatally hit 20-year-old air hostess Rittika Majumdar near Hastings before fleeing last week and arrested the driver. “Bishnu Paswan, 41, the driver, has been arrested from his BK Pal Avenue house. He has been charged with causing death due to negligence, under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code,” said an officer. Rittika, a resident of Howrah, was returning home with a friend on a scooter when the accident happened last Tuesday. Investigating officers learned that the scooter was trailing an app cab, whose driver suddenly pressed the brakes. “With the app cab suddenly coming to a halt, the two-wheeler got disbalanced. The scooterist as well as Rittika, who was riding pillion, fell on the road. Before they could get up, a goods vehicle that was behind them ran over the woman,” said an officer. A case against an “unknown” vehicle was initially started. As there were no CCTV cameras on the spot, the police had to initially depend on statements of Rittika’s friend, who was driving the scooter, to form an idea about the goods vehicle. Footage of CCTV cameras close to the accident spot did show a goods vehicle cross the stretch within a few minutes of the accident. The vehicle, which was carrying cardboards to a factory in Dhulagarh in Howrah, was identified and its owner tracked down. The police learnt the name of the driver from the owner. Several offending vehicles that cause accidents and flee the spot remain unidentified in the absence of CCTV camera footage or statements from witnesses. The accident that led to the death of the air hostess is one of the few cases in which the police have been able to identify the killer vehicle and track down the driver despite the absence of CCTV cameras at the crash site. Last year, offending vehicles in around 40 road accidents had remained unidentified. Officers in the traffic department said that if the offending vehicle remained unidentified, the victim and his or her relatives found it difficult to claim the accident insurance money. “Apart from the insurance issue, getting to know the identity of the offending vehicle means a lot to the family of a person who dies in a road accident,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Belle Vue to set up two units in New Town||Belle Vue Clinic will build two units in New Town, which, once operational, will more than double the hospital’s bed count, an official of the hospital said on Tuesday. The hospital will also expand the capacity of its nursing college in New Town. The two new units — one near Ecospace and another behind Hidco Bhavan — will together have 564 beds. The Loudon Street unit has 312 beds. Belle Vue’s bed count will rise to 876 once the two units are ready. The MP Birla Group, which owns Belle Vue, will invest Rs 603 crore to build the two hospitals and expand the capacity of the nursing college, the official said. The two hospitals together will require an investment of Rs 500 crore. “The unit that will come up near Ecospace will have 164 beds and will be opened by April 2022. It will be a general hospital and will function from an eight-storey building in front of the nursing college,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “The other one will be a 400-bed multi-speciality hospital. It will come up on a 2-acre plot behind Hidco Bhavan. It will be opened by March 2024.” Tondon said the treatment cost at the general hospital would be “low”. “People covered under the Central Government Health Scheme and West Bengal Health Scheme and those with Swasthya Sathi cards can come to this hospital,” he said. “We are also expanding the capacity of our nursing college. There is an acute shortage of nurses in the state. If more nurses graduate every year, the shortage problem can be addressed,” he said. The college, Priyamvada Birla Institute of Nursing, started in 2019. Tondon said that 150 students — 100 general nursing and midwifery (GNM) students and 50 BSc nursing students — were admitted last year. “This year we have already admitted 200 students, taking 50 more BSc nursing students than last year. Next year, we will admit 50 post-basic nursing students and 10 MSc nursing students,” he said. Post-basic is a three-year course for nurses with a GNM degree. The number of seats in each of the courses will keep increasing over the next few years. “Once the expansion is complete, we will admit 700 nursing students each year,” said Tondon. The first batch of 100 GNM students will graduate in 2022. The Loudon Street unit will add 60 beds by March 2021. “The bed count will go up from 312 to 372. We will add 15 dialysis beds there,” Tondon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Trust breached, elderly couple duped||A woman who had been hired to assist an elderly couple living by themselves in Salt Lake, especially to help them with their banking transactions during the pandemic, allegedly siphoned off more than Rs 20 lakh from their bank account. The woman has been arrested. Benoyendra Kumar Das, 83, and his wife live alone in their CJ Block house in Salt Lake. The couple’s son lives in the US and their daughter is married to an army officer who is posted in Kashmir. The couple’s children hired Ritajaa Thakur, a resident of New Alipore, to assist their parents. Das said they completely depended on the woman in her early 30s to carry out banking transactions on their behalf and also pay household bills. Das has retired from the International Labour Organisation and been running an NGO that promotes safe practices in mines across the country. He said he had also entrusted Thakur to run back-office operations of the NGO from their house. “In July, she took my debit card on the pretext of paying our landline bill. She also took my cell phone, whose number is linked to multiple bank accounts, and activated Internet banking without my knowledge,” Das told The Telegraph. Subsequently, she is said to have withdrawn cash and used Das’s card at different establishments and spent around Rs 20.8 lakh. Many elderly people who stay alone in the city are avoiding trips to banks amid the pandemic as a precaution against Covid-19 and also to avoid the hassle of standing in a queue in the sun for long durations. Many who live alone are seeking assistance from the police through the Saanjbati and Pronam outreach programmes for the elderly run by the Bidhannagar commissionerate and Calcutta police, respectively. There are still a number of elderly people who depend on domestic help and others to carry out banking transactions on their behalf. Das, however, was only alerted on December 6, when a bank employee called him up and asked why he was making such withdrawals. He then alerted his daughter, who got her husband to request one of his friends from the National Defence Academy to help them out. Shantanu Ghosh, who recently retired from the army as a colonel, visited Das’s house and got in touch with the bank. “It was clear from the banking records that someone else had been making these bank transactions. We then contacted the police and filed a complaint,” said Ghosh. The complaint led to the arrest of Thakur. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said she had used the money to book a car, go on multiple outstation trips, buy expensive perfumes and cosmetics as well as dresses. Thakur has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). She was produced in a court in Salt Lake on Tuesday and was remanded in police custody for four days, Lawyer Soumyajit Raha, who appeared for Das, sub-mitted in the court that Thakur had deceived an elderly couple “to fund her flashy lifestyle”. “The couple require regular medical treatment and have been duped by a woman they trusted,” Raha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 437 points to finish at 46,444.18||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 437 points on Wednesday, tracking gains in Infosys, HUL and TCS amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 437.49 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 46,444.18. The broader NSE Nifty surged 134.80 points or 1 per cent to close at 13,601.10. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting around 3 per cent, followed by Infosys, M&M, ITC, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, TCS and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Titan, PowerGrid and NTPC were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities recovered sharply from early losses mainly on positive global cues and sharp rebound in IT, PSU banks and pharma. "Stimulus bill in the US continued to offer support to emerging markets including India. However, emerging risk pertaining to new coronavirus strain made investors focus back on defensive sectors including IT, Pharma and FMCG," he noted. While new imposed economic restrictions in various countries and threat of new coronavirus strain to other nations weigh on investors' sentiments, he said India still appears to be better placed given consistent reduction in new coronavirus cases and improvement in recovery rates. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.12 per cent to USD 50.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Cairn Energy wins retro tax arbitration against Indian govt ||UK's Cairn Energy Plc has won an arbitration against the Indian government levying Rs 10,247 crore in retrospective taxes, the company said on Wednesday. The three-member tribunal, which also comprised of a judge appointed by the Indian government, ruled that India's claim of Rs 10,247 crore in past taxes over a 2006-07 internal reorganisation of Cairn's India business was not a valid demand, sources said. The tribunal asked India to pay the funds withheld along with the interest to the Scottish oil explorer for seizing dividend, tax refund, and sale of shares to partly recover the dues. Confirming the award, Cairn in a statement said: "the tribunal established to rule on its claim against the Government of India has found in Cairn's favour." Cairn had challenged the Indian government seeking taxes over an internal business reorganisation using the 2012 retrospective tax law, under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. "The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and has awarded to Cairn damages of USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which now becomes payable," it said. This is the second blow to the government over the retrospective tax issue in three months. A separate international arbitration tribunal had in September ruled against India levying retrospective taxes on Vodafone Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS and HCL Tech amid a positive trend in other Asian markets. After swinging nearly 300 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 141.15 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 46,147.84. After similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 43.15 points or 0.32 per cent to 13,509.45. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, TCS, M&M and Titan. On the other hand, ONGC, NTPC, Axis Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and L&T were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46,006.69, and Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13,466.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,153 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Concerns pertaining to the new coronavirus strain and the possibility of an imminent slowdown in the global economy in the near term emerged as a threat for global equities, which may result in investors moving back to defensive stocks in coming days," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that India is better placed compared to other nations given the consistent reduction in new coronavirus cases and improvement in recovery rates. "While domestic equities are likely to remain volatile and trade in range-bound in the near term, 3QFY21 corporate earnings are going to be crucial for the markets," he said. US equities finished mostly lower as a continued surge in coronavirus cases in America and Europe weighed on investor sentiments, which also overshadowed satisfactory progress of vaccination roll out and passage of USD 900 billion stimulus bill, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 1.42 per cent lower at USD 49.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Modi govt extends suspension of fresh proceedings under insolvency law ||The Modi government has again extended the suspension of fresh proceedings under the insolvency law by three more months amid the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A notification for a three-month extension of the suspension, which was to end on December 24, was issued by the corporate affairs ministry on Tuesday. The three-month period would be from December 25. An ordinance was promulgated in June this year for the suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings and the same came into force retrospectively from March 25 — the day when the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus infections had come into effect. Later, a bill to replace the March ordinance that had amended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was cleared by Parliament in September. Initially, the suspension of fresh proceedings under the IBC was for six months starting from March 25 and then, it was extended by three months. Now, the suspension has been further extended by three months which will end on March 24, 2021. The corporate affairs ministry has suspended Section 7, 9 and 10 to provide relief for companies reeling under the impact of the pandemic. Sections 7, 9 and 10 deal with the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by a financial creditor, operational creditor and corporate debtor, respectively. On Monday, finance and corporate affairs minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that suspension of fresh proceedings under the IBC would be extended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Apple plans self-driving car by 2024||Apple Inc is moving forward with self-driving car technology and is targeting 2024 to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. The iPhone maker’s automotive efforts, known as Project Titan, have proceeded unevenly since 2014 when it first started to design its own vehicle from scratch. At one point, Apple drew back the effort to focus on software and reassessed its goals. Doug Field, an Apple veteran who had worked at Tesla Inc, returned to oversee the project in 2018 and laid off 190 people from the team in 2019. Since then, Apple has progressed enough that it now aims to build a vehicle for consumers, two people familiar with the effort said, asking not to be named because Apple’s plans are not public. Apple’s goal of building a personal vehicle for the mass market contrasts with rivals such as Alphabet Inc’s Waymo, which has built robo-taxis to carry passengers for a driverless ride-hailing service. Central to Apple’s strategy is a new battery design that could “radically” reduce the cost of batteries and increase the vehicle’s range, according to a third person who has seen Apple’s battery design. Apple declined to comment on its plans or future products. Making a vehicle represents a supply chain challenge even for Apple, a company with deep pockets that makes hundreds of millions of electronics products each year with parts from around the world, but has never made a car. It took Elon Musk’s Tesla 17 years before it finally turned a sustained profit making cars. “If there is one company on the planet that has the resources to do that, it's probably Apple. But at the same time, it's not a cellphone,” said a person who worked on Project Titan. It remains unclear who would assemble an Apple-branded car, but sources have said they expect the company to rely on a manufacturing partner to build vehicles. And there is still a chance Apple will decide to reduce the scope of its efforts to an autonomous driving system that would be integrated with a car made by a traditional automaker, rather than the iPhone maker selling an Apple-branded car, one of the people added. Two people with knowledge of Apple’s plans warned pandemic-related delays could push the start of production into 2025 or beyond. Shares of Tesla ended 6.5 per cent lower on Monday after their debut in the S&P 500 on Monday. Apple shares ended 1.24 per cent higher after the news. Apple has decided to tap outside partners for elements of the system, including lidar sensors, which help self-driving cars get a three-dimensional view of the road, two people familiar with the company's plans said. Apple’s car might feature multiple lidar sensors for scanning different distances, another person said. Some sensors could be derived from Apple's internally developed lidar units, that person said. Apple’s iPhone 12 Pro and iPad Pro models released this year both feature lidar sensors. Reuters had previously reported that Apple had held talks with potential lidar suppliers, but it was also examining building its own sensor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Bet on Indian Tiktok clone||The Indian parent of a TikTok copycat has raised more than $100 million from investors, including Alphabet Inc’s Google and Microsoft, months after the Chinese-owned short-video app was banned in the country. The app, Josh, is one of several home-grown short-video platforms that have sprung up since India blocked the wildly popular TikTok in June amidst a border crisis with China, attracting global investor interest in applications filling the gap. Bangalore-based VerSe Innovation, which owns Josh, is valued at more than $1 billion following the investment, it said in a statement. AlphaWave, a part of global asset manager Falcon Edge Capital, also invested in VerSe, as did existing investors Sofina Group and Lupa Systems, VerSe said, adding that it would use the funds to scale up Josh. VerSe also owns news and content platform Dailyhunt, which offers content in multiple Indian languages. Separately on Tuesday, Indian ad technology firm InMobi’s Glance — which runs an eponymous lock-screen content app and short-video platform Roposo — said it had raised $145 million from Google and existing investor Mithril Capital. Google set aside $10 billion earlier this year for digital investments in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Investors discount mutant fear ||The Sensex made an emphatic comeback on Tuesday following the previous session’s massive selloff, as European markets reversed losses amid expectations that the Covid-19 vaccines will be effective against a new virus strain in the UK. IT stocks led the recovery on Dalal Street, with pharma and select banking stocks also witnessing robust demand. After gyrating 968 points in a volatile session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46006.69. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13466.30. HCL Tech was the top gainer among the Sensex companies, rallying 5.09 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, Nestle India and L&T. Only five index constituents finished in the red —Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, RIL and IndusInd Bank, which slipped up to 0.94 per cent. European markets witnessed a sharp recovery after German pharmaceutical company BioNTech said it was confident that its coronavirus vaccine would work against the new UK variant. The variant, detected mainly in London and the southeast of England in recent weeks, has sparked concern worldwide because of signs that it may spread more easily. While there is no indication it causes more serious illness, numerous countries in Europe and beyond have restricted travel from the UK as a result. The US Congress approving a $900 billion stimulus package also bolstered market sentiment, traders said. “Market took an unexpected positive momentum in the afternoon, during a see-saw trading day, following the positive opening of the European market, which recovered from yesterday's sell-off. The sectorial rally was led by IT and pharma stocks with other sectors also supporting the up move. “Volatility is expected to stay high in the near-term due to strict lockdown impacting economic recovery. However, the market is expected to remain bullish in the medium- to long-term, backed by overall progress in economic activity in 2021,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. All sectoral indices ended on a positive note, with BSE IT, tech, utilities, telecom, metal, healthcare and power rallying as much as 3.37 per cent. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.09 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 1.67 per cent to $50.06 per barrel. The rupee furthered its losses by another 5 paise to close at 73.84 against the dollar on Tuesday in line with weaker Asian peers amid concerns over a new coronavirus strain. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened at 73.95 against the dollar and witnessed an intra-day high of 73.82 and a low of 73.95. The local unit finally closed at 73.84, registering a fall of 5 paise over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Crude oil output falls 5 per cent||Domestic crude oil production fell about 5 per cent in November primarily because of a sharp drop in output at the Rajasthan oilfields operated by Cairn Vedanta, government data showed on Tuesday. Also, natural gas production in the country fell 9 per cent to 2.3 billion cubic meters (bcm) in November largely because  of a fall in eastern offshore field output. During April-November, India’s oil production was 6 per cent  lower at 20.42 million tonnes (mt). The output from Rajasthan during this period dropped 16 per cent to 3.91mt. Gas output during April-November was 18.7bcm, down 11.8 per cent  over the previous year. The fall in crude production has raised concerns on meeting the Modi government’s plans to cut crude imports by 10 per cent by 2022. India is dependent on imports for 85 per cent of its needs and the government is pushing domestic explorers to raise output to help cut down imports. Crude oil production in November at 2.48mt was lower than 2.61mt produced in the same month a year back. Rajasthan fields produced 9.6 per cent less crude oil at 476,990 tonnes as Mangala, Aishwarya and other fields in the Cairn block flowed less oil for a variety of reasons, according to data released by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) produced 1.5 per cent less oil. Oil India has signed a MoU with Assam Hydrocarbon & Energy Company aimed at establishing a joint institutional framework to facilitate bilateral co-operation in hydrocarbon exploration and development and marketing of natural gas in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Calcutta start-up dares Big 2 ||A homegrown food tech firm is gearing up to take on the food delivery duopoly of Swiggy and Zomato with an eye on breakeven in 7-9 months. Fooza Foods Private Limited, founded by entrepreneurs Dibyendu Banerjea and Reena Lath, announced the launch of mobile application Fooza on Monday. Banerjea, who has past experiences in the hospitality sector as the general manager of The President Hotel of IHCL in Mumbai, operations head of Boston Group of Hotels and COO of Microtel Inns and Suites, said that discussions were on with a mix of domestic and overseas investors for capital support as the company expands in new cities over the next two years. “The idea is not to just take money and increase the value of the company. We are working on a model where internal accruals are more than the funds coming in. Me and my partner will be holding a majority stake in the company,” said Banerjea. The company is currently serving close to 300 orders a day and after Calcutta is planning to expand to Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur, Lucknow, Hyderabad and Chennai. “In the next 7-9 months we should be in a break even kind of position,”  said Banerjea. Banerjea said that the idea of the business was born during the peak months of the pandemic where several chefs were affected as hotels and restaurants were closed to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of the chefs were looking for a platform/marketplace for the delivery of quality cooked meals from home. Subsequently, there was also demand for such a platform from home chefs and with the gradual lifting of the lockdown, the company has also started discussions with major restaurants to make the model sustainable. Banerjea said that there were gaps in the present food delivery model such as proper fleet management, wider delivery radius, pre-order and bulk delivery of food, flexible work hours for chefs among others which Fooza intends to address. “We are serving a radius of almost 30 kilometres within the Calcutta Metropolitan Area,” he said. Goldman Sachs has estimated the food delivery market in the country at $3.7 billion gross transaction value in 2019-20 and the market is estimated to grow to $8.8 billion in 2024-25. Swiggy and Zomato account for 90 per cent of the total market. But profitability has been an industry wide concern with high cash burn. “We believe a combination of higher take rates, rationalisation of rider incentives, and lower spend on promotions will help the industry reach profitability, but we expect this only in 2022-23,” Goldman Sachs said in its report. Banerjea, who was born in Calcutta and studied in Institute of Hotel Management, Calcutta before going to Cornell University, is bullish about the city being the base of operation. “My passion was to do something from Calcutta because I was born in the city. I think in New York and Calcutta, people really understand food, cuisine and service. So if you can make it over here, you can make it anywhere," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Shipping Corporation of India up for sale||The finance ministry has sought expressions of interest from interested parties for the ownership and management control of Shipping Corporation of India (SCI). The Centre plans to sell its entire 63.75 per cent stake in India’s premier shipping line and will accept EoIs till February 13. Analysts expect Essar Shipping, Adani, Vedanta, GE Shipping and Dubai Port World to participate in the exercise, which could fetch the Modi government around Rs 2500 crore at the current market price. About 296.9 million shares of SCI are up for sale, which got delayed because  of the pandemic. Investors can submit bids individually or as part of a consortium. RBSA Capital Advisors LLP will be the government’s transaction adviser. Divestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told television channels that the cabinet will soon take a call on the sale of IDBI Bank. He said a buyer for BPCL can be found in the next six months and Air India bidders would be informed by January 5. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said the interested bidders for SCI should have positive EBITDA (earning before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) in three out of the last five years and a minimum net worth of Rs 2,000 crore. In case of a consortium, the lead member should have a minimum net worth of Rs 1,001 crore with at least 50.01 per cent equity in the consortium. The ultimate beneficial owner for any bidder should not be the same as that of any other bidder or of any consortium member. “In case of IPs (interested parties) who are funds, the ultimate beneficial owner would mean the investment management entity which manages the investments of the fund and not the investors who have invested in the fund,” Dipam said in the preliminary information memorandum. The memorandum said certain non-core assets will be hived off from SCI. Further, matters such as the bearing of the Indian flag, employee protection and asset stripping shall be specified in the request for proposal. SCI is the largest Indian shipping company with a fleet strength of 59 vessels, including crude oil tankers, very large crude carriers, petroleum product carriers, liquefied petroleum gas carriers, bulk carriers, container ships, and off-shore support vessels. The government plans to set up a development finance institution (DFI) in the next three to four months with a view to mobilise Rs 111 lakh crore required for funding of the ambitious national infrastructure pipeline, according to financial services secretary Debasish Panda. “We need a development financial institution as infra financing needs patient capital, and banks are currently not suited for lending for long term projects,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||House panel seeks cover for car dealers||The Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) headed by K. Keshava Rao has recommended that the government should come out with a franchise protection act for auto dealers. This recommendation was part of suggestions made by the committee in its report “Downturn in automobile sector — its impact and measures for revival”. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) has been lobbying for a franchise protection act after Harley Davidson pulled out of the country leaving its dealers in the lurch. “India does not have a franchisee law at present because of which the OEM-dealer agreements are highly skewed towards manufacturers. This leads to a tussle in managing dealership operations in various ways, very short term agreements and non-existence of a clearly defined exit policy,” said FADA president, Vinkesh Gulati. Many developed countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Spain, Albania, Russia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, Australia, Italy, Sweden, and Belgium now have rules to protect the franchisees which started with the US introducing the same in 1980s, he said. There are various instances in India where auto manufacturers, invariably big corporations, suddenly announced their exit from India leaving auto dealers high and dry with their investments going down the drain. In 2017, General Motors India exited, then Man Trucks (a VW Group Company), UM Lohia and this year Harley Davidson India. Franchise laws will actually level the playing field between large auto makers and local dealers. Almost all auto dealerships are privately owned proprietorship or family owned businesses. Because of the disparity in size and power between individual dealers and manufacturers, the government needs to accept the standing committee’s recommendation and bring in the franchise protection act to level the playing field between auto makers and dealers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||SBI Life bids for Reliance Cap assets||Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL), part of the debt-ridden Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group, has received 10 more bids, including from SBI Life, for its subsidiaries, sources said. Earlier this month, the Committee of Debenture Holders had extended the last date for submission of expression of interest (EoI) to December 17. Following this, 10 new bids have come in for Reliance Capital’s assets, taking the total number of bids to 70, the sources said. State Bank of India’s subsidiary SBI Life has also shown interest in picking up Reliance Capital’s stake in Reliance Nippon Life Insurance, they added. Reliance Nippon Life Insurance Company, a joint venture with Japan’s largest life insurer Nippon Life, which holds 49 per cent shareholding, has a paid-up capital of Rs 1,196 crore as of September 30, 2020. The life insurer with assets under management of Rs 21,912 crore at the end of September had posted a profit of Rs 35 crore during 2019-20. The monetisation of RCL’s assets was initiated by the Committee of Debenture Holders and the Debenture Trustee Vistra ITCL India, which represents 93 per cent of the firm's total outstanding debt. The company's total outstanding debt is around Rs 20,000 crore. The last date for submission of EoIs for the stake sale was December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||India||Farmers ready for talks, but don’t want ‘meaningless’ amendments||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday said that the government should not repeat “meaningless” amendments to the new agri-marketing laws but come up with a concrete proposal in writing during the next round of talks. A farmer leader, while addressing a press conference on Wednesday, said they were ready for talks, but first the Centre should send a concrete proposal for that to happen. “We have already told Union home minister Amit Shah that protesting farmers will not accept amendments,” farmer leader Kumar Kakka said at the media interaction. “Farmer unions are ready to talk to the government and are waiting for the government to come to the table with an open mind,” Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav added. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Molla claimed the government wanted to tire the farmers out so that the protest would end. Earlier, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government would  continue with reforms in the farm sector as they were still due in many areas, but was hopeful that the farmers would fix a date for the next round for talks. “I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue,” he said. The minister said any agitation can be resolved only through dialogue as has been the case always in history and urged the protesting unions come forward for the next round of talks. The government has already sent a draft proposal to unions offering at least seven amendments to the three legislations that were enacted in September. "I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue," Tomar told reporters. At least five rounds of formal talks with the protesting unions have failed to break the deadlock, but a number of other farm groups have been meeting the government in the meantime to extend their support to the new laws. While the government has presented the three laws as major reforms, protesting farmers fear they would weaken the mandi and MSP systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has accused opposition parties of misleading the farmers. The government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an open heart, he said, while wishing the entire farming community on the occasion of the National Farmers Day, celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of India's fifth Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. Stressing that a solution can be reached only through dialogue, Tomar said, "History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only." Farmer unions should discuss the government's draft proposal and inform them if they want to add or delete anything, he said. Separately, addressing a delegation of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that extended their support to the farm laws, the minister said agriculture is an important sector for India. The government "is and will be" committed to strengthening the sector, he said. "In the last six years, efforts have been made to reform the farm sector to a large extent. There are still many areas left where reforms are due," Tomar noted. The Minister said there were recommendations for reforms in the farm sector in the past also by experts, unions and state chief ministers, but the previous government might have faced difficulties in converting the recommendations into laws. But the Modi government brought these reforms in the agriculture sector and most farmers are in favour of these laws, while some are protesting, he added. The minister also received six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including Punjab through NGO CNRI in support of the farm laws. Of these, 12,895 farmers from Punjab have signed in favour of the laws, while 1.27 lakh such farmers are from Haryana. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Tomar hopeful of protesting farmers resuming dialogue with govt||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government will continue with reforms in the farm sector as they are still due in many areas, even as he reiterated his hope that protesting farmers will soon come forward to resume their dialogue with the Centre to resolve their concerns over three new laws. The minister said any agitation can be resolved only through dialogue as has been the case always in history and urged the protesting unions to fix a date and time for the next round of talks. Protesting farmer unions, who have stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of all three agri-laws, have not yet conveyed their decision on the central government's offer for fresh talks. Thousands of farmers have been camping on various borders of the national capital for almost four weeks now. The government has already sent a draft proposal to unions offering at least seven amendments to the three legislations that were enacted in September. "I am fully hopeful that our farmer unions will discuss... If they give a date and time, the government is ready for the next round of talks... I am hopeful that we will move towards resolving the issue," Tomar told reporters. At least five rounds of formal talks with the protesting unions have failed to break the deadlock, but a number of other farm groups have been meeting the government in the meantime to extend their support to the new laws. While the government has presented the three laws as major reforms, protesting farmers fear they would weaken the mandi and MSP systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has accused opposition parties of misleading the farmers. Tomar said the government is hopeful that unions will soon discuss, decide and communicate their decision, after which the government can hold the next round of discussions immediately. The government is ready to listen to farmers' issues with an open heart, he said, while wishing the entire farming community on the occasion of the National Farmers Day, celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of India's fifth Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. Stressing that a solution can be reached only through dialogue, Tomar said, "History is witness to this fact. However old and strong the protest is, the end and the solution to a protest are reached through dialogue only." Farmer unions should discuss the government's draft proposal and inform them if they want to add or delete anything, he said. Separately, addressing a delegation of the Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI) that extended their support to the farm laws, the minister said agriculture is an important sector for India. The government "is and will be" committed to strengthening the sector, he said. "In the last six years, efforts have been made to reform the farm sector to a large extent. There are still many areas left where reforms are due," Tomar noted. The Minister said there were recommendations for reforms in the farm sector in the past also by experts, unions and state chief ministers, but the previous government might have faced difficulties in converting the recommendations into laws. But the Modi government brought these reforms in the agriculture sector and most farmers are in favour of these laws, while some are protesting, he added. The minister also received six boxes of letters with signatures of 3,13,363 lakh farmers from 20 states, including Punjab through NGO CNRI in support of the farm laws. Of these, 12,895 farmers from Punjab have signed in favour of the laws, while 1.27 lakh such farmers are from Haryana. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||13 farmers booked for blocking Haryana CM's convoy||Haryana Police has registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after a group of peasants protesting against the Centre's new farm laws had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Chief Minister ML Khattar's convoy. On Tuesday, a group of protesting farmers had shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City. Some of the farmers had allegedly tried to block Khattar's motorcade but police managed to provide a safe passage to the chief minister after some time. The case against the farmers was registered late Tuesday on the complaint of some security personnel. Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some farmers also allegedly hurled sticks towards some vehicles in the motorcade. Ambala City police registered a case against 13 farmers under various IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder) 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Khattar was in Ambala on Tuesday to address public meetings in support of the party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls. The farmers had waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Karnataka imposes night curfew amid concerns over new Covid strain||The Karnataka government has decided to impose a night curfew from December 23 night till January 2 across the state amid growing concerns over the new Covid-19 strain, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. The announcement comes after the chief minister met Health Minister K. Sudhakar, members of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for Covid-19 and other senior officials. “In view of the new stain of the COVID-19 virus and as per the advice of the Government of India and Technical Advisory Committee, it is decided to impose night curfew from today till January 2, 2021 between 10 pm and 6 am,” he told reporters. “It will be applicable for the entire state.. I request all public to cooperate to prevent and contain the new Covid-19 strain,” Yediyurappa added. Sudhakar had held a detailed discussion earlier in the day, with TAC members comprising senior health experts. On Monday, neighbouring Maharashtra had declared a night curfew in municipal corporations and major cities in a bid to curb the spread of the new Covid-19 variant that has been detected in the United Kingdom. Yediyurappa announced that Covid-19 certificates were a must for those travelling from abroad to the state, and the test should be done only 72 hours prior to the journey. All arrangements have been done at the airport to conduct tests and health staff have been deployed there and we have seen that no one enters the city without getting tested. Responding to a query, the chief minister said that normal activities shall continue until 10 pm, but no one should go out after that time. He said a guideline will be issued soon in this regard. “Regarding schools and colleges we have discussed and informed that it will open from January 1 for class 10 and second year PUC (class 12) students,” he said, adding, “Within two days we will see if there are any developments and come back. As of now it will start from January 1.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya muder: court pronounces life sentence to Father, nun||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment the catholic nun and priest, who were found guilty of killing 21-year-old Sister Abhaya in 1992 at Kottayam. Special CBI judge K. Sanal Kumar pronounced the sentence and slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on the two accused --  Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy. The court had on Tuesday found the two guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya, who was found dead in a well in St Pius convent in Kottayam in 1992. The case, involving the brutal murder of the 19-year-old Sister Abhaya after she saw two priests in a compromising position with a nun in a convent in 1992, witnessed many twists and turns as witnesses turned hostile and multiple investigative agencies wrote it off as a suicide, provoking protests. The local police, crime branch and the CBI had filed closure reports before a court ordered a reinvestigation in 2008. The duo was also sentenced to seven years imprisonment for tampering with evidence. The two sentences will run concurrently. Massive protests had erupted in Kerala after Sister Abhaya’s death after the local police and the crime branch wrote off the case as “death by suicide.” The CBI, too, had filed closure reports in 1993, 1999 and 2005, unable to decide whether it was a suicide or murder. The central agency made the arrests after the court ordered it to reopen the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
23-12-2020||India||Jagannath temple in Puri reopens for servitors and their family members||The Shree Jagannath Temple here reopened for devotees on Wednesday after remaining closed for nine months in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The much-awaited 'darshan' of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath, began at 7 am amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines for servitors and their family members only, officials said. The Temple remained closed since the middle of March due to the outbreak of the pandemic. This is for the first time in the history of the 12th century Lord Vishnu shrine here that the devotees were denied the opportunity for having 'darshan' of the deities, the officials said. "It was a matter of luck for any human being to have darshan of the deities in Jagannath dham. We are blessed to get the opportunity in the first phase," said an elderly woman after visiting the temple. On the first three days (December 23, 24 & 25), servitors and their family members will be allowed to enter the temple for darshan with strict adherence to COVID-19 norms, Puri Collector Balwant Singh told reporters. He said devotees are allowed entry into the temple after proper checking of identity proof, hand sanitisation and mandatory wearing of face masks. The family members of servitors will be allowed darshan of the deities on the first three days, the residents of Puri will get the next opportunity to enter the temple from December 26 till December 31 evening, officials said. The temple will again remain closed on January 1 and 2 in view of the rush of devotees for the New Year, the official said, adding that the temple will be opened for all devotees from January 3. Meanwhile, the district administration has prepared a ward-wise schedule for the people of Puri for the darshan of the deities. The residents of each ward in Puri Municipality area are given specific date and time to have darshan of the deities, he said. He said all devotees need to produce Covid-19 negative report of test done in the last 48 hours from January 3 to enter the temple. No offerings of flowers, tulsi (basil leaves) and other such items will be allowed inside the temple. Asked why the people of Puri do not need Covid-19 negative certificate, the official said: "The administration is aware of the coronavirus status of the local people. Therefore, they need not produce a COVD-19 negative certificate." As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prepared for the smooth darshan of devotees, the people would enter through Singhadwara (Lions Gate) of the Temple and exit through any of the other three gates. This apart, barricades are raised along the Badadanda from Marichikot Chhak in nine rows to avoid the rush in the temple. The visitors are asked to maintain social distance and wear face masks. They would have to sanitise their hands at the temple gate before entering into the shrine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Modi took inspiration from Charan Singh, Rajnath says on ‘Kisan Diwas’||The Centre on Wednesday reiterated its commitment to the welfare of farmers, in view of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Charan Singh known for championing their cause. It expressed hope that the ones protesting against the new laws will soon understand and withdraw their agitation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in a series of tweets, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken multiple steps to ensure farmers’ well-being while taking inspiration from Charan Singh. He will not allow any harm to them under any circumstances, the defence minister said. Rajnath Singh has been one of the key government ministers to have engaged in talks with farmers to end the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. “Some farmers have been agitating due to the farm laws. The government has been talking to them with utmost sensitivity. I hope they will soon withdraw their agitation,” he said. Charan Singh’s birth anniversary is observed in India as ‘Kisan Diwas’ (farmers’ day). The senior BJP leader noted that Charan Singh voiced the concerns of farmers all his life and worked for their welfare. “He always wanted that farmers get good prices for their produce so that their income increased and that their honour always remained secure,” Rajnath added. “Taking inspiration from the former prime minister, Modi has been taking measures for farmers' welfare,” he asserted, while paying tributes to Charan Singh. Lauding farmers, he said they have provided the country the shield of grain security. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. Born in 1902 in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Charan Singh espoused the farmers' cause and is credited with shaping several policies that helped cultivators. He died in 1987.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Unfortunate that farmers have to protest for rights, says Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said it is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmers, but unfortunately cultivators are now forced to stage protest for their rights. On the occasion of the National Farmers' Day, the former Union agriculture minister in a post on Twitter wished for justice to the farmers. Thousands of cultivators have been protesting at the border points of Delhi since November 26 against the Centre's three new farm laws. "It is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmer who forms an important part of the economy. But unfortunately, the farmer of the country is now forced to stage protest for his rights and demands," Pawar tweeted. "Wishing for justice to the farmer on the occasion of the National Farmers' Day," he added. Farmers protesting at the Delhi border points have been demanding a repeal of the new agri laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload inching towards 1.1 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,00,99,066 with 23,950 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96.63 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,46,444 with 333 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,63,382 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.69 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 2,89,240 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,42,68,721 samples have been tested up to December 22 with 10,98,164 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 333 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra, 38 from West Bengal, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Delhi. A total of 1,46,444 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,876 from Maharashtra followed by 12,029 from Karnataka, 12,012 from Tamil Nadu, 10,329 from Delhi, 9,439 from West Bengal, 8,224 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,082 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,230 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers to take stand on govt’s open invitation||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmers are protesting against the three farm laws, is expected to take a stand on Wednesday on the government’s open invitation for talks but the farming community feels the contents of the invite have not created a conducive atmosphere. Matters have not been helped by the unabated effort by the government or those associated with it to misrepresent facts, which the farmers view as an attempt at belittling their movement. Delhi police also denied permission to hold an event to pay tribute to Chaudhary Charan Singh, a crusader for agrarian rights and former Prime Minister whose cremation site in the capital is known as Kisan Ghat. In the latest instance, the Kisan Ekta Morcha, an online platform of the protest, has called out the BJP’s Punjab unit for using the photograph of Hoshiarpur-based actor, director and photographer Harpreet Singh in a poster. The poster seeks to highlight the measures taken by the government on the minimum support price this financial year. But Harpreet himself is participating in the protests and pointed out the “misrepresentation” by the BJP. His Twitter timeline, under the name Harp Farmer, is filled with photographs of him with the protesters and endorsing their actions. On Wednesday, the farmers have given a call for skipping lunch to observe Kisan Diwas — the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh. Delhi police have cited the pandemic as the reason for refusing permission to the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) to organise a memorial function at Kisan Ghat. The party had sought permission on December 16 to organise an event at the site for three hours with only 50 people present as mandated by Covid guidelines but Delhi police on Tuesday denied permission. Tweeting out the response, RLD vice-president and former MP Jayant Chaudhary said: “Hume great leader se Chaudhary Sahab ke jayanti par shraddhanjali dene ki anumati nahi mili hai. #NewIndia ka loktantra!! (We have not got permission to pay tribute to Chaudhary Sahab from the great leader. Democracy in #New India!!”) The farmers’ unions from Punjab met on Tuesday to take a stand on the government’s invitation. Those privy to the conversation say there was considerable disappointment over the manner in which the Narendra Modi government had dealt with the issue. Apart from the fact that the central government has turned a deaf ear to their core demand for the repeal of the three laws, the farmers are particularly upset with the allegations levelled against them about being a Khalistani front and the high-handedness of the Haryana government, which continues to stop protesters from moving towards Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Kerala governor rejects state cabinet's farm law session||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan has rejected the state cabinet’s decision to convene a special session of the Assembly to pass a resolution against the contentious farm laws. The veto on the eve of the proposed one-hour session on Wednesday injects an extraordinary constitutional confrontation into the ongoing controversy over the farm laws that has so far been playing itself out on the streets and in the court. The rejection also shows how prickly the farm laws have become for the Narendra Modi government that otherwise preaches federalism. The CPM-helmed ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led Opposition United Democratic Front found the governor’s decision a violation of his constitutional obligation to honour a decision taken by the state cabinet and sought his immediate recall. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to the governor to say it was wrong to assume there was no urgency to call the session when there are serious concerns about Kerala’s farm sector, and added that the governor’s refusal to do so was a violation of the Constitution. “The President and governors should function as per the advice of the council of ministers. Shamsher Singh Versus the state of Punjab (1975) had made this clear,” Vijayan said, referring to a landmark Supreme Court verdict. The Sarkaria Commission on Centre-state relations had also said a governor is duty-bound to abide by the decision of a government on convening or adjourning the Assembly, Vijayan wrote. “The governor does not have any powers to refuse if the cabinet recommends to convene the Assembly,” he said. Khan, who had left the Congress to join the BJP before he became governor, has a history of crossing swords with the Vijayan government in Kerala, especially over the Citizenship Amendment Act early this year. Opposition leader and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala urged the government to convene the session in the members’ lounge in the state Assembly building. “The members should assemble at the members’ lounge and pass the resolution against the farm laws,” Chennithala said. On the farm law issue, the government had twice clarified the governor’s queries on the need to call a special session when the budget session is scheduled for January 8. Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan described the governor’s rejection as an “unbelievable decision” and said there were no restrictions in calling a special session of the Assembly. “It is the cabinet that should take such decisions,” the Speaker added. Kerala agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said the governor’s decision had given rise to an “extraordinary” situation in the state. “It is a fact that this has created an extraordinary situation. Our people should realise this. The governor cannot reject a cabinet’s decision to call an Assembly session,” said Sunil Kumar. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj said governors had to go by the cabinet decisions on such matters. “Article 163 of the Constitution clearly states that the council of ministers ‘aids and advises’ the governor, and not otherwise. Article 174 says the governor shall ‘from time to time summon the House’. That’s where Article 163 comes into play,” Raj said. “The advice is to convene the Assembly, which he has to do. Or else, what will happen is even when 140 MLAs (of Kerala) want to have the session for whatever reason, the governor who is a nominee of the Centre, will be able to stall it,” Raj told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “The governor is now stalling, despite the willingness and desire of the elected representatives. That goes against federal principles enshrined in the Constitution because he is acting like a king and challenging the will of the people,” said Raj. “Former governor of Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh V.S. Ramadevi had once quoted R. Venkata Rao, professor of Andhra University, as saying that the governor’s post is ‘useless when inert and dangerous when active’. This is illustrated in today’s development in Kerala,” the senior lawyer said. “The governor’s decision citing lack of urgency is undemocratic. Nationwide protests are on against the farm laws. These laws will adversely impact even Kerala’s farmers,” Chennithala, the Congress leader, said, explaining why the Opposition backed the government’s move to convene a special session. Congress MP T.N. Prathapan said: “Other Opposition-ruled states have passed such resolutions. Our demand is that the President should recall the governor who has taken an unconstitutional decision.” It was the second time that political parties in Kerala have called for the recall of Khan who started his term by taking a confrontationist posture against the Left government. The governor had engaged in an open battle with the state government over its decision to approach the Supreme Court against the Citizenship Amendment Act in January. While the government had then maintained there was no need to seek the governor’s prior approval before going to court, Khan had insisted he could stop any move to question a legislation that had received the President’s assent. The governor again intervened when the Assembly passed a resolution seeking the withdrawal of the CAA. Khan had then remarked the resolution had no legal binding. He soon read out the policy speech that had a paragraph against the CAA, clarifying that he was doing it in line with the chief minister’s “wish”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Retired bureaucrats ask PM to review Vista project||Retired bureaucrats have written an open letter to the Prime Minister to convey their dismay at the executive highhandedness, including complete disregard for the rule of law and the environment, in decision-making on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. They have flagged the brazen impropriety in going ahead with the construction of the Parliament building when the matter was sub judice. “While the matter is in the courts and further construction activities are suspended, we urge the government to seize this as an opportunity to review the project in its entirety. We strongly believe that the project should not be implemented, particularly at this time,” the letter said. The letter added: “However, even if the government decides to go ahead in principle, the project must be subjected to critical scrutiny by citizens and independent experts, plans must be redrawn to make them compatible with environmental and heritage conservation standards and the due processes of law relating to such projects must be followed. The essence of a democratic ethos is to listen to the voices of citizens and engage in dialogue with them.” In the open letter, the collective of retired bureaucrats — which goes by the name Constitutional Conduct — urged the Prime Minister to put the project on hold, considering the economic crisis facing the country and the need to prioritise health in the face of the pandemic. “This project, from its very inception, has been marked by a degree of executive highhandedness rarely witnessed before. Whether it was in inviting design options, selecting consultants, holding fair and transparent stakeholder consultations, obtaining approvals of the institutions and authorities dealing with urban design, planning and environmental clearances — everything was done to ensure that rules and procedures were given short shrift, due processes treated with contempt and a predetermined plan of action bulldozed through.” On the court case, the 69 signatories to the letter — who have retired from some of the senior-most positions in government — have asked if the construction of the new Parliament building was undertaken when the matter was in court to “present a fait accompli that would be difficult to reverse”. Expressing regret over the Supreme Court’s decision to allow the foundation stone-laying ceremony, they said: “While the case was sub judice, it was incumbent upon the government to await its outcome.” The retired bureaucrats have also questioned why it was the Prime Minister and not the President who laid the foundation stone. “We wonder what locus standi the Prime Minister has to lay the foundation stone of the Parliament building. The Prime Minister is the head of the executive, not of the legislature. For a building that will accommodate the two Houses of Parliament, the appropriate protocol would have been for the President of India to lay the foundation stone. This was a clear instance of breach of constitutional propriety.” Article 79 of the Constitution states that “there shall be a Parliament for the Union which shall consist of the President and two Houses”. Referring to the frequent changes in the terms of reference submitted for environmental clearances, the signatories to the letter said this demonstrated the haste with which the massive project was being undertaken, “without adequate internal consultations or application of mind”. Billing the entire approach as cavalier, Constitutional Conduct further expressed great dismay that “at a time when we are faced with an economy in perilous decline and a pandemic which has brought untold misery to millions, the government has chosen to invest vast sums on a project which represents nothing but the pursuit of pomp and grandeur”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Edge for People’s Alliance in Kashmir polls||The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, was winning or leading in 110 of the 280 seats across 20 districts by Tuesday night in the maiden District Development Council elections in the Union Territory. The BJP was winning or leading in 75 seats, including three in the Kashmir Valley. The Gupkar Alliance, whose formal name is the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (JKPAGD), had 35 wins or leads in Jammu. The alliance includes the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The outcome of the local polls was being dissected in New Delhi to answer questions as weighty as “is it a win for democracy?” and “is it a vote for the abrogation of the key provisions of Article 370” that conferred special rights on Jammu and Kashmir? Is it a vote for the revocation of special rights? No, if the early results are any indication. The Gupkar Alliance, formed for the specific objective of restoration of the special status, is headed to form councils in 13 of the 20 districts if the Congress offers it support, the BJP in five while two others could go either way. The Gupkar Alliance’s victory is seen as a rebuff to the Narendra Modi government, which has called the axis a “gang” and its leaders “anti-nationals” and “looters”. Union home minister Amit Shah had last month claimed that the “Gupkar gang” was “going global”. “They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar gang also insults the Tricolour,” he had said. If the polls are being projected as a referendum on the abrogation, the results will have to be seen as the first public expression of anger against the scrapping of Article 370 provisions and a snub to the BJP’s “all-is-well” narrative. Alliance leaders said the verdict should force the Centre to rethink its decision to cancel the special status. “The DDC results have made it clear that people of J&K voted en masse for @JKPAGD thus rejecting the unconstitutional decision to abrogate Article 370. They have overwhelmingly supported @JKPAGD which stands for restoration of J&Ks special status. The trends that have emerged in the DDC polls in J&K are very encouraging for the @JKPAGD,” former chief minister and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said the BJP had made the election a “prestige issue about Art 370 & J&K’s special status”. “The people have now spoken & it’s for those who believe in democracy to pay heed to these voices,” he tweeted. Is it a victory for democracy? An election conducted in peace and with fairness is a victory for democracy. But the situation on the ground was far from ideal. Consider the odds against which the Gupkar Alliance fought the elections: ⚫ The Gupkar Alliance faced a hostile administration that denied its leaders a chance to campaign freely. ⚫ Its candidates were “locked up” in the name of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of elections, arrested or put under house arrest on one pretext or the other. But PDP chief Mehbooba’s key aide Waheed-ur-Rahman Para, a DDC candidate who was arrested days ahead of the contest in a militancy-related case, won comfortably in Pulwama. Mehbooba has accused the agencies of falsely implicating him. “The @JKPAGD is an alliance that emerged out of the betrayal of the people of J&K on 5th Aug 2019. We have faced every obstacle — illegal detentions, agency threats & pressures, our candidates were locked up to stop them campaigning & from all this we are emerging victorious,” Omar tweeted. *The Congress ditched the alliance at the eleventh hour following the BJP’s accusations that it was joining hands with “anti-nationals”, ending up splitting the anti-BJP votes at many places. The Congress was winning or leading in 27 seats. Only 33 per cent of the electorate in Kashmir voted — not a healthy sign for democracy. The turnout not only reflected the sullen anger at New Delhi but also the mistrust with which large sections of the population view the Gupkar Alliance. In Jammu, the voting percentage was 68. How did the BJP win seats in the Valley? At many places, the parties in the Gupkar Alliance worked at cross-purposes and are believed to have fielded proxy candidates against the official nominees. This explains how the BJP managed to open its account in the Valley. For instance, in Pulwama’s Kakapora, where the BJP candidate bagged 365 votes and won, the PDP nominee got 326 votes but a candidate believed to be a proxy of the National Conference won 178 votes. The BJP appeared to be drawing solace from the win in three seats — out of 140 in the Valley. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir general secretary and Kashmir in-charge Vibodh Gupta claimed that it was proof that the people in the Valley had shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a “new Kashmir”. “The BJP’s maiden victories in DDC elections speak of two stories — one, a tough fight by the BJP and the other of conveying a strong message to the Gupkar gang that the end of their communal politics and divisive politics is near,” he said. Omar, however, wondered why the alliance’s wins in Jammu were being ignored. “I understand the temptation to overplay the 3 seats the BJP has won in the Valley but why underplay the 35 wins/leads of the @JKPAGD in Jammu province? We aren’t Kashmir-based parties, we are political parties with strong support in both Kashmir AND Jammu,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya murder case: Priest, nun pronounced guilty ||A special CBI court on Tuesday pronounced a Catholic priest and a nun guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya whose body was found in a well at a convent in Kerala’s Kottayam district 28 years ago. The case, involving the brutal murder of the 19-year-old Sister Abhaya after she saw two priests in a compromising position with a nun in a convent in 1992, witnessed many twists and turns as witnesses turned hostile and multiple investigative agencies wrote it off as a suicide, provoking protests. The unwavering statement of a thief who had entered the convent that night and had seen the two priests sneak in helped in nailing the guilty. On Tuesday, the CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram held Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy guilty of murder. The local police, crime branch and the CBI had filed closure reports before a court ordered a reinvestigation in 2008. The CBI court found the priest and the nun guilty under IPC Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence). Kottoor was also found guilty of house trespass in order to commit a punishable offence under IPC Section 449. The court will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Wednesday. According to the chargesheet, Abhaya, 19, an inmate of St Pious X Convent in Kottayam, had woken up at 4am on March 27, 1992, to prepare for her college exam. When she went down to the kitchen to fetch drinking water, she was believed to have seen Sephy and two priests in a compromising position in the nun’s room. Kottoor strangled Abhaya while Sephy hit her on the head with a hand axe that left a deep gash. The duo then dumped Abhaya into a well while she was still alive, according to the findings of the CBI after the case was reopened. While Kottoor is the first accused, Sephy is the third accused. The CBI court had in March 2018 acquitted the second accused, Father Jose Poothrukkayil, citing lack of sufficient evidence to proceed against him. Kottoor and Poothrukkayil were lecturers at BCM College in Kottayam where Abhaya was a student of Class XII. Only 49 of the 177 witnesses could be cross-examined. Key witnesses like Abhaya’s roommate Sister Anupama had turned hostile. A man named Sanju P. Mathew who lived near the convent had disowned his earlier statement that he had seen Kottoor’s scooter at the convent. Sephy broke down in the courtroom when judge K. Sanil Kumar handed down the verdict. She later prayed in the courtroom before being taken away for a mandatory Covid test. Kottoor looked emotionless as he was being escorted to a vehicle but said he was innocent. “I am innocent. God is my court,” he told reporters. Kottoor and Sephy, who have been actively involved in Church duties, were later moved to respective jails for men and women in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI had arrested them along with Poothrukkayil in 2008. But they were granted bail in January 2009. Massive protests had erupted in Kerala after Sister Abhaya’s death after the local police and the crime branch wrote off the case as “death by suicide.” The CBI, too, had filed closure reports in 1993, 1999 and 2005, unable to decide whether it was a suicide or murder. The central agency made the arrests after the court ordered it to reopen the investigation. The testimony of a small-time thief, Adakka Raju, had come in handy for the prosecution to establish that the two priests had entered the convent the night before Abhaya was found dead in the well. Raju had been trying to steal copper strips of the lightning conductor on the convent roof when he saw the priests sneak in. Raju, who has since been working as a manual labourer, told reporters after the verdict: “My child has got justice. I always call her my child.” “I have two daughters. What will be the condition if they suddenly don’t exist? I saw that child as my own daughter,” Raju said, adding that he “had offers worth crores” to change his statement. Abhaya’s parents died about four years ago and her only brother Biju Thomas works in Dubai. Jomon Puthenpurackal, who was among the rights activists instrumental in getting the CBI to probe the case, told reporters that it was “the victory of the people” who had fought for the victim and her family. “They thought they could sabotage this case with money and power. They even tried to lure me and eliminate me when I stood firm,” said the rights activist who had floated the Abhaya Case Action Council as a pressure group. Varghese P. Thomas, the deputy superintendent of the CBI who had in 1993 as the investigating officer reported it as a case of murder, got emotional while reacting to the verdict. “When guilt is proved, it means truth has won,” said Thomas, who took early retirement after allegedly coming under pressure from his superiors to write off the death as a suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||India’s air pollution deaths are about 30% higher than earlier estimates: Study||New research has suggested that India’s air pollution deaths are about 30 per cent higher than earlier estimates — 1.67 million premature deaths during 2019, or more than 10 times the country’s coronavirus death toll during 2020. These 1.67 million premature deaths attributable to air pollution made up nearly 18 per cent of India’s total deaths during 2019, according to the study that has underlined the burden of disease and death and the economic impacts of poor air quality. The study by a consortium of researchers at the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and collaborating institutions has calculated the economic loss from disease and deaths due to air pollution at 1.4 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2019, or Rs 260,000 crore. This is more than three times higher than the Centre’s current health budget of about Rs 65,000 crore. The largest proportions of air pollution-linked deaths were due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (32 per cent), ischaemic heart disease (30 per cent), strokes (16 per cent) lower respiratory infections (11 per cent) and neonatal disorders (5 per cent). “Improvements in the study methodology have led to a higher estimate of the impacts of air pollution on health in India than previously estimated,” said Lalit Dandona, a professor at the PHFI and chair of population health at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Their earlier study had estimated 1.24 million air pollution deaths in 2017. But the new methodology yields estimates of 1.6 million deaths in 2017 and 1.67 million in 2019. The revised figures have emerged from refinements on how air pollution impacts low birthweight, premature births and strokes. “Air pollution impacts even unborn children — our data clearly show how air pollution has an impact across the course of life from before birth into late adulthood,” said Kalpana Balakrishnan, director of the ICMR Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality Climate and Health and member of the study team. The new study has underscored significant differences in air quality across states. The average exposure to particulate matter sized 2.5 microns (PM2.5) ranged from 15.8 microgram per cubic metre in Kerala to 217 in Delhi. Bihar, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had the worst air quality. The economic loss due to air pollution as a percentage of the state GDP was the highest in the northern states because people there are exposed to “very high concentrations” of PM2.5. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh had the highest economic loss as a percentage of GDP but had lowest per capita GDP among states. The findings, published on Tuesday in the journal Lancet Planetary Health, imply that health and economic impacts of air pollution are highest in the less developed states. “This is an inequity that needs to be addressed,” Dandona said. The study also identified long-term changes in air pollution patterns — a 64 per cent reduction in the death rate attributable to household air pollution but a 115 per cent increase in the death rate from outdoor air pollution. Household air pollution is decreasing in India, resulting in 64 per cent reduction in the death rate attributable to it from 1990 to 2019, whereas the death rate from outdoor ambient air pollution has increased during this period by 115 per cent. The researchers say their findings underline the need for state-specific air pollution control strategies. “It is imperative that policy-makers at the local and national levels take decisive steps to address this serious threat to public health,” said Christopher Murray, director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington. The air pollution study is part of an effort to estimate the global burden of diseases directed by Murray and his colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-470
23-12-2020||India||Covid mutant scan on UK arrivals||India’s health ministry on Tuesday directed its disease surveillance units to screen all travellers who have arrived from the UK since November 25 for the novel coronavirus and keep in special isolation units anyone found with the unusual mutant variant named B.1.1.7. The directive which calls for coronavirus genome sequencing from positive patients would apply to passengers who have travelled from or transited through the UK since November 25 and are part of efforts to determine whether B.1.1.7 is already in India — and ring fence the variant if detected. However, scientists caution that such efforts while helpful would need to be supplemented through a sustained effort to sequence coronavirus isolates within the country. India has recorded more than 10 million infections, but has sequenced less than 5,000 coronavirus isolates. “In contrast, the UK with over two million coronavirus infections has already sequenced over 140,000 viral isolates,” a senior scientist told The Telegraph. “We need a similar nationwide sequencing effort to really understand how the coronavirus is evolving.” The health ministry has asked surveillance units to send any positive sample to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genome sequencing. If the sequence is consistent with variants already circulating in India, patients with mild symptoms may remain under home isolation. However, the health ministry said, if the sequence indicates the presence of B.1.1.7, the patient would continue to remain in a separate isolation unit and remain there until two consecutive diagnostic tests show no presence of the virus. All community contacts of travellers who have tested positive would also be subject to institutional quarantine and, under standard guidelines, tested for the coronavirus on the fifth and 10th day or earlier if they develop symptoms. Health officials are hoping such actions would prevent any further spread of B.1.1.7 — if the variant enters the country through UK travellers — in India amid concerns that B.1.1.7 is more infectious and capable of spreading faster than other known variants. “There is cause for greater vigilance, but no cause for panic,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of India’s Covid-19 task force and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Paul asserted that available data suggest that the variant has no impact on the severity of disease or need for hospitalisation. Research groups in laboratories under various government agencies — the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Council of Medical Research, and the Department of Biotechnology — have thus far sequenced 4,338 coronavirus genomes and identified 5,574 variants. None of the Indian sequences analysed so far belong to the B.1.1.7 lineage, but scientists assert that the relatively tiny fraction of viruses sequenced in India imply that there are large information gaps about the variants circulating in the country. “We have the sequencing infrastructure and we have skilled people in the country — and it doesn’t cost so much money. On a megascale, each sequence would cost only around Rs 2,000,” said a scientist who requested not to be named. “But what we see are piecemeal sequencing efforts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||China raid alert at  20 spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh||The Indian Army has identified as many as 20 sensitive spots from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) which are likely to witness border incursions and transgressions by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army once the winter is over and the snow melts, sources in the security establishment said. “With the LAC becoming the new LoC, the army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) are sending reinforcements to these 20 spots in the wake of intelligence inputs that the PLA is planning fresh incursions,” said a security official attached to the Intelligence Bureau. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — since May and eight rounds of military talks have failed to break the deadlock. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. “Considering the ground situation and palpable tension along the LAC, the Indian Army does not want to further lose territory to the PLA. Intelligence reports have suggested that the Chinese troops are planning incursions at the 20 sensitive spots inside India-claimed lines once the winter is over,” said the security official. “Both the army and the ITBP are building new border posts and are also planning to bolster operational and infrastructure capabilities at these 20 spots along the LAC to prevent any such incursion,” the official added. Some of these sensitive spots had witnessed border incursions by the PLA in the past. An ITBP official said that in the wake of the ongoing impasse between the two sides, disputes at these 20 spots were likely to arise because of differences in perception of the LAC. “Both sides often accuse each other of transgression and intrusion but such incidents come down drastically during winter in the snow-covered Himalayan region. The latest intelligence report has hinted at possible Chinese incursion and transgression at these 20 spots, which is alarming. The army is deliberating key strategic deployment to fortify our positions,” the ITBP official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Message from polls: Kashmir before religion||Dr Harbaksh Singh, Parmeet Kour and Chaman Lal were all fighting against Muslim candidates in predominantly Muslim constituencies but their religion did not come in the way of their victory. Kour and Singh, both Sikhs, have won the District Development Council elections from Tral and Rafiabad constituencies in Pulwama and Baramulla districts, respectively, while Lal, a Kashmir Pandit, has become the sarpanch of Shopian’s Zainpora. “I got 1,452 votes out of 3,900 (votes polled) and my rival, who is a Muslim candidate from the Congress, got 986 votes. It is mostly the Muslims, over 1,300, who voted for me and the rest were from my community,” Singh, who is from the People’s Democratic Party, told The Telegraph. “My victory is a snub to all the communal forces who have been projecting Kashmir in a bad light. It shows how Kashmiriyat and secularism are alive. There has been a media campaign against my party, saying they are Pakistanis, but my victory shows how they are all wrong.” The PDP is part of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Alliance, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions that gave Jammu and Kashmir its special status. The BJP has repeatedly dubbed the alliance a “gang of anti-nationals”. Parmeet Kour, 30, a mother of three and a candidate of the People’s Conference (PC), which is also part of the Gupkar Alliance, won from Rafiabad’s Dangiwacha. “I am so happy. People from all communities voted for me,” said Kour, whose husband is a driver. PC leader Sajad Lone attributed Kour’s win to the “secular traditions” of the region. Kashmiri Pandit Chaman Lal, an Independent elected sarpanch from Shopian’s Zainpora, lives in Jammu and could not even travel to Kashmir for campaigning after his wife’s death last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to take two crore signatures to Kovind||Rahul Gandhi will lead a Congress delegation to President Ram Nath Kovind on December 24 to seek his intervention in the impasse over the new farm laws as lakhs of farmers are camping on roads amid the harsh winter for 27 days. Although the President hasn’t made any intervention despite requests by an Opposition delegation a few days ago, this time Rahul will submit to Kovind signatures of over two crore people in support of the demand to scrap the three new laws. The Congress had been collecting these signatures across the country for the past two months. This will be part of a sustained Congress campaign to extend support to the farmers’ movement. The signatures have been collected from farmers, agriculture workers and other stakeholders from different states. The Congress leadership has also been contemplating separate political action in support of the farmers, who have so far shown aversion to any political party joining their movement. The Congress on Tuesday issued a statement expressing anguish over the government apathy. The statement, issued by general secretary in-charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal, said: “Lakhs of farmers have been on protest in freezing weather against the three blatantly anti-agriculture laws aimed at bartering their interests in the hands of select crony capitalist friends of the Modi government. They have been blocked from entering the national capital of Delhi for the last 27 days despite prior notice and peaceful intent.” Arguing that the laws had caused “immense pain and anguish among the farmers across India”, the statement said: “The farmers have been sitting on an indefinite strike against these laws. Forty-four farmers have already lost their lives during the ongoing protests. Led by Rahul Gandhi, the Congress along with other political parties had vehemently opposed the bills inside and outside Parliament. Rahul undertook an extensive ‘Tractor Yatra’ across Punjab and Haryana as also in different states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi sermon on struggle for ‘new India’ ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday linked his dream of a “naya Bharat (new India)” with the freedom struggle and urged the students and alumni of Aligarh Muslim University to set aside “ideological differences” and align with the “singular aim” of the nation’s interest irrespective of “belief and faith”. Speaking at the minority institution’s centenary celebrations via video link from Delhi, Modi hailed the role of the university in the freedom movement, termed the campus a “mini-India” and said its diversity was the country’s strength. He, however, side-stepped the consistent attacks on AMU by BJP members who do not miss out on any opportunity to hint at its “anti-national” bent. Neither did the Prime Minister refer to the brutal police attack on the campus last December on students protesting his government’s new citizenship regime. Students had been assaulted on campus and inside the library and tear gas shells and rubber bullets had been fired. “Today, our one and singular aim should be how to make India self-reliant. More important than where and in which family we were born, which belief and faith we grew up on, is how to link each and every citizen’s aspiration with the country’s aspiration,” Modi said in his over 40 minutes virtual speech. “Friends, ideological differences exist in society, it’s normal. But when it’s a matter of achieving national aspirations, then all differences should be set aside,” he added, calling upon the youths of the university to come forward to build a “naya Bharat”. Vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor pointed out that Modi was the first Prime Minister in the last 56 years to participate in a celebration of AMU. He hailed Modi as a “visionary leader dedicated to serve the country”. Modi was silent on the fact that AMU has been repeatedly targeted by BJP leaders, including local MP Satish Gautam. The MP, after his re-election last year, had said his “first priority” would be to “send the portrait of Muhammad Ali Jinnah at AMU to Pakistan”. Gautam had also backed the demand of a section of students to construct a temple on the university campus. BJP members have also demanded ending of the institution’s minority status and slammed the students there for holding protests against the new citizenship regime and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Modi focused on stressing that the nation and its interests should be placed above everything else. He said that on issues like “rashtravad (nationalism)” and development, there is “no scope for disagreement in the name of political and ideological differences”. Modi recalled how people associated with AMU had participated in the freedom struggle, setting aside their ideological differences, and urged the same kind of commitment for building a “naya Bharat”. “What our forefathers did for Independence, the same work the young generation has to do now for a new India,” he said. “Like Independence was a common ground, the same way we will have to work on a common ground for a new India,” Modi added. He said a “new India” would be “self-reliant” and prosperous in all aspects and its fruits would be enjoyed by all citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Naveen seeks colleagues’ tips to strengthen party ||Odisha chief minister and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik has asked party colleagues to suggest ways of strengthening the party ahead of its 24th foundation day on December 26. Presiding over the party’s state council meeting via video conferencing, Naveen on Monday underscored the regional party’s commitment to the development of the people of the state and sought suggestions from all council members to strengthen the party and also improve the quality of governance. Naveen is leading the state as its chief minister for the fifth time in a row. He has also been leading the party since its inception in 1997. The BJD state council meeting was held a day after the party’s executive body meeting at the party headquarters in Bhubaneswar. Significantly, while chief minister himself has hardened his stance against the Centre after a spell of bonhomie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior BJP leaders, other BJD leaders have also become more vocal in demanding special category status for Odisha. On Friday addressing the executive committee meeting of Biju Yuva Janata Dal, the party’s young wing, Naveen had urged party workers to fight against the Centre’s injustice to the state and asserted that national parties have never served Odisha’s interests. He had also reiterated his demand for Odisha being accorded special category state status. He had also raised the contentious issue of Mahanadi water sharing and sought to invoke Odia pride. The sudden change in Naveen’s stand against the BJP-led Centre is being seen as part of a deliberate strategy to counter the growing perception that the BJD shares a friendly relationship with the saffron party and its bosses in Delhi even though publicly it continues to maintain the façade of having equal distance from both the BJP and the Congress. This is also being seen as a bid to galvanise the regional party ahead of the urban elections next year. The BJD happens to be the most successful regional party of the state with Naveen turning it into a virtual election winning machinery. The party has come to power in the state five times in a row. However, in the last elections the BJP was able to win eight out of the 21 Lok Sabha seats in the state, an increase of seven seats compared to the 2014 elections. The BJP also improved its Assembly tally and emerged as the main Opposition party in Odisha which seems to have become a cause of worry for BJD and its supremo who wants to whip up regional sentiments to strengthen his party’s hold on the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||India||Pawan Chamling asks govt to deliver on job promise||Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling on Tuesday hit back at the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha, asking it to stop indulging in whataboutery and, instead, act on its promise of regularising the jobs of the over 18,000 employees appointed under the “One Family One Job” scheme. Weighing in on the raging OFOJ issue, Chamling pointed out that SKM had tried to spread a canard before the last Assembly election in April 2019 by claiming that the beneficiaries of the scheme would risk losing their jobs if SDF were to come back to power. “They also promised to regularize the OFOJ within 100 days of their governance. I think people are more interested to know why the SKM government failed to deliver on that promise,” he wrote on his Facebook page. On Sunday, the Sikkim Subject Committee had organised a day-long dharna in Gangtok, demanding regularisation of OFOJ jobs. Three persons had also recently filed a petition against the policy in the High Court of Sikkim. Chamling, whose SDF government had started the OFOJ policy in 2019, dismissed allegations that the high court petition was a conspiracy hatched by his party as “laughable”. “The three petitioners know who is behind the case. They only know the truth. I respect the court and I will be saying nothing as the matter is sub-judice. The SDF will never risk the future of our poor people for political gain.” The five-time former chief minister said his government had designed the OFOJ scheme for the benefit of the weaker sections since the caste, community and gender-based quota system had only benefitted the creamy layers. “There is a section that has been deprived of any opportunities for ages despite these reservations. When we realised that caste, community and gender-based reservations failed to reach down to that level, we formulated this scheme which I call a ‘humanitarian-based ultra-reservation’ for the weakest section of society,” he said. Chamling said there were an estimated 40,000 families without a single government job when the scheme was launched and the appointments were made on an ad-hoc basis initially with the provision for regularisation after five years. “That period of five years would have helped them to get ‘on-the-job training’ and to learn needed skills,” he said. This scheme, he said, was also designed to increase rural jobs. “We created village-centric posts such as Village Police Guards, Environment Protection Guards, Village Marketing Assistants, Village Health Assistants, etc...,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-471
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Madhyamik, HS to be held in June, says Partha||Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Wednesday announced that the board examinations for classes X and XII will be held in June, one after the other. The class X (Madhyamik) exams will be held first, followed by the class XII (Ucchya Madhyamik) exams, Partha said. The board examinations in the state are usually held in February and March every year. “We have accepted the recommendations of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Education Education on holding the exams on later dates in view of the pandemic situation,” the minister said. “If the situation changes, the board and council will take decisions accordingly,” he added. Last month, the state government had pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. Wednesday’s decision comes a day after Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ ruled out conducting board examinations for classes 10 and 12 till February next year in view of the Covid-19 situation. He said a decision on when the exams will be conducted will be taken later after due consultations and assessment of the situation. “Keeping the current situation in mind, it has been decided that the board exams for classes 10 and 12 will not be conducted till February 2021. A decision on the exam schedule will be taken later after assessment of the situation and more consultations,” he had said in an online interaction with teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||PIL filed in SC seeks directions for free, fair polls in Bengal||A PIL in the Supreme Court has sought directions to the Centre, Bengal government and the Election Commission for “free, peaceful, safe and fair” polls in the state. The plea, filed Wednesday, has sought multiple reliefs, including a direction to CBI to probe alleged killings of political activists and adversaries of ruling Trinamul Congress in the state. It has made the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Bengal government, the Election Commission, the state poll panel, the Director General of Police and CBI parties. “The petitioner is seeking indulgence of this court as the continuous violation of fundamental rights, statutory rights and human rights in the state of West Bengal has reached its zenith and the state government and its police machinery is involved in such violations,” it says. “No steps to prevent such violation of fundamental, statutory and human rights are being taken by the state government rather it is the state government and its machinery which is responsible for such brutal violation of rights in the State of West Bengal,” the plea says. Throwing light on the recent attack on the convoy of J.P. Nadda at Shirakol, the PIL also wanted a direction to the “Union Home Secretary and DGP, West Bengal to take strict action against errant senior officers involved in dereliction of duty in protection of the BJP's National President”. The PIL filed by one Puneet Kaur Dhanda through lawyer Vineet Dhanda alleged the fundamental rights such as right to life and personal liberty and equality and the statutory right to vote under the Representation of the people Act, 1951 of the citizens are being violated in the state. The plea alleged that in the last few years, there have been incidents of "systematic killings of political leaders especially belonging to BJP". Several people were injured in a clash between the TMC and BJP at Ramnagar area in the state, ahead of the ruling party’s rally in Contai-- Suvendu Adhikari’s stronghold. Police said the clash broke out when a procession by BJP activists was passing near a TMC party office on Ramnagar Road in Purba Medinipur district. “Several persons were injured in the clash, which took place when one group attacked another and the subsequent retaliation,” police said. BJP alleged that TMC activists attacked its party workers without any provocation when they were moving in a procession. Countering the charges, TMC claimed that BJP vandalised its party office and beat up its workers present there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata speaks to protesting farmers, offers support||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke to the farmers camping at the national capital's Singhu border protesting the Central farm laws and assured them of her support in their stir, the Trinamool Congress said. This was the second time in a month that the TMC supremo had a telephonic interaction with the agitating farmers. Five Trinamool MPs met the farmers at the Singhu Border on Wednesday to show solidarity with them on Kisan Diwas. "On Mamata Banerjee's direction, a five-member delegation comprising Derek O'Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque on behalf of the All India Trinamool Congress, is meeting and interacting with farmers from who are on a relay hunger strike on the highway at the Singhu Border to show solidarity. "Farmers in small groups had a telephonic interaction with Mamata Banerjee who assured them of her full solidarity with their movement. Some farmers also requested her to visit the dharna site," the TMC said. The party also supported the farmers' demand of annulling the contentious farm laws. During the telephonic conversation, Banerjee said it was unfortunate that the farmers, who feed the entire country, were being forced to go hungry. "The Trinamool will stand by the farmers in solidarity in their movement to repeal the anti-farmer bills," she assured the farmers. Trinamul had earlier offered its “moral” support to the nationwide strike on December 8 against the Centre’s farm laws after the party’s senior leaders met the Shiromani Akali Dal Bandyopadhyay, his Rajya Sabha counterpart Derek O’Brien and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak had hosted a six-member Shiromani Akali Dal delegation, led by senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra, at Trinamul Bhavan. Earlier this month, Banerjee had interacted with the agitating farmers over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Won't interfere if an adult marries of her own will, convert: Calcutta High Court ||Hearing a petition by a father claiming that his daughter has been unduly influenced to marry a man of a different religion, the Calcutta High Court has observed that there can be no interference if an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert. After a 19-year old woman married a person of her choice, her father petitioned the high court, complaining that his daughter's statement before a magistrate may not have been recorded in an atmosphere where she felt comfortable. On an FIR filed by the father, the police had produced the woman before a judicial magistrate, before whom she made a statement that she had married of her own will. "If an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert and not return to her paternal house, there can be no interference in the matter," a division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee observed on Monday. Upon the father's complaint, the high court had directed that the woman would meet the senior-most additional district judge in Tehatta and that sufficient care was to be taken so that she was not under any coercion or undue influence. The bench noted that despite a clear and clean report being furnished by the additional district judge, the father harbours some suspicion. Susmita Saha Dutta, the lawyer representing the father, claimed before the division bench that the husband was present within the court premises at Tehatta in Nadia district when the woman appeared before the judge. The bench directed that to allay the father's suspicion, the woman will meet additional public prosecutor Saibal Bapuli in his chamber in Calcutta on December 23. The bench further directed that at the time the woman meets Bapuli, who is representing the state in the matter, there should be no one else in the room, including her husband. It directed Bapuli to file a short report when the matter appears for hearing again on December 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s first wish on VC prevails||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had on Saturday appointed Shanti Chhetry as the founding vice-chancellor of Alipurduar University against the “order of preference” of the search committee of the state government but Chhetry on Tuesday said that being a person of “honesty and integrity”, he could not take the position. Chhetry, principal of P.D. Women College, Jalpaiguri, was the third on the list forwarded by the state government to Dhankhar for the VC’s post. Mahendra Nath Ray, professor of chemistry, North Bengal University (NBU), and Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, professor of economics, NBU, were the first and second choices, respectively. On Monday, the state higher education department appointed Ray as the VC of Alipurduar University through an order that stated Chhetry’s unwillingness to join the post. The government overruled the governor’s decision stating the decision was in contravention to the provisions of rule 9 (d) of the West Bengal State Universities (Terms and Conditions of Service of the Vice Chancellors & the Manner and Procedure of Official Communication) Rules, 2019, while issuing the appointment letter to Ray. The Telegraph had in its Sunday edition reported the governor’s omission of “order of preference for appointment” and his decision to act beyond providing a “formal nod” to the state’s proposal. The decision to change the governor’s choice has stirred a hornet’s nest in the Darjeeling hills with a section of people accusing the government of denying Chhetry the VC post. Pratap Khati, the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Pratap group), said: “The decision smells of discrimination and that is why demands for a separate state is legitimate.” Chhetry, however, clarified his stand of not taking up the post. “I felt my name is at number three (in the list). Generally, (the) number one should have got it (the appointment). For me, being a person of honesty and integrity, I did not want to be embroiled in any kind of controversy,” Chhetry told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Chhetry, who has been the principal of the Jalpaiguri college for the past 15 years, had earlier served as viceprincipal of St Joseph’s College (North Point). Chhetry said he didn’t want anyone to raise their fingers at him. “I would have been happy if my name had been at number one. I thought being someone who has been in academics for such a long time, nobody should raise their fingers at me. That’s the only philosophy (behind the decision),” added Chhetry. Along with Chhetry, the governor had also tweeted appointing Rajendra Prasad Dhakal, principal Kalimpong College, as the founding VC of Darjeeling Hills University. Dhakal, too, was named third in the list of the search committee. Till date, there has not been any fresh development regarding Dhakal’s name. Khati, however, said: “The state government should immediately issue an appointment letter to Dhakal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP helped Trinamul, says Suvendu Adhikari ||Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday said the BJP had helped his old party in its journey since its birth in 1998 and credited the saffron party for its role in the Nandigram movement that catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. “In past three days, many people are calling me a betrayer, a Mirzafar.  Who were with Trinamul since 1998, in Assembly polls, panchayat polls and the Lok Sabha polls in 1999? If the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BJP leader L.K. Advani had not helped Trinamul, the party would have wound up before 2001,” Suvendu told around 5,000 BJP workers at a rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali. He also reminded Mamata Banerjee that she broke her fast on the Singur issue when BJP leader Rajnath Singh handed her a glass of juice. “I will tell the netri (Mamata), that she could have become chief minister in 2001 if she had the power to achieve it on her own strength,” he said. Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said: “In 1998, Trinamul had an alliance with the BJP but then the Gujarat riot happened. He is attacking Trinamul after being a two term MP and enjoying all the benefits.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP showcause for protest at inductions||The Bengal BJP leadership served a showcause notice on state party general secretary Sayantan Basu on Tuesday for his public statement against Trinamul Congress leader Jitendra Tiwari’s possible induction into the saffron camp. Two district party leaders were also showcaused for commenting on the entry of leaders from other parties into the BJP. The notices bear a proof that the saffron camp is saddled with the problem of inorganic growth pangs. “I’ve received a showcause notice, which I believe was sent to me regarding my comments about Jitendra Tiwari,” Basu told The Telegraph. “I’ve regretted my action and replied to the notice,” he added. Amid speculations that Tiwari and some other Trinamul leaders were supposed to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit, Basu had said that he had personal objection to Tiwari’s inclusion in the party. Basu had accused Tiwari of tormenting BJP workers in Asansol and insulting union minister Babul Supriyo. Such has been the resistance to Tiwari’s impending inclusion that Supriyo himself had made a Facebook post expressing his discontent. “Babul has been asked to be in Shah’s office tomorrow (Wednesday)... It is almost certain that he is bound to get a wrap on his knuckle,” said a source. With eyes firmly set on the seat of power in Bengal, the BJP’s central leaders have made it clear that they would follow the inorganic growth model ahead of the 2021 elections. Sources in the BJP said that during internal meetings, Shah repeatedly made it clear that the newcomers and old-timers would have to work together. However, there were also questions on whether his message would trickle down to the lowest rung, where the conflict between the turncoats and the old-timers is intense. “He can serve showcause notices to top leaders and silence them, but not the ground level workers,” said a source. Over the last week or so, there have been reports of clashes and protests in districts like in Bankura, Midnapore and Burdwan over inductions. Over the past two days, clashes were reported from Durgapur, Narayangarh in West Midnapore and Gaighata in North 24-Parganas. In Narayangarh, clashes broke out between supporters of Suvendu Adhikari, who had joined the saffron party on Saturday, and BJP old guards over hoisting party flags. Adhikari’s posters were torn and damaged and an injured party worker had to be hospitalised “Managing the inorganic growth pang is going to be a big challenge for us,” said a state BJP office-bearer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Homestay affiliation word by Centre||Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and culture, on Tuesday said homestay owners could directly approach the Centre for affiliation of their properties. Patel attended a number of programmes organised by the BJP at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar on Tuesday. “Tourists are preferring homestays nowadays. We can help them with affiliation and provide them with training and financial benefits. The state government does not have any role in the process and these people can directly approach us. I have talked to our local MPs and soon, we will send experts here for impart training to homestay owners,” the minister said. Patil told newspersons that he would flag the issue of SDF (sustainable development fee) that the neighbouring country of Bhutan had planned to charge from Indian tourists. According to the plan, an Indian tourist visiting Bhutan will have to pay Rs 1,200 per day as the SDF. Such an additional charge would lead to a drop in the number of Indian tourists to Bhutan, which would eventually affect the tourism industry in north Bengal and Sikkim also. Hundreds of homestays have mushroomed in north Bengal, both in the plains and the hills, in the past few years. Most of the owners are first-generation entrepreneurs who could promote new tourist destinations. The state government has already floated a scheme under which homestay owners are entitled to receive a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh each for development of their properties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Shah to attend Vivekananda programme||Union home minister Amit Shah will visit Calcutta on January 12 for the second time in less than a month and take part in an event organised to mark the birth anniversary of one of Bengal’s greatest icons, Swami Vivekananda. “Amitji is coming to Calcutta on January 12 and will be present at a Yuva Morcha event organised to observe the birth anniversary of Swamiji,” said Shankudeb Panda, a vice-president of the youth wing of the party’s state unit. Shah was here on December 19 and 20, when he visited places associated with three foremost Bengali icons, Swami Vivekananda, Khudiram Bose and Rabindranath Tagore. Sources said repeated attempts of senior leaders like Shah to associate the BJP with Bengal’s icons went to show the concern of the leadership over Trinamul’s persistent attack on the BJP as a party of outsiders. “Amitji wants to lead the battle against this outsider tag. It is true that Amitji’s rebuttal of claims made by the Trinamul Congress will have more effect than that of any other state-level functionary,” said a BJP leader. The isolation of the saffron camp amongst Bengal’s political parties became even more telling on Tuesday when junior Left Front partner, Forward Bloc, invited every other party in the state to form a steering committee to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary but left out the BJP. Asked why the BJP was not invited, Chatterjee said: “BJP has violated Netaji’s ideology of secularism. In Azad Hind Fauj and the first free Indian government, Netaji had included people from all communities. The BJP, however, wants an India for Hindus only. They are anti-Netaji.” Folk singer Basudeb Das Baul, who had hosted Amit Shah for lunch in Santiniketan on Sunday, was taken to a Trinamul office in Bolpur on Tuesday and assured of financial help so that his daughter could get a diploma in education. “Amit Shah came and had his lunch at Basudeb’s house but did not hear his problems. When we came to know that his daughter aspired to become a teacher and needed help for a course in education, we have promised all help,” said Anubrata Mondal, Birbhum Trinamul chief. Basudeb’s daughter Sumana Das completed her masters’ in history two years ago but could not study diploma in education as it required the family to pay a course fee of Rs 1.5 lakh. “Kesto da has promised to help my daughter complete her degree. We are hopeful that she will get the job of a school teacher,” Basudeb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||38 more die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,270 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,653 infections and 38 deaths as the state logged a drop in its total of active cases for the 57th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. The total of active cases was 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, on October 26. On Tuesday, registering an improvement by over 56 per cent, the total was 16,248, back almost to where it was 157 days ago, on July 18. “Our Covid-19 management has been the best in the country… it has been an exemplary performance,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a news conference. A cabinet colleague said the chief minister had been “very pleased” with the progress made over the past couple of months. “She is confident now that Bengal will be in really good shape by the time vaccination properly takes off,” he said. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 61 consecutive days, has risen in this period from the 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.24. The national rate now is 95.66 per cent. The positive confirmation rate is 7.97 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The steadily reducing positive confirmation rate indicates a contraction of the spread of the outbreak,” said the minister. In the 56 days since Puja, the state has recorded over 2.04 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.86 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of nearly 5.4 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.14 lakh recoveries and 9,439 deaths. With 40,156 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count rose to 67.75 lakh, at 75,288 tests per million people. The 38 deaths reported on Tuesday included 10 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 7,916, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 15.86 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.43 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Tablet cash for pupils in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee has said the administration will transfer Rs 10,000 each to the accounts of 9.5 lakh Class XII students at government or government-aided schools to buy tablets or smart phones for online classes as companies expressed inability to supply such a large number of devices on time. The Bengal chief minister had on December 3 announced tablets for Class XII students studying at 14,000-odd government or government-aided schools and 636 madrasas. “We were informed that we could get supply of a maximum of 1.5 lakh tabs. As the Centre has asked not to go for Chinese products, we have decided to give Rs 10,000 each to Class XII students. Within three weeks, we will start transferring money,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Tuesday. Sources at Nabanna said officials, who had held meetings with companies making tablets before floating tenders, learnt that only three firms would be able to supply them. The company representatives apparently informed them that each one of them could supply only about 15,000 tablets a month. “Two of the major companies informed the officials that they would not be able to supply the device for two reasons. First, enhancement of production was not possible in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Second, as the companies don’t focus on production of tablets on large scale because of lack of demand, it was not possible to meet the huge demand,” said a senior government official. Sources said if the government had accepted the proposal, it could have secured supply of about 1.5 lakh tablets till May next year. “But the target was to supply tablets at least three months before their higher secondary exams, which are likely to be held in June. So, it was decided that students would be given Rs 10,000 each so that they could buy digital devices on their own,” said a senior government official. The officials feel if so many tablets were not available in the markets, the students could buy smartphones, which would also help them attend online classes once the schools started imparting online training. Trinamul insiders said the decision to give Rs 10,000 would help the ruling party ahead of the polls as the students would be able to buy smart phones or tablets much earlier. A section of the officials said the government should develop a mechanism to ensure that the funds transferred for the purpose were not misused. “I don’t know how the government would monitor whether the money is going to be spent for the intended purpose... But a mechanism should be developed before the funds are transferred. Otherwise, public funds would be misused,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata issues rebuttal of Shah’s charges, point by point ||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday issued her rebuttal of Amit Shah’s charges on Bengal’s growth and infrastructure, urging him to do his homework and run a fact-check on things he said in public as he was the Union home minister, before demanding a treat of Gujarati cuisine from him. The Bengal chief minister, with relatively less belligerence, addressed a news conference at Nabanna in the afternoon to counter Shah’s allegations regarding the lack of development in the state. Every answer, I have given. Now Amit Shah owes me a treat,” said Mamata. “I want to have Gujarati food, including dhokla (a vegetarian dish made with a fermented batter derived from rice and split chickpeas)…. Something else too, Dineshda (Trivedi) gets for me, I can’t recall the name… but I love it. He (Shah) has to treat me to good dhokla and that other thing,” she added. Mamata said Shah had said a lot of things at his news conference on Sunday, but the likes of the Union home minister and the Prime Minister should make sure what they were saying was correct. “I make mistakes too…. If I say incorrect things, I rectify them. There is no shame in it…. Bengal means a bad state. Bengal means there has been no development. Bengal means there is no employment…. Now, the shiny, thriving Bengal makes you envious, prompting you to say such things. Speak the truth in your criticism, I have no objection. If you don’t, every statement will be challenged,” she said. Some of the key points raised by the Trinamul Congress chief follow. What Shah said: Bengal is in the 20th place in industrial production. It occupies the 16th place in terms of rate of increase of the state GDP. A child born now will have interest burden of Rs 50,000 on their head, because of the state’s debts Mamata’s response: The Centre’s data, as of July 31, 2020, state in terms of GVA (current prices) of the industry sector, Bengal is fourth in India. The Centre’s data, on the same date, say Bengal is in second place nationally, in terms of growth of the state GDP. Debt as a percentage of the GSDP in 2010-11 was 40.65 per cent, lowered to 33.3 in 2019-20. The Centre says Bengal is the number one state in poverty alleviation, in 100-day employment guarantee, in rural housing, rural roads… development in sectors such as micro, small and medium enterprises, in e-tendering and e-governance. “Our GSDP has increased by over 2.6 times, and over one crore jobs have been created in our tenure.” What Shah said: Bengal is in the 23rd place in terms of beds for every 1,000 patients. Thirty-nine per cent of appointment of doctors remains to be done. Appointment not done for 87 per cent of specialty and surgeons. Mamata’s response: There are 85,642 beds now in state-run hospitals, compared to the 58,647 beds in 2011. The state now has 15,338 doctors, compared to 4,800 in 2011 and the doctor to population ratio in Bengal is 0.59 per thousand, which is the second highest in the country. What Shah said: Ninety per cent primary schools have no desks, 30 per cent do not have adequate classrooms, 10 per cent have no electricity, 56 per cent have no toilets. Mamata’s response: Over 93 per cent schools have furniture, around five per cent do not have adequate classrooms, over 99 per cent have electricity, every school has toilets. What Shah said: Roads are in a bad condition. Mamata’s response: The state government has built 88,846km of rural roads since 2011, the most in the country. Over 13,700km of the 19,689km of state highways are in very good condition. Work is going on for further improvement of 3,865km. What Shah said: The quality of electricity is not up to the mark. Mamata’s response: Cent per cent electrification was achieved in 2018. There is excess capacity and no shortage of supply. Average power availability across the state in 23.7 hours a day. Bengal is one of the eight states in the country, according to the Centre, which supply 24x7 power. Quality power provided to all segments of consumers, low-voltage problems eliminated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||Push for teacher recruitment in Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said 16,500 primary school teachers would soon be recruited as interview of the candidates, who had already cleared the written exams, would be conducted between January 10 and 17. Besides, the chief minister also announced that a teachers’ eligibility test (TET) would be conducted on January 31 where a total of 2.5 lakh applicants had already applied. “The third TET would be held on January 31 and the exam would be held offline,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Tuesday after a cabinet meeting. Later, education minister Partha Chatterjee said a notification to this effect would soon be issued. Sources said the recruitment of teachers was held up in the state over the past few months because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ruling establishment had laid stress on completing the process before the model code of conduct was implemented ahead of the Assembly polls. The sources said once the recruitments was done, it would give a weapon to the chief minister to counter the BJP as it had started campaigning that the ruling establishment has failed to recruit people through the school service commission. “The most vocal on the issue is Suvendu Adhikari, who recently joined the BJP deserting the Trinamul camp. It has an impact in the rural areas where educated youths dream of getting a job through the SSC. The chief minister is trying to counter the BJP on the issue,” said a source. The sources also said the recent high court order to cancel the recruitment process of teachers in upper primary schools had given a weapon to the Opposition parties. “The Opposition parties are claiming that the selection process of teachers in Bengal is nothing but a corruption. It is uncomfortable for any ruling party. The chief minister is desperate to counter the allegation by completing the recruitment process ahead of the polls,” said a source. The cabinet on Tuesday approved recruitment of 9,282 constables and 1,085 sub inspectors in the state police force. The cabinet also decided to set up a new block — Banarhat — by dividing Dhupguri block in Jalpaiguri district. Besides, Telegu was accepted as an official language in Bengal after Telegu speaking people from Kharagpur had requested the chief minister on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||West Bengal||3 killed as bus turns turtle in race for passengers||Three passengers, including the driver, died and at least 30 others were injured after a private bus overturned and fell into a roadside ditch while trying to overtake another bus at a high speed to get more passengers in Hooghly’s Goghat on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased have been identified as driver Panchanan Dolui, 45, Rehana Khatun, 14 and Anup Roy, 28. They were declared brought dead at Arambagh sub-divisional hospital. Doctors said three persons, including a woman, were shifted to Calcutta as their condition was critical. “The private bus from Burdwan was heading to Panskura in West Midnapore via Arambagh. The bus was chasing another bus of the same route at a high speed to get more passengers. As the driver suddenly spotted a speed break and tried to slow down, he lost control of the vehicle and it overturned,” said a police officer. Sources said when the bus reached Arambagh-Ghatal road, the driver found a bus of the same route ahead of it. “The other bus was picking up passengers and when the driver of our vehicle saw it, he stepped on the accelerator. He tried to overtake the other bus at a high speed and ran into a speed breaker. In his effort to slow down before the bus hit the speed breaker, he slammed the brake and the vehicle overturned. The bus fell into a roadside ditch,” said Rohan Thandar, a student who survived the accident and was rescued by villagers. Police said it had become a practice of most drivers of private buses to chase other vehicles to get more passengers. “We regularly campaign to stop this practice of drivers but it seems the awareness drives hardly impact them,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-264
23-12-2020||North East||Assam app to increase farm productivity||An Assam-based start-up has developed a multilingual smartphone application for farmers to smartly manage their farms and remotely monitor distress activities. AgSpert, the agri-tech startup co-founded by IIT Guwahati students and alumni of NIT Silchar and Dibrugarh University, Assam, have developed the application called AgSpeak. It has an Assamese language option as well, a first among all the agri-tech apps available in the market. The app aims to optimise in-farm productivity through artificial intelligence (AI), helping farmers in making decisions and managing farm activities by the click of a single button on their smartphone or computer. The app along with the IoT hardware has been tested for the past three months with 500 farmers and two tea estates in Assam. Some of the “major” breakthroughs by the algorithm were “precise prediction” of blight in potato and tea mosquito bug and water stress in winter crops, a statement from IIT Guwahati said. These are the major woes for farmers and small tea growers of Assam leading to huge crop loss if not controlled in time. “The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to a system of interrelated, Internet-connected objects that are able to collect and transfer data over a wireless network without human intervention. This is the technology that AgSpert start-up uses for the app for farmers,” the statement said. AgSpeak was launched by IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam here on Sunday. The app was co-founded by Siddhartha Bora (an NIT Silchar alumnus), chief executive officer, Manik Mittal, chief operating officer, Akash Sharma, software development engineer, Nitin Chauhan, cloud systems architect (all four students of IIT Guwahati), Dhritiman Talukdar (an NIT Silchar alumnus), software development engineer and Kookil Pran Goswami (Dibrugarh University alumnus), hardware developer. Highlighting the need of technological advancement in the agriculture sector, Mittal said technological development in the sector has been very slow, with farmers relying on traditional methods, which are getting outdated day by day due to several factors, including population growth and climate change. “We at AgSpert believe that technological intervention using artificial intelligence and drones will ensure food security, by increasing the productivity more than two-fold,” he said. Driven by hyper-local crop data coming from satellite and smart IoT devices, AgSpeak considers up to 20 local crop parameters which are key indicators of their health like temperature, rainfall, sunlight hours, soil health status, among others, to alert farmers about probable crop threats in advance and suggest best practices to tackle the incoming threat, hence optimising the resources used and maximising productivity. Nearly 250 farmers have already been provided hands-on training in utilising the full potential of the app. However, the user-friendliness and multilingual features of the app make it extremely easy for farmers to use and they seldom require training. The mobile app is completely free for general small farmers. There are in-app purchases like soil testing and agri-doctor consultation. Besides this, the IoT devices can be rented on monthly/yearly basis by commercial farms to further enhance precision farm management. “It has been tested with many farmers and its practical utility established. Major commercial users of the product include commercial plantation farms (tea, lemon orchards, grape vineyards),” the statement said. Sitharam said, “To end this global starvation, we need to double agricultural productivity in the next 15 years. Unless we use technology appropriately in the agricultural sector, this would be impossible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
23-12-2020||North East||Gorkhas to seek 'permanent solution' from Centre||A Gorkha delegation from Vijaynagar in Arunachal Pradesh has moved the Centre seeking a “permanent solution” to the problems faced by ex-Assam Rifles personnel and their descendants in the area, highlighting the threat to their life and property following the arson carried out by a mob on December 11. Though there was no loss of life in the arson, at least three government offices were burnt down on Friday under Vijaynagar administrative circle in Changlang district by a mob allegedly led by the All Yobin Students’ Union (AYSU). Around 39 persons have been arrested in six cases registered in connection with the arson. The protesters were demanding cancellation of voting rights to non-indigenous people, mostly ex-Assam Rifles settlers, and their removal from the area as soon as possible. The AYSU brass in a video released after the arson had purportedly claimed they are ready to give up their lives to save their land and the settlers should move out as “their 30-year lease is over”. The state government had deferred the December 22 polls in Vijaynagar even before the arson. The population of Vijaynagar, around 250km from the Changlang district headquarters and around 157km from Miao circle, is about 6,000, half of whom are non-Arunachali tribes. The ex-Asaam Rifles settlers include mostly Gorkhas and few families from Assam, Bihar, Mizoram, Uttarakanhd. Today, the population of Gorkhas will be about 2500. In a 11-page memorandum submitted to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday, the delegation from Vijaynagar has said the settlement of ex-Assam Rifles personnel at Vijaynagar bordering Myanmar was carried out jointly by the Centre and the erstwhile North East Frontier Agency (NEFA) in a phased manner for clearing forest patches and building makeshift huts. “Therefore, 200 families of Assam Rifles personnel were airlifted with basic necessities and settled in 4 different subsequent batches — 1st Batch (25 families) during 1967-68; 2nd Batch (25 families) 1968-69; 3rd Batch (52 families) 1969-70 and 4th Batch (100 families) during 1970-71 and were re-grouped into nine villages,” the memorandum, recounting the reasons for the settlement of the AR personnel and their arrival in the area. It also quoted from a book and official documents on the issue. “It was none other than our fathers/forefathers (7th Assam Rifles) who explored the un-administered and un-demarcated area i.e. Vijaynagar. Nari Rostomji, then the Adviser to Governor of Assam in his book Enchanted Frontier (1971) wrote it in the following words, “Much of the credit of opening Vijaynagar must go to our gallant Inspector General of Assam Rifles (IGAR), Ajit Guraya, who with his tough band of Gorkhali Jawans, trekked for two weeks through thick, pestilential jungle to reach the broad and lovely valley that bears today the name of his son Vijay,” the memorandum said. JS Rawat, a Vijaynagar resident and part of the four-member delegation that met defence minister Singh, told The Telegraph, they have conveyed their problems with necessary background and documents. The delegation was accompanied by Darjeeling MP Raju Bista who even spoke to Arunachal East MP Tapir Gao. “The arson was the latest threat we faced. We have been facing similar threats from before. We did not settle on our own in Vijaynagar and we don’t want any confrontation with any organisation or indigenous tribes. “We want peaceful coexistence and this can be achieved only when the Centre and the state government permanently settle our land and other problems. Our forefathers came to Vijaynagar in the country’s interests and it is now the country’s responsibility to look after our interests. “There was no question of lease when we were settled, this was incorporated by the state government 20 years after we were settled in Vijaynagar,” Rawat said. The defence minister has “assured” all possible security measures for their safety in Vijaynagar and also to take up the matter with the state government to find a permanent solution, Rawat said, adding they have been living in “sub-human” conditions for ages now but we are staying put to safeguard the nation’s interest, which was the “only” objective of our settlement. “Security has been beefed up after the arson but what will happen after security is withdrawn. That is why we want a permanent solution,” Rawat said, adding they were also planning to move the Supreme Court which is “aware” of their problems. “In 1982, we moved the apex court in 1982 seeking resolution of our problems.” The All Yobin Students’ Union has claimed the crackdown launched by security forces has triggered panic in the area, leading to harassment of the public. Seeking withdrawal of security forces, the Union also alleged that the administration has suspended internet service forcing people to walk five-six days to Miao to send “one” message. Vijaynagar, one of the remotest administrative circle in the country, received 2G mobile service through BSNL only in August. The Yobin community, the AYSU said, will continue its fight to protect its land at all cost. Yobins, also known as Lisus, are also found in Myanmar and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
23-12-2020||Opinion||Error found: Amit Shah's Bengal visit||Sir — As the Union home minister, Amit Shah, visited Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan under the guise of paying tribute to Rabindranath Tagore, his political agenda became clear. A security blanket costing a huge amount of public money was put in place. The whole affair made the august place of learning look like a fortress under siege. Four student activists belonging to the Students’ Federation of India and the All India Democratic Students’ Organisation were reportedly put under house arrest. This is unprecedented. Many eminent personalities have earlier visited the hallowed institution founded by Tagore. This includes former prime ministers of India. In fact, Jawaharlal Nehru was known to freely interact with the students of the institution during his visits. I can distinctly recall that once when Rajiv Gandhi, as prime minister, paid a visit to Santiniketan in the midst of a students’ agitation spearheaded by the SFI, he met and amicably discussed the issues raised by agitating students. On the present occasion, Shah could have easily invited the aggrieved students protesting against his visit and engaged them in talks over a cup of tea. Such fatherly affection could have been enough to win the hearts of students. But instead he exhibited arrogance, and a bitter anti-democratic mindset by exercising muscle power. In fact, his party is a constant defaulter when it comes to democratic gestures and practices. Another incongruous aspect that came to the fore is that Shah allowed his partymen to accompany him, thus injecting into the visit an element of party politics. It is hard to believe that Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy — who went with him — have much regard for the sublime ideas proposed by Tagore. The vice-chancellor, Bidyut Chakrabarty, should not have allowed this. S. Sarkar,Berhampore, Murshidabad Sir — Bolpur and Santiniketan were ready to welcome the Union home minister, Amit Shah, who was to pay a visit there. For this, political banners were hung up across Santiniketan. But protests broke out right ahead of the home minister’s scheduled visit because a sketch of Rabindranath Tagore was placed beneath the picture of Shah on a display board. It made it seem as though Shah was elevated above Tagore (“Look who’s elevated ‘above’ Tagore”, Dec 19). The home minister was perhaps not aware of this gaffe, but Anupam Hazra, the local leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party — his image was also there on the flex — should not have made this mistake. The boards, however, were removed soon after the protests began. The visit was reportedly planned to highlight the BJP’s cultural connect with Bengal before the assembly elections of 2021. But was it necessary to put up a sketch of Tagore on a display board that sought to promote the BJP’s political campaign? After all, Tagore was not exactly known for partisan politics. Even if his image were to be used, it should never have been placed below that of Shah. This is a gross insult  not only to the ‘Bishwa kobi’ but also to Bengalis at large. His dignity cannot be compromised. Hazra cannot deny his responsibility in this case. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The spate of gaffes by the BJP — the political party first got Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace wrong and now its members in Bengal decided to place the image of Amit Shah above that of the revered poet on a flex — reveals how little it knows Bengal. If this is the level of the BJP’s understanding of arguably the greatest of Bengal’s poets, it is clear how poorly the party would understand Bengal and its culture. Besides, everyone knows about the old trick of having food at people’s houses with cameras watching. A lot of things may be wrong with governance in Bengal. But it is more frightening to think that there is a chance people could usher in a party that hardly has any connection with the place. Shrestha Chakladar,North 24 Parganas Let the games begin Sir — It was delightful to know that the sports ministry has approved the inclusion of four indigenous Indian sports — Gatka, Kalaripayattu, Thang-Ta and Mallakhamba — in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021. The sports minister, Kiren Rijiju, has rightly underlined India’s rich heritage of indigenous sports. The platform will ensure that athletes are able to showcase their talent while drawing attention to these sports of yore that have almost been forgotten. More such games might be included in the future. These sports, each with a unique local flavour, could inspire the younger generations. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||New sport: yoga championships||From the very centre of the vista, all is new in New India. It is no wonder that yoga, too, has come a long, long way in this newness. Having the United Nations accept June 21 as International Yoga Day since 2015 was an undoubted triumph for Narendra Modi, an enthusiastic practitioner and promoter of this unique discipline in its most popular form. But now he, or the government he leads, is about to go one step further. The sports and the ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy ministries are planning national yogasana championships, with traditional and choreographed sequences, with fixed rules and promised titles. This would be a formally recognized, structured, sports event, to be built up with an eye on the Olympics. Spreading the practice of yoga for health is undoubtedly a good thing, and Mr Modi’s global advocacy of it may be a legitimate source of pride for Indians. No doubt the prime minister and his men see in this an impeccably ‘Bharatiya’ practice untouched by the West, as well as desired by it. By branding it as his favourite form of exercise, Mr Modi has erased all discussion about its possible origins, goals, history of transmission and practices allied to it in other countries, thus turning it into the Bharatiya Janata Party’s special mode of achieving health, discipline and, of course, regimentation. The Union government reportedly spent Rs 140 crore on Yoga Day from 2014 to 2019. It is hardly surprising that the Olympic Games should be the final goal. Does India then hope to gain fame in yoga as ‘structured sport’ since it does so poorly in most competitive events? That would be unsurprising too. What does surprise, however, is that the devotees of yoga should turn it into a competitive sport, thus demolishing the basis of the practice. Yoga, even in its most popular form, seeks a balance of mind and spirit through the balance of the body; it encourages inwardness in a search for harmony with the rhythms of the universe. It is not, at least in Old Indian thinking, a matter of competing physical accomplishments. But this is New India. It is obviously more important that India win the Olympic gold in yogasanas. And that more public money be spent to reach this goal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||Yellow fever: promise of 'Sonar Bangla'||Civilization has been under the spell of the yellow metal since time immemorial. The myth of the city of gold — El Dorado — refuses to fade away. Politicians — members of the Bharatiya Janata Party are a case in point — are also in the habit of talking of a golden past or, when elections come calling, promising a golden future to the people. So the Union home minister’s vow to turn Bengal into Sonar Bangla within a stipulated time frame is only to be expected in this season of elections. Amit Shah’s contentions about Bengal’s challenges cannot be brushed aside. The flight of capital compounded by years of militant trade unionism as well as political corruption has blighted the prospects of an economic renaissance. Yet Mr Shah’s assurance needs to be taken with a pinch of salt: the BJP’s record of running India in the last six years is far from glittering. Under Narendra Modi’s benevolent vision, the nation’s slide on critical parameters has been steep and, hence, worrying. India clocked its highest ever unemployment rate with the BJP at the helm; per capita income is expected to fall even below that of Bangladesh; the deepening agrarian crisis, manifest in the farmers’ protests, remains unresolved; radical experimentation in the name of reform — the demonetization exercise is a classic example — has decimated the vulnerable segments of the economy. Social strain complements the nation’s economic decline. India’s plural, accommodative spirit has been weakened by a surge in majoritarianism. Equally discernible has been the inertia of critical institutions responsible for keeping an aggressive executive on a leash. Significantly, the BJP seems eager to replicate its template of division in its attempt to claim Bengal’s political crown. Even though he was evasive about the contentious National Register of Citizens, Mr Shah spoke about the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a controversial legislation, which has been spiritedly opposed by large segments of people in Bengal. The dissenting voices did not belong to minorities alone. The BJP’s is also hoping to gain political capital by raking up the issue of minority appeasement, yet another polarizing claim. Its promise to rid Bengal of corruption is a bit rich, given the fact that it has roped in defectors from the Trinamul Congress who are accused in multiple cases of financial irregularity. The BJP is hoping to strike gold in the state, but that need not assure Bengal of a golden future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
23-12-2020||Opinion||Rough edges on the red carpet||When Donald Trump turned down India’s invitation to be chief guest on Republic Day in 2019, some of us wondered if New Delhi was having a bad hair day — or if it had escaped one, given the strange orange plume the American leader wears. Trump eventually visited in February this year and, now, the bad hair jokes have returned. The British prime minister, Boris Johnson, Trump’s hair twin, has accepted India’s invitation to attend the January 26 celebrations next year as chief guest. But the Narendra Modi government will be thrilled if that’s the substance of any tough questions it faces over its choice of Johnson as chief guest. Johnson will be the first British prime minister to oversee Republic Day since John Major in 1993. But unlike Major, who visited early in his term as prime minister at a time the West was still celebrating the demise of the Soviet Union, Johnson will arrive days after the United Kingdom would have left the European Union in less than ideal circumstances, after rushed negotiations that might or might not yield a deal. Back in 1993, it was India that was on the defensive: it was facing global criticism after the demolition of the Babri Masjid in December 1992, and Mumbai (then Bombay) was burning in the communal clashes that followed. This time, the roles are reversed. That means India might have a chance of resetting the relationship with the UK on terms that are more favourable to it than has been possible for several years. For starters, Britain will be looking to show that it still has economic friends and will be keen to demonstrate progress on a trade deal with India. New Delhi, too, would love a quick trade bargain with the UK — or at least public messaging that suggests that such a deal is on the anvil. It would enable the Modi government to put pressure on the EU, soon after the latter’s divorce with Britain, to agree to some of India’s demands on the trade pact that Brussels and New Delhi have been discussing for more than a decade. All good then, right? Hold on. Last week, we got a taste of how things could unravel when the British foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, met the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, to discuss plans for the Johnson-Modi summit that’ll be held on the sidelines of Republic Day. Raab cited the large and influential Indian diaspora in Britain to raise London’s concerns over the ongoing farmers’ protests in India. Johnson’s Conservative Party benefited from enhanced support from the Indian community in the UK in the last general elections in 2019. It was a thinly veiled secret that outfits and individuals associated with Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party worked to rally support for the Tories and against the Labour Party after leaders of the latter criticized New Delhi’s actions in Kashmir. Yet whipping up pro-New Delhi sentiment on Kashmir is one thing; turning that into anti-farmer views among the diaspora is a far tougher — if not impossible — challenge, given the significant family ties many in Britain have with Punjab in particular. If the farmer protests continue through January, they could cast a shadow of uneasiness over Johnson’s visit. So far, the government has done everything in its power to alienate the protesting farmers, and nothing to genuinely resolve the crisis. But the protests are only one potential headache that could upend the thinking behind inviting Johnson. India wants the UK to restore its earlier approach of welcoming working immigrants. But that will not be easy for a Johnson government to justify at a time anti-immigrant sentiment is among the bedrocks of the opinion backing Brexit. The biggest challenge for India, though, might be more long-term. The British prime minister’s popularity ratings, which spiked in April after he suffered from Covid-19 and recovered, have crashed in recent months, according to polling group, YouGov. That’s hardly surprising given the Johnson government’s bumbling negotiations with the EU over a potential Brexit deal. Johnson and his team have met EU leaders, including the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, multiple times in recent days to try and hammer out an agreement. So far, they’ve had no meaningful breakthrough and while Johnson has tried to prepare the British public for the possibility of no deal, European leaders such as the French president, Emmanuel Macron, have also taken increasingly tough postures against London’s demands. In the event that Britain leaves the EU without any deal at the end of this year, public sentiment in the UK against Johnson might grow further. Though he won a comfortable victory in the general elections of 2019, questions will grow over his political future. And if Johnson stands politically weakened, his ability to move forward with any deal struck with India would diminish substantially. Much as governments like to convince people that they’ve got everything under control, luck often deals its own cards. Trump’s loss in the US election is a reminder that investing too heavily in individuals with an insecure future — as Modi did with the US president in the months leading up to the November vote — can be dangerous. New Delhi will hope its second Republic Day gamble in as many years pays off. We might know as soon as January 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
23-12-2020||Opinion||History at the gates||The remaking of a nation is typically a process that unfolds at a glacial pace over time. A few bellwether events however stand out, both as catalysts of change as well as signs for posterity on how the nation was remade. Siraj-ud-Daulah’s defeat at Plassey, the reconstruction amendments after the American Civil War abolishing slavery, Nelson Mandela’s release from Robben Island are some events to which historians have attributed special significance in shaping the future course of history of their respective nations. Whenever India has a government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party, there is a narrative that the nation, founded on values of the freedom movement helmed by the Indian National Congress, is being slowly remade. Central to such a narrative is the cultural project of the BJP — asserting the rightful place of Hindus in the nation. That project is well-documented and such a national remaking is core to the raison d’être of the BJP. But with the passage of the three farm laws in Parliament, the prime minister has demonstrated a definitive intent to remake the nation economically. Sure, there have always been murmurs that BJP governments have traditionally been best friends of big business. But that is something that can be truthfully said of all major political parties in post-liberalization India. Yet, the farm laws are the boldest and most candid declaration by the BJP that New India will not be founded on a mai-baap sarkar but rather with the hard work of the individual farmer supplemented by the enterprise of the private sector. This is as bold as it is surprising. At its core is a seriously contested economic argument for farmers’ prosperity. That Indian agriculture is not as productive as it can be is an acknowledged fact. Small land-holdings, the lack of credit available to farmers, outdated farming methods, scores of middlemen and a skew towards paddy and wheat owing to selective government price support all contribute to this state of affairs. The new laws choose to address one dimension of the problem — the dominant role of the State in Indian agriculture. To this end, one of the new laws ends the monopoly of the government’s agricultural produce market committee that runs the local mandi. It gives farmers and traders the freedom to trade in any trade area, including on an electronic platform. The second law, in tandem, empowers farmers to enter into contracts directly with buyers bypassing middlemen who are an endemic feature of Indian agriculture. The third law, an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, is most revealing — it limits governmental intervention in the agricultural market only in extreme cases of war, famine and so on. This, as the government has been at pains to point out, has nothing to do with the minimum support price for paddy and wheat, which is not provided under the Essential Commodities Act. Nonetheless, it is a clear sign of the determination of the government to be a facilitator rather than an active price-setter and regulator of Indian agriculture. This is a distinct vision of how Indian agriculture can grow from the State-supported model in vogue at present. Central to this vision is the growth of new agri-businesses, which are expected to compete with State procurement processes. Whether such businesses will lead to greater benefits for farmers or worsen their lot is a hypothetical question that can only have hypothetical answers at present. But the bottom line is this — the new laws provide options to farmers to either sell to the State in the mandi or to private producers outside it. Simultaneously, it opens up the sector to a range of private actors whose enterprise is expected to make the system more productive. This combination of individual choice and invitation to enterprise is not primarily an economic argument for reform — it is an ideological one. Economic libertarianism of the kind that underlies the farm laws — remove the State from the equation and let the market show the path to prosperity — has largely been tangential to traditional Indian right-wing thought. This conflation between the cultural right and the economic right in recent times is a fundamentally American idea born out of a distrust of the State and the championing of limitless individual freedom. The Indian right has never shared this distrust of the State or advocacy of individual liberty. In fact, with the exception of the Swatantra Party, the major intellectual strand of right-wing politics in India, the Jana Sangh and now the BJP moored by the philosophy of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has been that of cultural conservatism together with a swadeshi State that plays a dominant role in the economy. In some senses, that is classic conservative politics — as Eric Kaufmann has recently written, “Most voters lean left on economics and conservative on culture but no one represents them.” This is whom the BJP has traditionally represented, more so with the diminishing political smartness of the Left in India. But with the farm laws, the BJP has taken a distinct libertarian turn on economics. As a party avowedly resolute about reform, it could have chosen to reform Indian agriculture in a number of ways — conclusive land titles for agricultural landowners would have been a game-changer that would increase the creditworthiness of farmers in one stroke. That it chose to whittle down the role of the State, something that it hasn’t done despite indications that it would do so to the MGNREGA or to the National Education Policy, is an unraveling of the traditional understanding of the Indian right. From a culturally conservative party, it is also becoming the Indian variant of the Republican Party of the United States of America — imbued by the doctrinaire belief that small government is the way to prosperity. This is why the protests against the three farm laws enacted by the National Democratic Alliance government are the sternest test yet of the resolve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of remaking the nation. The protests against the CAA-NRC, almost a year to the day, despite their largescale support and longevity, made no headway in their objectives. This was unsurprising given the focus of the protests was support for minority groups that are politically unimportant for the BJP. But the farmer protests are an entirely different kettle of fish. After all, the kisan in traditional political terms is the annadata, to be given free electricity and exempted from payment of taxes. Electorally, given that agriculture is the primary source of livelihood of 58 per cent of the Indian population, the vote of the farmer is the holy grail. When faced with such largescale farmer protests, the prime minister was quick to offer compromises ‘with folded hands and bowed heads’ — clause-by-clause readings, amendments and assurances that the MSP would not be touched. Only time will tell whether this is smart politics to fulfil his new economic vision or an unraveling of the vision itself. Each of the prime minister’s offers demonstrates the knife-edge the nation is on at present. In their resolution lies the ultimate answer on whether the farm laws will be a bellwether event in the remaking of the Indian nation or simply yet another footnote in the glacial changes always afoot around us. The Singhu and Tikri borders are no longer mere outposts — they are the sites where history is being written. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy.Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-99
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||State cabinet clears farmers’ loan waivers and crop insurance||The state cabinet approved several farmers’ welfare measures, including a Rs 2,000 crore farm loan waiver scheme and a crop insurance scheme with an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore on Wednesday, days ahead of the Hemant Soren government’s first anniversary on December 29. State cabinet coordination secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh told the media, “Loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 to small and marginal farmers will be given under this scheme. An application fee of Re 1 has been fixed for farmers. The waivers will be sent to farmers through direct benefit transfer.” He said there are around 12.93 lakh bank accounts with pending loans to the tune of Rs 5,800. Of these, 9.87 lakh accounts are active while the rest have been written off as NPAs. “Around seven lakh farmers are likely to benefit in the first phase,” Singh said. The cabinet also agreed to roll out Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana (a farm insurance scheme) for which an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore was approved. Singh said that so far, insurance companies were being roped in to handle the scheme but even after hefty premiums being paid by the government and farmers, the returns were negligible in the event of crop damages. “For example,” he said “in 2016, a total of Rs 153 crore premium was paid but the insurance companies had paid a meagre Rs 29 crore to farmers post crop damages. In 2017, of the Rs 226 cr premium, only Rs 13 cr was paid back. Hence, the government has decided to run its own insurance scheme for crop losses for which Rs 100 crore has been sanctioned initially,” he said. The state government will also roll out CM Pashudhan Yojana to promote animal husbandry to increase farmers’ incomes. For the current fiscal, the cabinet sanctioned Rs 154 crore out of a total outlay of Rs 355 crore. In all, over two dozen proposals were taken up at Wednesday’s meeting. To encourage tribal students to pursue higher studies, the cabinet also gave its nod to a new annual plan to fund the overseas education of 10 SC/ST students. “A few courses and universities across the globe have been identified where students can opt to pursue master’s degrees or Phd/Mphil. The scheme will cover tuition fees, cost of visa, a portion of maintenance costs,” Singh said. The cabinet also okayed the setting up of two additional special CBI courts for hearing chit fund related cases. District courts will also come up in Hazaribagh, Dumka, Daltonganj and Chaibasa, in addition to Dhanbad and Ranchi for hearing cases against MPs and MLAs. To curb overpricing of medicines, the cabinet approved the setting up of Jharkhand State Pharmaceutical Price Monitoring Unit. “It’s job will be to keep a tab on instances of overcharging of medicines against its approved prices,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools form CyberPeace Clubs to educate students on cyber safety||Dayanand Public School and Gulmohur High School have become the first two schools in Jamshedpur to form a CyberPeace Club that aims to make children involved in cyber safety activities. The CyberPeace Clubs are handheld by the CyberPeace Foundation, an award-winning civil society organisation that aims to form student and faculty-driven task forces across the country for the welfare and growth of children in the virtual space. It aims to bridge the gap revolving around the protection of children online and enabling them with knowledge that will help them combat threats and risks. The clubs have been formed as part of a joint initiative involving Whatsapp and the CyberPeace Foundation. The initiative has also trained school students on online safety. In Jharkhand, 3500 students from 13 CISCE and CBSE schools were trained between September and December. Vineet Kumar, founder and president of CyberPeace Foundation, explained the role of CyberPeace Clubs in schools and how there will be more engaging activities that will make students aware of cyber safety. "It is high time schools should have ambassadors who can take forward the vision of a safe cyberspace not just within institutions but beyond them," he said. Rachit Ranjan, who represented Whatsapp, appreciated how teachers have adapted to the situation and have tried their best to make education reach every student. "I thoroughly enjoyed the session. This is a world that is going to impact students. Thus, it becomes important to equip yourself to understand the benefits and pitfalls of social media," said Ranjan. On Wednesday, the CyberPeace Club of Dayanand Public School organised an online intra school debate on the topic 'Social media is responsible for aggravating mental and emotional health problems'. Students of Dayanand Public School spoke for and against the motion arguing how a balanced social media life would not affect health while excessive use leads to serious psychological issues. The hour-long webinar was attended by school principal Swarna Mishra; a member of the school managing committee Rajiv Talwar; founder and president of CyberPeace Foundation Vineet Kumar and Rachit Ranjan from Whatsapp. Teachers from the school also attended the webinar. "This is a good initiative which is the need of the hour. We hope to organise a lot more activities in the future," Mishra said. On Dec 19, Gulmohur High School also organised an orientation of CyberPeace Club where teachers discussed future plans of the club with students. The school has planned a slogan writing programme in the upcoming months as a part of the CyberPeace Club. "CyberPeace Club will definitely help all stakeholders to understand the importance of cyber literacy, a must in today's digitally transformed world. We are sure that with the Club functioning, our students will be better equipped and safe to handle worldwide web," said the principal of Gulmohur High School, Priti Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Decomposed body of security guard found after three days||The decomposed body of a 45-year-old security guard was found lying in a pool of blood on Wednesday morning, at the basement of an under-construction mall in Bistupur. The guard, identified as Jaiprakash Singh, a resident of Road No 32 in Adityapur, was missing since Sunday. This led his wife Abhilasha Singh to lodge a missing person report with the Bistupur Police Station on Monday. Jaiprakash’s body was found in the morning at the basement of the mall belonging to Tata Steel Infrastructure and Utility Company (TSIUC), earlier called Jusco. The security guard had a grievous injury on his head, which is being considered as the cause of his death. His jaw was also ruptured, suggesting that the assailant had hit him hard in the head and jaw, leading to his death. A police team, led by Officer-in-Charge of Bistupur thana, Upendra Mandal, visited the spot located just beside the P&MHi-Tech City Centre Mall, on Outer Circle Road in Bistupur. “We have kept all option open regarding the death of the security guard, but prima facie it appears to be a case of murder.  We have sent the body to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem.  Following an autopsy report the matter will get further clear,” Mandal said. On further query, he informed that there was a gap on the ground floor just above the basement where the body was found. This arises a suspicion that the victim might have had a fatal fall. “But had it been a fall, then there must be injuries elsewhere of the body and not just in the head and the jaw. This is why we are inclined to consider it a case of murder,” the officer said while talking to The Telegraph Online. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Arvind Kumar, who also visited the spot, said that they are finding out whether the deceased security guard was alone on duty. “We are finding out whether any other guard was on duty along with Jaiprakash Singh. If it is the case, we will interrogate them regarding the circumstances under which the victim died,” he said. The family members and relatives of the security guard had created ruckus at the under-construction mall after reaching there after they got to know about the death. His wife, who is the mother of three minor children, has demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh from the security agency and a job at the Tata Steel Infrastructure and Utility Company. “My husband was the only earning member of my family. Since he was murdered during duty on the premises of the mall, the security agency must pay Rs 10 lakh as compensation and the TSIUC must provide me a job so that I may run my family,” Abhilasha Singh said. The under-construction mall, where the security guard was found dead, has been lying incomplete since the past seven years due to a legal tangle with the state government over the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Santa Claus comes to coal town with masks ||A group of youth from Jharia, engaged in social work, on Wednesday carried out a unique mak-distribution drive at different squares of Dhanbad posing as Santa Claus to create awareness regarding Covid-19 guidelines. The drive began at around 10 am from Chhai Gadda locality, a slum situated in the backside of the Dhanbad Railway Station. The volunteers of the organisation, Samadhan, led by its founder Chandan Singh, celebrated Christmas by cutting cakes and singing carols. More than 500 masks were also distributed among the residents during the time. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the programme, Singh said, “We used three 20-pound cakes, which were provided to us by Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police, Aseem Vikrant Minz. The children were quite happy at our initiative.” Talking about the police officer, Singh added, “During his earlier stint as Dhanbad Superintendent of Railway Police, Minz participated in one of our free education drives in different places. In Chhai Gadda, he occasionally used to take classes and still leaves no opportunity to look after the children here.” Chhoti Kumari, the 12-year-old daughter of a rickshaw puller expressed her happiness over the Christmas celebrations. “It was a very special day for us. We were provided with masks for ourselves and our families and Chandan sir explained in detail about the advantages of using them to check the spread of Covid-19.” Rahul Kumar, a volunteer of Samadhan, shared how the organisation celebrates Christmas. “Last year, a Hungarian IT professional, who was visiting India with his colleague during this time, came to one of our schools -- Shahid Pandey Sanskarshala -- at Chhai Gadda. They both distributed cakes, chocolates and soft drinks among the children.” After the programme at Chhai Gadda, the team visited the Bank More locality, posing as Santa Claus. There, they distributed another 500 masks to pedestrians and commuters, urging them to follow Covid-related protocols. The same drive was carried out in the City Centre and Randhir Verma Chowk areas of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Morning fog slows down traffic on Ranchi-Jamshedpur highway||Several places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Bokaro, woke up to a foggy Wednesday morning. The shallow fog reduced surface visibility to 800 metre in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas at around 6.30 am and to 1,000 metre in Ranchi and Bokaro. Several other places in southern and central Jharkhand, including adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Khunti, witnessed moderate fog which reduced the surface visibility to below 1,000 metre after sunrise at 6 am. A blanket of shallow fog descended on the steel city and nearby areas soon after sunrise and cleared only after 9 am.  Those manning the local IMD observatory said visibility in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas was reduced to around 800 metre. The visibility on NH-33 between Ranchi and Jamshedpur was reduced to less than 800 metre between 6 am and 7am, slowing down morning traffic. Visibility of around 800 metre was also reported from several places of the Kolhan region, including Chaibasa, Manoharpur, Chandil and Ghatshila. The shallow fog took a toll on long-distance buses arriving or departing from Sitaramdera bus terminus in Jamshedpur. Buses started and reached late. Streetlamps in Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) command areas were kept on in Mango (Jamshedpur) and several places in Ranchi till around 8.30 am. However, no train delays were reported in Tatanagar or Ranchi due to the fog. An official at Birsa Munda International Airport in Ranchi confirmed that flight services remained unaffected. "Had the surface visibility been below 1000 metre it would have hit flight services," explained the official. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said they had issued an alert of shallow to moderate fog during early mornings across Jharkhand during the next 72-hours. According to Anand, in the absence of any strong system, night time radiative cooling resulted in formation of shallow fog in several places. Calm wind coupled with abundant surface moisture created favourable conditions for shallow fog, he explained. Minimum readings witnessed a rise due to the shallow fog on Wednesday. Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded a minimum temperature of around 8 degree Celsius against Tuesday's 7 degrees.  Wednesday’s minimum temperature in the capital was two notches below normal. In Jamshedpur, the night reading witnessed a one-degree rise from Tuesday's 8 degrees. Wenesday’s minimum reading in the steel city was two notches below normal. Minimum readings also witnessed a slight rise in Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj and several other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town residents face problems as auto strike enters second day||Dhanbad passengers continued to face troubles on roads for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, as a strike launched by auto-rickshaw operators remained in force. Demanding a host of needs, including raising the minimum fare from Rs 5 to Rs 10, the unions had called for an indefinite strike on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, PK Chaudhary, a resident of Tapowan Colony in Dhanbad and a medical distributor, said that his workplace is 40 kilometers away from his residence. “I travel by bus from Govindpur to Topchanchi everyday. But due to the strike, it is difficult for me to travel to Govindpur, which is five kilometres away from my residence.” “The administration must intervene to end the crisis as common passengers are facing troubles,” he said. Regarding the demands of the drivers, he said, “Although I feel that some of the demands of auto drivers like allocation routes are justified, the demand to double the minimum fare is not.” Chaudhary also said if city buses were available, they would not have faced such issues. A Purana Bazar-based book trader Rajesh Gupta said that the lack of transportation will have an effect on the market as the movement of goods will also be restricted. “We will request the district administration to intervene to end the crisis at the earliest,” Gupta, a patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said. He also raised the issue of a large number of buses of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation being non-operational. “Auto-rickshaws cannot serve as the main mode of transportation. If cities like Cacutta and Delhi run so many buses, the government should also ensure operation of around 70 city buses provided to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation during 2010 under the Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission.” President of Jharkhand Pradesh Auto Chalak Mahasangh, Chhotan Singh said, “No concrete step is in sight on part of the administration to end the deadlock. If the situation continues we will intensify our protest to fast-unto-death from Thursday at Randhir Verma Chowk.” We will resolve the issue very soon as a delegation of protesters met me today. But since the issue is being traditionally addressed at the level of the Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, I have not intervened into it on my own,” said Chandan Kumar, ADM (Law and Order) of Dhanbad. Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad said, “Though no discussion has so far been held with the protesting auto-rickshaw operators, we expect a solution very soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||See how Champa and Rajni are beating the biting cold||Champa and Rajni, two domesticated female elephants at Dalma wildlife sanctuary, are beating the chill with jute jackets. With minimum temperature hovering around 6 degree Celcius at the elephant abode 30km from Jamshedpur, foresters wanted the jumbos to be comfortable. Bonfires are also being lit near the shades under which Champa and Rajni spend their nights. The foresters arranged large jute sacks from Jamshedpur and stitched them together to make “jackets” for the elephants. Trackers, primarily village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep tabs on the movement of elephants and other animals, stitched the sacks as per the size of the two jumbos. “The jackets are thick as four-five layers of sacks have been stitched together. Though the elephants live under a shade we thought of providing them extra relief from the biting cold,” a forester said. According to him, they were also paying attention to the diet of the jumbos. Apart from green vegetables, piping hot khichdi is also being served to Champa and Rajni. Jaggery is also on the daily menu, the forester added Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the elephants were comfortable and healthy. “It is very cold at the sanctuary. The jute jackets and bonfires have served the purpose,” he added. The mahouts take the jumbos for daily walks inside the sanctuary in the morning. They return late in the afternoon to have food under the shade. Both animals have bonded well with villagers and children, some of whom also feed them coconuts and bananas. Senior elephant Champa, a 50-plus jumbo, was freed from the clutches of beggars in Jamtara before being rehabilitated at the sanctuary in 2010.  Rajni, who turned 11 in October, was rescued from a well at Ichapur village in Seraikela-Kharsawan district the same year. She underwent treatment for her injuries at the clinic at Tata Steel Zoological Park before her journey to Dalma. Both elephants live at Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||More than 100 test positive in Ranchi in a day, state logs 209 cases||As many as 104 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday in Ranchi, the only district that reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand on the day, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi also accounted for nearly 50 per cent of the 209 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day. However, the district also reported 105 of the 246 Covid recoveries reported across the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. While recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, at least three more Covid patients – two in Dhanbad and one in Dumka – died during treatment, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per the bulletin, Tuesday's fatalities take the total count of Covid deaths in the state up at 1014. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per the latest government data, barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases. Giridih, Simdega and Pakur had less than 10 Covid patients on Tuesday. East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day, while four of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. As per government data, the total number of active cases in the state by the end of Tuesday was 1635 and at least 760 of them were in Ranchi. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 15,075 people and around 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 46.70 lakh people and tested 46.60 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state was 113407 and 110758 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.66 per cent against the national average of 95.60 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.20 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 425.44 days against the national average of 340.57 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||State table tennis selection trials to begin in Ranchi on December 25||The state table tennis selection trials for cadet, sub-junior, junior, youth (boys and girls) and senior (men and women) categories will be held at JSCA International Cricket Stadium in Ranchi from December 25 to 27. Keeping Covid protocols in mind, the Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association (JSTTA) is conducting the trials in singles category only. Plastics (including water bottles) are banned and players have been asked to show their ID cards issued by JSTTA to security personnel before entering the stadium, said state association general secretary Jai Kumar Sinha. “No events could be organised this year due to the pandemic. The selection trials will give an opportunity to paddlers to get back to action,” said East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association secretary U.K. Chatterjee. According to him, the Table Tennis Federation of India has scheduled the nationals at Sonepat and Indore in January. Twenty boys and girls from East Singhbhum will be attending the trials in the capital. They include  Anurabh Saha, Soumil Mahato, Ashmit Chouhan, Karan Raj, Mrinmaya Pradhan, PL Teja, Sai Akshay Suman, Sudhanshu Ranja, Vaibhav Sharma and Dinesh Rakshit. Archita Dey, Aadya Chouhan, Swastika Shukla, Samriddhi Shraddha, Anushka, Janvi Prasad, Khushi Kumari, Saniya Banerjee, Chandni Kumari and Shruti Mahananda are among the girls who will try their luck in Ranchi. Chatterjee said he was hopeful about the prospects of their paddlers getting slots in state outfits for different age categories. “We have promising players some of whom have the experience of competing in national competitions. We are sending talented boys and girls for the trials. We have adequate infrastructure at JRD Tata Sports Complex which provides a platform for paddlers to hone their skills under experienced coaches,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
