24-12-2020||Calcutta||Fill hearts with love, concern for the needy||God is ever longing for us. Man too longs for God eternally. God’s longing and our longing meet  in Jesus. In Jesus God became man to fulfil all these yearnings and lead us to heaven to be with him forever. Narrating the birth of Jesus, St Luke writes that (step father) “Joseph went up to Bethlehem (for the census) with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. While they were there, the time came for her to give birth. She gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn” (St Luke 2/7). We can take a look at our life in the light of this scene. First we look at helpless Joseph with Mary in pain out in that very cold, knocking everywhere but hears, “Sorry, no place”. It is the warmth of our hearts which God wants from us for the needy. In them, Jesus is knocking. What ought we do to him in the guise of the shelter less or helpless? Jesus was born among animals in the manger. The animals gave him company and warmth. He stoops to the lowest place to be born, coming quietly, as an infant. God stoops very low in total humility to defeat the pride of Satan to save us from sin. He wants us to be humble and serving. Also often it is the unexpected persons who come to our rescue than our friends. Similarly, let us also help those in difficulty. We see the angel appeared to the shepherds and said: “I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all”. The shepherds were outcasts. Being lowest and humble like Jesus, they receive the good news of salvation first. Like the shepherds let us be humble yet joyful, offering our  simple hearts filled with kindness, concern, love and hope in the dark world of today. A great company of angels appeared, praising God, “Glory to God in heaven and on earth peace to those on whom his favour rests”. These favoured ones are totally committed to God, are righteous,  at ease with God and others. That way they have deep peace of God in their hearts. Let us establish this peace to be God’s favoured. Pope Francis at Midnight Mass of Christmas reflecting on the birth of Jesus in Luke 2/7 tell us,“That holy night Mary gave us Jesus, the Light of the world. A simple story that plunges us into the event that changes our history forever. Everything that night became a source of hope. In the Child of Bethlehem, God comes to meet us and make us active sharers in the life around us. He offers himself to us, so that we can take him into our arms, lift him and embrace him. So that in him we will not be afraid to take into our arms, raise up and embrace the thirsty, the stranger, the naked, the sick, the imprisoned. In this Child, God invites us to be messengers of hope to those bowed down by the despair born of encountering so many closed doors. In this child, God makes us agents of his hospitality”. We look at this season. Christmas is the most wonderful time of the year when we have so much joys all around. Not just for Christians, for all for various reasons. But above all there is real joy to the world because Jesus is born anew bringing the Good News that God has become man in Jesus to save us from sin and selfishness. That is the real significance of Christmas, that is the cause of real joy. Real celebration is when we realise this and do our part to make it really happen in our lives. In this season God showers abundant joy and blessings on the world. But we need to do something, make a little effort, before we can personally experience this joy in our lives, in our families and in our world. How do we do that? Well, that is rather easy to explain but pretty hard to practise. Let us look at the word JOY. It is made up of three letters: first J, then O, and lastly Y. J stands for Jesus, O for Others, and Y for You. JOY therefore is: Jesus, Others, before You. To know joy in our lives we need to place Jesus first in everything. Secondly, we need to try to please others before pleasing oneself. Others before me, that is the recipe for joy. That is how we can convert the Christmas “joy to the world” into a personal “joy in my life” now and always. We know that those who practise J-O-Y enjoy peace, happiness and joy. But those who practise “self first” are finally always the unhappy and miserable ones, like the innkeeper who turned Joseph and Mary out in the cold or Herod who wanted to remain king by killing Jesus. On the positive side we have the outcast shepherds who leave everything to experience the Good News by coming in contact with Jesus, the Light that shone in darkness. They shared that Good News with all. We too are called to do likewise. Today more than ever, Jesus needs to be born in our life and in our world. Our world is darkened by human selfishness, pride and sin. We need Jesus to reconcile us with God and one another. We need a Bethlehem experience in our life. The joy of Christmas is not for a day or a season. It is an eternal joy, a joy that no one can take away from us because it is the joy of Jesus Christ himself made present in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us (St Paul to the Romans 5:2-5). The first to hear the good news of Jesus’ birth were not the rich, the powerful or the religious and political leaders but the ordinary, the insignificant poor. Jesus came to empower the powerless, to seek and save the lost, to heal the sick, to raise the dead, to show us God the Father’s unconditional love and concern for us in Jesus. Let us realise all these so that Jesus may be reborn in our hearts and lives at this Christmas. We keep alive in our hearts the words of Pope Francis, “May the cry of the little Child of Bethlehem shake us from our indifference and open our eyes to those who are suffering. May his tenderness awaken our sensitivity to recognise him in all those who arrive in our cities, in our histories, in our lives. May his tenderness persuade us to be agents of hope and tenderness to all people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Discounts for Covid patients applicable to all: Panel||All advisories issued so far by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission for treatment of Covid-19 patients will now be applicable to patients admitted in private hospitals with other illnesses, too, the commission’s chairperson said on Wednesday. Some of the advisories include providing discounts over the maximum retail price (MRP) of consumables and medicines and offering patients a cheaper version of a medicine if the doctor does not prescribe a specific brand. The commission also fixed the bed charge a hospital can bill on the day a patient is discharged. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the members of the commission at Nandan on Tuesday afternoon. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they had decided that all advisories that were applicable to Covid-19 patients would now be applicable to other patients as well. “We have so far issued 17 advisories and these were not meant only for Covid-19 patients. However, some hospitals thought so. We made it clear in today’s advisories that non-covid patients too will get these benefits,” said Banerjee. “Advisory number 19 says that all non-Covid patients will now be covered under the advisories,” added Banerjee. The commission had in August issued advisories asking private hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent discount on consumables. Consumables include gloves, personal protection equipment (PPE) and masks. The commission had also said that if hospitals were unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside. The commission had found that medicines and consumables were among the costliest components of a patient’s bill. The discounts provide patients and their families with some relief. The new advisory issued on Wednesday meant that the discount will now be available to non-Covid patients, too. An official of a private hospital said that offering discounts on the MRP on all medicines to all patients would mean a huge revenue loss for them. “MRP of a medicine is fixed by the Drug Controller General of India. A private hospital does not do anything illegal by charging the MRP because laws allow us to charge up to that price. We agreed with the discount proposal for Covid-19 patients since we are going through the pandemic,” the official said. “But offering a similar discount on all medicines and to all patients, even the ones who have opted for deluxe beds, will mean a good amount of revenue loss for us. The commission also needs to think about the sustainability of private hospitals.” One of the advisories issued in August said that bed charges should not exceed the March 1 rates for patients.That will now be applicable to non-Covid patients, too. Another advisory had capped the doctors’ consultation fee at Rs 1,000 a day if the doctor visited the patient once a day and Rs 2,000 a day if the doctor visited the patient more than once. The commission chairperson said a hospital would not be able to charge a patient an extra day’s bed charge if the patient was discharged within an hour of completing 24 hours’ stay at the hospital. “If the patient is released within the next one hour, no bed charge can be taken. If the patient is released between one and six hours, one-fourth of a day’s bed charge can be taken, for release between six and 12 hours half of a day’s bed charge can be taken and for release after 12 hours, a full day’s charge can be taken,” Banerjee said. The commission has also decided to set up a health hub where all facilities, from pharmacy to rehabilitation, will be available under one roof, Banerjee said. “We have requested Sugata Dasgupta from RG Kar Hospital’s critical care department to make a concept note and submit it to us in a month,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Seven injured after pick-up van overturns||A pick-up van carrying 29 people overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover injuring seven passengers, two of them critically, on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The passengers were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of a family member when the pick-up van lost control and overturned, the police said. The accident happened around 4.25pm near the east-bound ramp of the AJC Bose Road flyover, which connects it to the Parama flyover. Findings of a preliminary investigation by traffic cops suggest the Tata 407 in which the family was returning was travelling at a high speed and lost control metres ahead of the spot where the flanks towards the Parama flyover and the Park Circus Seven-point crossing bifurcates. “It is apparent that the vehicle was moving at a high speed and overturned near the spot where the flyover lands towards the Park Circus Seven-point crossing. Initially, we had thought that the driver was among the injured. But later we realised that he was missing,” said an officer of the traffic department. Hundreds of vehicles that were heading east on the AJC Bose Road flyover were stranded for nearly an hour after the accident. Traffic was affected on AJC Bose Road, DL Khan Road, Red Road, Park Circus and the city-bound flank of the Parama flyover. The EM Bypass-bound vehicles were diverted through AJC Bose Road and the Exide crossing, while vehicles headed for the city from the Bypass were diverted through the Park Circus seven-point crossing. The police said members of the Mahali family — who live at Bamunpara Lane near Palm Avenue — were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of an elderly member of the family when the accident happened. Of the 29 passengers, 14 were women. Seven of them have been admitted to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, the police said. The vehicle’s owner was contacted for the details and mobile number of the driver, whose last location was tracked down to a place near Tiljala on Wednesday evening. A case of rash and negligent driving, dangerous driving has been started against the driver, the police said. Senior officers in the traffic department said ideally all vehicles should slow down at turns and bifurcations on flyovers to avert accidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Dakshineswar Metro set to start in February||Metro trains should start running up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, an official said on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, a train undertook a trial run on the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch of the north-south Metro line for the first time. Once operational, the new Metro link will benefit thousands of office-goers, students and others from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas on the northern fringes. Ever since the Tallah bridge was closed last year (it has since been demolished), a large section of these commuters has been accessing Metro through Noapara station, which cannot be easily reached. Because of the diversions following the closure of the bridge, the bus routes to Dum Dum from BT Road have become more congested. It will take more than three years for the new Tallah bridge to come up. The 4.1km Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch on elevated tracks goes via Baranagar station. An air-conditioned rake left Noapara station around 10.30am on Wednesday. It made one round trip, reaching Dakshineswar station and coming back to Noapara. Metro general manager Manoj Josh and other senior officials of the carrier and represen-tatives of RVNL, the agency building the new stretch, were on the train. Joshi examined the stretch from the motorman’s cabin. “The trial run was smooth. We will conduct more trial runs as required. A final clearance from the CRS (commission of railway safety) will be needed before commercial services start on the route,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. A section of Metro officials had been eying a January launch of the Dakshineswar link. But a senior official of the carrier said commercial runs till Dakshineswar were likely to start in February. “Today was the first trial. Some last-mile work is being completed on the stretch. The signalling system is also being tested. Once the stretch is ready, we will invite the commissioner of railway safety for an inspection. The entire process should take a couple of months,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Drink swoop is back, 26 drivers booked in Calcutta||As many as 326 motorists were prosecuted on Tuesday night for violating traffic norms. Twenty-six of them were allegedly driving under the influence of liquor. Booking motorists or bikers for drink driving had stopped during the pandemic because breathalysers could not be used as a precaution against the coronavirus. The drive resumed on Tuesday night after a gap of nine months, without breathalysers, amid mild protests from motorists. The majority of the prosecutions for drink driving were reported from Park Street, Theatre Road, Loudon Street, Bentinck Street and Waterloo Street and from the Sovabazar and Golpark crossings, between 10.30pm on Tuesday and 1am on Wednesday. Sources said 26 people were prosecuted for drink driving. The drive is likely to continue, deputy commissioner (traffic) Rupesh Kumar told Metro. As many as 104 motorcyclists were prosecuted for riding with more than one pillion rider, while another 163 were booked for driving without a helmet. In the absence of breathalysers, the police on Tuesday night depended on their instincts to detect drunk motorists. “Instead of directly asking whether a motorist had consumed alcohol, we started a conversation by asking if all the papers (of the car) were in place. By carefully listening to how the person spoke, we tried to assess whether he was intoxicated. If there were any doubt, we asked motorists to accompany our men to hospital for an alcohol test,” said an officer posted in Ballygunge. Many officers posted on Theatre Road and Park Street faced resistance when cars were being signalled to stop. “A man who was driving an Audi said: ‘Oho, abar e-shob keno? Apnara e-shob keno koren? (Why all this again? Why do you do all these things?)’,” an officer said. Those who resisted going to hospital for an alcohol test were told that non-compliance would attract stricter sections of law. More than one motorist in several pockets of the city cited the common excuse of “pandemic-induced stress” after being caught driving in an intoxicated state. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if the alcohol content in his or her blood is found to be more than 30mg per 100ml of blood. Second and subsequent offences can attract a fine of Rs 3,000 and two years’ jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University VC quit threat after gherao||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told teachers on Wednesday night following another round of confinement of teachers by students: “In such circumstances, myself and my two Pro-VCs feel that we should not continue to remain in the office.” One of the two JU pro-VCs, Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, three deans and some senior teachers were gheraoed by the student leaders of the engineering and technology faculty till late Wednesday night after a discussion over restructuring the Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS) ended in a deadlock. JUMS is a software used to publish results online and it has faced complaints of errors. VC Das said the pro-VC and others had agreed to an in-person meeting after the student leaders promised that they won’t resort to confinement. “But what followed was a complete breach of trust,” VC Suranjan Das told teachers in his message. Aritra Majumder, chairperson, engineering and technology students’ union, said: “Nobody has been confined. The JU authorities are not listening to our grievances.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Woman killed in New Town hotel room||A woman in her twenties who had checked into a New Town hotel with a man on Tuesday night was found murdered in the room hours later, police said. The male companion was missing. The body of Chumki Ghosh, from Midnapore, was found wrapped in a blood-stained blanket on the bed when hotel officials entered the room using a duplicate key after waiting more than an hour for the guests to answer the door. The man had submitted an identity document at the reception that said his name was Amit Ghosh. “They had said they would check out at 7pm. When they did not, the hotel staff went to check and heard television sound from inside. But when no one responded to the knocks on the door for more than an hour, hotel officials used a duplicate key to enter the room. They found the body on the bed, wrapped in a blood-stained blanket,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar police. CCTV footage from the hotel showed the man had left around 4pm. The police said a broken liquor bottle, suspected to be the murder weapon, was found in the room. A note in Bengali that read “Toke ami marte chaini, marte badhdho holam (I did not want to kill you, but had to)” was also found there. The police have summoned the woman’s husband. “Marks all over the body suggest she tried to resist the killer. There were multiple stab wounds,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Hunt hard for oxygen cylinder in Calcutta||The Covid-19 pandemic and a rise in the incidence of lung diseases during winter have resulted in a demand for oxygen cylinders this December that is higher than other years, said suppliers and home healthcare service providers. A 74-year-old woman of Ballygunge Place, who has survived a cerebral stroke, needed oxygen support last week. Her daughter said she approached several pharmacy stores in the area but was unable to hire a cylinder. “My mother’s hemoglobin level had dropped and she needed oxygen support. Since 9am I had been trying to get an oxygen cylinder. I approached several pharmacies in and around our locality but could not get one. Then I approached a nursing home in the locality, but there, too, no cylinder was available for rent,” said the daughter. She got an offer to purchase a cylinder for Rs 12,000, which she did not accept. “Finally I got a cylinder in the evening,” she said. Pharmacies that stock oxygen cylinders in bulk and home healthcare service providers said the demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators, a device that concentrates the oxygen from gas by removing nitrogen, have been in high demand since the Covid-19 outbreak. “The demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators had increased compared with last year. Since the second week of November, it has gone up even more. Many elderly people who don't have Covid are in need of intermittent oxygen support,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare in Calcutta. On Wednesday, he said, all 100 oxygen cylinders and concentrators of the service provider were engaged on rent. “The sale of oxygen concentrators has gone up this winter compared with previous years. Earlier, we would sell two to three concentrators a month. But in November we sold 15. The sale in December is likely to be the same,” Bhattacharya said. Life Care, a pharmacy on Hazra Road that provides oxygen cylinders on rent, said the demand was very high. The store has 200 cylinders, each containing 1,320 litres of oxygen. “On an average we have 20 cylinders in our stock every day and the others are given on rent. Now, more than 15 cylinders are being hired by customers daily, which is much higher than what it used to be last year,” said an employee of the store. “Earlier, we had to refill cylinders once a day, but now on some days we have to refill twice.” Doctors said Covid-19 and winter were the two factors responsible for the spurt in demand. “Government guidelines say a Covid patient admitted in hospital and requiring oxygen support should be released only if the person is off oxygen for 72 hours. But in many cases, where the patient has underlying conditions like asthma or COPD, we are advising them to keep an oxygen cylinder at home for at least a few weeks,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an expert in infectious diseases and member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “In addition, this time of the year many people suffering from COPD or other pulmonary diseases need oxygen support because of a rise in the air pollution level.” Also, many nursing homes that do not have piped oxygen supply are hiring cylinders more than before because of Covid patients being admitted there. Life Line Diagnostic Center Cum Nursing Home on Wood Street would require cylinders for around 20 patients daily. The number has gone up to 30 since August, said an official of the nursing home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Madhyamik and HS exams put off to June||The Bengal government has accepted proposals from the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education that next year’s Madhyamik and Class XII board exams be deferred to June. Usually, Madhyamik (Class X) is held in February and the school-leaving exams are scheduled for March. “We received proposals from the board and the council about holding the exams in June. The government has approved the proposals and suggested that the schedule be fixed accordingly. If there is a change in situation, they will see to it,” education minister Partha Chatterjee said, while inaugurating a college in Behala. An official of the secondary education board said it had been proposed to the state government that Madhyamik be held from June 1 to 10. “The dates have been suggested assuming that the pandemic will continue over the next few months and the Assembly elections will be held in April or May,” the official said. The HS council has proposed that the exams be held in the second half of June. “The final dates will be announced by the board and the council in a day or two,” said a department official. The students who will write the board exams next year have not attended any in-person class since the third week of March because of Covid. An official in the school education department said they were working on a plan to reopen schools in mid-January for plus-II science students to attend practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||A Christmas unlike any other||Churches will have to restrict the number of the faithful praying on the premises and they are trying to find various ways to do it. One church has increased the number of services both on Christmas Eve and Christmas compared with other years and another is making use of the parish hall on the premises to have a Bengali Mass there. This Christmas is not like last Christmas and the challenge for most churches is to contain the number of people and yet allow most to pray and participate. “On one hand is the law and maintaining numbers and on the other is the faith and devotion of the people. We are trying to do our best by maintaining the distancing norms and taking precautions because many people might turn up during Christmas time,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish priest, Church of Christ the King in Park Circus. The Church of Christ the King will have the Bengali Mass in the parish hall and the English mass in the church on December 24. Several churches have asked people to register beforehand. “In less than a week’s time we had to close registrations because we had reached this year's capacity,” said Father Orson Wells, parish priest, Church of Our Lady of Vailankanni in Picnic Garden. The church will have six services on Christmas Eve, instead of the usual three; and six on Christmas, instead of the usual four. The church has a seating capacity of 400 and could easily accommodate 600 by placing extra chairs in previous years, Father Wells said. “This year, we are keeping it to 50-odd people per service and hence more services,” he said. “This year is unprecedented and so some of the churches are having to do things they have never done before,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. Some churches, like St Thomas’ Church on Free School Street, have blocked alternate seats to maintain distancing protocol. “We have blocked seats to maintain distance but simultaneously kept arrangements for chairs so that if people turn up, they can sit on the sides or in the courtyard,” said Reverend Shreeraj Mohanty, presbyter-in-charge of St Thomas' Church Free School Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 529 points to finish at 46,973.54||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 529 points on Thursday following gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent higher at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty surged 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Reliance Industries, ONGC, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Nestle India and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained upbeat and witnessed sharp rebound supported by financials, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Emerging possibility of Brexit trade deal led Asian markets higher including India, he said, adding that barring IT, all sectors contributed to the market rally. "As the outline of Brexit trade deal was reached, higher chances of Brexit trade deal led markets to trade higher. Also, fear of new coronavirus strain seems to be easing out now with select European countries opening borders for Britain," he said. He further noted that FPI inflow continues to remain as a key driving force the domestic equities, which is expected to sustain in the near term in the backdrop of weak dollar, soft monetary policies of global central bankers and fiscal stimulus in the US. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 536.13 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.48 per cent to USD 51.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 350 points in opening trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 355.23 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 46,799.41, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 109.25 points or 0.80 per cent to 13,710.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, Axis Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, Titan, IndusInd Bank, HDFC duo and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Infosys, Dr Reddy's Lab, TCS and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex rallied 437.49 points or 0.95 per cent to close at 46,444.18, and Nifty surged 134.80 points or 1 per cent to 13,601.10. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 536.13 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that Asian markets are trading positive as the outline of Brexit trade deal was reached. "Further, fear of a new coronavirus strain seems to be easing out now with select European countries opening borders for Britain. FPIs flow continues to remain a key driving force for domestic equities, which is expected to sustain in the near term in the backdrop of the weak dollar, soft monetary policies of global central bankers and fiscal stimulus in the USA. "Sustainability of recovery in key economic data and 3QFY21 earnings are likely to play important roles for domestic markets for the sustainability of premium valuations in the near term," he said. US equities finished mostly higher as investors monitored the progress of the coronavirus vaccine and chances of a revived economy in 2021. However, President Donald Trump's opposition to recent bills passed by Congress offered some discomfort towards the last session of trade. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.41 per cent higher at USD 51.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Apple CEO Tim Cook refused to take Tesla meeting says Elon Musk||Tesla CEO Elon Musk says he once considered selling the electric car maker to Apple, but the iPhone maker's CEO blew off the meeting. In a tweet on Tuesday, Musk said he reached out to Apple CEO Tim Cook “to discuss the possibility of Apple acquiring Tesla (for one-tenth of our current value). He refused to take the meeting”. Tesla’s market value is $616 billion, as of the close of trading Tuesday. One-tenth of that is $61.6 billion. Musk said he sought out the meeting with Cook “during the darkest days of the Model 3 program”, a reference to Tesla’s first electric car designed for the mass market. As recently as 2018, Tesla was struggling to meet its vehicle production goals and turn a profit. Tesla’s fortunes have changed since then. The auto maker is finally making money on a consistent basis after years of losses and continues to hit milestones for deliveries of its vehicles. Its shares have soared 665 per cent this year alone, making it the world's most valuable automaker and among the top 10 biggest US companies in the S&P 500 index, which Tesla entered on Monday. Musk’s tweet followed published reports suggesting Apple is working on developing its own electric cars. Apple declined to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty defy gravity for second straight session||The Sensex and the Nifty defied gravity for the second straight session on Wednesday as investors scooped up IT and FMCG shares amid a firm trend in the global markets. A recovering rupee and global drug makers’ assertion that their Covid-19 vaccines will work against a new coronavirus strain in the UK further shored up investor confidence, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex rallied 437.49 points, or 0.95 per cent, to close at 46444.18. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 134.80 points, or 1 per cent, to 13601.10. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 2.67 per cent, followed by Infosys, M&M, SBI, ITC, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, Bharti Airtel and TCS. Only four index components closed lower — Titan, PowerGrid, NTPC and HDFC, shedding up to 0.81 per cent. Global markets were largely positive after drug companies such as BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca exuded confidence that their Covid-19 vaccines will be effective against the new virus strain reported in the UK. However, gains were capped after US President Donald Trump hinted at vetoing the $900 billion economic aid package passed by the Congress due to the “ridiculously low” $600 aid per individual. All sectoral indices ended with gains. BSE realty, metal, IT, telecom, tech, FMCG and industrials indices surged as much as 3.97 per cent. In the broader markets, the BSE midcap and smallcap indices rallied up to 2.65 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.12 per cent to $50.14 per barrel. The rupee snapped its two-day losing streak to settle higher by 8 paise at 73.76 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Revision in DTH guidelines||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a revision in guidelines for providing direct to home services in the country under which licences would be issued for 20 years, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. He said the change in guidelines would also allow 100 per cent FDI in the DTH sector. While the commerce ministry had spoken of 100 per cent FDI in the DTH sector, the guidelines of the information and broadcasting ministry needed to be changed. Changes have been approved for 100 per cent foreign direct investment in the sector. Till now, the FDI was limited to 49 per cent, Javadekar told a media briefing. Trai was consulted in this regard, he said. Tata Sky on Wednesday said the government’s decision to grant licences to the operators for a longer 20 years would provide certainty to the industry. “We are grateful to information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar for resolving the long-standing impasse on the DTH Licence policy which will provide certainty to the industry,” Tata Sky managing director and CEO Harit Nagpal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Tata Motors trucks to cost more||Tata Motors on Wednesday announced a price hike across its commercial vehicles, effective January 2021. The steady rise in material and other input costs, impact of forex and transition to BS-VI norms, have cumulatively escalated the cost of manufacturing vehicles. Prices are expected to increase across the portfolio of small, medium heavy and light commercial vehicle and buses. The actual change in price will depend on individual model, variant and fuel type. Nissan India has also announced a price hike of up to 5 per cent across its models. The revised prices will be applicable across all available models for Nissan and Datsun, including the recently launched Nissan Magnite, effective January 2021. The Magnite was launched at an introductory price of Rs 4.99 lakh. From January, however, the price will be revised to Rs 5.44 lakh onwards. Nissan sells the Nissan Kicks and the G-TR under the Nissan brand. Under Datsun, it sells the Datsun redi-Go in 0.8 litre and 1 litre options, the Datsun Go and the Datsun Go+. Piaggio scooter Piaggio India on Wednesday launched its premium scooter Aprilia SXR 160 priced at Rs 1.26 lakh (ex-showroom Pune).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Honda shifts to Rajasthan to improve business efficiency||Honda Cars India Ltd (HCIL) on Wednesday announced a realignment of its manufacturing operations to improve business efficiency. It was earlier reported that the Japanese company has shut down production at its Greater Noida plant. The company confirmed this on Wednesday, stating that HCIL has decided to consolidate the manufacturing operations for vehicles and components at its Tapukara plant in Rajasthan with immediate effect for all domestic sales and exports. While it has stopped production, all head office functions, the India R&D centre and spare parts operations will continue to operate from the Greater Noida unit. Gaku Nakanishi, president and CEO, Honda Cars India, said, “Despite an uptick in sales in the last three months, the current market conditions remain unpredictable for the industry at large. The impact of Covid-19 has pressed us to strengthen our constitution, and to achieve the same, HCIL has decided to consolidate its manufacturing operations by making the Tapukara plant a unified manufacturing base.” HCIL continues to believe in the resilience of the Indian economy and hope for a quicker recovery of the market. India is extremely important market in Honda’s global strategy and HCIL is committed to bring its latest and advanced technology models including electrified vehicles in future.” HCIL’s Tapukara plant spreads over 450 acres with an installed production capacity of 1,80,000 units/annum and is an integrated manufacturing unit. With resumption of operations after the Covid-19- led lockdown, HCIL ramped-up its daily production volume to pre-Covid level from September 2020, and has been consistently witnessing monthly sales growth for the last three months. HCIL sales showed good recovery in the festive period and the company expects to sustain this sales momentum during the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Paper mills seek 25% duty hike||Domestic paper mills have sought a hike in basic customs duty on import of paper and paperboard to 25 per cent and have urged the Centre to review its free trade agreements. Both under India-ASEAN FTA and India-Korea CEPA, import of paper in India is currently at nil rates of duty. Under Asia Pacific Trade Agreement, India has extended import tariff concessions to China and other countries and offered 30 per cent margin of preference, reducing the basic customs duty from 10 per cent to 7 per cent on most grades of paper, industry body Indian Paper Mills Association (Ipma) said on Wednesday. In the last nine years, imports have risen at a compounded annual growth rate of 11.34 per cent in value terms (from Rs 3,411 crore in 2010-11 to Rs 8,972 crore in 2019-20), and 13.23 per cent in volume terms (from 0.54 million tonnes in 2010-11 to 1.64 million tonnes in 2019-20). Ipma said that the import policy on paper should be changed from ‘Free’ to ‘Restricted’ to curb unfair practices such as under-invoicing, mis-declaration and dumping. The association has also called for a Paper Import Monitoring System to check the dumping of paper. “Imports at concessional/nil rates from low-cost producing countries is discouraging domestic investment in capacity expansion,” said A.S. Mehta, president of Ipma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh to borrow more after reforms in urban local bodies||The Centre has allowed two states — Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh — to borrow additional financial resources of Rs 4,898 crore following reforms in urban local bodies, the finance ministry said on Wednesday. The two states have successfully completed the set of reforms required in the functioning  of ULBs as specified by the department of expenditure. “Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been granted permission to mobilise additional financial resources to the tune of Rs 4,898 crore through open market borrowings. Out of these, Andhra Pradesh has received permission for Rs 2,525 crore, while Madhya Pradesh has been permitted to mobilise additional Rs 2,373 crore,” the ministry said in a statement. Reforms in the urban local bodies and the urban utilities are aimed at strengthening them financially and to enable them to provide better public health and sanitation services. Economically rejuvenated ULBs will also be able to create good civic infrastructure, the ministry said. The Centre had in May enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their Gross States Domestic Product (GSDP). Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Plea to extend tax audit date||Tax professionals have urged finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend the last date of filing tax audit reports under the provisions of section 44AB till February 28. They have also pleaded for an extension of the date for filing tax returns for the assessment year 2020-21 in audit cases till March 31. N.K. Goyal, president of the Direct Taxes Professionals Association (DTPA), said the coronavirus pandemic had wrought havoc with businesses and tax assessees needed more time to grapple with the crisis without being burdened with the compulsions of compliance. The argument is that the government should cut these assessees some slack in a manner that will not impact tax collections for the fiscal year and ought not to affect the arithmetic for next year’s budget. The dates needed to be extended as many tax professionals had suffered from Covid-19, Goyal added. Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee, has also urged the government to extend the date for filing declarations under the Vivad Se Vishwas (VSV) scheme from December 31 till February 28. Jain believes that the scheme is still dogged by procedural infirmities. He claims that in many cases, the assessing officers have not been able to give effect to rectification petitions and appeal effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||RBI asks banks to raise capital||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has asked banks to take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity by raising capital, the central bank said in a statement on Wednesday. During a two-day meeting with the heads of banks, including the private sector lenders, the governor emphasised on the need to remain vigilant and make provisions against bad loans proactively. Das had held similar meetings in May as well. He had also met representatives of other financial institutions such as NBFCs and microfinance lenders. The RBI, in its statement, said Das held meetings with the MDs and CEOs of public sector banks and select private sector lenders on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, through video conferencing. The meetings were also attended by the RBI’s deputy governors. During the meetings, Das touched upon the current economic situation and emphasised on the importance of the banking sector to support the ongoing revival in economic activities, the RBI said. With specific reference to the financial sector, he highlighted the measures taken by the central bank since the onset of the pandemic to stabilise the economy and ensure financial stability. “With regard to the banking sector, he reiterated the need for banks to remain vigilant and take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity by raising capital and making provisions proactively,” the RBI said. Assessment of the current economic situation and outlook; and monetary policy transmission and liquidity situation too came up for deliberations. The release further said credit flow to different sectors, including stressed segments and MSMEs, was discussed. Other issues which came up for discussion included progress in the implementation of resolution framework for Covid-related stressed assets; progress in making the identified districts in states/UTs 100 per cent digitally enabled and improving grievance redress mechanisms. Digital lending caution The Reserve Bank on Wednesday cautioned the public not to fall prey to the growing number of unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps. In a release, the Reserve Bank noted that there have been reports about individuals/small businesses falling prey to such unauthorised platforms and apps which promise quick and hassle-free loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||Centre bid to check fake invoicing||The finance ministry has asked businesses with a monthly turnover of over Rs 50 lakh to mandatorily pay at least 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash as the Centre moves to check fake invoicing. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has introduced Rule 86B in Goods and Services Tax (GST) rules which restricts the use of input tax credit (ITC) for discharging GST liability to 99 per cent. “The registered person shall not use the amount available in electronic credit ledger to discharge his liability towards output tax in excess of 99 per cent of tax liability, in cases where the value of taxable supply ... in a month exceeds Rs 50 lakh,” the CBIC said. While calculating the turnover threshold, sales from GST exempt goods and zero rates supply would not be included. However, this restriction will not apply where the managing director or any partner have paid more than Rs 1 lakh as income tax or the registered person has received a refund amount of more than Rs 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of unutilised input tax credit. GSTR-1 curbs Further, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the GST rules restricting the filing of outward supply details in GSTR-1 for businesses that have not paid tax for the past periods by filing GSTR 3B. So far, until now, non-filing of GSTR 3B resulted in blockage of e-way bill but will now result in GSTR 1 blockage as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||Centre told to pay $1.2bn to Cairn||An international arbitration tribunal has directed the Indian government to pay $1.2 billion in damages to UK’s Cairn Energy — the second such embarrassing loss for the Modi government following the one to Vodafone in another arbitration matter just three months back. Both the cases were against a controversial 2012 retrospective tax legislation  that gave the Indian government the power to go after M&A deals all the way back to 1962 if the underlying asset was in India. The international arbitration tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and awarded Cairn damages of $1.2 billion plus interest and costs, Cairn Energy said in its statement. In September, the government had lost a $2-billion retrospective tax against Vodafone. The second loss is particularly jarring to the Modi government as it may have to make the payments to Cairn Energy at a time its revenues have got depleted by the coronavirus pandemic. The three-member international arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which also comprised a nominee of the Indian government, unanimously ruled that India’s claim of Rs 10,247 crore in past taxes over a 2006-07 internal reorganisation of Cairn’s India business was not a valid demand. India had “failed to accord the claimants’ (Cairn Energy’s) investments fair and equitable treatment” under the bilateral investment protection pact the nation had with the UK, the tribunal said in a 582-page order. The tribunal ordered the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. The government was asked to compensate Cairn “for the total harm suffered” together with interest and cost of arbitration, according to the order. The finance ministry said it would be studying the award in the arbitration case under the India-UK Agreement for Promotion and Protection of Investments invoked by Cairn Energy Plc and Cairn UK Holdings Limited in “all its aspects carefully in consultation with its counsel”. “After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies before appropriate fora,” it said in a statement. Cairn said: “The tribunal established to rule on its claim against the government of India has found in Cairn’s favour… The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and has awarded to Cairn damages of $.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which now becomes payable,” Cairn Energy said in a statement. “Perhaps the outcome shall lead to alterations in the decision to appeal against the Vodafone ruling, for which India was awaiting the award in this particular case,” Sonam Chandwani, managing partner at KS Legal & Associates, a law firm said. Chandwani said the government would have to shell out huge sums, in each of the two consecutive blows on Delhi. Consequently, India might be eyeing key changes in prevalent laws to mitigate the loss, including the withdrawal of the 2012 amendment to settle the tax disputes. Rishab Gupta, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said if the Centre wanted to challenge the award, it would have to do so in the Dutch courts as the seat of the arbitration was The Hague. The Indian government would have three months from the date of the award to file any challenge. “In the meantime, Cairn would be entitled to enforce the damages award world-wide against India’s assets, as long as those assets are not immune from enforcement,” Gupta said. Cairn had challenged the Indian government seeking taxes over an internal business reorganisation using the 2012 retrospective tax law, under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. Cairn Energy, which gave the country its biggest oil discovery, was in March 2015 slapped with a tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore over alleged capital gains it made by reorganising its India unit into a separate subsidiary for listing on local stock exchanges. Cairn Energy in 2010-11 sold Cairn India to Vedanta but held a small stake in the firm, which was sold by the tax department to partly recover the tax demand. In September 2020, international arbitration court ruled that the Indian government seeking Rs 22,100 crore in taxes from Vodafone using retrospective legislation was in "breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment" guaranteed under the bilateral investment protection pact between India and the Netherlands. This is the second loss the government has suffered in three months over the retrospective levy of taxes. In September, UK's Vodafone Group won an international arbitration against the demand of Rs 22,100 crore in taxes. Sources said the government had so far not appealed against the arbitration loss in the Vodafone case and the Cairn arbitration award may hasten a decision on it. The government, which does not have to pay any monetary compensation to Vodafone, had till December 24 to challenge the award before a court in Singapore - which was the seat of that arbitration. The government has to reimburse Vodafone 60 per cent of its legal costs and half of the 6,000 euros cost borne by Vodafone for appointing an arbitrator on the panel. Sources said the Government of India's liability came to Rs 85 crore in legal cost. Since coming to power in 2014, the Modi government has maintained it will not go in for more retrospective taxation, a move that was taken by the previous UPA regime. But it never withdrew the cases, which has been a cause of concern for international firms. Under the UPA regime, then-finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had proposed amending the Income Tax Act, 1961, with retrospective effect, with the aim of allowing the country to retrospectively tax cross-border transactions in which the underlying assets are located in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||India||ED attaches assets worth Rs 4,109 Cr in Agri Gold Ponzi scheme case||The ED has attached properties worth Rs 4,109 crore spread across various states in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged Ponzi scheme, the agency said on Thursday.  The case pertains to the Agri Gold Group of Companies. Three promoters of the group were arrested by the central agency on Tuesday.  "The attached assets include 2,809 landed properties, Haailand Amusement Park in the name of Arka Leisure and Entertainments Private Limited in Andhra Pradesh (spread over 48 acres) and shares of various companies, plants and machinery," the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said in a statement on Thursday.  The assets attached provisionally under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are located in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.  The accused can appeal against the ED order before the Adjudicating Authority of the PMLA within six months.  The ED initiated a probe into the matter after going through various police FIRs filed against the accused in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka for allegedly duping over 32 lakh investors after funds worth Rs 6,380 crore were collected from them.  The "main accused" are Avva Venkata Rama Rao, Avva Venkata S Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad -- the promoters of the Agri Gold Group of Companies who have been arrested by the ED.  The agency initiated the probe against the accused after going through various police FIRs filed against them in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka.  Investors from Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh were also duped through the Ponzi scheme, it had said.  "The scam was perpetrated by Avva Venkata Rama Rao through the Agri Gold Group of Companies. He had earlier worked in the Golden Forest CIS (collective investment scheme) fraud and having learnt the tricks of the trade in that scheme, had hatched a well-planned conspiracy.  "He, along with his seven brothers and associates, set up more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from the general public with a promise of providing developed plots/farm lands or withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term," the agency had said.  It alleged that the accused "engaged" thousands of commission agents to lure people with various schemes for a hefty commission and managed to collect Rs 6,380 crore from a total of 32,02,628 investor accounts.  "In the end, the gullible investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits. The group collected deposits illegally from across the country," the ED alleged.  The agency said the Agri Gold Group of Companies "did not obtain permission from the RBI to collect such deposits".  "The SEBI has reported that the business of the Agri Gold Farm Estates India Private Limited (a group company) was nothing but a CIS and ordered the company to stop taking further deposits and return the money to the depositors.  "Instead of complying with the directions of the SEBI in letter and spirit, accused Avva Venkata Rama Rao opened new companies and started collecting deposits in the names of the new companies on the pretext of real estate business with the help of an army of commission agents," it alleged.  The ED said its probe found that the accused "never developed lands sufficient to give plots to all the investors".  It had said Avva Venkata Rama Rao and his family went on a "siphoning spree", illegally diverted the public deposits and invested in myriad verticals and private companies, which were directly owned by their family.  The agency had said the accused "also set up companies abroad" and diverted large amounts of funds to offshore entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: BJP challenges Rahul Gandhi for debate on peasants ||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday challenged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for an open debate on what his party did for farmers’ benefits when in power and what the Modi government did for them. The BJP leader noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer Rs 18,000 crore to nine crore farmers on Friday, taking to a total of Rs 1.20 lakh crore the amount of money it has directly credited to their bank accounts so far. “This is merely the beginning. It will continue for 10 years and the total scheme is of Rs seven lakh crore,” he said, noting that all the Congress did when it was in power was to waive their loans amounting to Rs 53,000 crore. This money was not given to farmers but to banks against their loans, he noted. “I challenge the Congress and Rahul Gandhi for an open debate. I will prove how the Congress always ignored farmers' interests and how Modi empowered them. Farmers always demanded remunerative prices for their produce but the Congress never did so,” he added. The opposition party has been "unmasked" as it has become clear and it and its allies have been using farmers' shoulders to fire at the government and have been "instigating" them, he alleged. Gandhi had alleged earlier in the day that there is "no democracy in India" and it exists “only in imagination”. A Congress delegation met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the Centre's three agri laws. “The farmers (camping at Delhi borders) would not return till these laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws,” he told reporters after meeting the president. Javadekar made light of Gandhi's demand for a session, saying when Parliament is in session, Congress members obstruct and do not take part in a debate. He said the government's doors are always open for dialogue with agitating farmers, and it is confident that a solution will emerge. Taking a swipe at the Congress leader, Union Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that leave aside the entire country, even the Congress does not take seriously whatever Gandhi says. If Gandhi was so concerned about farmers, his party when in power could have done something for them, Tomar said. The Congress has always been against farmers, he alleged. In its 2019 election manifesto, Gandhi had said if the Congress came to power, the government would end the agricultural produce market committee (APMC), ensure trade without mandi tax, and promote contract farming, he said. “Now I want to ask Rahul Gandhi, if he lied in 2019 or is lying now. On this, the Congress has to come clear,” Tomar said. At a briefing at the BJP headquarters, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi took a swipe at Gandhi by calling him “perpetually young, disenchanted, frustrated and agitated” and said his “baseless and illogical” broadside against the government was in line with his nature. In a counterattack on the Congress leader over his charge that the government invariably dubs its critics as "anti-national", Trivedi said the opposition party had levelled a case of "treason" against former prime minister Charan Singh, a noted leader of farmers, and jailed him as well. BJP stalwart and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also been levelled with a similar charge by the party, he said. He asked why Gandhi is not agitating for farmers in Kerala as the state from where he is an MP does not have the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. “This cannot be accepted that what is good in Kerala is bad in Delhi,” he said, noting that food processing giants such as Nestle and Pepsico have been present in Punjab for many years. Farmers in other states should also benefit from similar private interventions in the farm market, he said. Union Minister of State Rattan Lal Kataria said the three farm laws are aimed at improving the overall economic condition of farmers. He said that the government is open to any discussion on the farm laws and shall address all concerns of farmers. “The government has been and shall always be concerned about the farmers' welfare and the three Acts are also aimed at the same. These laws will provide new rights and opportunities to farmers and further empower them in the long run,” Kataria said in a statement. Kataria criticised the opposition parties whom he accused of "trying to play politics over this matter" and termed them as "opportunists". Allaying fears among the farmers and strongly rejecting the "false propaganda" being spread on the discontinuation of MSP, the minister said the government has continuously increased the minimum support price for procurement of crop||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Karnataka scraps night curfew before implementation||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew its night curfew order, hours before it was scheduled to be implemented. The decision to impose night curfew for nine days from 11 pm to 5 am starting from Thursday was taken on Wednesday in line with the Centre's advice, amid concerns over a new COVID-19 variant spreading in the UK. In a statement, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said: "In view of the public opinion that there was no need for night curfew, the decision was reviewed and after consulting with cabinet colleagues and senior officials it has been decided to withdraw the night curfew," Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister appealed to the people to exercise self-restraint by wearing facemasks, hand hygiene and social distancing to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The Karnataka government had decided to impose a night curfew from December 23 night till January 2 across the state amid growing concerns over the new Covid-19 strain. “In view of the new stain of the COVID-19 virus and as per the advice of the Government of India and Technical Advisory Committee, it is decided to impose night curfew from today till January 2, 2021 between 10 pm and 6 am and will be applicable for the entire state. I request all public to cooperate to prevent and contain the new Covid-19 strain,” Yediyurappa had told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Farm unions invited to hold discussion with Centre again||The government on Thursday again invited protesting farmer unions for talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), which is out of the purview of three new farm laws. In a three-page letter written to 40 farmer leaders, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Vivek Aggarwal said, "I again request you that the government has been discussing all issues with an open heart and good intention to end the protest, and will continue to do so. Kindly suggest a date and time (for the next round of talks)." Previous five rounds of talks between the government and the unions have failed to break the deadlock with the farmers insisting on the repeal of the three laws and camping at various border points of Delhi for nearly a month now. Aggarwal asked the union leaders to provide details of other issues they want to discuss. The talks will be held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi at a ministerial level, he said. On MSP, Aggarwal said the farm laws have no connection with the price regime nor would have any impact on the procurement of farm produce at the fixed rates. This has been told to the unions in every discussion and it has also been made clear that the government is ready to give written assurance on MSP, he said. "Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions," he noted. Aggarwal's letter has come in response to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's December 23 letter, through which it had informed the government that the farmer unions are ready for talks but asked it to send a "concrete proposal in writing instead repeating rejected proposals around meaningless amendments." In the December 24 letter, the government reiterated that it is ready to find a "logical solution" on the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. Aggarwal said it is important to keep all doors open for discussion for the government. It is the responsibility of the government to listen to farmer organisations and farmers and the government cannot deny this. "The government with an open heart has held several rounds of discussion with farmer unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and urged them to choose a date as per their convenience for the next round of talks," he added. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and some other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Delhi ready to store, administer Covid vaccine to priority category persons||The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and provide Covid-19 vaccine to priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He said his government is all set to start the vaccination drive as soon as it gets the vaccine from the Centre, and registration is underway for people in three priority categories who will receive it first. "There are a total of 51 lakh priority category persons in Delhi -- three lakh health workers, six lakh frontline workers, and 42 lakh of those aged above 50 and those below 50 but having co-morbidities," the chief minister said at a virtual press briefing. Each person will be given two doses, and a total of 1.02 crore doses will be required in the first phase of vaccination in Delhi, he said. Currently, there is storage capacity for 74 lakh doses, and it will be scaled up to 1.15 crore within a week, Kejriwal said. Each person in priority categories is being registered to receive the vaccine. They will be informed through SMS and other means whenever their turn for vaccination arrives, the chief minister said. The necessary staff, officials and health workers have also been identified and trained for the vaccination drive. The sites where vaccination will be carried out is also being readied, he said. The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has improved significantly in the past few days, but all eyes are set on when the vaccine will be available and people will get rid of the virus, Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Priyanka, other Congress leaders detained on way to meet President||The Delhi Police on Thursday detained Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and other party MPs while they were staging a sit-in protest outside the party headquarters, citing violation of prohibitory orders. The Congress, in a bid to sharpen its attack on the Centre, staged a strong protest outside its office on Thursday, after  they were prevented from marching towards Rashtrapati Bhawan. Leaders, including Priyanka, had planned a protest march from the party office at Akbar Road to Rashtrapati Bhawan, where they were supposed to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and hand him over a memorandum signed by two crore farmers. The Delhi Police, however, imposed Section 144 CrPC around the Rashtrapati Bhavan as well as the Congress office. The protesting leaders were therefore detained and taken to Mandir Marg police station. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury later met Kovind and demanded the repeal of the three farm laws. Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting against these laws for almost a month now, at different borders of Delhi. “We told the president that the laws are anti-farmer and that farmers and labourers will suffer due to them. The government said these laws are in favour of the farmers, but the country is seeing that farmers are against these laws,” Rahul Gandhi said. “The farmers would not return till these laws are taken back. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and repeal these laws,” he told reporters after the meeting. The Congress leader said all parties of the Opposition were with the farmers. He alleged that the way the laws were passed without any discussion, consultations, they needed to be withdrawn. “We three people went to the president, but took the voice of farmers to the president, by taking 2 crore signatures of farmers,” he said, adding, “The farmers are in pain and are also dying, the prime minister will have to listen to them.” He claimed that the country will suffer if Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not take them back. “Anyone trying to take power from Modi will be dubbed as anti-national,” he alleged. Gandhi further alleged that only three-four people are running the system and said the party is fighting this. “It is an assault on the idea of India. The government is stopping our MPs from moving out of our office...There is no democracy in India, it is only in imagination, not in reality,” he charged. Earlier Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the government is committing a sin by name-calling the protesting farmers. “It is a sin to brand farmers as anti-nationals. If the government is terming farmers’ protest as sedition, it is a sin. The government is committing a sin by calling names to farmers,” she said. “The Government is arrogant, is doing only its own politics and has no respect for farmers or the jawans, who are the sons of farmers,” she charged. She also alleged that anyone speaking against this government is name-called and dubbed as anti-nationals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Tagore's vision forms crux of 'Atmanirbhar' initiative, says Modi||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore's vision is the essence of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission of his government for the empowerment of India and the world as he took forward his outreach to premier educational institutions of Bengal. Addressing a function to mark the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, the country's oldest Central University, he extolled the pivotal role it played in India's freedom movement and in furthering the cause of universal brotherhood. Visva-Bharati was declared a Central University and an Institution of National Importance by an Act of Parliament in 1951. "Gurudev's vision for Visva-Bharati is the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the path to India's development for the development of the world. It's a campaign for India's empowerment and prosperity, and through it, the prosperity of the word," he told the gathering through video conferencing from New Delhi. He said Tagore and the institution he founded not only strengthened the spirit of nationalism but also promoted inclusiveness that strengthened "vishva bandhutva" (universital brotherhood). The prime minister, who addressed the convocations and centenary celebrations of four universities--the Mysore University, Lucknow University, Aligarh Muslim University and Visva-Bharati--within a span of little over two months, dwelt on the role played by educational institutions in driving the freedom movement. He said from the "Vedas to Vivekananda", Tagore's thoughts reflected the collective thought of India, which was never introverted or exclusive. "His vision was that what is best in India the world should benefit from it, and India should learn from the good things they have. Now look at the very name of your university--Visva-Bharati....coordination and cooperation of India with the world," he said. The prime minister said Visva-Bharati was the embodiment of the vision and the hard work of the Nobel laureate and a "venerable source of constant energy to the country." He said, today, India was spreading Visva-Bharati's message to the world. "India is today leading the world in the field of environment protection through the International Solar Alliance and is the only country moving at a rapid pace to achieve the goals of the Paris Accord," he asserted. He recalled the role of the leaders of the Bhakti Movement like Guru Nanak, Kabir and Surdas, who sowed the seeds of the freedom movement long before it started in the 19th and 20th century. The Bhakti Movement, he asserted, strengthened India's spiritual evolution and collective consciousness. He said after the long period of the Bhakti Movement arrived Ramkrishna Paramhansa who discovered Swami Vivekananda who was a "blend of Bhakti (devotion), Gyan (knowledge) and Karma (action)." "The Bhakti Movement united us, the Movement for Knowledge gave us intellectual strength and the Movement of Karma, exemplified by the likes of Shivaji, Maharana Pratap, Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi and Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki gave us the spirit and courage to fight for our rights." He said at a time when India was fighting to win freedom from the colonial rule, the need was felt for an ideological movement and to prepare a new generation that could play a major role in rebuilding India. "Educational institutions and universities like Visva- Bharati and others gave a new direction to the freedom movement." Praising the institution for its remarkable achievements in varied fields like art and literature, and science and innovation, the prime minister urged its students to reach out to the artisans in the region to explore ways to find national and international markets for their produce. "That will make them self-reliant. Atmanirbhar Bharat is the initiative for India's prosperity which will aid in global prosperity," he said. Modi also spoke about the inclusive culture that was inherent in India's ethos. It came at a time when West Bengal is witnessing political violence in the run-up to the assembly elections and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has often dubbed his BJP a "party of outsiders." He said Tagore's elder brother Satyendranath Tagore, an ICS officer, was posted in Ahmedabad in Gujarat years before Independence and the Nobel laureate had penned two of his works there. Satyandranath Tagore's wife Gyanandini Devi, he was told, had popularised the way of wearing saree that would allow women to perform household chores with greater comfort. "I want all of you to strengthen this culture," Modi said. He wrapped up his speech with a line of Tagore's poem "Ore grihobashi khol dar khol (you who are indoor, open the door), and said limitless opportunities were open for those at Visva-Bharati outside. Modi also began his nearly 30-minute speech with Tagore's poem 'He vidhata, dao, dao, moder gaurav dao (O'Lord give me glory).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
24-12-2020||India||Aurobindo Pharma inks pact with Covaxx to develop Covid vaccine||Aurobindo Pharma on Thursday said it has inked a licensing pact with US-based company COVAXX to develop and commercialise a vaccine for Covid-19. The company has entered an exclusive licence agreement to develop, commercialise and manufacture UB-612, the first multitype peptide-based vaccine to fight Covid-19, for India and UNICEF, Aurobindo Pharma said in a regulatory filing. COVAXX is currently conducting a Phase 1 clinical trial for the vaccine candidate. "This vaccine has immense potential in eliminating shedding, and hence containing, the spread of the pandemic," Aurobindo Pharma Managing Director N Govindarajan said. As per the agreement, the Hyderabad-based firm has obtained the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and sell COVAXX's UB-612 vaccine in India and to UNICEF, as well as non-exclusive rights in other select emerging and developing markets. Aurobindo Pharma and COVAXX are partnering on clinical development, manufacturing and marketing of US firm's vaccine candidate, UB-612. It will manufacture the finished doses at its facilities in Hyderabad. The drug major has the capacity of manufacturing 220 million doses in multi-dose presentation and is building additional facilities to have a total capacity of nearly 480 million doses by June 2021. "During this global health crisis response, we must establish partners with the strongest capabilities, like Aurobindo, to prioritise the development and the delivery of our vaccine," COVAXX co-founder and CEO Mei Mei Hu said. As one of the leading industry players with a strong track record of execution and investment in vaccines, Aurobindo is the ideal partner to advance UB-612 in India and other emerging nations and to support COVAXX's mission of democratising health worldwide, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Urmila Matondkar does not repent her brief stint with Congress||Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, who recently joined the ruling Shiv Sena, has said she does not regret her brief association with the Congress and has high regard for that party's leadership. Talking to PTI, Matondkar said one-year of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been "brilliant", and taking care of people's welfare amid COVID-19 and natural disasters was a big task. Matondkar (46) also said she is a "people's actor" and will work hard to become a "people's politician". "I don't want to become a leader who just sits in AC rooms and tweets...I know what I have to do and how to do and I will keep learning," she said. Matondkar, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on Congress's ticket, joined the Shiv Sena on December 1 this year. Last year, she had joined the Congress in March and quit the party in September. On her brief stint in the Congress, she said, "I was in the party for less than six months and the Lok Sabha campaign for 28days gave me many good memories." Matondkar said she is not the person who would keep regrets in her heart. "If I did not spoke against the Congress even after quitting the party, I see no reason why I should do it now," she said. "My conscience was important for me," she said, referring to her decision to resign from the Congress. Last year, in a letter dated May 16, addressed to the Congress leadership, Matondkar had criticised the conduct of Sandesh Kondvilkar and Bhushan Patil, close associates of party leader Sanjay Nirupam. Matondkar, who had lost to BJP's Gopal Shetty from Mumbai-North Lok Sabha seat, said she didn't quit the party because of the defeat in the polls. She said she had also got an offer from the Congress for nomination to the state Legislative Council through the governor's quota. "I thought since I had quit the party, it would be improper to take a post it had offered," she said. On her joining the Shiv Sena earlier this month, Matondkar said "I got a call from Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's office, saying I could help in enhancing the standard of cultural affairs of the state by representing the field in the Legislative Council." "I feel one year of the MVA government headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was brilliant. The welfare of people amid Covid-19 and natural disasters was a big task," she said. Asked about her shift of ideology, Matondkar said the word 'secular' has been "lost in translation". "Being secular doesn't mean you have no belief in religion while being a Hindu doesn't mean you hate other religions. The Shiv Sena is a Hindutvawadi party. Hinduism is a great religion which is all-inclusive," she said. "My intention is to become a people's leader like I have been a people-made film star," the actor said, adding that she wants to work for people irrespective of their caste, creed and religion. The MVA government has recommended her name to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for a seat in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Koshyari is yet to take a call on the 12 names that the government has forwarded for nomination to the Upper House from the governor's quota. Matondkar said if her nomination to the Legislative Council under the governor's quota is not accepted, she would continue to work for people in whatever way she can through theShiv Sena's platform. "Irrespective of whether or not I become an MLC, I have started working as a Shiv Sainik...I did not join the Shiv Sena for any post. I had not joined the Congress to contest elections. I would have been happy campaigning for the party (Congress)," she said. Matondkar, who is a graduate in psychology, said she is regularly interacting with people, reading a lot and making notes. To a query about her film career, Matondkar said she had agreed for a web series and a film before the lockdown. "I am not sure if that will happen now," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload crosses 1.1 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,23,778 with 24,712 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 96.93 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,46,756 with 312 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 96,93,173 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.75 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 2,83,849 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.80 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,53,08,366 samples have been tested up to December 23 with 10,39,645 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 312 new fatalities include 93 from Maharashtra, 34 from West Bengal, 22 from Kerala and 21 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,46,756 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,969 from Maharashtra followed by 12,038 from Karnataka, 12,024 from Tamil Nadu, 10,347 from Delhi, 9,473 from West Bengal, 8,245 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,085 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,243 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers tie talks to concrete proposal||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Wednesday that it would require a concrete proposal to return to the negotiating table, not a repetition of the amendments that it had already rejected. The protesting farmers announced their decision to soldier on for the repeal of the three farm laws, squarely blaming the Narendra Modi dispensation for the continuing stalemate. “We request you to send a concrete proposal in writing, instead of repeating rejected proposals around meaningless amendments, so that it can be made into our agenda for resuming negotiations,” the SKM said in its letter to the agriculture secretary, underscoring that farmers are ready for talks and “waiting for the government to undertake these dialogues with an open heart, open mind, sincerity and honesty”. The letter is in response to the secretary’s open invitation on Sunday for talks at a time of their choosing. “The government is sending letters galore just to mislead the nation by saying that it is the farmers who are not agreeing. What is the point of sending us the very same proposal that we have rejected in successive meetings?” asked Gurnam Singh Chanduni of the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Urging the government to address the issue in good faith and with an open mind, the farmers have sought to expose the ill-intentions that are stark in the letter sent to them on Sunday. For starters, the farmers have taken offence to the agriculture secretary asking whether an earlier communication received from the SKM in the name of Darshan Pal was his individual view or that of all the organisations. That the secretary should have asked such a question when the communication had clearly specified that Pal was writing on behalf of the SKM — which is the banner under which the ongoing agitation of nearly 500 farmers’ organisations and collectives are being held — has irked the farmers who see it as yet another effort to raise doubts about their movement. Wednesday’s response also articulates the disappointment within the farming community over the repeated efforts by the government to malign their movement. “The government has resorted to trickery and manipulation. In addition, the government is constantly trying to be divisive by holding parallel talks with so-called farmer leaders and organisations that exist only on paper.…” As always, the farmers have made it clear that there is no going back on their demand for the repeal of the three laws, besides the enactment of a law to guarantee minimum support price for 23 crops in line with the formula suggested by the M.S. Swaminathan Commission. Yudhvir Singh, a farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh, warned that the government was playing with fire by prolonging the issue indefinitely. “Many of us have children in the forces. They are getting demoralised by the treatment that is being meted out to their fathers, mothers and siblings by the government,” he said, adding that the Uttar Pradesh government has been particularly harsh on the protesters. He was referring in particular to farmers being stopped by Uttar Pradesh police at the Moradabad toll plaza when they were trying to proceed towards the border with Delhi in Ghaziabad. Not only were the farmers selectively prevented from moving ahead, the local administration also forced the closure of the eateries on the roadside, the protesters alleged. Literally left out in the cold by the government, farmers view Wednesday’s cabinet announcement that the Prime Minister would release the next instalment under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on Friday as rubbing salt to injury. According to the cabinet decision, Rs 18,000 crore will be transferred to more than nine crore beneficiary farmer families. Under this scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 a year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmers, payable in three equal four-monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each. “What are they tom-tomming about? For a family of five, this amounts to a few rupees,” said one farmer leader. He added: “Humein daan nahi, daam chahiye (we don’t want charity, we want fair price for our crops).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Delhi University to create five seats to be offered through discretion||Delhi University (DU) has decided to create five seats in each of its colleges from next year that will be offered through the discretionary power of the authorities. Academics fear that such a move would promote arbitrary allocation and sycophancy.  No other central university or central educational institution has a discretionary quota. In a notice on Monday, DU stated that the “College University Seats” would be available in undergraduate courses over and above the existing seats. The university authorities will suggest the names of two students for admission through the discretionary quota while the college principal will be able to nominate three. According to the notification, students with scores within 10 per cent of the last cut-off of the respective category of the candidates can be offered these seats. This means a general category student who will get admitted through the quota must secure within 10 per cent marks of the last cut-off for general category students. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said the discretionary quota was synonymous with corruption and should not be introduced in educational institutions. “DU is a premier university. It has always given admission on the basis of scholastic and co-scholastic merit and principles of affirmative actions for the historically neglected socially deprived sections. This has helped talents from diverse fields to pursue education and excel in life. Any other consideration in admission will lead to corruption and mediocrity,” Jha said. Over 60 colleges function under DU. They have increased their seats by 25 per cent in the past two years to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections (EWS). But there has been no commensurate expansion in teaching staff and infrastructure. “The issue was not discussed in the executive council. This seems to be a direction from the top. After DU, the government may ask IITs and IIMs to start a discretionary quota. This is not good for higher education,” Jha said. The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), a teachers’ group, criticised the university administration. “When there is intense competition to secure admission in DU colleges, such a move is not only totally unethical but also illegal,” said a statement issued by DTF president Nandita Narain. “Candidates with lower cut-offs will be allowed admission by the administrators at different levels.” Messages from this newspaper to DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi on the quota did not elicit a response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Malayalam poet and activist Sugathakumari passes away||Eminent Malayalam poet, conservationist and women’s rights activist Sugathakumari, who had been undergoing treatment for Covid-19, died at the government medical college hospital in the Kerala capital on Wednesday. She was 86 and leaves behind daughter Lakshmi Devi, family sources said. Fondly called “Sugatha Teacher” by her admirers, the activist-poet had been admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital after being diagnosed with the viral infection on December 21. One of the most celebrated Malayalam poets of the contemporary era, Sugathakumari was known for her poems filled with compassionate empathy, human sensitivity and philosophical quest. She fought against injustices, especially the oppression of women and indiscriminate exploitation of nature. Sugathakumari had led the fiercest environmental campaign witnessed in Kerala — against a proposed hydel project in the Silent Valley on the Western Ghats three decades ago, and was also at the forefront of the recent agitation against the construction of an airport at Aranmula. She had been running for over three decades “Abhaya”, an organisation for deprived women. She had served as the first chairperson of the Kerala State Women’s Commission. Born as the second daughter of freedom fighter and poet Bodheswaran and his wife Karthiyayini Amma on January 22, 1934, Sugathakumari published her first collection of poems — Muthuchippikal — in 1960.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin generates dual immune response ||India’s homegrown candidate vaccine against the novel coronavirus disease developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has generated a dual immune response that has raised hopes of immunity lasting six to 12 months. The candidate vaccine named Covaxin generated anti-coronavirus antibodies and stirred immune memory cells in the vaccinated volunteers, researchers with Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research said in a scientific paper released on Wednesday. The paper, describing the results of safety and immunogenicity trials in 380 volunteers in nine hospitals across the country, has also reported similar immune responses across age groups. The trials offered the candidate vaccine to volunteers aged between 12 years up to 65 years. The immune responses, including neutralising antibody concentrations, observed in the recipients three months after the second dose of the vaccine have prompted the researchers to speculate that the immune responses could last six to 12 months. But the researchers have asserted that these results measure only immune responses and whether and how they translate into actual protection from the infection would become clear only through efficacy trials now underway in 12 cities across India. In the efficacy trials, around 25,800 healthy volunteers would be divided into two groups — those in one group would receive the vaccine, the others would receive placebo, or dummy jabs. Significantly fewer Covid-19 infections in the vaccine group than in the placebo group would signal the vaccine’s efficacy. “The available results look very promising — especially because the vaccine appears to stimulate two important arms of the immune system,” said Tanmay Majumdar, a scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, who was not associated with the vaccine. Majumdar and other scientists say a key question about any Covid-19 vaccine is how long would it protect people from the infection. “The neutralising antibodies are critical to blocking the virus from entering cells and preventing immediate infection. But over time, we need memory T cells to activate B cells into making antibodies — the immune response data suggests that this vaccine induces T cell memory responses,” Majumdar said. Bharat Biotech is among three companies that have applied to India’s drug regulatory agency seeking emergency use authorisation of the vaccine. The other two companies are the US-based Pfizer with its candidate vaccine and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The promising trial results have also prompted an American company to sign a pact with Bharat Biotech to shepherd the candidate vaccine into the US market, the first Covid-19 technology transfer from India to the US. Ocugen Inc, based in Malvern, Pennsylvania, and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced a “binding letter of intent” under which Ocugen will have the US rights to Covaxin and will take responsibility for its clinical development, registration and commercialisation in the US market. Covaxin is made from an inactivated (killed) coronavirus isolated earlier this year by scientists at the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. Along with Covaxin, India is also conducting trials on two candidates — AstraZeneca-Oxford and Russia’s Sputnik V — developed outside India. In preparation for the development of Covaxin in the US, Ocugen has assembled a vaccine scientific advisory board featuring academic and industry experts who will guide the clinical and regulatory pathway to approval in the US market, the company said. “Covaxin uses a historically proven vaccine design approach,” said Harvey Rubin, an infectious disease specialist and professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania and a member of Ocugen’s vaccine scientific advisory board. The inactivated virus candidate vaccine has elicited strong immune responses against specific target proteins on the coronavirus along with strong cellular responses, Rubin said. “Covaxin offers a vaccine candidate different from other options currently available in the US market with potentially broader coverage against multiple protein antigens of the virus.” Scientists familiar with vaccine designs point out that inactivated virus vaccines against other infections have been used for more than 70 years. Because they are made up of whole virus particles, inactivated virus vaccines are expected to trigger a broad immune response to multiple viral proteins. “We believe this unique yet traditional approach to vaccination holds great potential to appeal to a broad range of the population,” Shankar Musunuri, chief executive officer and Ocugen co-founder, said in a media statement. “We’re very pleased with the demonstrated safety and immunogenicity results.” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, said the company had received expressions of interest for the supply of the vaccine from multiple countries. “We’re excited to collaborate with Ocugen for the US market,” Ella said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Night curfew in Bangalore from December 24 to January 2||The Karnataka government on Wednesday declared a six-hour night curfew from December 24 to the morning of January 2, covering Christmas and New Year, during which no gatherings would be allowed anywhere in the state. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the curfew would be in place from 11pm to 5am as a precautionary measure against the new strain of Covid-19 reported in Britain. “We took the decision after consulting the Union government and the technical advisory committee (of the state health ministry) considering the new strain of Covid-19,” Yediyurappa said. The decision comes a day after two passengers who arrived from Britain tested positive for Covid-19. Their blood samples are being tested for the new strain of the virus. The guidelines to implement the curfew allows midnight mass on Christmas. But the Bangalore Archbishop’s office had already issued a circular to hold the mass at 7pm. While no commercial establishments, restaurants and pubs would be allowed beyond the embargo, buses, trucks, airport taxis and autorickshaws from railway stations would be permitted to ply. All industries that require to operate at night would be allowed to do so with 50 per cent of the staff strength. Movement of their employees would be allowed during the curfew period on producing company identity cards. The government tweaked the timings from the originally announced 10pm to 6am after several ruling BJP lawmakers suggested the relaxation in view of demand from commercial establishments. Health minister K. Sudhakar urged everyone to be home by 11pm. “We have already said this is not the time to celebrate New Year’s Eve.” “Don’t create issues…. It’s just nine days,” he added. Sudhakar said 2,500 passengers had arrived from Britain between November 25, the cut-off date for them to be screened, and December 23, when the flight ban from the UK kicked in. “We have found that 138 of them came without a Covid-free certificate. Their samples have been sent for testing,” he said. While the government had earlier on December 4 rejected a health department proposal for a night curfew, it had clarified that only street celebrations on New Year’s Eve would be scrapped. The sudden announcement didn’t take the Church by surprise. “In our monthly bulletin issued a few weeks ago we had already instructed all churches to hold the Christmas mass at 7pm,” the spokesperson of the Bangalore archbishop, J.A. Kanthraj, told The Telegraph. “Being responsible citizens, we didn’t want to endanger anyone by holding late-night masses or encouraging any kind of gathering although it is Christmas season. That was why we took this unilateral decision even before the government declared the night curfew,” he added. But restaurateurs and pub owners were aghast at the decision announced without any forewarning. The president of the Bangalore chapter of the National Restaurants Association of India, Manu Chandra, said: “We fully understand that the government has taken this decision in the larger public interest. But we should have been given a few days’ time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya murder case: life in jail for priest, nun||A special CBI court in Kerala on Wednesday sentenced a Catholic priest and a nun who were found guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, a teenaged nun, to life terms, ending a legal battle that dragged for close to three decades. The court sentenced Father Thomas Kottoor, 73, to life in jail for murder and trespass to commit a punishable offence and another seven years for destroying evidence. Sister Sephy, 57, was handed the life term for murder and another seven years in jail for destroying evidence. Each of them was slapped with a penalty of Rs 5 lakh under IPC Section 302 (murder) and Rs 50,000 each under IPC Section 201 (destruction of evidence). Kottoor was slapped with an additional fine of Rs 1 lakh for house trespass to commit a crime punishable with death (IPC Section 449). Both of them will serve the terms concurrently. CBI special judge K. Sanil Kumar had on Tuesday found Kottoor and Sephy guilty of murdering Sister Abhaya, 19, at St Pious X Convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. The prosecution had appealed for the maximum possible punishment for both of them, while the defence had sought to consider the fact that Kottoor is a cancer patient. Sephy had told the court that she had aged parents to look after and pleaded for the minimum sentence. A student of Class XII, Abhaya had woken up at 4am to prepare for an exam and gone to fetch water from the kitchen. She is believed to have seen Sephy, Kottoor and Father Jose Poothrukkayil in a compromising position. Alarmed by the discovery of their act, Kottoor strangled Abhaya while Sephy hit her on the head with a hand axe that left a deep wound confirmed by the autopsy. They then dumped Abhaya in the convent well even though she was alive. Poothrukkayil was discharged from the case in 2018 for want of evidence. Jomon Puthenpurackal, a rights activist who floated the Abhaya Case Action Council to fight for the nun who belonged to a poor family, heaved a sigh of relief after the sentence. “My life’s goal stands completed today. I have no more desires left,” Puthenpurackal told reporters outside the court in Thiruvananthapuram. “This sentence is the victory of all those who wanted justice for her (Abhaya). This judgment will help restore confidence in the courts at a time when people have been losing faith in the judiciary.” Varghese P. Thomas, the deputy superintendent of the CBI and the investigating officer who had in 1993 reported the crime as a clear case of murder, said he now wanted the discharged priest to be brought to book. “The CBI has already filed a review petition against him (Poothrukkayil).… I am of the firm belief that even he will get the punishment he deserves,” said Thomas, who had quit the service 10 years ahead of retirement due to alleged pressure from superiors who wanted him to write the case off as suicide. After the police and the crime branch initially reported it as death by suicide, even the CBI had filed three closure reports citing lack of evidence to prove otherwise before evidence unearthed by Thomas helped in the prosecution. A court had ordered the reopening of the case in 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||An Xmas cake story: baked in India in 1883||When you bite into your plum cake this Christmas, say a silent thank you to Mambally Bapu, a Keralite tea exporter in Burma who suddenly felt homesick some 140 years ago. As the year 1883 wound towards its end, Indians had been left with a bitter taste in their mouth watching the rabid British opposition to being brought under native magistrates’ authority, as the Ilbert Bill envisaged. Enter Bapu to give his compatriots a chance to assuage palate and pride — by extending their gastronomic dominion over a jewel of English cuisine. In short, by baking the first Christmas plum cake by an Indian. The day was December 20, 1883. The place was Thalassery, a coastal town in north Kerala, then part of the Madras British Presidency. The inspiration had been provide by a British planter, Murdoch Brown, who was developing a cinnamon plantation in nearby Ancharakandi. “Mambally Bapu, my great-grandfather, was a businessman in Burma, shipping milk, tea and bread to British troops in Egypt. He returned to Thalassery in 1880 and soon established a bakery of his own,” said Prakash Mambally, owner of Mambally’s Royal Biscuit Factory, which now produces 17 varieties of Christmas plum cakes. “The Royal Biscuit Factory, set up by Bapu, was the country’s first bakery established by an Indian.” Bapu had learnt biscuit-making in Burma and wanted to return home and sell bakery products. From day one, he began making over 40 varieties of biscuits, rusk, bread and buns. A few days before Christmas in 1883, Brown arrived at Bapu’s biscuit factory with a rich plum cake he had bought from England. He told Bapu to taste a slice of the cake and make another one with the same taste and shape. Oblivious that he was carving a place for himself in Indian culinary history, Bapu agreed and sought 10 days’ time. Brown provided Bapu with ingredients such as cocoa, dates, raisins, and dry fruits. He told Bapu to buy a French brandy from nearby Mahe or Mayyazhi, a French settlement that now falls in Puducherry. Instead of travelling 14km to Mahe for the brandy, Bapu decided to use a substitute — a locally brewed liquor made with cashew apples and the banana variety kadalipazham. A blacksmith in Dharmadam, on the outskirts of Thalassery, prepared a mould as specified by Bapu. On December 20 that year, Brown arrived at Bapu’s shop and received the first Indian-made plum cake. Legend has it that after tasting it, Brown certified it as the best cake he had ever had and ordered a dozen more. “Those days, yeast was not available for fermentation in British India. So Bapu experimented with the locally brewed liquor,” said Premnath Mambally, a descendant of Bapu who owns the Shantha Bakery in Thiruvananthapuram. “The local liquor effectively fermented the dough and provided it with a unique taste.” Kerala is home to India’s largest plum cake market, a major share of it owned by the Mambally family. Its members operate some of the state’s top bakeries: the Cochin Bakery in Kochi, Shantha Bakery in Thiruvananthapuram, Modern Bakery in Kozhikode, Best Baking Co in Kottayam and Mambally’s in Thalassery. At each of these bakeries, visitors are greeted by paintings that mark the historic moment when Bapu handed over his first plum cake to Brown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-468
24-12-2020||India||Centre to pay 60% of Dalit scholarship ||The Union government will bear 60 per cent of the actual expenses under a key scholarship scheme for Dalit students who have cleared Class X, ending a policy that had shifted a major part of the expenses to the states. Lakhs of Dalit students in several states have not been receiving the fellowship after filling up forms under the Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme since states are not taking interest due to paucity of funds. The scheme aims to benefit 60 lakh Dalit students a year, paying their tuition fees and also maintenance fees ranging between Rs 230 and Rs 1,200 per student per month. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to change the funding pattern from “committed liability” of states to 60 per cent share by the Centre. The CCEA approved a spending of Rs 59,048 crore as central share under the scheme over the next five years. The scheme has been running under the “committed liability” method for almost three decades. Till 2016-17, the amount spent by a state in the last year of the previous plan period was considered the state’s committed share for each year for the next five years. The additional amount as required each year was given by the Centre. The Centre’s spending varied from state to state. On average, it worked out to almost 55 per cent spending by the Centre and 45 per cent by the states. With effect from 2017-18, the Centre modified the “committed liability” concept. The highest amount spent by the state and the Centre together in a state in any particular year in the 12th plan period (2012 to 2017) on the scheme was taken to be the committed share of that state. If the amount demanded by a state in a year after 2018 happened to be more than the committed share of that state, the central government would bear that additional amount. After this change, the share of the Centre came down to about 10 per cent of the total expenses, causing states to lose interest in the scheme. From 2020-21, the central share of 60 per cent will be released to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer scheme, after which the state government will release its share, a release issued by the Press Information Bureau said. Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, welcomed the decision but demanded that the scheme, started by the British following a demand by Bhimrao Ambedkar, now must become a legal entitlement. “This was necessary to ensure the inclusion of Dalit students in education. Now the scheme must become a legal right like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act that provides up to 100 days of work to every rural household in a year,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Notices to 48 respondents from Supreme Court ||An unprecedented 48 respondents — 43 farmers’ organisations and five government entities — have been arrayed as “respondents” in the Supreme Court hearing relating to the constitutional validity of the three farm laws facing intense protests. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had earlier decided to constitute a committee to resolve the farmers’ protest, telling the government that its “negotiations will again fail” and the friction cannot be left festering as it is a “national issue”. On December 17, the court had asked the petitioner, Rishabh Sharma who has sought the eviction of the farmers, to serve notices on the farmers’ organisations so that they can be heard and the possibility of including some of their representatives in the proposed committee explored. This is the first time in the history of the Supreme Court that such a large number of respondents have been arrayed in a single petition. The respondents arrayed by the petitioners on the orders of the Supreme Court include the Union of India, the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the Delhi police commissioner and 43 farmer organisations. It is unclear what the criteria for choosing the farmer organisations was because not all the collectives protesting outside Delhi are covered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Naravane visits forward areas along the Line of Actual Control||Army chief M.M. Naravane on Wednesday visited the forward areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a border standoff since May and took stock of the army’s combat preparedness. Sources in the Indian Army said Naravane visited forward areas of the Fire and Fury Corps, including Rechin La in the Chushul sector where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball. He interacted with the local commanders and troops and also undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC. The Fire and Fury Corps is responsible for the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “The army chief reviewed the operational situation on the ground and also undertook on-the-spot inspection of the state of the habitats of the troops on the forward lines of defence at Rechin La,” said an official attached to the army headquarters in Delhi. Rechin La is one of the several higher altitude areas in the Chushul sector where Indian soldiers are deployed at 14,000 feet above the sea level. Temperature there has touched minus 30 degrees Celsius. Naravane also visited the forward base at Tara and interacted with the local commanders. Sources in the army said that during his interaction with the troops, Naravane distributed sweets and cakes for Christmas to keep up the morale of the soldiers. “The army chief was later given a detailed briefing about the ground situation at the multiple friction points in the region where Chinese troops have been occupying Indian territory,” said a defence ministry official. The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC amid the ongoing border standoff in the Ladakh sector. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 40 degrees Celsius by next month. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May and eight rounds of military talks between the two sides have failed to find a solution. Sources said no breakthrough is expected in the coming months considering the Chinese tough stand and aggressive posture. “The PLA is also yet to respond to fix the final dates for the next round of military talks,” the defence ministry official said. Sources in the defence ministry said the army had increased its military readiness at the high altitude to deal with any Chinese provocation. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment along the LAC, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||BJP claims victory in 74 seats for the J&K polls||The BJP’s central leadership on Wednesday came out all guns blazing to claim victory in the maiden District Development Council elections after winning 74 seats, the highest by any individual party, but the results mask its multiple setbacks including its broader goal of installing a Hindu chief minister in the fledgling Union Territory. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, won 110 of the 278 seats and is likely to take control of 14 of the 20 district councils, with Congress support at some places. The BJP has got only six. Within the alliance, the National Conference has bagged 67 seats and the People’s Democratic Party 26. The Congress, which is not part of the alliance, has won 26 seats. The results of two Valley seats are awaited. Top central ministers including Amit Shah and Ravi Shankar Prasad claimed victory for the BJP emerging as the “single-largest party” in the elections. Shah, in a series of tweets, said the mass participation in these elections reflected people’s faith in democracy. “Congratulations to the people of J&K for such great turnout in DDC polls. I applaud the efforts of our security forces & local administration for successfully conducting these multi-phased elections. This will further boost the morale and trust of people of J&K in democracy,” the Union home minister tweeted. “I heartily thank our sisters and brothers of J&K for voting BJP as the single largest party in the District Development Council elections. BJP under the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji will continue to work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the J&K region,” he added. Prasad said the election was “a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s larger narrative for Jammu and Kashmir”. Seeking not to dwell much on the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, law minister Prasad said the results were the “victory of hope, victory of democracy, victory of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and the victory of the larger narrative about Jammu and Kashmir, which Narendra Modi ji has thought about the state”. Told that the Gupkar Alliance has termed its victory as a mandate against the Centre’s move to end Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, Prasad said “Article 370 is history now” and sought to focus on the BJP emerging as the single-largest party. The ministers this time chose not to refer to the Gupkar alliance as a “gang” and a group of “anti-nationals” and “looters”, which they have done repeatedly in the past, betraying how the alliance was already winning the war of narratives. But that is not even half the story. The election was not an alliance-versus-BJP contest. The Gupkar Alliance was in fact fighting the state machinery and won victory against considerable odds. They faced a hostile administration, which set up all hurdles conceivable to stop them from campaigning freely. Alliance candidates were “locked up” in the name of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of the elections. The BJP had fielded candidates in almost all 280 seats across Jammu and Kashmir and won 74. The NC, which won 67 seats, contested in only 100 seats. Despite all the advantages, the BJP clocked its most abysmal results in years, more so in stronghold Jammu. The party had won both parliamentary seats in Jammu in the last two elections in 2014 and 2019. Its tally rose to 25 — out of 37 seats — in the 2014 Assembly elections, or victory in around 70 per cent of the seats. The BJP could still not realise its goal of installing a Hindu chief minister from Jammu. But for the first time ever, it became a partner in government by forging an alliance with the PDP. The BJP’s game plan since had been to win all Hindu-majority seats in Jammu and take advantage of the split of the Muslim votes between the NC, Congress and the PDP in the region. It hoped to get allies in the Kashmir Valley — which has 46 of the 83 seats in the Assembly — by trying to engineer divisions in other parties. It could succeed only in splitting the PDP, with nearly a half of its former legislators joining hands to form the Apni Party. Some leaders from other parties have also joined them. Despite all advantages, the BJP could win only half — 71 of the 140 seats in Jammu. In Kashmir, it won just three of the 140 seats. The Apni Party could win only 12 seats. The CPM, which is part of the Gupkar Alliance, performed better than the BJP in Valley by winning five seats. A better performance could have set the stage for the BJP to get a Hindu chief minister for Jammu and Kashmir. In the 2018 local body elections, with major players like the NC and the PDP boycotting, the BJP had won 11 of the 38 municipal committees across Kashmir and many sarpanch and panch seats. If the alliance could not perform better, it was largely because of the Congress and infighting within the alliance’s camp. Additional reporting by our special correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||India||Five-year old killed by neighbour: SIT chief||The chief of the special investigation team (SIT), Arun Bothra, on Tuesday said five-year-old child from Nayagarh’s Jadupur village was raped and killed by her 18-year-old neighbour Saroj Sethy who also had sex with her dead body. Bothra said the accused, who used to watch child pornography on his sister’s mobile phone, had turned into a necrophiliac. Addressing a press conference, Bothra revealed the motive behind the killing. “The girl had gone to Saroj’s house on July 14 when he was all alone. Taking advantage of the situation, he offered her berries and later tried to rape her. When the girl started crying, Saroj strangulated her. After she died, Saroj raped the dead body and discharged semen on the frock of the girl,” he said. The SIT chief said the boy later packed the child’s body and frock in a sack to hide the crime. “He dumped the sack in the bushes behind her house and covered it with coconut leaves,” Bothra said. Saroj’s father is dead and his mother is an ASHA worker. Saroj’s elder sister is married and the younger sister does a private job. Bothra claimed that Saroj had been influenced by the porn visuals he had been watching on the Internet. “Saroj used to watch child pornography on his  sister’s mobile. He had also downloaded porn visuals and locked them so that his sister did not know about it. On July 13, he had watched porn films the entire night. Though Saroj had no plans of committing rape and murder, he perpetrated the crime when he found the child alone in his house the next day,” he said. The team suspected that the girl was raped when, during the investigation, it found that the bottom wear and leggings that the child had worn on July 14 were missing. The girl’s frock, which was found along with the gunny bag, had semen stains on it. “We have confirmed that it’s a case of sexual assault and were almost sure that the neighbourhood people must be involved in the crime,” Bothra said. The investigation team zeroed in on Saroj after he initially declined the polygraph test. “When we told him that declining the polygraph test would prove him guilty, he agreed for the test. During the test, he confessed to his crime,” Bothra said. The SIT is in touch with the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and Delhi-based National Institute of Plant Genome Research to collect scientific evidence in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-469
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata not invited to Viswa Bharati event, claims TMC||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was not invited to the centenary celebrations at the state’s prestigious Viswa Bharati University, the ruling Trinamul Congress claimed on Thursday. Addressing a press briefing at Calcutta, state minister and party leader Bratya Basu claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed the centenary event of the university via video conference, made “factual errors” during his speech. “Mamata Banerjee did not receive any invitation for the centenary meet of Viswa Bharati,” Basu claimed. The BJP was, however, quick to produce a letter of invitation to the Chief Minister, and instead alleged her of not respecting Targore’s institution by staying away from the event. Responding to a query on these lines, he said, “Even if the invitation, as you suggest, was sent last night, should that be the decorum? After all, she (Mamata) is the chief minister of a state.” According to claims made by the senior TMC member, the Prime Minister “denigrated” the Bengali culture during his speech in more ways than one. "Gujarat cropped up often in the PM's speech. Why is he confining Rabindranath Tagore to Gujarat? He said Satyen Tagore's wife (Rabindranath Tagore's sister-in-law) learnt how to drape sarees in a certain fashion from Gujarati women. The fact is that she learnt it from the Gujaratis as well the Parsis. But the prime minister wouldn't mention Parsis,” Basu said. “The PM also spoke about the universities of Delhi and Lahore during his address, but failed to make a mention of Calcutta University, which played an important part in the country's freedom movement,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Christmas gift offered to Lord Jagannath at Iskcon temple in Mayapur||For the first time, a 50kg cake laced with chocolate, vanilla and other creams was offered to Lord Jagannath at an Iskcon temple in Mayapur, Nadia, on Wednesday to mark the beginning of Christmas celebration. The 6ft-long cake stuffed with dry fruits had been baked in front of the deities of Lord Jagannath, Baladev and Subhadra by four chefs of a Calcutta-based confectioner before it was offered as puja. The cake had a topping of tulasi (basil) leaves since scriptures say offerings to Lord Jagannath should have the holy leaves on them, said a spokesperson for the Iskcon. “After verifying that the cake and pastry were genuinely vegetarian, we allowed them to prepare and offer the cake before the Lord,” director of Iskcon, Mayapur, Madhava Gauranga Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling Himalayan Railway to resume toy train services from Dec 25||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway has decided to resume toy train services from Christmas. The service had come to a halt around 10 months ago because of Covid-19. “Today, we received permission from the state government for resumption of toy train services. We have decided to begin the services from December 25,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of Northeast Frontier Railway. Initially, there will be three joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom every day. DHR’s toy train service is one of the major attractions for tourists visiting the hills. After the lockdown was eased, stakeholders of the tourism industry have time and again demanded resumption of the service. The demand had made the railway officials approach the state as well as carry out inspection of the tracks, the rolling stock and other equipment. “We are fully prepared to start the toy train service again. Initially, it has been decided to start three joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom every day. Among these, two rides will be conducted by steam loco and another by a diesel loco,” said AK Mishra, the director of DHR, said. The railways however, are yet to decide on resumption of the regular service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling. According to NFR sources, for the two steam loco rides, the fare per passenger will be Rs 1,500 for the morning ride and Rs 1,600 for the second ride that will be conducted in the afternoon. For the third ride where the coaches would be hauled by a diesel loco, the fare is Rs 1,000. “Earlier, nine such joy rides used to run. We will monitor the response of people and would then decide whether to introduce more rides,” said a railway official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 58th consecutive day of drop in its total active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Wednesday reported the 58th consecutive day of drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases after Durga Puja, which improved by nearly 58 per cent to 15,689. Bengal fell from the third to the fifth place in the list of states with the most active cases. On Wednesday, the state logged 2,153 recoveries, 1,628 infections and 34 deaths. But chief minister Mamata Banerjee advised caution. “We have to resume going out, gradually, of course. But always while adhering to Covid-19 safety protocol,” she said. “I have heard that Europe is being totally locked down again. Dengue, for instance, changes character. Likewise, Covid-19 is also apparently changing character. As a result, a new kind of the virus, which is very strong, is being seen,” she added. Mamata referred to the suspension of flight operations between India and the UK, and said all such developments have to be factored in. The recovery rate, which has been in an unbroken spell of rise for 62 consecutive days, has risen in this period from the 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.35. The national rate now is 95.68 per cent. “Bengal now has over 95 per cent recovery rate… which is very good. But in winters, common cold is a bit more common…. We also tend to bathe less, wash hands less, because of the cold. Winter clothes are not washed as regularly. But what needs to be done, must be done. Sanitise yourselves, your clothes, everything. Masks, remember, absolutely must,” said the chief minister. “If you take care of yourselves and your families, Covid-19 can be defeated. We have been doing exceptionally well so far,” she added. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.95 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. In the 58 days since Puja, the state has recorded over 2.06 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.87 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of over 5.41 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.16 lakh recoveries and 9,473 deaths. With 41,067 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count rose to 68.16 lakh, at 75,744 tests per million people. The 34 deaths reported on Wednesday included six from the city. Of the total deaths, 7,944, or 83.9 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown in Bhutan, blow to border trade||Commercial activities in Jaigaon, the town in Alipurduar district that sits on the Bhutan border, came to a grinding halt on Wednesday as a countrywide lockdown was announced in the Himalayan country for seven days following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. “Trade in Jaigaon and in Alipurduar district as a whole has suffered a major setback because of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown. After the initial lockdown had been eased on either side of the border, things started becoming normal in the past couple of months. The second lockdown from today (Wednesday) would only add to our distress,” said Ramashankar Gupta, the general secretary of the Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. According to the data available with different government agencies in India and Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 9,000 crore are traded between the countries every year and a significant portion of the bilateral business is done through Jaigaon. Some other members of the local business fraternity said thousands of Bhutanese residents visited Jaigaon every day to make purchases. “Even now, almost 60 per cent of the shops in Jaigaon are closed because of paucity of customers. Owners of the remaining 40 per cent are occasionally finding buyers. In such a situation, the new lockdown has come as a fresh setback,” said another trader, adding that there were over 1,500 shops in the town. Administrative sources said only trucks carrying essential items were allowed to enter Bhutan. The traders of Jaigaon pointed out that every day around 4,000 workers entered Bhutan from India. They return in the evening and make purchases in Jaigaon. “These days, we are banking on these people. But for the next seven days, we will lose this business as well,” a retailer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC rally on Suvendu turf||Trinamul Congress leaders, including Bengal minister Firhad Hakim and MP Saugata Roy, led a rally of 20,000 people in East Midnapore’s Contai on Wednesday to assert the party’s influence on the turf of Suvendu Adhikari who had switched over to the BJP last week. The Adhikari trio — MPs Sisir and Dibyendu and Contai municipality administrator Soumendu — have made no public steps to back brother Suvendu, but they were absent from Wednesday’s march. In his address, Hakim made no bones of the fact that the rally had been called to take on Suvendu and showcase the strength of Trinamul. Hakim, making an obvious reference to Suvendu, said: “We are happy that he left. I am ashamed to have ever worked by his side.” Appealing to the agrarian sentiment of the local community, Hakim claimed Suvendu had “betrayed farmers whom he once stood up for and joined the traitors”. Suvendu is slated to hold a rally here on Thursday. Echoing Hakim’s sentiments, Saugata Roy said the people of Nandigram wouldn’t forgive Suvendu. “Suvendu is suddenly coming up with grievances against (MP) Abhishek Banerjee, but he said no such thing in a recent joint meeting with I-PAC chief Prashant Kishor,” added Roy. Local Trinamul leaders present at the rally also affirmed the Nandigram narrative being raised by Trinamul. Party leader and land agitator Sheikh Sufian said: “Mamata Banerjee did all the hard work, and not Suvendu as is popularly believed.” “Even if his relatives leave, it will be like drops being taken out of an ocean,” Sufian added. Sources close to Sisir said the family patriarch had been suffering from a foot injury since December 7 and had been “compelled” to stay home, allaying rumours about the rift with the ruling party. Although Trinamul tried to portray a united front at Wednesday rally, a scuffle erupted at the venue and it left the party leaders worried about the possible impact of factionalism on the upcoming Assembly polls. Supporters of Trinamul leader Tarun Jana and Contai coordinator of the party Akhil Giri quarrelled over the speakers not naming the former in their address. A senior Trinamul leader, however, said the matter had been resolved with the intervention of Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC team, farmers strike chord||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sent a five-member parliamentary delegation of the Trinamul Congress to the protesting farmers on the Delhi borders to express solidarity with them on Kisan Divas and spoke over the phone to several agitating groups. The delegates sent by the chief minister were Rajya Sabha members Derek O’Brien and Nadimul Haque, Satabdi Roy (Birbhum), Prasun Banerjee (Howrah) and Pratima Mondal (Joynagar). Sources in her party said Mamata had handpicked the members of the delegation, ensuring representation of minorities (Derek and Haque), Dalits (Mondal), women (Mondal and Roy) and upper castes (Banerjee). Speaking to the Bengal chief minister over the speakerphone, a young Sikh farmer, identifying himself as Shankar, said her support meant a great deal to the movement against the controversial farm laws by the Centre. “The scale of this farmers’ movement is unprecedented and it is unlikely that it will be matched in future, so it would mean a lot to us if the likes of you keep extending maximum support,” he said, to which Mamata reiterated her unconditional support to the cause. “If you can contribute to our movement, it will infuse it with more power, more life. If you can pay us a visit here… it is our humble request. Right now, you are the most powerful woman in India, so we really need you here,” he added, to cheers from the MPs. Mamata said: “We have been conducting our own movements here in your support.” “Give me seven-eight days to figure out my schedule, as I have many programmes lined up here. But I will let you know,” she added, to applause from the audience. Another elderly Sikh farmer from the movement said to Mamata: “Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jains, Buddhists, all brothers and sisters of India, we have come together here, we sit here, we protest here, we eat here…. Together, we will make the (Narendra) Modi government bow. Because this Modi government has made our lives miserable,” he said. “The central government works for only two people, (Mukesh) Ambani and (Gautam) Adani. For the common people of India, the Modi government has done nothing,” he added. “We know what you have been doing for the masses in Bengal. Your work is tremendous. We praise you all the time here. You have hit the BJP hard in the past and you will continue to do so. We want our sisters like you to come forward across the country, and work for the masses.” Mamata has thrown her weight firmly behind the cause and her party has already carried out a slew of programmes this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee dances for unity message||Mamata Banerjee was seen shaking a leg for the first time in recent memory as she danced on stage along with tribal musician Basanti Hembram, a recipient of the state government’s Sangeet Samman, at an event on Wednesday evening. If the Santhali welcome dance was not enough for the chief minister to drive home the message that the “holy soil” of Bengal would remain unscathed in divisive politics, she said the state would never be turned into Gujarat. In over four decades of her public life, Mamata has often been seen picking up some instrument or vocalising in contribution to live musical performances. Sometimes, she has even been seen swaying to the music. But at the event organised by the state government at the Uttirna auditorium in Alipore, Calcutta, she broke into a jig – a traditional Santhali welcome dance called Dong — with Hembram and several other artistes at the inauguration of the Bangla Sangeet Mela and the Biswa Bangla Sanskriti Utsav, 2020. Hembram was handed the Sangeet Samman at the event. “From this dais, we tried giving the message to every section of the people that we are for all. Music does not divide, but only unites… Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Jains. Our surnames might be different, our appearances might be different, our complexions might be different — just like the countless musical instruments — but we are all part of one big family, across the world. The family of humanity,” Mamata said in her address. “Do not ever, please, let anybody divide that family. Fight the attempts boldly. We will fight this boldly,” she added. The chief minister did not take names, but it was apparent that the target of her attack was the BJP and its allegedly divisive agenda. In a jibe at the aggressively repeated assertions by the likes of BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh that Bengal would be turned into another Gujarat if his party came to power here, Mamata said she would never allow that to happen. She said the Jai Hind slogan by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the Vande Mataram slogan and song by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and the Jana Gana Mana song by Rabindranath Tagore were all contributed to India by Bengal. “Bengal’s excellence and merit is universally acclaimed and world-class…. This is the holy soil that we must respect day and night…. We will protect it with our lives,” said Mamata. “Nobody can come close to matching Bengal and will never be able to…. No matter how much they try and malign Bengal. I honestly believe that there will be a day again soon when the whole world will salute Bengal,” she added. “We will never allow Bengal be turned into Gujarat.” A senior Trinamul Congress MP said the speech was yet another addition to her attempts to portray the BJP as the marauding bohiragawto (outsider), trying to destroy Bengal and all that it stood for. He said in continuation of that wider exercise, the party decided to involve at least 3,000 people connected with the culture of Bengal, including Baul singers, Kirtan singers and other artistes of tribal culture, in the march she would undertake in Bolpur on December 29. In her counter-rally after a similar programme there by Union home minister Amit Shah — which drew at least 40,000 people and alarmed her party — Trinamul would ensure a turnout of over 2.5 lakh. Trinamul leaders said the core theme of the rally would be Bengal’s culture. “Shah tried to pander to Bengal’s culture and had lunch at a Baul singer’s home…. Our chief minister has already provided a monthly stipend to all artistes connected with folk and tribal culture,” said Abhijit Sinha, senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. In Birbhum, there are around 12,000 artistes who get the monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 each from the state government. Birbhum district Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal had distributed 4,000 traditional drums and 8,000 traditional percussion instruments to 4,000 teams of Kirtan singers in 2018. All of them have been invited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill Assembly seats set for bipolar contest||The contest in the three hill seats of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts is all set to be biploar in the Assembly polls as  most of the hill-based parties have either aligned or are in the process of aligning themselves with the two major political contenders — the Trinamul and the BJP. While both the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have pledged their support for Mamata Banerjee, five other regional parties — the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), CPRM, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha and SUMETI Mukti Morcha — seem to have joined the saffron camp. “Earlier, the hill based parties, each of which has some support base, used to contest individually at the Assembly elections. But this time, a new polarisation has been witnessed in hills as these parties are either with Trinamul or with BJP,” said a veteran in hill politics. If there is no change in this polarisation till the elections, the contest in the three seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong will be between Trinamul and BJP, he pointed out. During the past couple of On one hand, the Trinamul leadership is trying to clear the differences among the two factions of Morcha — both the factions, headed by Gurung and Binay Tamang are still not ready to join hands — to ensure that this difference does not affect the party's poll prospects. On the other hand, BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, have met leaders of the five other parties in Delhi and have assured them that the Centre is all set to meet one of their longstanding demands – conferment of scheduled tribe status to 11 hill communities. As these parties have lined up behind Trinamul and BJP, their leaders are also engaging in a war of words on several issues and trying to counter each other, a move that is being seen as a strategy to strengthen their respective support bases. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp of Morcha, was critical of the BJP on Wednesday and sounded an alert for the other parties. “BJP is just interested in spreading their party’s wing. So far our demands are concerned, we have met their party leaders innumerable times in the past but nothing came out of those talks,” said Giri, referring to the recent meeting that these parties had with Amit Shah and some others. Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader, said: “It was foolish of them that they joined a sinking ship. We want to make it clear that we had resumed talks with the Centre on our key demands and these talks will be effective.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Accused weds minor rape victim||A minor pregnant girl and 28-year-old truck driver got married on the premises of a court in Birbhum district on Wednesday as their families wanted to “settle the issue”. Sources said the 17-year-old girl had become pregnant seven months ago and lodged a police complaint against the youth under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences POCSO act after he had refused to marry her. The youth was held and remanded in judicial custody till Thursday morning before their wedding in the presence of lawyers by a marriage registrar under Muslim Marriage Act, the sources said. “There was a marriage proposal from both the families after the youth was held. We convinced the court they could be allowed to get married as early marriage is allowed under the Muslim Marriage Act. As the court granted bail to the accused, we arranged marriage on court premises today,” said an assistant public prosecutor. He said the newly married couple were sent to their village. Asked how a girl aged below 18 years got married with the court’s intervention, the assistant public prosecutor said: “As the girl is pregnant and it is a serious issue involving the lives of the victim and her baby, we thought of this option. There are similar examples and Muslim Marriage Law allows marriage of underage girls.” The advocate of the accused was also present and echoed the assistant public prosecutor. However, several senior advocates said it was unlawful to arrange marriage of a minor girl who is the victim of rape. “It was wrong to allow marriage of an underage girl… We have a law in the Parliament where marriage of an underage girl is prevented. In a case where a minor was raped, no one has the right to get her married,” said Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, an advocate of Calcutta High Court. The youth who was granted bail is accused under sections 4 and 6 of POCSO, which has a maximum punishment of death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
24-12-2020||West Bengal||Hill citizens revamp wall of fame ||The wall of Chowk Bazar, which has stood the test of time as a newscaster and an integral part of Darjeeling, is getting an unusual facelift. A group of citizens from Darjeeling will beautify the over-30-foot-tall wall with a collage and infographics that depict Darjeeling’s rich history and culture. So far, the wall has been used to convey messages of every sort from politics to social issues, by organisations to individuals. The team that prefers to go without a name, but wants to see this Rs 2-lakh-project project as an initiative of every individual, is relying on crowdfunding. The idea, team members say, is to showcase Darjeeling in a positive light, "above" the poster politics of "zindabad and murdabad" plastered on this wall. In this process, Darjeeling has already started showing its true spirit, say the movers of the project. Team member Anjani Sharma Bhujel said people of Darjeeling are coming with offers of help of every kind. “We needed bamboos for scaffolding and one gentleman from Badamtam tea garden Karna Bahadur Pariyar cut bamboos from his backyard and donated us, saving us almost Rs 40,000,” Anjani said. “A priest, Father Alexendar Gurung, volunteered to provide premises of his diocese area for storage of materials. A shoe shop owner from Chowk Bazar, Anant Thatal, did the same,” she added. The wall-revamp team believes that while politics has its own place, the social aspect of Darjeeling is more important. “We look at the wall every day, the writers change but the political content of murdabad and zindabad hardly changes. Yet we look at the wall more than newspapers. So we strongly believe that this wall too should send out a message on the need for the social fabric to be stronger and social inclusiveness,” said Anjani. “The political discourse of the day might be important but other aspects of Darjeeling are more important…” Anjani added that about 10 to 15 feet of the wall space will be left for pasting posters but the rest of the space would showcase the things that made Darjeeling special. “We want to come up with a painting collage depicting aspects of Darjeeling, including its culture, and infographics about things like the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway and Sidrabong hydel project (the first hydro project in India),” said Anjani. Money from crowdfunding is being pooled from website gorkhalines.com and offline donations are accepted at RK Enterprise, a hardware store at Judge Bazar, and Amigos, an eatery at Chowrasta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-263
24-12-2020||North East||Meghalaya centre to regulate visitors at Umling||Meghalaya inaugurated its first facilitation centre for those visiting the state at Umling on Monday, a development that comes amid the growing demand by pressure groups to regulate the entry and exit of visitors to check influx. The Umling centre will regulate the flow of tourists and other travellers to Shillong, one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the region. The inauguration of the 24X7 centre in Ri Bhoi district bordering Assam’s Kamrup (M) district by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong came on a day the state reopened its doors to tourists after nine months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. A tourist/visitor will now have to mandatorily register himself by providing his personal details with his photograph and his place of stay in Meghalaya through a state tourism app. He will then get an e-invite, which has to be shown at the facilitation centre along with the Covid-19 negative certificate before resuming his journey. Tynsong said two such centres would also come up at Bajengdoba in Garo Hills and Ratacherra in East Jaintia Hills. The state has plans to set up 12 such centres across all entry points. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who has tested positive for the coronavirus, tweeted: “ Meghalaya reopens for #Tourism today & our tourists have already checked in at the Centre.” The centre is being run by the tourism and health department. “Registration is mandatory now. One can register online or manually at the facilitation centre but it is advisable to do it online and also carry the Covid-free test report for smooth entry. The centre will help us keep track of tourists and visitors in these corona-hit times. We have enough people to man the centre to ensure a smooth passage. So far, everything has been smooth,” M.B. Tongper, ADC in-charge of Umling Entry Point, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Built at a cost of Rs 2.70 crore, the centre has a registration counter, infiltration cell, Covid-19 testing centre and a cafeteria among others. Sources said the Umling facilitation centre or other such proposed centres would eventually become entry-exit check points under the inner-line permit (ILP) and the Meghalaya Residents’ Safety and Security Act (MRSSA) when they are approved. The demand to regulate the entry of outsiders/tourists through the ILP and the implementation of the MRSSA gathered momentum after the Centre pushed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which made it easy for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. In the Northeast, Tripura (856km), Meghalaya (443km), Assam (262km) and Mizoram (180km) share border with Bangladesh. Sources said the facilitation centres would later turn into ILP or MRSAA entry points. Robertjune Kharjahrin, chairman of the Confederation of Meghalaya Social Organisation (CoMSO), which is among the organisations seeking the introduction of the ILP and the MRSSA, welcomed the move. “We welcome it because something is better than nothing. This will instil some confidence in the indigenous people of the state. But we hope the governor will give his assent to the amendments to the MRSSA soon. The amendments will further strengthen the Act,” Kharjahrin said. The MRSSA seeks to address the issue of infiltration to the state by keeping tab on those visiting the state among others. Kharjahrin also hoped the Centre, too, will honour the concerns of the people of Meghalaya by introducing the ILP, a colonial era system restricting movement of outsiders to tribal areas. Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and discussed the issues related to both the ILP and the MRSSA as the pressure groups are seeking concrete results on the twin issues. The Meghalaya Assembly had on December 19, 2019, adopted a resolution seeking ILP, a travel document, which is currently required  to enter Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Nagaland. Khasi Students’ Union (KSU) president Lambokstar Marngar  said the ILP was a must to “protect” the identity of the state’s indigenous people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
24-12-2020||North East||Unity call to local parties for Bodoland Territorial Council||Call for regional parties to jointly form the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) gathered momentum in the run-up to Thursday’s floor test as mandated by Gauhati High Court. Justice Suman Shyam had on Tuesday ordered a “composite floor test” before December 26 to decide the new BTC chief executive member. Justice Shyam said the process of election of a CEM is a democratic process. “Therefore, it cannot be denied that the newly appointed CEM would be under a constitutional obligation to prove his majority in the floor of the house,” he said. The court also said the voting rights of the six nominated members “shall remain suspended till such time, the “composite floor test” is held and that the newly appointed CEM Pramod Boro shall “not” take any major policy decision till the holding of the floor test as directed by this court. The floor test has been scheduled from 10am on Thursday. Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) chief Hagrama Mohilary was the first to issue an appeal for unity among regional parties after the court order. He said it was not important who becomes the CEM but a regional party should lead the BTC. He added that all regional parties — BPF, United People's Party Liberal, Asom Gana Parishad, Gana Suraksha Party — should come together to run the BTC, an appeal which was seen as a last-ditch effort to “keep out” the BJP which had helped forge a three-party post-poll alliance to end BPF’s uninterrupted 17-year rule of the BTC since 2003. On Wednesday, former Lok Sabha MP Sansuma Khunggur Bwiswmuthiary issued a similar appeal  for unity among Bodo parties to form the BTC by leaving out the national parties. The Bodo Sahitya Sabha followed suit, appealing to the UPPL and the BPF to come together in the overall interests of the Bodo community. However, UPPL chief Pramod Boro, who has the numbers going into the floor test, has rebuffed Mohilary’s request, accusing the BPF chief of double-speak. Boro said Mohilary is appealing for unity among regional parties and is himself in touch with the ruling BJP, making it clear he was with the three-party alliance. The BJP had gone all out to unseat the BPF by making corruption a key poll plank  even though both are in alliance in the state government. It went with the UPPL and GSP even after BPF publicly sought its help to form the council. Since anti-defection law does not apply to the BTC,   both the three-party post-poll alliance and the BPF are keeping a close tab on their flocks since the results were declared on December 12. Already the lone Congress member and a BPF member have joined the alliance. Elected members of the alliance were first kept in a Guwahati and then shifted to Shillong. They returned on Wednesday. The BPF too kept some of its members in Phuentsholing, a border town in south Bhutan, about 138 km from Kokrajhar. The recently-concluded BTC polls had thrown up a hung house with the BPF emerging as the single largest party with 17 of the 40 seats, UPPL 12, BJP 9 and Gana Suraksha Pary (GSP) and Congress one each. However, the UPPL-BJP-GSP forged a post-poll alliance and on staked claim to form the council on December 13 which was accepted by the governor Jagdish Mukhi on the same day, announcing the oath-taking on December 15. The BPF as the single largest party too had staked claim on December 14 but after the swearing in of the new BTC chief Boro on December 15,  Mohilary along with other members moved the court  on December 18 against Boro and 16 others. Mohilary had been the chief  of the autonomous council covering four districts – Kokrajhar, Baksa, Udalguri and Chirang -- since its establishment in 2003 before Governor’s rule was imposed in April. Senior counsel Devajit Saikia, who represented the Governor and the BTC, told the Telegraph that the high court has not interfered with the appointment of the CEM, deputy CEM or the three EMs but has directed them to face the floor test on or before December 26. The petitioners had contended that the appointment of the new CEM (December 14 notification), executive members and nominated members (December 16 notification) were “ex-facie illegal, having been issued in violation of statutory provisions and therefore, are liable to be set aside by this Court”. They had prayed for an  interim order suspending the voting rights of the nominated members “until such time, CEM is appointed as per law”. Senior counsel Nilay Dutta assisted by A Bhuyan represented the petitioners. The case will come up for hearing on January 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
24-12-2020||Opinion||Great flood: India’s climate refugees||The Covid-19 pandemic has, ironically, thrown into sharp focus the plight of a largely invisible constituency — India’s migrant population. After the Centre hastily imposed a poorly-planned lockdown to check the march of the disease, public discourse was dominated by horror at the stories and images of the suffering of migrants who, lacking food, shelter, medicines and employment, were forced to walk great distances to reach home. Many of them died on the way in accidents or on account of exhaustion. What compounded the crisis was not only the government’s abject failure to anticipate the needs of this constituency but also its shocking indifference to the importance of maintaining a database on migrants that could have helped formulate targeted welfare interventions. It is to be hoped that the Centre as well as the state governments have learnt their lessons from the suffering of the multitudes. This is because yet another Great Migration is now in the offing, even though it remains under the radar. A report released by ActionAid International and Climate Action Network South Asia estimates that over 14 million people in India were forced to migrate this year because of the onset of the debilitating impact of climate change — a rise in sea levels, water shortage, drought, reduction in crop yields and loss of biodiversity. The number is likely to increase to over 45 million by 2050. There is data to suggest that climate displacement is a growing phenomenon: a 2018 World Bank study had projected that 143 million people would become climate refugees in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and South Asia by 2050. The implications of these findings are ominous for a resource-strapped country like India. Its crowded cities — the most likely destination for this mobile population — lack the civic infrastructure, including water, food, housing, sanitation and healthcare services, that is required to absorb this deluge. This will lead to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. Worse, climate refugees are not recognized under most international laws, including the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees. The absence of a protective legal edifice could render them vulnerable to different kinds of depredation. Incidentally, a study in 2018 had warned that climate migrants, desperate for security and work, would fall prey to human trafficking. The international community has been appreciative of India’s efforts to honour its commitments made under the Paris pact. But a lot remains to be done to mitigate the accompanying humanitarian costs of a changing climate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||Lead by example: Joe Biden gets Covid vaccine||Sir — It was extremely reassuring to see the president-elect of the United States of America, Joe Biden, receive the first course of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at ChristianaCare Hospital on live television. Several high-ranking officials along with anti-vaxxers continue to discourage people from getting vaccinated against Covid-19. With over 3,23,000 deaths in the United States of America, this is extremely dangerous. This gesture by the 78-year-old Democrat will go a long way in assuring people of the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. This is the only way that we can protect our loved ones. Aloka Ganguly,Chicago, US Renewed fight Sir — The emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the United Kingdom has led to a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country and has spread a renewed sense of fear around the world (“What we know about the virus mutant”, Dec 23). The British government has warned that the potent new ‘mutant strain’ is out of control and has imposed a stringent Tier 4 lockdown in most parts of the island nation. The newly identified strain of the coronavirus is up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original form of the pathogen. This revelation has led to a worldwide scare with a number of countries temporarily banning flights to and from the UK till December 31. It is unfortunate that this news emerged right before Christmas, when people, relieved by the success of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, were hoping for a joyous celebration. However, people, be it in the UK or in Calcutta, must remain cautious and keep social interactions to a minimum. Calcuttans, just like on  every other Christmas, are already thronging to places like Park Street and Eco-Park and can be seen blatantly disregarding social-distancing norms. The government in Maharashtra has taken the right decision to impose a seven-hour night curfew till January 5 in view of the spread of the mutant strain. The West Bengal government must follow suit and impose similar restrictions. Samares Bandyopadhyay,Calcutta Sir — The news of the detection of a novel variant of coronavirus and the spike in infections in the UK has caused consternation across the world. The UK government has swiftly responded by imposing tougher measures and many countries have put in place travel restrictions to the UK. It is, however, possible that the mutant strain is already circulating in many other parts of the world. This revelation comes at a time when authorities have begun to roll out Covid-19 vaccines. It is feared that the new mutated strain could be a setback in the global fight against the pandemic. As it is 70 per cent more transmissible, it will require a modified response. While there is no strong evidence that this strain is any more severe or deadly, we must nonetheless remain vigilant. It is hoped that the vaccines that have been developed so far will be effective even against the new strain. At this point all we can do is hope for the best. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the new coronavirus strain that has been discovered in the UK is causing a sense of panic all around the world. Not only is it mutating faster but the new variant, called lineage B.1.1.7, contains 23 different changes, many of which are associated with alterations in a protein made by the virus. The saving grace is that so far it seems that the novel strain does not have a higher mortality rate. According to the World Health Organization, three other countries have already reported the presence of the mutant virus. Cases have already been reported in Turkey, Denmark, one in the Netherlands and another in Australia. It is, thus, good to hear that India has halted all flights between the two countries till December 31. Whether this virus is dangerous or not, we need to be more careful than before. The delayed response to the initial outbreak of Covid-19 had led to the government imposing a months-long nationwide lockdown which resulted in immense hardships for people all over the country. It is time that we learn from past mistakes. Abdussalam Shaikh,  Mumbai Sir — The sense of panic that is being caused by the lineage B.1.1.7 mutant strain reported by the UK is reminiscent of the early days of the pandemic. Prioritizing public health, the government in the UK has once again imposed a strict lockdown. In spite of the panic, it must be pointed out that it is commonplace for a virus to mutate. The best way forward would be to continue to follow social distancing norms and restrict travel. As it does not seem that the mutant variant is any more deadly than the dominant strain, it would be wise to go ahead with the mass inoculation as planned. But governments as well as the scientific community must continue to monitor the situation and address any complications that arise right away. A complacent attitude will only hinder recovery. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||No difference: Mr Modi's AMU speech||Few can match the prime minister of India in inspiring speeches. Speaking on the occasion of the centenary of Aligarh Muslim University, Narendra Modi celebrated the institution as a mini India in its diversity, symbolized apparently by the teaching of Urdu, Arabic, Persian languages, Islamic literature and Sanskrit side by side, and its ability to ‘craft’ and ‘polish’ students into a scientific and modern mindset with which they serve society and nation. The university’s contribution to the PM-Cares fund — compulsory in most academic institutions — which the prime minister mentioned may have enriched the eulogy. Mr Modi said that AMU was providing new energy to India’s cultural relations with the Islamic world. Why new? Which Islamic world? The prime minister’s admiration that women made up 35 per cent of AMU’s students, together with his claim that toilets from the Swachh Bharat Mission had reduced Muslim girls’ dropout rate from 70 per cent to 30, was, perhaps, touched with condescension, a tone that underlay much of his elevating rhetoric. Mr Modi’s theme was that politics can wait, but development cannot. Development should not be seen through a political prism, as some negative and self-interested people do. Religious and ideological differences should therefore be set aside for the sake of national aspirations, Mr Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, ‘Naya Bharat’. Nobly said. His emphasis on the absence of discrimination — much repeated — could perhaps erase memories of the police’s entry into AMU to suppress students protesting against the citizenship laws last December, of a Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s demand that Mohammad Ali Jinnah’s picture be removed, or of the labelling of the university as a ‘nest of terrorists’. The prime minister saw nothing political in packing his speech with the excellent results of his government’s various schemes or in his claim that differences had wasted the country for 70 years. At last India was on a path towards national glory in which religious or other differences would not be a disadvantage with regard to progress and constitutional rights. To find the speech hollow amid discriminatory moves and targeted violence would be ‘negative’ in Mr Modi’s sense. The university just happens to be located in the same state that saw the destruction of Babri Masjid and now has a law against the mythical evil of love jihad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||Robert Fisk: The chronicler of conflict||When I reached Cambridge in 1989, I began to subscribe to The Independent because of my interest in Robert Fisk. I had already read his precise writings with undimmed anger on the politics of Northern Ireland, the Lebanese Civil War and the Carnation Revolution in Portugal in 1974. I recall his perceptive documentation of the carnage of thousands of Palestinians by Israel at Sabra and Shatila in 1982. Being on the spot, he was the first to speak out against Israel and the American involvement in the region, showing a nerve few reporters would today. John Pilger and Robert Fisk are two war correspondents who have long been regarded as dissenting voices, their only enthusiasm being the pursuit of truth in their own different ways and going to great lengths, in the words of Pilger to “[report] from the ground up, from the point of view of both civilians and combatants because most wars now are against civilians directly or indirectly”. What matters most is being with those who are under fire. This is vital for journalists to comprehend the agenda of the conflict, more so from the viewpoint of history. History, according to Fisk, is what underpins the craft of reporting: “One of the things I always say to some of my younger colleagues when they’re going off on a story is take a history book. Don’t just go there and report it as if it’s a crime story. Take a history book.” For his reporting on the Middle East, Fisk had come to grips with the Holocaust, the Armenian genocide and the nature of new states being ‘carved’ out of the Middle East. The flourish of his intellectual confidence and his unflinching commitment were apparent in every piece that he wrote. As a journalist, he was not without his political concerns for Palestinian nationalism and the continuous turmoil that had become its nightmare. Fisk never minced his words on the urgency of addressing the question of debate and dissent when it came to important issues facing the world. “We need to stand up for commitment to a more open society where the basic human values and the virtues of independence of thought, are upheld.” This was the raison d’être of his ideology, a robust attempt at defining the essence of democracy. The public world pressed insistently on his private world, enabling him to use journalism to “challenge authority, especially so when governments and politicians take us to war”. For example, his mood of impassioned critique on the deplorable role of Tony Blair in leading Britain to war in Iraq was to a great extent a reflection of the public mood of anger in the country against the leadership for its entry into war on the grounds of a hollow nationalism. He held the affairs of the underdog and the value for human life in a wider perspective as opposed to the short-sighted expediency of his country’s leadership. Not hesitating to write convincingly on Nato’s propaganda operations during the 1999 bombing of Yugoslavia and Kosovo, he underscored the professional imperatives that determined his stand, and not the military pressures and market forces that often signify biased reporting. As he wrote scathingly, “Most of the journalists at the NATO briefing were sheep. Baaaa Baaaaa! That’s all it was.” Fisk died in October this year. His death leaves behind a vacuum in the intellectual world. Fisk couldn’t make it to Beirut where he had lived for over three decades, engaged in daring frontline reporting on the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, the Iranian revolution, the Iran-Iraq war, and the invasion of Iraq in 2003. But his haunting presence and fearless disposition would continue to influence war journalism for years to come. Fisk’s meetings with Osama bin Laden in the 1980s or with the Libyan dictator, Muammar Gaddafi, will be long remembered for his courage and sharp-eyed analysis, an inspiration for war correspondents for times to come. Fisk evolved a new vocabulary and a daring style to transform our understanding of conflict into a meaningful experience, something that every reader could relate to in his/her everyday life. His razor-sharp prose made sense of contemporary upheavals in terms of history, context and human cost. With full faith in the human ability to identify with people who directly experienced the violent and painful horrors of war, he worked with a vision and a sensibility to present not only the human cost of war but also compelled us to rethink our attitude to conflict without prejudice. He resisted political, military and institutional demands and interference. This prevented him from accepting the official narrative as factual without first questioning it or finding an alternative. He combined emotion and intellect to sustain his journalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Opinion||A bit too much||Family spats that spill over into politics and statecraft have been a feature of Indian existence since antiquity. India’s two most celebrated epics, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, can be read and appreciated at different levels — from captivating stories (including the gripping sub-plots) to the more challenging ethical issues that confront individuals and peoples. However, it is also possible to read the two timeless works as tales of family spats that spill over into the public arena. Going beyond the intrigues and wars of kings and their courts, the tradition of family disputes spilling over into electoral politics has been a recurring theme of Indian democracy. At the very top of the pile, there was the case of Feroze Gandhi — the husband of Indira Gandhi — becoming a dissident in the Congress led by Jawaharlal Nehru and subsequently training his guns at members of the government. Whether this contributed to the marriage going sour is a matter of conjecture. However, the reality of Indira becoming the official hostess of her father and subsequently becoming a politician in her own right while Feroze did his own thing on the fringes of the power structure was there for everyone to see. Then there was the mother-son spat in the erstwhile royal family of Gwalior that became a permanent backdrop of politics in the Madhya Bharat region of Madhya Pradesh. Depending on who you speak to, there are divergent perceptions of whether Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia was the wronged person — after all, she was viciously persecuted for her association with the Jana Sangh during the Emergency while her son, Madhavrao Scindia, took refuge in Nepal and subsequently entered into an understanding with Indira Gandhi — or was craftily manipulated by the redoubtable Sardar Angre. All over India, there are similar stories of feuding families attempting to gain an advantage by taking their battles into the political arena. In recent times, it used to be said that there were two distinct political worlds in Odisha. The first was the familiar political war involving the Congress, the Biju Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party. At the same time, there was a parallel universe centred on the family feud involving the erstwhile royal family of Bolangir. One wing had become leaders of the BJD while the other wing had hitched its stars to the BJP. The whole situation became awkward and, occasionally, quite hilarious when the BJD and the BJP were in alliance between 1998 and 2004. On the face of it, there is nothing so glamorous or high profile in the breakdown in the marriage of the BJP’s member of parliament from Bishnupur, Saumitra Khan, and his wife, Sujata Mondal. Saumitra, now the president of the West Bengal unit of the BJP’s Yuva Morcha, has been a flamboyant political activist with a penchant for getting into controversies that have a brief life span. His now-estranged wife, Sujata, on the other hand, also developed political ambitions after she conducted the successful election campaign for her husband in 2019 after he was externed from the district by an administrative order. Predictably, she found that her political career invariably hit a roadblock because she was perceived to be an extension of her husband and not as a person in her right. There may have been other, more personal, issues that strained the marriage but those don’t belong in the public arena. If Sujata felt that her political ambitions could not be accommodated within the BJP and needed an alternative outlet, she was fully entitled to re-explore the prospects of life in the Trinamul Congress. Apart from a minority of cases where political beliefs and ideological conviction have determined behaviour, political activism — and not merely in West Bengal — has been dictated by prospects of personal advancement. To that extent, Sujata was fully entitled to chalk out her own political path, even if it was at variance with that of her husband. That, unfortunately, is not the issue. What I find strikingly odd is that Sujata leaving the BJP and re-joining the TMC was turned into a political event for the media to devour and gloat over. Undeniably, it was the TMC that fired the first shot by wilfully seeking to convert an innocuous defection from the BJP — Sujata’s only status was that of the wife of a sitting MP of the BJP — into a political event. Her move to the TMC was not presented as a political conversion but highlighted as an instance where the attraction of the chief minister was strong enough to break up a marriage and, possibly, a family. Maybe the TMC aimed to counter the BJP’s suggestion that the ruling party in the state was being crippled by desertions. That was a legitimate political objective. But what was instead conveyed was that the TMC is powerful enough to break up a BJP leader’s marriage in retaliation. In short, the advice to the BJP was couched in dadagiri: don’t mess with us. The veteran parliamentarian, Saugata Roy, may have been disturbed by this unfortunate lowering of the political discourse, but he was a helpless spectator to a cynical ploy that had been choreographed elsewhere. The issue involved is much more than a public airing of a family disagreement and the possible breakdown of a marriage in real time. What was witnessed on countless Bengali TV channels last Monday afternoon was indicative of the over-politicization of a state and the visceral nature of political competition. The reality of Bengalis taking their politics a bit too seriously has always been a troubling feature of West Bengal. When politics was insulated to ideas, a safe zone could be maintained between an intellectual or ideological pursuit and electoral politics. Over the years, and more so since the collapse of the socialist edifice in 1990, the pretence of the political world being cerebral has been difficult to maintain. At the same time, political partisanship has permeated every level of society and contaminated every institution. Bengal has internalized the very Marxist dictum that all institutions serve a political end in some way or another. It has even re-packaged the personal-is-political principle in social relations. However, the outward veneer of politics barely conceals its ugly essence. The over-politicization of institutions began under the Left Front rule when the Communist Party of India (Marxist) began its extension of total control. The worst affected were the centres of intellectual capital such as universities. In these institutions of learning, the CPI(M) felt the need to control everyone, from the humble peon to the vice-chancellor. This overreach triggered a reaction but the TMC attempted to replicate the Left sans the finesse and with the addition of corruption. The overall effect of three decades of Left rule and a decade of Mamata Banerjee’s whimsy has led to a vulgar over-politicization that manifests itself in everything, ranging from the organization of neighbourhood pujas to stand-offs after traffic accidents. Predictably, the Left has been driven to the margins and the TMC’s visibility extends well beyond the scale of its electoral support. As the slow breeze of change begins to be felt in West Bengal, it is quite apparent that any revival of the state must necessarily involve confrontation with the prevailing culture of politicization. The political class is unwilling to forego this privilege because the process incorporates patronage and favouritism. This drift to a mindless regime of political control has to stop at some point. What is needed is a process of reversal that involves a conscious political retreat. It is time that depoliticization as a conscious objective finds favour in the electorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Christmas celebrations for differently-abled kids at Dhanbad school||Children with mental disability and hearing impairment celebrated Christmas at Jeevan Jyoti School on Thursday in the presence of their parents and members of the Rotary Club of Dhanbad. About 45 kids partook of delicacies like chhola bhatura, gajar ka halwa, cake, chocolates and potato chips and danced to Christmas carols. The celebration began at around 11am and concluded at around 2: 30pm. The celebration was attended by chief guest Dasrath Chandra Das, Deputy Development Commissioner of Dhanbad. He presided over the gifting of a wheel chair to a physically disabled person on behalf of the Rotary Club. Sanjay Khemka, president of Jeevan Jyoti Sanshan in his address apprised the chief guest of the range of activities for overall development of the special children besides education and vocational training. He further said that around 125 special students of various categories are presently enrolled at the center who are being provided with all kinds of training through online sessions. Das said that these children are an integral part of our society and it is our responsibility to work towards their development. District Governor (Bihar and Jharkhand) of Rotary club, Rajan Gandotra, informed the gathering about social activities undertaken by the club. The celebration, however began with cake cutting by the chief guest. The birthday of an intellectually impaired student was also celebrated during the occasion. “Teddy bears, coffee mugs, cake, chocolates, potato chips were also distributed among the students after the function,” said special educator cum speech therapist of the school Ranjit Singh. Mallu Malkar, father of one hearing impaired student said, “confined to the house due to closure of the school the children, including my daughter, felt very excited after enjoying the special Christmas party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||In Ranchi for a shoot, Taapsee falls in love with its food and stadiums||Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu discovered her newfound love when she visited Ranchi and had litti-chokha, a popular Bihari cuisine found across city streets. Not only the food, but the  world class athletics track and stadiums at the mega sports complex in Ranchi’s Khelgaon and Morabadi had her heart when she visited the city to shoot for upcoming film Rashmi Rocket. As she returned after wrapping up the four-day shoot in Ranchi, the Pink actor tweeted, “What a wonderful experience to shoot in Ranchi,Jharkhand. My first time in the city and taking back some really good memories and an after taste of litthi chokha”. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren was quick to acknowledge her post. “Thank you for your kind words @taapsee ji. @VisitJharkhand & @prdjharkhand are glad to host you and your team. We are strongly focused on the development of sports & welfare of sportspersons in Jharkhand along with development of tourism in Jharkhand specially Eco Tourism,” he tweeted. Directed by Aakash Khurana, Rashmi Rocket traces the journey of a runner in Gujarat’s Bhuj, Rashmi Kheera, who defies all odds to represent India in the 2015 Asian Games. The film also explores Rashmi’s transformation from a girl belonging to a humble background to a national-level athlete. Taapsee, known for her bold and unconventional role, plays the titular character in the movie. Sources in the state IPRD department said that the Ranchi leg of shooting was done over four days, which got wrapped up on Wednesday night. “The shooting was done at Birsa Munda football stadium in Morabadi and athletics stadium in Khelgaon. It was kept tightly under the wraps to prevent any crowding situation, especially in the wake of covid-19 pandemic,” an IPRD official, who wished to remain anonymous, said. About half a dozen athletes from the state too were hand-picked randomly for shooting in Ranchi by the film crew, officials in state athletics told The Telegraph Online. Sashank Singh, co-treasurer of Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA), who is playing the role of a commentator, said that working with the team will remain in his memories. “I got the role just by chance. Three days back when the film crew came to Khelgaon stadium, a state level meet was underway. I was doing commentary since our regular commentator didn’t turn up that day. The director liked my voice and requested me to do a small commentary for the shoot. I readily agreed,” said Singh. “Here, we shot about a state level meet in Gujarat where Rashmi debuts from Bhuj and how she ends up winning starting as an underdog,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Prayers in batches, not more than 200 allowed in churches||Not more than 200 people will be allowed in churches across Ranchi for Christmas mass on Thursday night and Friday morning owing to Covid-19 restrictions, even as devotees have been requested to keep children below 10 and senior citizens away from the religious gatherings as they are more vulnerable to being infected by the virus, officials from the Ranchi district administration said on Thursday. “The state government’s latest decision of allowing only 200 people at religious gatherings will be followed during Christmas mass too,” said acting Ranchi sub divisional officer Manoj Kumar, who is in-charge in the absence of SDO Sameera S. Kumar said all the police stations across the city have also been instructed to intensify patrolling and make sure that unmonitored gatherings on road were avoided during the festival. “Police have also been asked to keep a watch on drunk driving,” he said. Officials said the government was unlikely to come up with a fresh set of guidelines for Christmas and New Year, and the latest notification issued from the home, prisons and disaster management department earlier this month would be applicable across the state. Usually, huge gatherings are organised at grounds and churches for prayers and feasts on Christmas. However, in the wake of the pandemic, revellers have been asked to attend gatherings in groups. “Separate timings have been set for residents of different localities to attend church prayers in order to avoid overcrowding,” said Vikas Murmu, a resident of Harmu locality, who visits Harmu St. Francis Church every Christmas. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has also set a time limit on bursting crackers during Christmas and New Year. Revellers will be allowed to burst crackers only from 11.55pm to 12.30am on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, the latest directive from the pollution watchdog said. Archbishop Felix Toppo has also urged the members of the Roman Catholic community in Jharkhand to follow Covid-19 restrictions and take all precautionary measures during the festival. Toppo has asked people to donate money to the poor instead of splurging this Christmas. He has said that the churches would be adhering to the government guidelines. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan has asked police to maintain vigil on picnic spots right from Christmas to New Year. The government has imposed a ban on smoking and consumption of liquor at picnic spots and police have been asked to deal sternly with the violators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Auto strike comes to end following dialogue with authorities||The indefinite strike launched by auto-rickshaw operators, in support of their seven-point demands, came to an end on Thursday, following a meeting between the protesters and the district administration. The talks, led by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad, was mediated by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. It came after the agitators on Thursday decided to go for an indefinite hunger strike at the Randhir Verma Chowk, alleging that they were not being heard by the district administration. During the meeting, the administration gave verbal orders to auto-rickshaw operators to increase the minimum fare during the lockdown period to Rs 10, which was one of the demands of the protesters. The authorities also asked the drivers to operate their vehicles in designated routes and not take more than one passenger in the front seat. Members of different auto operators associations, including Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, Sewa Dal Chalak Sangh, Tempo Chalak Morcha, Dhanbad Zila Auto Mahsangh and Jharkhand Rajya Pariwahan Chalak Khalasi Sangh, expressed hope that the administration will further initiate measures to notify the fare chart by February 14, 2021. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Raj Sinha said, “A final decision with regard to all the issues is yet to be taken as several rounds of talks are likely to be held. But everything will be finalised before February 14, 2020.” Asked about the minimum auto fares. Sinha said that the rate that  fixed during the lockdown, i.e. Rs 10, will continue to apply. Regarding the route-chart allocation, the MLA said that both parties are yet to sit together and finalise the issue. President of Jharkhand Pradesh Auto Chalak Mahasangh, Chhotan Singh, who was also present in the meeting said, “The strike came to an end as dialogues began with the administration, and assurance was given to finalise all the issues before February 15, 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Foresters arrest one for poaching deer, cooking its meat||A team of the Forest Department said that on the basis of a tip-off, they had raided a village near Hunterganj town in Chatra district where a deer was killed and cooked on Tuesday night by eight youths. The foresters carried out the raid at all eight houses on Wednesday at Dalgoma village under Chakla panchayat in Huntergunj block, around 30 kilometers away from the district headquarter. However, seven of the accused persons managed to escape, while one, named Bhola Baiga was arrested. The police also recovered the skin of the deer from his house. Forest range officer Surya Bhushan Kumar, who led the team, said that they got information that a few youths -- Bhola Baiga, Mahendra Mahato a.k.a Gujjar, Kajru Baiga, Manoj Baiga, Ashok Baiga, Shankar Baiga, Sukan Baiga and Karu Baiga -- killed a deer at a forest near their village, and cooked to eat it on Tuesday night. Apart from the skin recovered from Bhola Baiga’s house, the police also found the deer horns from Mahendra Mahato’s residence. Kumar said that efforts are on to nab the accused youths, including Mahendra, who have been absconding since the raid. The officer further added that killing of deer is a crime under Wildlife Protection Act, and the department is leaving no stones unturned to create awareness among the villagers. However, this is not the first time such an incident took place. Despite raids followed by arrests, the forest has failed to put a check on deer poaching in Chatra which still has dense forest covers. A few foresters were suspended in March for cooking and eating the deer meat which was seized from poachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Spend more towards state’s development, Hemant tells banks||Chief minister Hemant Soren has urged banks operating out of Jharkhand to be more forthcoming in providing fiscal assistance to people in the post-lockdown era to help revive ailing sectors of the economy. Speaking at a seminar on state credit organised by NABARD here on Thursday, Hemant suggested that the banking sector plough back a major part of profits earned from the state into its development. Citing an example of poor financial assistance to farmers, he said, “In the 2020-21 fiscal year, I have learnt that Rs 2,033 crore was given to around 65,000 farmers in the form of loans. There is immense scope for improvement in this sector. In neighbouring Bengal, banks have dished out around Rs 7,000 crore in loans. Geographically, both Jharkhand and Bengal are almost similar, and have identical challenges in terms of agriculture. But credit linkages there are better vis-à-vis ours.” Hemant said that considering the global pandemic that has derailed every sector and halted growth, both banks and respective governments would have to come on board with a common agenda of creating sustainable development. “I believe all major banks who earn profits from this state should now spend a major portion of their earnings towards development here. Just giving a day’s square meal (ration) to the poor isn’t enough. We have to help people grow so that they can stand on their own, create opportunities for others and not just remain dependent on welfare schemes,” he said. NABARD also presented its state focus paper for 2021-22 in which it has assessed a credit flow potential to the tune of Rs 28,643.64 crore under different priority sectors to enhance farm income. Some of the priority sectors identified for the coming fiscal included agriculture, MSME, education, housing, social infrastructure, renewable energy, among others. A.K. Padhi, chief general manager, NABARD-Jharkhand, said that the focus for 2021-22 should be on collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income. “The Union government’s target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 can be achieved only through collectivization of agriculture products. Due to the highly fragmented, scattered and heterogeneous nature of landholdings, rising cost of cultivation, poor market infrastructure, climate change, etc agriculture today is less profitable. Only by collectivisation of agricultural produce, value addition and collective marketing by setting up of farmer producers’ organisation (FPO) can we be able to achieve that goal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express to resume operations from January 1||The Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway is almost set to run the Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express from January 1, following an approval from the Railway Board. The Dhanbad division had proposed to run the train with a full rake of 22 coaches from January 1, the notification regarding which is likely to be made in a day or two. Talking about the development, Ranjit Datta, in-charge of the Dhanbad Rail Coach Depot said, “We have already prepared three rakes of 22 coaches each while preparations of setting up a fourth rake are underway.” A total of six rakes of 22 coaches each will be prepared for the new arrangement, he added. “We have not received any written order but have been instructed verbally to prepare the rakes as the service is likely to resume from January 1,” Datta further said. The train, which serves as a lifeline for patients of Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chhatra and others, used to operate with just 12 rakes. Half the rakes used to run from the Tatanagar Railway Station. Expressing happiness over the development, social worker and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce Kumar Madhurendra Singh said, “The suspension of trains since the last nine months was causing a lot of difficulty for the patients heading to south Indian hospitals.” “We are happy to learn that the railway has prepared to operate the train with full 22 coaches but also request the Railway administration to make special arrangements for sanitisation and ensure availability of sanitisers in sufficient quantity in each coach. This train is among the very few that carries the majority of patients. So it is important to ensure that they do not get infected,” Singh added. He said that full sanitisation should be ensured at all important stations, and the train should make longer halts. “Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, said, “ We have not received any notification from the railway board so we can’t say that from when the trains will operate. However, we have sent a proposal to the railway board and hope for a nod soon, as the preparations to run the train are in full blow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Olympics archery mentor hopeful of India medal in mixed team event||India’s archery medal drought in Olympic Games may well, end thanks to the inclusion of a mixed team event in the competition. Archery mentor Dharmendra Tiwary, who was the coach of the Indian’s men’s squad in the Rio Olympics, is optimistic that Indian archers stand a chance to clinch a medal in the mixed team event (one archer of each gender). “It is good that a mixed team event has been included in next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, for the first time. The Indian mixed teams have won medals in World Cups on more than one occasion, and I am optimistic that they can come up with a similar show in the Olympics,” he said. Tiwary was also hopeful of a medal win in the team event. The women’s team comprising Deepika Kumari. Laishram Bombayala Devi and Lakshmi Rani Majhi made it to the quarter-finals in the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Tiwary said medals in the individual category depends on the form of archers on a given day. The highly experienced coach, who was bestowed with the Dronacharya award (lifetime category) earlier this year, added a psychologist was needed for the Indian archers to overcome nerves in big-ticket competitions. “But he/she (psychologist) should have adequate knowledge about the game and have a fair bit of understanding of an archer’s needs on the mental front. He/sheshould be able to understand the amount of pressure an archer is undergoing and try to calm it down. Countries like Korea and the US have psychologists as support staff,” Tiwary said. The head coach of the Jamshedpur-based elite Tata Archery Academy (TAA)  said crowd pressure has a negative effect on the psyche of Indian archers when they line up to shoot in top-level competitions. “Unlike India, spectators fill the galleries on both sides of the shooting range in international competitions, including Olympics. Our archers have never competed in front of a large presence of spectators,” the 47-year-old explained. Tiwary is involved in archery coaching for over two decades now and has mentored top-bracket archer and Olympian Deepika Kumari in her formative years at the Tata cradle. He has also mentored Deepika’s husband and Olympian Atanu Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 12,000 Bokaro residents surrender ration cards||Over 12,000 residents of Bokaro, all of them being financially sound, have surrendered their ration cards to the district supply department, after realising that they do not belong to the economically weaker sections of the society. The move follows a request made by Bokaro Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh in June, asking all economically able residents to surrender their ration cards. He had asked them to hand over the cards to the District Supply Department from June 22 to December 15. Singh, satisfied with so many ration cards being collected, thanked the residents, adding that the task to deliver these cards to needy beneficiaries will be strengthened. “On the special appeal, a total of 12,727 rich people have surrendered their ration cards so far,” supply officer Roshan Kumar Shah said. Singh further informed that the process to deliver the ration cards to 84 primitive tribal families is underway. On the basis of priority, a total of 2436 ration cards have been issued to people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, people suffering from a serious illness, physically challenged persons, and widows. Bokaro Steel City has the highest number of people, 1,926, who have surrendered their cards, followed by Gomia, where 1,897 people have done the same. In Chas, 1,782 people have handed over the ration cards, 1,354 in Bermo, 1,217 in Chandankiyari, 1,374 in Petarwar, 1,150 in Nawadih, 748 in Chandrapura, 697 in Kasmar, and 582 in Jaridih.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF picket in Maoist stronghold attacked by villagers ||At least a thousand villagers launched an attack in the picket of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Pandeydih village under Pirtaand Block of Giridih on Wednesday evening. Holding traditional weapons, the villagers marched towards the picket. The attack has been alleged to be instigated by the Naxals. The 7th Battalion of CRPF has opened a picket closed to the house Ajay Mahato, a member of the Special Area Committee of the banned CPI (Maoist) outfit, in his village Pandeydih. Mahato is on the most wanted list of police with prize money of Rs 25 lakh on his head. Pandeydih under Pirtaand Block of Giridih is a Maoist stronghold. Apart from Mahto who is active from Parasnath to West Bengal and Orissa border, other hardcore Maoists Karamchand Manjhi, and Dhiren da also belong to this village. The entire Pirtaand block, which was once an impregnable fort of the Maoists, has now crumbled with CRPF's bold presence and opening of the picket. By opening the picket virtually in Maoists den, the Police and CRPF has managed to penetrate deep inside the area. According to sources, the angry villagers, in which a large number of women were present, vandalized the picket. However, the CRPF jawans posted at the picket handled the situation in a calm and restraint manner using force and persuasion. The patience of CRPF personnel helped in normalising the situation and avert any mishap. In many places, Naxal violence has mellowed down but despite all efforts, Ajay Mahto remains evasive. Mahto is involved in triggering several Naxal incidents and is presently active in the Chaibasa area, said sources. CRPF DIG Dilip Kumar Chaudhary said, “The mob was there, but the CRPF personnel persuaded them to return. Naxal is directing and instigating them to protest against CRPF camp there.” Sources said the villagers were opposing the opening of CRPF Picket in their village. However, men-in-khakis believe that launching of the attack by villagers is a conspiracy of hardcore Naxalite Ajay Mahto, whose entry to his house and village got restricted with the opening of the CRPF picket. The villagers before attacking picket demonstrated with a traditional weapon and took out a procession in the village. Police are camping on the spot after the incident. The atmosphere of the village remains tense at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases continue to climb in Ranchi as 82 infections surface in the day||Pakur on Wednesday became the only district in Jharkhand to have no Covid patients. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there was only one Covid-19 patient in the district and the patient tested negative for the virus on the day, while no fresh cases surfaced there. Dumka, Simdega and Giridih districts also had less than 10 active cases by the end of the day. As many as 202 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday, while 204 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases of infection in the state down at 1633, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi, the district with highest number of Covid patients in Jharkhand, reported 82 cases against 88 recoveries on the day. At least 20 people were found infected in East Singhbhum while 21 patients recovered there. Dhanbad reported 24 cases against 26 recoveries on the day. Ramgarh reported 16 cases against seven recoveries. No Covid casualties occured in any part of Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. So far, the deadly virus has claimed 1014 lives in Jharkhand. At least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum, while 209 were from Ranchi. At least four districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while 16 districts reported a single-digit-spike. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 15,549 people on the day and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 46.88 lakh people and tested 46.78 lakh of them. As per government data, the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,13,609 and 1,10,962 patients have recovered so far, taking the Covid recovery rate up at 97.67 per cent against the national average of 95.70 per cent. As per official records with the health department, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.20 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 429.23 days against the national average of 340.83 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cracks down on crime||Jharkhand DGP M.V. Rao has shared his personal number in the social media for people to inform him directly about organised criminal gangs, indicating the state police’s strong resolve to launch intensive operations against crime. The 1987 batch IPS officer, who took over as the DGP earlier this year, has in a tweet posted separately in Hindi and English on Wednesday morning, said, “Intensive and targeted operations against the organised criminal gangs are yielding desired results. I seek the public participation in Jharkhand police endeavours in creating a safer environment. Please share information on criminals. My contact number 09431106363.” Sources in the state CID revealed that the top brass of the police department had discussed a multi-pronged intensive operation against the 40-odd criminal gangs, some of whose leaders operate from behind the bars, in different districts of the state. “We have 100 emergency dial numbers and also contact numbers of SPs and senior police officials in which people can share inputs about criminal gangs without disclosing their identity. However, this would be the first occasion in the two-decades history of Jharkhand (since it was carved out of Bihar in 2000) that a DGP has shared his personal number in the social media for sharing information against organised criminal gangs. It is aimed at sending a strong message to the criminal gangs and also to the masses that they can now directly get in touch with the senior-most police official to share information about gangsters,” a senior CID official in Ranchi said on the condition of anonymity. The development follows recent incidents of carnage at Latehar by jailed gangster Sujit Sinha’s men and Maoist splinter outfit Peoples’ Liberation Front of India (PLFI). “With rebels joining hands with criminals we wanted to redo our strategy to put an end to criminal gangs. Primarily, the criminal gangs in Jharkhand are involved in extorting money from contractors and fixing tenders. Once we have culled out information about criminal gangs, we will have a multi-pronged strategy against them,” the senior CID official added. There are 40 criminal gangs, which are active in the 24 districts of the state. Out of them, most of the groups are in the industrial hub of Jamshedpur (eight) and capital Ranchi (eight). While some of the gangsters are behind the bars, including Akhilesh Singh of Jamshedpur and Sujit Sinha, Anil Sharma and Fahim Khan of Ranchi there are several gangsters who are out of police reach. The CID has sought details of income sources of gangsters from the respective districts as part of a strategy to block their income-generating avenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
