25-12-2020||Calcutta||Message of peace by the archbishop of Calcutta on Christmas Eve||The archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’ Souza, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary on Portuguese Church Street, in Burrabazar, on Christmas Eve. A feeling for one another and a feeling that everyone belongs to one humanity is what the world needs, the archbishop said in his Christmas message on Thursday. “We need peace, we need love, we need unity, we need brotherhood, sisterhood, we need compassion and a feeling for one another and a feeling that we all belong to one humanity,” the archbishop said. Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien were also present. The traditional Midnight Mass was brought forward in Roman Catholic churches because of the pandemic. At the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary, the Mass started at 7.30pm. “But that does not take away the spirit of Christmas in any way,” the archbishop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Steel jackets’ for Tallah pipes||Pipes carrying water to the city from Palta in North 24-Parganas are being covered with “mild steel jackets” to prevent damage during the ongoing Tallah bridge construction. Water from Palta is stored in the Tallah tank. Eight pipes supply around 230 million gallons of water every day from the 111-year-old reservoir to large parts of north, central and south Calcutta. Six of the pipes run to the east of where the old Tallah bridge stood, and one each to the west and north. A ninth pipe is on standby. The Tallah reservoir gets its supply from Palta, 21km north, through three pipes. Engineers from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have identified seven of these pipes, including the three that bring water from Palta, to be covered with mild steel jackets. Jacketing will involve putting an encasement of steel around the pipes to protect them from external damage. “These are very old pipes. During the construction of the new Tallah bridge, these pipes are likely to be subjected to heavy vibrations underground. As a result, they could develop cracks,” said a senior CMC engineer overseeing distribution of drinking water across Calcutta. “By wrapping a mild steel jacket on each of them, we will prevent any injury to the outer walls of these pipes that may result in leakages,” he said. The CMC produces 440 million gallons of potable water every day to cater to around 45.6 lakh people. A little over half the volume is routed through the Tallah tank, which was inaugurated in 1909. Engineers said they had identified patches on the underground water pipes that were vulnerable to cracks and needed to be wrapped with a mild steel jacket. A team of engineers has collected details of the alignment of the pipes from the PWD, which is executing the Tallah bridge construction project. These pipes are from the British era and their diameter varies between 42 and 68 inches, a PWD official said. “Unless the jacketing work of the pipes from Palta is completed, we can’t begin our work of building two piers on the Dunlop-end of the flyover. We have set March as the deadline for finishing this work,” said a senior PWD official. The proposed Tallah bridge, which will connect large parts of north Calcutta including Dunlop, Sinthee, Chiria More with Shyambazar, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle. These two spans, each measuring about 280 metres in length, will stand on 12 pillars. The deck in the middle, about 230 metres in length, will stand on a set of six pillars. The arm of the bridge that will go towards Chitpore railway yard, spanning around 250 metres, will stand on a set of two pillars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Commission order to six hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday ordered several private hospitals to pay compensation to patients or their families. Woodlands Hospital was asked to pay Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family for putting pressure on them to shift the patient, who was critically ill and on ventilation, to another hospital after the person tested positive for Covid, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The hospital argued they were not treating Covid patients in June, when this incident happened. But the commission said that was no excuse for the hospital to ask the family to shift the patient. “It was not right for the hospital to force the family to take the patient away,” said Banerjee. The commission asked Fortis Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a woman who underwent orthopaedic surgery there. Banerjee said the hospital had charged the patient more than the “package amount”. The insurance company refused to pay the bill. “The insurance company said some of the tests were done unnecessarily and the patient’s stay at the hospital was also prolonged,” said Banerjee. “The bill was more than the amount mentioned in the package under which the woman was admitted. We have asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000.” Divine Nursing Home was asked to offer a discount of Rs 2.31 lakh on a bill of Rs 5.81 lakh to a 63-year-old person who was treated in the hospital for Covid for 16 days in August. “The hospital had overcharged in almost all segments. It also did not offer discounts on medicines and consumables. We have asked them to take Rs 3.5 lakh of the bill amount,” he said. The commission also asked Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals to withdraw criminal cases against a patient and his father who could not pay Rs 2.87 lakh out of the Rs 9.87 lakh bill amount. The patient’s mother said her husband’s travel and tourism business had shut down during the lockdown and he took to hawking goods to run the family. “The man’s son was first admitted to Fortis Hospital, where the treatment cost Rs 5 lakh. A surgery was required, for which the 21-year-old youth was admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals,” Banerjee said. “The estimated cost of the surgery was between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 6 lakh, but the family was handed a bill of Rs 9.87 lakh on the day of discharge,” said Banerjee. The patient stayed at Apollo for over 18 days. “We have asked the hospital to withdraw all criminal complaints and also not press for the remaining amount. The family has paid Rs 7 lakh,” Banerjee said. A penalty of Rs 5,000 was imposed on AMRI Salt Lake for not offering a patient a discount on medicines and consumables. R Flemming Hospital was asked to offer a discount of Rs 37,000 to a patient party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Woman raped in Baguiati||A woman in her 30s was allegedly gang raped inside a car in Baguiati by two men, at least one of whom was known to her, police said. The men — Surojit Dey and Bishu Dewal — have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||CESC to claim dues in EMIs from November cycle||Private power utility CESC on Thursday said it would start collecting the amount kept “in abeyance” for the months preceding June, over 10 equated monthly instalments, from the November billing cycle. The decision was taken to prevent inconvenience to consumers, CESC said. “First of all, the amount is being divided into 10 installments for the ease of payment of consumers. Then, this is being done from the November billing cycle, which will include around six months of relatively cooler conditions, usually marked by less consumption,” said Avijit Ghosh, vice-president (distribution services), CESC. “Moreover, only the monetary amount that had been kept in abeyance will be collected, with no impact on the rate slabs for the units consumed for the 10 bills, November onwards.” The announcement came around four months after the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group-owned utility — enjoying a virtual monopoly in the sector for 33 lakh consumers over a 567sq km area comprising Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood — had announced that the actual due amount for the months preceding June was being kept “in abeyance”. The bills from the November cycle would include a header called “Adjustments” for the dues, which will be explained in detail overleaf, in every bill. “For instance, if the total amount kept in abeyance was Rs 1,228, an amount of Rs 122.8 would be added to every bill from the billing cycle of November this year to August next year. So if the bill for November was going to be Rs 1,000 otherwise, it would be Rs 1,122.8, approximately,” said Ghosh. Some consumers, however, have already started expressing doubts over the announcement. “I thought that the amount kept in abeyance was already being taken as EMIs in the bills, as the bills for the past couple of months have been much higher than usual, despite no need for air-conditioning…. This announcement is surprising,” said Ballygunge resident Sumita Chatterjee, a 64-year-old investment consultant. In July, the utility had said bills suddenly seemed inflated because it was adjusting dues from the March 23-June 7 period when actual meter readings could not be collected because of the lockdown. During the period, CESC had said, it had only collected from consumers an average of the six months’ bill preceding the period. But, after hundreds of the utility’s 33 lakh consumers cried foul over allegedly inflated — “absurdly high” — bills, CESC kept the dues “in abeyance”. The bills of June, issued in July, became the subject of countless jokes and memes on social media, with numerous notable civil society members joining in and protests erupting at CESC offices in some parts of the city. As the Opposition started turning it into a political issue, the Mamata Banerjee government intervened and the utility revised its June bill, along with an explanation of its method of calculation for the revision printed on the bill, which only those consumers who did not already pay were expected to pay. Those who had already paid the previously issued June bill did not have to pay anything and the adjustment for their payment was given subsequently. “Let’s, once again, keep in focus that all this was done as a consumer-friendly initiative,” said Debasish Banerjee, CESC managing director (distribution).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Cyclist, bus passenger killed in two accidents||Two men died in separate accidents in the city between Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. One of the victims, a cyclist, was knocked down by a truck. The other was run over by the bus he was trying to get off, police said. Cyclist Netai Ghosh, 70, a resident of Jyotish Roy Road near Buroshibtala, was hit by a goods vehicle on Diamond Harbour Road, in front of the Siddheshwari Kali temple, around 12.20pm on Thursday. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he was declared dead. The driver has been arrested. Accidents involving cycles have been on the rise in the city, prompting the police to re-impose restrictions on their movement on thoroughfares. According to a police notification, cycles are restricted on Diamond Harbour Road between 7am and 1pm and from 4pm to 10pm. Around 8pm on Wednesday, Sanjay Tiwari, 25, a resident of Parnasree Pally, slipped and fell while getting off a bus on Deshapran Sashmal Road. He was crushed under the rear wheels of the bus. Traffic cops suspect the bus driver was driving rashly and trying to speed off before passengers could alight properly. The driver fled. The police have seized the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus owners to resume service tomorrow||Bus and minibus operators on around 10 routes across Calcutta have decided to resume their operations from Saturday after the state government said it would clear their dues within a few days. The government owed the operators money for transporting personnel and materials during the pandemic. “The state government has already paid the bulk of the amount. The finance department has decided to release the pending amount shortly and it would be passed on to the bus owners,” said a senior official of the transport department. Following the assurance, the agitating owners have agreed to roll out their buses from Saturday. The owners, who said the government owed them Rs 42 lakh, threatened to disrupt services again if the government went back on its promise. On Wednesday and Thursday, many commuters had to struggle reaching their destinations across Calcutta as private buses on around 10 routes went off the roads. Among the affected routes were Esplanade-Akra Phatak, Pailan-Howrah, New Alipore-Ruby rotary and Park Circus-Purbachal Housing Estate (Salt Lake). The transport department had hired close to 40 buses and minibuses to transport personnel, including frontline health workers, and materials such as sanitisers, masks and medical equipment during the lockdown. Between May and June, some of the buses were used to ferry migrant labourers who had returned from other states to places in Nadia, Bankura and Purulia. “Between March 26 and September 28, the state government had hired the buses on an emergency basis. The owners received a part of their dues till June. We were told the rest would be cleared within a month,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Mini Bus Owners Association. “As the year draws to an end, the transport department has told us that the outstanding amount would be cleared within the next few days. The protesting owners have decided to resume operations from Saturday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Club votes for sweeping change||Calcutta Club will have a brand new team at the helm with as many as 10 new faces, including the incoming president, making it to the top decision-making body of the elite social institution for 2020-21. Scientist Partha Ghose, who has never been a managing committee member, has become the new president of the club, capping months of efforts by a section of influential members and past presidents to usher in radical change in the club management. The elections that were held at the end of the annual general meeting on Wednesday saw the exit of seven members of the management committee. Moreover, the senior-most member of the outgoing committee, who usually becomes the president, was also voted out. About 1,600 out of the 3,000 eligible voting members of the club exercised their franchise. The AGM was held amid a controversy that flared over accusations of financial irregularities, which prompted the Union ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) to write to the club seeking its response to whistleblower complaints of financial impropriety. Members of the club have already voted for a forensic audit of the books of accounts. Speaking to The Telegraph shortly after the election results were announced late in the afternoon, Ghose laid out his priorities for the year: “The Club needed a radical change, and the members have voted for that. It is a completely new committee. We will try to restore the prestige and the traditions of the Club, bringing in transparent, honest and efficient management and also restore the bonhomie which is what the Club is for.” The controversy In a letter on December 14, the MCA had sought a detailed response from the club within 10 days based on a set of accusations that were levelled by a member of the club. The Calcutta Club Ltd is governed by the rules and regulations of the Companies Act 2013 as it is classified as a company under Section 8, which deals with non-profit entities. The grievances listed in the MCA’s letter flow from a report of veteran member Nirupam Halder, a member of the internal audit committee. Halder had raised questions about the cost overrun in the renovation of the Men’s Bar, investment of provident fund money amounting Rs 86 lakh in troubled companies such as Dewan Housing Finance Ltd, Reliance Capital Ltd, Reliance Home Finance Ltd and IL&FS Ltd, a Rs 1-crore investment in Yes Bank's Tier-1 bonds as well as expenditure of Rs 24.65 lakh on building a solar panel. The report gained support from a section of influential club members, including a few senior members who forced an extraordinary general meeting on December 12 — the first time in the history of the club that such a meeting was convened. Three resolutions were passed at the EGM with an overwhelming majority, including the decision to carry out a forensic audit of accounts. There are 13 members of the management committee of the Calcutta Club, which includes the president and the immediate ex-president. The 11 other members are chosen through a poll during the AGM, which took place on Wednesday. A separate poll takes place simultaneously for the post of president. Nine members of the outgoing committee had denied any wrongdoings mentioned in the report. Sandip Ghose, who as a member and whistleblower wrote to the MCA, said on Thursday: “Heritage institutions like Calcutta Club are run as much by tradition as by rules. Not only was the ‘culture’ diluted, but people also forgot that being a company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, some minimum standards of governance has to be maintained and decisions cannot be bulldozed by the majority.” Club president Ghose, who was also chairman of Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute, said the committee would appoint a reputable firm to carry out the forensic audit. “We will take action based on the findings and inform the MCA. A preliminary report has already been sent,” Ghose said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||HS theory papers from June 15||The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education on Thursday announced that the theory papers of next year’s school-leaving exams will be held from June 15 to 30 and the practical tests from March 10 to 31. Council president Mahua Das said details of how the pen-and-paper tests would be held adhering to the physical distancing and other Covid protocols would be worked out later. The examinees will write their first language papers on June 15. The statistics, geography, costing and taxation, home management and family resource manage-ment papers are scheduled for June 30. The theory tests will be held from 10am to 1.15pm. “Three hours and 15 minutes are allotted for reading the questions and writing the answers,” said an official of the council. The Bengal government had on Wednesday accepted a proposal from the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education that next year’s Class XII board exams be deferred to June. The schools have been asked to send the marks of the practical exams to the HS council by April 20. “The schools should ensure that the students appear in the practical exams in small batches so physical distancing norms can be observed. Other health protocols will have to be followed as well,” said the official. Several teachers wondered whether students will be prepared to take their practical exams in March because not a single practical class has been held since the campuses were shut down in March as a precaution against Covid-19. Several teachers’ organisations have demanded that the schools be reopened for the plus-2 science students to attend practical classes before they appear in the HS exams. Told about the demand, an official of the council said: “The school education department has to take a call on this.” Why is there a gap of two-and-a-half months between the practical test dates and those of the theory papers? Another council official said the theory papers have been scheduled for June because the entire process of the Assembly elections would be spread over April and May. “Since Madhyamik is likely to be held in the first half of June, the HS exams have been scheduled from June 15,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Terror has no link with colour||Terror has no colour, nor does love, said a priest of the archdiocese of Calcutta at the Christmas Eve celebrations at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur. In the same way, violence has no colour, said Father Rodney Borneo on Thursday evening. He voiced his reservations about the term “saffron terror”, because he said: “Terror does not come from clothing, it resides within a person.” “Today, many are using a word which pains me and that is saffron terror. What is this? Terror has no colour...if I wear white, do I become a good person, if I wear green, so I become a good person, and if someone wears saffron, he becomes bad? No. Violence has no colour, violence is in the heart,” said Father Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. Father Borneo was the guest of honour at the programme held at the main temple of the ashrama. In the audience were saffron-clad Ramakrishna Mission monks. “Doesn’t matter what I wear — green, saffron, white. All three make our national flag and in it is our love,” he said. “Today, sitting in a temple I want to say that love (bhalobasha) has no colour... in the same way violence (hinsa) has no colour.” Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, has been celebrating Christmas Eve for over four decades, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the ashrama. “We keep having inter-faith dialogue at our Ashrama in Narendrapur and also other centres. We uphold the harmony of religions and we have Christians, Muslims, Hindu students studying and staying together,” Swami Sarvalokananda told The Telegraph. “Christmas should not only be a day for cake cutting and lighting of candles, but we should follow the teachings of Jesus Christ,” the monk said in his address at the Christmas Eve programme. Father Borneo said in his address: “My request to all of you is that we should not speak wrongly of any religion. If religion is bad, that is not religion. Religion means love, religion means forgiveness, religion means mercy.” “Peace to people of goodwill. Goodwill means good for both you and me,” he said. Father Borneo also reminded the audience of 2018, when as a Christian priest he felt at home in the same temple where the Christmas Eve programme was being held. “The pandemic has not been able to change that.” Swami Sandarshanananda spoke on the relationship between the ideologies of Sri Ramakrishna and Jesus Christ. Swami Shastrajnananda, principal, Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) Narendrapur, delivered the vote of thanks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Headlines 2020                    ||January Hat trick for book fair- The International Kolkata Book Fair was held at Central Park for the third time in a row. The shift in venue over the three years happened as the older venue — Milan Mela opposite Science City — was under renovation. The inauguration date this time was altered to January 28, a day before Saraswati puja. February Metro starts- After more than a decade of construction, the East-West Metro finally took off on February 14. AC Block’s Rajib Roy was the first to buy a token and 173 more passengers boarded the first train from Sector V to the stadium with him. The trains still go near-empty as the route is just from Wipro to Phoolbagan now. The last leg from the stadium to Phoolbagan was opened in October. Market on wheels- A vegetable-on-wheels service was launched on February 26 whereby vegetables, fish, meat etc would be sold on vehicles that would roam the township. The facility was inaugurated by minister Subrata Mukherjee at CA Market and the initiative was taken by state comprehensive area development corporation under the panchayats and rural development department. During the lockdown they increased their area of service immensely. March NSG hub - A regional hub of the National Security Guard was opened opposite Uniworld City. The centre was inaugurated on March 1 by home minister Amit Shah. The complex has residential space to house 460 persons with family as well as office accommodation and modern training facilities, such as baffle firing range, indoor shooting range, obstacles, swimming pool, sports complex and artificial rock craft wall. Cables go underground - Work started on March 5 to build underground conduits to carry cable television and broadband wires in Sector V. The project by Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) cleared the skies, making it neat to look at and safe for motorists and pedestrians. The first phase of work has now been completed. Tank comes crashing - A water tank at Post and Telegraph (P&T) quarters in CC Block collapsed on March 12. No one was hurt but residents were inconvenienced by water shortage. They claimed to have been complaining about the run-down state of the complex to the authorities (department of post and BSNL) for years but no repairs were done. They are yet to start rebuilidng the tank. Digital locker - India Post started its first digital parcel lockers in Sector V and New Town. The service eliminates the problem of no one being home to collect mail. To avail of the service while booking the delivery, one has to put c/o Postmaster, Nabadiganta IT post office or c/o Postmaster, New Town Action Area 1 post office as one’s address. The receiver receives a tracking number that he, at his preferred time, can go to the locker with, enter and take out the parcel. First Covid patient - Fifty-one year old Gopi Agarwal of AD Block became the first Salt Lake resident to test positive for Covid-19 on March 31. He was admitted to hospital and returned home after recovery. No one else at home tested positive but his son, driver and cook were sent to the quarantine centre in New Town. His daughter and wife stayed home. May Amphan-uprooted trees replanted- The cyclone uprooted at least 5,000 trees in Salt Lake and another 3,000 in New Town but some residents across the townships immediately gathered forces and replanted as many as they could. The authorities did their bit too. NKDA began a drive to plant 10,000 trees. Much of the damage caused by Amphan in Salt Lake parks, however, remains. June Hotel shuts down- Swissotel, the five-star property attached to City Centre 2, shut down after the contract between its owner the Ambuja Neotia Group and the French hospitality chain Accor expired on June 30 after 10 years of operation. Since then, the Taj group has taken it over and the new hotel is expected to open in 2021. Jagannath in car- With traditional Rathyatras ruled out by the court due to the pandemic, two Salt Lake groups ferried Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra idols by car. Members of Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj ferried the idols from BF Block and those from Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra from their DD Block centre. Rest of the celebrations were subdued. Drive-in tests- A walk-in and later a drive-in Covid-19 swab collection centre (in picture) opened at New Town Mela Ground. The facilities were set up to reduce the chance of getting infected with Covid-19 at the test centre. The kiosks are shut till January 5 while Saras Mela is on. August First complex with safe house- Greenwood Sonata became the first housing complex in Bengal to receive government permission to set up a safe house for asymptomatic or mild Covid cases. The order was dated August 19. Though the safe house still functions, not a single resident has checked in. Free Covid test- Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation began tests for Covid-19 at the swimming pool complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan from August 3. The tests are free of cost and open to all. Ganesh puja online- In perhaps the first of its kind in the township, Ganesh puja was streamed live for devotees. The location of the Yubak Sangha Club puja was undisclosed to avoid a gathering. Till last year, it would be held at PNB Island. Karunamoyee theft attempts- Five burglaries were attempted between August 29 and 31 in the flats of Karunamoyee. Residents claimed the thieves were acting up as the streetlights in the area lay damaged since Cyclone Amphan back in May. New Town platinum award- The township received platinum certification from the Indian Green Building Council, that is a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry. In 2018, the township had won gold certification and applied again. This time they scored with initiatives on rainwater harvesting, cycle lanes, electric vehicles, waste segregation etc. September Cycle-sharing app- Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based cycle sharing company, began operations in New Town on September 29. Minister Firhad Hakim launched the service. Users need to download an app, fill it with a Rs 100 deposit and then ride for up to half an hour free of cost. The cycle is locked and unlocked using the app and has to be picked up and dropped off at one of their six stands at Biswa Bangla Gate, New Town bus terminus, near Reliance Fresh, outside Axis Mall, Novotel, and Dongfang Electric (near the Central Mall petrol pump). October Smart cycle stand- New Town got its first smart cycle stand on October 12 on a footpath outside the Nazrul Tirtha underpass. The shed has space for 70 cycles besides CCTV and facility to charge e-bikes as well as cell phones and an LCD screen for information such as on the weather. The stand is manned by security guards. Corporation board tenure ends- The tenure of the Trinamul Congress-run board at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation ended on October 15. A new board is to be elected but polls are being delayed due to the pandemic. Intermittent work is now being carried out by a board of administrators, led by Krishna Chakraborty, who was the mayor. Water for Salt Lake- Salt Lake started receiving four million gallons of filtered water a day from the New Town water treatment plant. This additional water supplements the seven million gallons drawn daily from the Tallah water treatment plant all these years. So the township no longer needs to draw underground water. The service was inaugurated by minister Firhad Hakim on October 3. Zero waste shop- A waste museum-cum-shop of upcycled waste materials opened on the Major Arterial Road opposite New Town bus terminal. The store collects waste materials from across the three action areas and Sector V, and engages women of an NGO titled Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage to turn them into bags, furniture, jewellery and home decoration, that are up for sale. Open-air gym- An open-air gymnasium and workout zone were inaugurated in Eco Urban Village near the Owl Junction in New Town. Opened on October 16, the gym was set up after residents revealed in a survey that they wanted to work out in an open space because of the pandemic. The gym is built along the lines of callisthenics parks and outdoor fitness stations, popular in South Korea, Europe and Australia. Fire at FD Block puja- A fire gutted the puja pandal of FD Block on October 29. The day being Trayodashi, the rituals were over and there were no visitors at 6.15am, when it happened. No one was injured but the idol was still in the pandal. The fire brigade doused the flames in 45 minutes but the source could not be ascertained. November Speed cameras for New Town- Speed cameras were installed at regular intervals on the Major Arterial Road. Along with CCTVs, the speed cameras were connected to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) module to monitor vehicles, alert police of any abnormal driving and help reduce accidents. Smart bus stand- A Wi-Fi-enabled bus stand came up in front of the Coal India building in New Town on November 5. The bus stand tells commuters the expected time of arrival of the next bus, its route and when it is likely to reach its final destination. The brightly-lit stand also has a snacks counter and functions as a night cafe and newspaper stand so that the stretch does not become desolate after sundown like many streets of New Town. December New Town polyclinic- A ground-breaking ceremony was held on December 9 for a polyclinic in Action Area 1, near Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Govt College. The medical centre would come up on two acres. It is being built as a two-storeyed structure where outdoor consultation will take place. Mysterious AJ Block death- The charred skeletal remains of a man are found on the roof of a two-storey house in AJ Bock on December 10. A woman who lived in the house, Geeta Mahensariya, and her younger son Vidur are arrested. Tests reveal that the skeletal remains are of her elder son Arjun. Coffee House opens- The prettiest coffee shop in town opened near New Town’s Amity University on December 3. The two-storied building is a modern one but with a touch of nostalgia in its architecture as homage to the original shop in College Street. It starts drawing so much footfall that Hidco switches to online booking facility, the price of which is adjustable against order. Monali Thakur Where: Central Park fairgrounds When: January 9 What: The singer performed at  Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) Swara Bhaskar Where: Central Park fairgrounds When: February 4 What: The actress spoke at a panel discussion on “Media, literature and society” at the Book Fair Soumitra Chatterjee Where: HB Park When: March 8 What: The veteran actor, who passed away recently, was the special guest at a Basanta utsav event organised by Ward 34 PK Banerjee GD Block Left us on: March 20 Indian football legend Pradip Kumar Banerjee passed away after being hospitalised for more than a month. Banerjee, a right-winger, was an integral part of India’s gold medal-winning team in the 1962 Asian Games which scripted a historic 2-1 triumph against South Korea in Jakarta. He also had successful coaching stints with top clubs of Indian football, the arch rivals Mohun Bagan and East Bengal. Hari Vasudevan CD Block Left us on: May 10 Renowned historian Hari Vasudevan, who was a specialist on Russian and European history, succumbed to Covid-19. He was 68. Vasudevan, who had a doctoral degree from Cambridge University, taught history at Calcutta University and was associated with a host of other institutes. Dibya Sundar Das AA Block Left us on: May 13 The yoga practitioner, who travelled across the world to spread the discipline, breathed his last at the age of 68 at the Institute of Neurosciences where he was admitted three months earlier. A trained homeopath, Das had founded the first centre of the World Yoga Society in Salt Lake in 1986. The Society now has 10 centres in the city and 162 affiliated centres across the world. He was a disciple of yoga guru the late Yogindra Bishnu Charan Ghosh. Abani Mohan Joardar HB Block Left us on: June 12 Former West Bengal minister and sitting Trinamul Congress MLA Abani Mohan Joardar died at his residence after prolonged illness at the age of 79. The former IPS officer had joined the party in 2010 and was first elected from the Krishnanagar north assembly constituency in 2011. He had held the portfolio of correctional services in the government before quitting on health grounds. Arnab Basu The Residency, City Centre Left us on: July 2 The owner of popular confectionery brands Mio Amore and Winkies died after a prolonged battle with cancer on Thursday. He was 65. His company has over 300 Mio Amore stores in West Bengal and Odisha. He had brought the brand Monginis to eastern India in an arrangement with a Mumbai company, taking it in a new direction. The chain, that started with a shop in Dhakuria in 1992, expanded to over 300 outlets, including 220 in Calcutta. Ashoke Mustafi FD Block Left us on: July 30 The veteran cricket coach, who gifted the Bengal Ranji Trophy team as many as 20 cricketers, breathed his last after a cardiac arrest at the age of 86. He was suffering from heart-related ailments and was hospitalised in April. Sourav  Ganguly trained under him at the Dukhiram Coaching Centre, run under the Aryan Club galleries, which was once considered the nursery of Bengal cricket. Mustafi had played two first-class matches for Bengal in 1958-59. In 1992, he joined Howrah Union before taking charge of a coaching centre near his residence in FD Park. Radhikaranjan Pramanik AA Block Left us on: December 13 The Trinamul Congress leader and five-time former MP died at the age of 87 years. Pramanik, who joined Trinamul after being expelled from CPM in 2003, was MP from Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas. Earlier, he was an MLA from Magrahat East. He was a former head of the mathematics department at Surendranath College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Cycle theft outside mart||The use of bicycles is on the rise in New Town but thefts are also being reported. Ivy Mondal, a resident of CE Block, had her cycle stolen on December 20 from outside the NKDA market near the New Town bus terminus. “When I started asking around for it, locals said four cycles and a vano had got stolen from there last week,” says the IT sector employee. The lady has always used bikes as her primary mode of transport for work and leisure. She and her brother had locked their bikes outside the market at about 10am but within half an hour hers was gone. “I lodged a general diary (GD) with the police and an officer escorted me back to the market for investigation.People said cycles thefts were becoming common in the vicinity,” says Mondal. An officer of the New Town police station, however, said they had not witnessed any surge in bike thefts. “But it is possible that many do not lodge complaints,” said the officer. “It is best to keep cycles in places like malls, where they give you a token while parking your bike and charge a fee against it. They assure security.” To this, Mondal has another complaint. “Many so-called posh areas do not even allow bike parking!” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they were working on infrastructure. “We have built a smart cycle stand near Nazrul Tirtha and are finalising the model for more. We want to stands at places that draw crowds, like the NKDA markets and malls.” The smart cycle stand has CCTV surveillance and security guards among other features.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Churches to play safe ||The happiest day in the Christian calendar will have to be celebrated with caution in 2020. Some churches will be celebrating online, others will put up big screens outside their halls… Thousands throng Kestopur’s Emmanuel Church on Christmas. “It gets so crowded that one can’t even cross the street up to a kilometer away. Police and volunteers struggle to control the crowd,” says Sudipendra Mondal, a member of the largest church in Kestopur Christian para, who is closely involved with the running of the institution. This is exactly what they fear this year and is the reason why they have decided to shut down the church after 2pm on December 25. “Otherwise, devotees will keep coming all evening and social distancing will go for a toss.” Last year, the City Living Assembly got such a big gathering for Christmas they moved out of their regular premises at CK Block’s IPHE hall and into Nazrul Tirtha. “This time, we are back to IPHE. The capacity here is about 150 people and we are expecting about 120 to show up. To enforce distancing, we shall erect a big screen in the driveway so some people can sit out there in the open too,” says pastor Jennith Israel. Like every other institution, churches have been holding online classes since the lockdown, but most of them began offline classes a few months ago. “We wanted to resume offline classes in January but devotees urged us to start sooner so we began three weeks ago,” says Israel. Meanwhile, they have purchased professional cameras and editing software and created a studio in his DLF New Town Heights apartment to continue streaming online. “We are getting over a thousand views daily and have started doing a lot of sermons in Bengali, which are being followed even from Bangladesh.” Pastor Purnendu Sinha was eager to resume offline classes. “Attention is not focussed during online sessions,” he says. Their classes have shifted out of IPHE hall to a new church building behind the airport. “We have many Salt Lake-based devotees who are now coming by app cabs. We have a capacity of about 100 people and around 70 are showing up every Sunday. We are sanitising the space the best we can.” At Emmanuel Church, a bench for five is being occupied by no more than two. “And instead of handing out hymn books, we are projecting the hymns on a big screen for all to follow,” says Mondal. “I am feeling very uncomfortable asking people not to come to church on Christmas but there is no choice,” says reverend Sujoy Sarkar of the same church. Sarkar and his family were down with Covid-19 after the church had reopened after the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Feast at home||The X-Mas tree is adorned, and the children are gleefully hanging their stockings. But isn’t a family celebration incomplete without a hearty homemade meal? After all, what better way to celebrate with your loved ones than cooking up a gourmet festive meal for them? Whip up this easy Christmas feast, and watch your family lap up these delicious delights. Roast Chicken with Apples and Cranberries Ingredients ⦾ 4 medium bone-in chicken thighs ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste ⦾ 1 tablespoon butter ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 3 medium apples, peeled, cored and sliced in half, in thick slices ⦾ 1 cup fresh cranberries ⦾ 3 sprigs fresh rosemary For the Maple Glaze ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 1 garlic clove, minced ⦾ 3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar ⦾ ¼ cup maple syrup ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste Method Season chicken on both sides with salt and pepper. Heat butter and olive oil in a medium skillet over medium-high heat until pan is hot. Sear chicken for two to three minutes on both sides. Remove pan from heat and arrange apples, cranberries and rosemary sprigs around chicken. Roast chicken at 180ºC for about 20-25 minutes or until chicken is tender. For the Maple Glaze While the chicken bakes, make the sauce: In a small skillet over medium-high heat, heat olive oil. Then saute garlic in oil until just fragrant. Stir in vinegar, maple syrup and season with salt and pepper to taste. Bring sauce to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and let simmer until reduced and thickened, for about five to eight minutes. Once the chicken is done, drizzle with maple sauce and enjoy with some simple herb rice and sauteed vegetables on the side. Ingredients ⦾ 500g blanched and chopped tomatoes ⦾ 3 tablespoons unsalted butter ⦾ 1 small onion, diced ⦾ 2 garlic cloves, minced ⦾ 1 tablespoon dried basil ⦾ 1/2 cup cream ⦾ 1 tablespoon brown sugar ⦾ 1/4 cup bourbon whiskey ⦾ Lemon wedge ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste Method Preheat a thick-bottomed pan on medium-high heat. Melt the butter. Add the onion and garlic and cook until softened for about four minutes. Next, add dried basil and tomatoes with some blanching liquid to pan. Bring to a boil and reduce heat to a simmer for about 17 to 20 minutes. Mash the tomatoes as they cook and soften. Once cooked, take an immersion blender and blend the soup in the pot. Next, add the cream and brown sugar. Stir to combine. Now add the bourbon, salt and pepper to taste. Pour prepared soup into glass shooters and garnish. Enjoy hot or cold. Ingredients For the buns ⦾ 2¼ cups all-purpose flour ⦾ ½ teaspoon salt ⦾ 4½ teaspoon instant yeast ⦾ 1 tablespoon white sugar ⦾ 2 tablespoon butter ⦾ 1¼ cup milk For the filling ⦾ ½ cup cranberry/strawberry jam ⦾ 200g whipping cream Garnish lIcing sugar to dust Method In a large bowl or the bowl of a stand-mixer fitted with a kneading hook, stir together the flour, salt, yeast and sugar. Warm the butter and milk in a small saucepan until the butter has melted. Let the milk cool slightly. Pour the milk/butter mixture into the flour and knead to form a soft and just slightly sticky dough. You may need to add additional flour. Remove dough to a greased bowl and cover with plastic wrap to rise until doubled, about 1 hour. Turn the dough onto a floured board and cut into eight equal-sized pieces. Roll each one into a ball, placing them on a parchment-lined baking sheet as you go. Set the oven at 180ºC. Dust the buns lightly with flour and cover with a tea towel. Let rise for 10-15 minutes more. Bake for 18-20 minutes until they are pale golden on top and sound slightly hollow when tapped on the bottom. Remove the buns from the baking sheet to a cool slightly. To serve make a cut in each bun without cutting all the way through. Spoon a good dollop of cranberry /strawberry jam inside. Spoon or pipe whipped cream on top. Dust with icing sugar and serve this easy holiday dessert. Ingredients For the pastry ⦾ 1¼ cups all-purpose flour ⦾ ¼ teaspoon table salt ⦾ 8 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into cubes ⦾ ¼ cup plain thick curd ⦾ 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice ⦾ ¼ cup ice water ⦾ 2 egg yolks, beaten For the mushroom filling Ingredients ⦾ ½ cup shredded parmesan cheese ⦾ ¾ cup cream cheese ⦾ ½teaspoon black pepper ⦾ Salt to taste ⦾1 teaspoon dried thyme ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 2 cups button mushrooms, sliced Method For the dough In a large bowl, mix the flour and salt together. Add the cubes of butter and using a pastry blender create a coarse pea-like mixture. In a small bowl, combine the curd, lemon juice and water. Add this to the flour mixture. Using a wooden spoon, combine everything until a dough ball is formed. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for an hour. For the filling In a medium skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add sliced mushrooms and thyme leaves with a pinch of salt. Stir occasionally for five to seven minutes, until soft and fragrant. In a small bowl, mix together the parmesan, cream cheese, black pepper and a pinch of salt. To assemble the gallete Heat oven to 200ºC. On a lightly floured counter, roll out the dough into a 12-inch round (or you can divide the dough and make two to three mini galettes). Transfer the dough to a parchment-lined baking sheet. Spread cheese filling onto the dough, leaving a  two-inch border. Scatter the thyme and mushrooms over the top. Fold the border over the filling, pleating the edges. Brush crust with egg yolk glaze. Bake for 30-40 minutes till golden brown. Remove and let cool for five to 10 minutes before serving. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Food, music in carnival on VIP Road||The service road by the airport-bound flank of VIP Road is wearing a festive look with the stretch from Ultadanga to Bangur Avenue illuminated. Poush Parbon Christmas Utsab was inaugurated on Thursday and welcoming visitors is a 25ft Santa Claus and an equally tall baul. “There are 70 stalls, mostly selling a variety of food items from both branded eateries and local entrepreneurs,” said fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, the president of Sreebhumi Sporting Club which is organising the event. The branded stalls include Arsalan, Aminia and Sher-e-Punjab for north Indian cuisine and Haka for Chinese. There will be sweets and savouries from Monginis, Balaram Mullick & Radharaman Mullick, Mishti Katha, Gokul and Bika. Peethe will be prepared live. Specialities like mihidana of Burdwan and moa of Joynagar will also be on offer An equally big attraction will be the line-up of artistes every evening (see box). “We will have two stages — one in front of Gokul Banquet and another on the Golaghata side. There will be live performances at both ends, with one being reserved for the folk singers. That way, the crowd will not gather at one place. The audience chairs will also be placed at safe distances,” said joint secretary of the utsab committee Dibyendu Kishor Goswami. The carnival, open from 4pm to 11pm, ends on January 1. Music Medley Dec 25: Saikat Mitra Dec 26: Raghav & Srikanta Acharya Dec 27: Nachiketa & Jayati Chakraborty Dec 28 & 29: To be announced Dec 30:Aditi Munshi Dec 31: Iman Chakraborty and a host of Zee Bangla Sa Re Ga Ma Pa singers Jan 1: Manomoy Bhattacharya & Lopamudra Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Santa in our life||Samita Mukherjee, BE Block My Santa is Partha Mitra, BE Block My family and I will never forget the help from our neighbour Partha Mitra when my father, the late Haridas Sarkar, had developed Covid-19 complications in August. I was confused when I was urgently asked for a minimum of two bottles of blood as my father was passing blood in his urine through the catheter for two days and his haemoglobin level was sinking. He was very aged and had heart ailments too. At that time, there was acute shortage of blood in the city as donors were scared to come forward due to the pandemic situation and blood donation camps were not happening. No one in my small family was able to donate blood at that time (due to other reasons). I alerted Mitra about the situation, with a request for blood. Within an hour, he organised two donors from among his junior colleagues. The two bottles blood mitigated the crisis at the point. It was an extraordinary support, which I felt as both a daughter and a medical practitioner. Shila Mukherjee, HB Block My Santa is Rabishankar Mukherjee, Bally Both my husband and I are super senior citizens and stay on our own. During the lockdown months, my husband’s condition deteriorated to the extent that he became bed-ridden and almost senseless. My husband’s cousin’s son Rabishankar Mukherjee bailed us out through that period and continues to help us. Since neither of us is in a position to go to the bank to draw his pension, every month Rabi came to hand us some cash to meet our expenses. He also brought over fruits and medicines when our children, settled abroad, were unable to arrange for home delivery. Since he is employed in the essential services sector, he was active even during lockdown and would drive over from his Beleghata office on his two-wheeler. His help has been invaluable. Monika Mukherjee, FD Block My santa is Gourhari Roy, FD Block I must mention the services rendered by Gourhari Roy, the guard posted for the last five years in the under-construction building opposite ours. He is from Namkhana in South 24-Parganas and seems to be around 55 years of age. During the lockdown months, when we were too scared to let our domestic help come, he was the one who ran the errands for not just me but also two other houses in the immediate vicinity. One night this summer especially comes to mind. The gentleman next door was then in the last stages of cancer. I was walking in our driveway after a late dinner when I spotted him pacing about on the street. Though I was surprised to see him I did not say anything then. But when I again him on the street early in the morning, I could not help but ask. He said the gentleman passed away that night. With their own caretaker away at his native village and the couple’s children unable to come from out of town, he was the one who stood by the lady through the final hours. No amount of tips can compensate for such support. Indranil Guha, BE Block My Santa is Basab Aich, BE Block My uncle was in a Bypass hospital for a long time but as his situation was not improving, my cousin wanted to shift him to AMRI Hospital here. There was no vacancy. It was due to our block president Basab Aich’s intervention that we finally got a bed at 11pm. Again, when our neighbour next door fell in the bathroom and broke a hip bone, no ambulance was ready to take her to hospital. Being a COPD patient, she had breathing trouble. They thought she was suffering from Covid-19. Again, it was Basabda who arranged for an ambulance. He also helped us out when a tree fell in front of our house during Cyclone Amphan. Romita Dey, GC Block My Santa is Rekha Das, HB Block In the initial days of the lockdown, I was trying to do everything on my own as both my house helps had gone on leave. Soon I hurt my back and my spondylitis acted up. The doctor advised rest and wearing a back support brace. My daughter could not visit due to the lockdown but my cook Rekha Das managed to come to work. Apart from cooking, she used to do all the shopping and also cleaned the house, without asking for extra pay. I live alone and I can’t imagine how I would have managed without her taking on extra workload.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Trends 2020||App of the year Zoom Move over Facebook and WhatsApp. This year, professional life moved to video conferencing mode, be it for online teaching or office meetings, with Zoom being the most popular platform. Multiple members of the house were locked in separate rooms or spaces attending class, invigilating or appearing in exams, or holding group discussions. It brought its own set of challenges. While children complained of strained eyes and wavering attention and teachers faced technical hurdles like getting logged out of their own classes, on a lighter vein a middle-aged New Town software professional who has got used to his siesta after months of working from home, was roused from his slumber by repeated calls from junior colleagues to tell him that his snore could be heard at the post-lunch Zoom meeting. Though his video was off, he had forgotten to “mute” himself! Even family meetings used the app for virtual birthday or anniversary celebrations. Many of the blocks or housing complexes which could not hold community lunch over the puja days salvaged their Vijaya Sammelani by going online. Many complexes deputed younger members to help the elderly neighbours install the app on their phone or computer. Cultural programmes during Durga puja too took the virtual route. Technical hitches were common, with comments like “Mashima, apnar gola shona jachchhe na” or “Uncle, please come closer to the screen” preceding every performance. But they soldiered on undeterred, delighted at getting to connect with neighbours after months of isolation. Accessory of the year Mask A piece of cloth that has made lipsticks lose relevance is mankind’s greatest shield against the deadly enemy. Ever since the safety protocol was announced, face masks started flying off the shelves, or footpaths. Now that masks are flooding the market, their sellers pervade the entire strata of the sales and services community — from the chemist outside AE Market to the cobbler behind Baisakhi Abasan. While the pristine white N95 and three-ply surgical masks were what sold in the initial days, often at a premium, in no time did the austere medical masks find competition in fun variants. Thus people started sporting their patriotism with tricoloured wear or their support as an East Bengal or a Mohun Bagan fan, all at Rs 15. By the Pujas, virus couture evolved, in silk, denim, polyester or even the stretchable elastene. Many a youngster ordered masks online, matching with their Puja buys, or picked up trendy stuff from City Centre. The wedding season saw options in chiffon, sequins or even beaded ones. Even bridalwear encompassed the face cover. Matching masks come free with Benarasis these days. The jury is out on whether they are medical-grade or not, but they do make great style statements and rescue the wedding look. Transport of the year Cycle The sale of the humble two-wheeler increased manifold as people shunned public transport and took to travelling solo and safe. Some people have started cycling to work daily as far as even Santoshpur from Salt Lake. Calcutta Police, which had barred cycles from plying on 62 roads from 7am to 11pm, relaxed norms in terms of timing, giving cyclists a free run except on main roads and flyovers, since June. New Town is also encouraging the use of cycles. New Town Business Club started holding coaching classes at the football stadium in August, which takes place on Sundays, from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. The authorities are laying grade-separated cycle tracks along the roads to segregate the slow-moving two-wheelers from the speeding mechanised vehicles. So far, 30km track is ready. An app-based cycle renting service has been started (see page 4). A residents’ body, called NTFN Cycle Club, was founded on September 16, which now has about 140 members and meets every weekend. Three cycling festivals have also been held — in August, October and December. Name of the year Kovidh A 17-year-old Tegharia boy found himself turning heads this year because of his name: Kovidh Sarkar. And he has to explain ad infinitum that his name means ‘wise’ in Sanskrit, and has nothing to do with the virus. “It is irritating at times,” he admits. It started in end-February, when at the school assembly, a teacher commented: “Kovidh, what have you done to the world?” “I didn’t get his joke and kept thinking all day. Then I recalled that my mother had mentioned Covid-19 that morning itself,” he told The Telegraph. When his father contracted the virus, they went for a test at Apollo Hospitals. “They were calling out names for confirmation. Everyone turned to stare at him on hearing his name,” said mother Priti. Things came to such a pass that Kovidh’s father suggested changing his name but his mother refused. “I had searched long and hard to come up with this name before his annaprasan. He has been living as Kovidh for 17 years, long before this virus came. Why should he have to give up his name because of this coincidence?” she argues. Kovidh, she asserts, will carve out a career path positive enough to erase the negative association that his name now evokes. Band of the year West Bengal Police Jazz Orchestra Corona, corona, corona/ Corona ke barte debo na... At the height of lockdown in April, when people were bewildered and depressed at being confined at home, men in khaki, who comprised the state police band, moved from one thana area to another, entertaining and educating people in equal measure about the unseen enemy — coronavirus. Over 11 days in early April, the seven-member band performed across the Bidhannagar and Barrackpore Commissionerate areas, often doing multiple shows per day. The song that became a big hit was a cover of Suno na suno na sunlo na from the Shah Rukh Khan film Chalte Chalte. “Since then, I have had to sing it at least 50 times in public gatherings,” smiles sub-inspector Apurba Majumdar, the lead vocalist who reworked the original lyrics. The song, shared on the commissionerate website, has drawn 3.66 lakh likes and been shared 1.08 lakh times. Majumdar was even invited to compose the theme song for the Kestopur Prafullakanan (West) Durga puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Business||Govt to contest Vodafone ruling in Singapore court ||In a move that is likely to spook foreign investors, India has appealed in Singapore an international arbitration court ruling in favour of British telecom giant Vodafone Plc over a tax demand for Rs 22,100 crore by the government. The government is also expected to challenge a similar arbitration ruling announced on Wednesday by the same court based in The Hague involving Cairn Plc in which the energy heavyweight was awarded damages and costs totalling over Rs 8,800 crore. Vodafone won its high-profile arbitration case three months ago and the company hoped this would close the lid on its bitter dispute with the government involving retroactive tax claims. The government’s appeal of the Vodafone ruling was filed on the final day of the 90-day deadline to approach the Singapore court. The government is keen to pursue a uniform approach in the cases of both Vodafone and Cairn and India has “the sovereign right of taxation,” according to a government official. The country is not bound to abide by the decisions of an international arbitration court, the official said. The same tribunal invalidated the government’s $2.75 billion tax claim made in 2015 on Cairn Energy, which now belongs to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources, and also ordered the government to return up to $1,.4 billion in funds withheld, interest and costs, to the firm. Both Vodafone and Cairn had filed their challenges to the government’s tax demands under bilateral investment treaties. The sum awarded to Cairn by the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague is regarded in official circles in New Delhi as so large that the cash-strapped government has no option but to appeal. Cairn had said that the government’s tax claim violated a bilateral investment treaty between Britain and India. Back in September in its decision on Vodafone, the Permanent Court of Arbitration held that the government had broken provisions of the India-Netherlands Bilateral Investment Treaty in making its tax demand by retrospectively by changing the law. The tribunal said that New Delhi’s 2012 law empowering itself to make tax demands concerning cross-border deals all the way back to 1962, citing “underlying Indian assets” was in breach of the investment treaty. For foreign investors who prize tax certainty in making investment decisions, the government’s move to appeal will be a cause for alarm. Investors had hoped that the government would accept the Vodafone and Cairn verdicts and realise that retroactive taxation has no place in law. The decision to appeal could hurt Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to woo business to India and away from China. Modi had promised the international investment community in 2016 that its concerns about India’s retrospective taxation legislation had been heeded. “Retroactive taxation is a matter of the past. That chapter will not be opened again. We are ensuring that neither this government nor future governments can open this chapter,” he told the India-France Business Summit. At the same time, the government is unwilling to cede any ground to foreigners in taxation matters. India’s Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also said that it is a question of law — that an international arbitration panel cannot declare legislation passed by a sovereign parliament “unenforceable.” He said on those grounds alone India “must challenge the said award and must file all available proceedings to challenge the award.” The three-person arbitration panel’s decisions were unanimous in both the September ruling in favour of Vodafone and the December judgment upholding Cairn’s case. Earlier this month, Modi reviewed the Vodafone ruling at an inter-ministerial group meeting at which the law ministry supported an appeal of the arbitration decision. The appeal of the Vodafone ruling by the Indian government came as the British company received more bad news about its Indian operations. Figures released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India showed that Vodafone Idea’s net mobile subscriber numbers have fallen even further behind its biggest competitors. While Reliance Jio Infocomm’s subscribers rose by 2.2 million to 406 million by the end of October and Bharti Airtel’s subscribers jumped by 3.7 million to 330 million, Vodafone Idea’s customer base slid by 2.7 million to 293 million. The Cairn case resulted from a reorganisation of the energy firm under which Cairn UK transferred shares of Cairn India Holdings to Cairn India. India’s tax department maintained that the reorganisation ahead of the listing of Cairn India in 2007 involved capital gains of over Rs 24,000 crore for Cairn that it was entitled to tax. The Indian tax claim against Vodafone followed the British company’s $11.1 billion purchase in 2007 of a majority stake in the Indian cellphone unit of Hong Kong’s Hutchison Whampoa. Indian tax officials contended Vodafone should have withheld the amount the vendor was due to pay in capital gains tax when it bought the stake. But Vodafone argued it was exempt because the deal took place in the Cayman Islands and both the buyer and seller were foreign. Vodafone also noted it was the purchaser and made no gain on the deal. India’s Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that “Indian tax authorities had no jurisdiction to tax Vodafone” as it was an overseas transaction. But then parliament reimposed the levy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Bectors jumps  107% over offer price||Investors who had picked up shares of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities at its initial public offering (IPO) on Thursday saw the value of their holdings double as it made a strong debut on the bourses. The scrip settled at Rs 595.55, a gain of nearly 107 per cent to its issue price of Rs 288 per share. On the BSE, the share listed at Rs 501, a gain of almost 74 per cent to its issue price. The counter built upon these gains to touch an intra-day high of Rs 601.20 and later ended at Rs 595.55, which was higher by Rs 307.55 to the issue price of Rs 288. Compared with the opening price, its close represented a gain of almost 19 per cent. On the first day, the scrip had a market cap of Rs 3,498.65 crore on the BSE. On the NSE, the scrip settled at Rs 592.50, rising over 105 per cent over the issue price. Close to 3,70,66,792 shares were transacted at the exchange, resulting in a traded value of Rs 2,126.93 crore. The IPO of the biscuits and bakery player was subscribed by a huge 198 times as it received bids for 262 crore shares against 1.3 crore shares on offer. The price band for the offering was Rs 286-288 apiece and the float comprised a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. On its last day of subscription, bids from high net worth individuals were over 652 times, while it was 178 times in the case of qualified institutional buyers and over 29.50 times from retail investors. Anupam Rasayan Specialty chemical company Anupam Rasayan has filed preliminary papers with market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 760 crore through an initial public offering. The Surat-based company has decided to reserve a portion for its employees and may consider a discount for eligible staff. Anupam Rasayan commenced operations in 1984 with conventional products and now it makes speciality chemicals that involve multi-step synthesis and complex chemistries Proceeds of the issue would be used mainly for repayment of debt, the company said in the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). The company is present in the premium and mid-premium biscuits segment and the premium bakery segment. It manufactures and markets a range of its biscuits such as cookies, creams, crackers, digestives and glucose under its flagship brand ‘Mrs. Bector’s Cremica’. It also makes bakery products that include breads, buns, pizza bases and cakes under its brand ‘English Oven. It is also the largest supplier of buns in India to QSR chains like Burger King, McDonald’s, and KFC. It also sells a variety of its bakery and frozen products to cloud kitchens. Further, the company is also one of the leading exporters of biscuits from India, and exports biscuits under its own brand, as well as under third party private labels to more than 64 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Govt to launch coal import monitoring system||The government plans to launch the coal import monitoring system from February, making it mandatory for importers to disclose future shipments. Importers of coking coal, steam coal and bituminous coal would have to gain a permit ahead of deliveries, the commerce and industry ministry said. The move is expected to encourage domestic coal production and make the recently auctioned commercial coal mining viable in the country. “The coal import monitoring system (CIMS) shall require importers to submit advance information in an online system for import of items and obtain an automatic registration number,” it said. The government has a similar system for steel imports. The proposed monitoring system will allow the government to keep an updated record of import volumes, with details of specific grades. The coal import data is at present compiled with a lag of two to three months. The information on imports could also help the government to fine-tune its policies to discourage coal imports. The data may enable state-controlled coal producers, including Coal India (CIL), to reach out to the importer, in case the requirement can be matched from domestic sources. Dumping duty on steel The government may impose an anti-dumping duty for five years on certain type of steel products from a few countries, including Japan and Korea, to guard domestic players from cheap imports as the commerce ministry has recommended for the same. According to a notification by the ministry’s investigation arm DGTR, the duty “is recommended to be imposed for five years” on imports of “flat-rolled products of stainless steel” from regions, including the European Union, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, and Taiwan. According to a notification of the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), import policy of these items “shall be subject to CIMS”. The CIMS shall require importers to submit advance information in an online system for imports of items and obtain an automatic registration number by paying a registration fee of Re 1 per thousand, subject to a minimum of Rs 500 and maximum of Rs 1 lakh, on the CIF (cost, insurance, freight) value. “The importer can apply for registration not earlier than 60 days and not later than the 15th day before the expected date of arrival of import consignment,” it said. The registration number would be valid for 75 days. “The importer shall have to enter the registration number and expiry date of registration in the bill of entry to enable customs for clearance of consignment,” it added. CIMS will be effective from February 1, 2021 and the facility of online registration will be available from December 31 this year. The country's coal consumption was likely to rise in coming years, but it could vary widely, with 2030 demand seen anywhere between 1.15 billion tonnes and 1.75 billion tonnes. India's coal import saw a drop of 18.6 per cent to 116.81 million tonnes (MT) during April-October this fiscal as against the same period a year ago. Coal import in 2019-20 was at 247.1 MT, about 5 per cent higher than 235.35 MT fuel imported during FY2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Oaktree hikes bid for DHFL by Rs 1,700 crore||The race to acquire troubled housing finance firm DHFL is turning out to be a tight one between Oaktree Capital and the Piramal group as the US-based asset management company on Thursday raised its bid by Rs 1,700 crore. Oaktree is now offering over Rs 38,300 crore. This is higher than its earlier tag of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company. It may be recalled that the Piramal group had also raised  its offer for DHFL by Rs 1,700 crore recently. It had earlier proposed Rs 13,000 crore in upfront cash for its Rs 35,550- crore offer that included Rs 200 crore from the insurance stake sale and Rs 3,000 crore from the interest earned on the books of DHFL. Sources said that Oaktree is now offering an upfront payment of over Rs 17,000 crore and over Rs 300 crore to the fixed deposit holders of DHFL. Close to Rs 21,000 crore will be paid in the form of non convertible debentures. In the case of the Piramal offer, this stands at over Rs 19,000 crore. The latest development came as the committee of creditors met on Thursday for a final evaluation of the three bids that were made by the Piramals, the Adani group and Oaktree Capital. The voting window will open for 15 days before the result is known. The race has seen Oaktree writing to the committee of creditors seeking fair treatment in the evaluation of bids. In a letter sent to the creditors, it maintained that throughout the process, it has been the subject of “sustained campaign” to undermine its bid. One of the alleged  reasons for disqualifying it is that the asset management firm is a foreign investor and represents an implementation risk. The insurance joint venture of DHFL, in which Prudential International Holdings has 49 per cent, could reportedly pose as a hurdle to Oaktree as its acquisition of the housing finance firm would breach the FDI norms for the sector. Among the trio, the Adani group has not submitted an aggressive bid. It has put in a bid of Rs 33,000 crore, which includes an interest payment of Rs 1,000 crore and around Rs 250 crore from the insurance stake sale. Excluding these two, its bid stands at over Rs 29,700 crore. Of the total amount, the group is proposing an upfront payment of Rs 11,000 crore in cash. DHFL’s erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan had also proposed to the administrator of DHFL and other agencies to repay all the creditors without any haircut to them. "My proposal provides for a full repayment of 100 per cent principal to all creditors within 7-8 years with an upfront payment of Rs 9,000 crore,’’ he had said in a letter to the administrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Gujarat, Maharashtra lag in recovery||The western states of Gujarat and Maharashtra have seen the slowest recovery since June following the nationwide lockdown, according to the RBI’s Coincident Index which is based on some daily high frequency variables. According to the CI, the northern region saw the sharpest recovery in June followed by positive momentum in July. Bengal reported a sharp upturn in October and sustained a positive momentum in November. The Coincident Index ( CI) is constructed with four indicators representing a mix of demand and supply dynamics and based on availability of data at daily frequency at the state level: (i) total vehicle registrations; (ii) electricity consumption; (iii) air quality index; and iv) Google and Apple mobility data. The Reserve Bank of India has undertaken a study to assess the "dynamics of economic activity at state level in India by constructing a Coincident Index (CI) with daily high frequency variables." The study forms part of the bulletin for December released today. The Coincident Index ( CI) is constructed with four indicators representing a mix of demand and supply dynamics and based on availability of data at daily frequency at the state level: (i) total vehicle registrations; (ii) electricity consumption; (iii) air quality index; and iv) Google and Apple mobility data. What it reveals: As per CIs, Northern region saw the sharpest recovery in June followed by positive momentum in July, while the Western states of Gujarat and Maharashtra saw the slowest recovery, which was prolonged till end-July and first week of August. Notably, CIs for states across regions registered sharp upturn in October. Even though some moderation was recorded in first half of November, momentum remained positive and revived in the second half in most states. Furthermore, CI has a positive and statistically significant relationship with growth in industrial output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||RBI prods govt to spend to accelerate economic recovery||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has subtly asked the Centre to provide more fiscal support to accelerate economic recovery even as it pointed out that the Indian economy is coming out of the trough faster than most of the predictions. This observation formed part of its December monthly bulletin which is issued by the department of economic and policy research. “Although still significant headwinds persist on the path to a durable recovery, steadfast efforts by all stakeholders could help in recouping lost incomes and/or putting back India on a faster growth trajectory,” the RBI said in a hint that the government should not rest with the fiscal support measures it has given so far. Turnaround factors According to the RBI, there are two factors that are responsible for the turnaround in the Indian economy. The first is that of India bending the Covid infection curve. Since mid-September, barring localised surges, infections are slanting week after week, and the recovery rate is nudging 95 per cent. The second was the fiscal stimulus, which the report forecast will improve growth by around two percentage point in the current fiscal. “Starting out with liquidity/guarantee and cash/kind support to the economy —  the need of the hour when the pandemic struck and displaced crores from their lives and livelihoods — it is transiting in a calibrated fashion to supporting investment and consumption demand. ” “The fiscal measures have been sequenced in a designed shift in focus from consumption expenditure in Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) to investment expenditure in Aatma Nirbhar 2.0 and 3.0. On the whole, the above-the-line fiscal stimulus will likely boost growth by close to 2 per cent of GDP in 2020-21,” the bulletin said. The total size of the fiscal package, including measures announced by the RBI, stands at Rs 29,87,641 crore. The RBI here said that a change in fiscal variable (government expenditure or taxation) leads to a “fiscal multiplier”. Stimulus impact “Using these multipliers and based on the fiscal stimulus measures announced so far, it is estimated that government expenditure will add 159 basis points and 158 basis points to growth in 2020-21 and 2021-22, respectively. Here again, the impact of government stimulus measures is likely to pan out in the second half of the current financial year, operating mainly through the investment revival channel,” the report observed. The central bank had said in its previous bulletin that the economy could return to positive growth (after two quarters of contraction) in the October-December 2020 period. “Over the month gone by, more evidence has been turned in to show that the Indian economy is pulling out of COVID-19’s deep abyss and is breaking out amidst winter’s lengthening shadows towards a place in the sunlight. First, the National Statistical Office’s (NSO) end-November release delivered a pleasant surprise – the pandemic-imposed retrenchment of the first quarter 2020-21 turned out to be much shallower in the second quarter and the economy is reflating at a pace that beats most prediction’’, the bulletin said. It added that real GDP growth could break out into positive territory in the third quarter - albeit, to a slender 0.1 per cent. The report further pointed out that an analysis of 12-months ahead forward earnings shows improvement in the outlook for a large number of companies. Here, sectors like auto and capital goods, which had been hit hard by the lockdown are expecting a turnaround in forward earnings. Similarly, firms in the healthcare, information technology (IT) and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector are sighting stronger earnings outlook. Moreover, intrinsic strength in the manufacturing and services sectors is being built as debt servicing capacity is getting reinforced and leverage is being brought down. On the other hand India’s farm sector is also forging ahead, backed by path-breaking marketing reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Walmart-owned Flipkart rejigs board||Flipkart has rejigged its board with the addition of Flipkart Group CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy, HDFC vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry and two others. The Walmart-owned firm is set to go public over the next couple of years. In an email to employees, Krishnamurthy said the new year will see some changes to its board as four of its current directors will step down after steering the company through the first two years following Walmart’s investment. These include Rajesh Magow, Rohit Bhagat, Steuart Walton and Dirk van den Berghe. “We are sad to see all four step down, but delighted that we will not have to say goodbye to any of them; Rajesh and Dirk will continue to support us in an advisory capacity, Steuart will continue to sponsor us from the Walmart board, and Rohit will be chairing the PhonePe board,” he added. He added that four new directors will be added to the board from next year. “I am happy to share with you all that at the meeting earlier this month, the  board was highly appreciative of all our efforts this year, expressed pride in the progress we have made and looked forward to seeing the next chapter of our development,” Krishnamurthy said. Apart from him and Mistry, two new directors from Walmart — Suresh Kumar and Leigh Hopkins - will join the board. Kumar is Walmart's global Chief Technology Officer as well as Chief Development Officer, while Hopkins is Executive Vice President of Strategy and Development for Walmart International. In 2018, Walmart Inc invested $ 16 billion for acquiring 77 per cent stake in Flipkart, and earlier this year, it led a $ 1.2 billion funding round in the e-tailer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Centre to contest Vodafone tax ruling||India has challenged in a Singapore court an international tribunal verdict that overturned its Rs 22,000-crore tax claim on Vodafone Group Plc, sources said. The Centre has challenged the arbitration award on the sovereign right to levy tax and not on the tax demand per se, the sources added. All the signs indicate that the Centre is preparing to adopt a similar approach in the Cairn Energy case, too, where the verdict has gone against the country. Shares of Vodafone Idea fell 5.87 per cent to Rs 9.94 against previous close of Rs 9.56 on the BSE. On September 25, an international arbitration court had rejected the Indian revenue authorities’ demand of Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes and penalties relating to the British telecom giant’s 2007 acquisition of the mobile phone operations of Hutchison Whampoa. India had 90 days to file an appeal against the tribunal award, and the same was done in a Singapore court earlier this week. Sources said the appeal against the arbitration was on the ground that “India has a right to tax and no one can take this sovereign right from India. This will definitely have an impact on the Cairn tax issue”. The decision to challenge the verdict came after deliberations within the government at the highest levels. Sources said the government was in favour of a uniform approach in both the Cairn and Vodafone cases. While the Cairn award was a significant hit on the government’s finances; not appealing against the Vodafone case would have set a precedent. On Wednesday, the same arbitration court in The Hague had asked the government to pay Cairn Energy $1.2 billion in damages relating to a tax demand against the British company. India has been asked to pay with interest the value of shares it sold, the dividend it seized, and tax refunds it withheld to recover part of tax demand from the British firm. The government, the sources said, is expected to challenge this ruling too given the size of the award. Both Vodafone and Cairn had challenged the tax demands under bilateral investment protection treaties and initiated the arbitration. Sources said the government believes that taxation is not covered under investment protection treaties with various countries and the law on taxation is a sovereign right of the country. While the treaties between the countries are primarily aimed at the protection of investments, the tax is levied on “returns” earned by entities. In the case of Vodafone, the tribunal ruled the Centre’s imposition of a tax liability was in breach of the investment treaty agreement between India and the Netherlands. The government has to reimburse Vodafone 60 per cent of its legal costs and half of  the euro 6,000-cost borne by Vodafone to appoint an arbitrator on the panel. Sources said the government of India’s liability came to Rs 85 crore in legal cost. Vodafone had challenged before the arbitration tribunal the demand for Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes, which rose to Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. The demand related to Vodafone’s $11-billion acquisition of a 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. The revenue authorities felt the deal was designed to avoid capital gain tax in India and imposed a tax demand, which was rejected by the Supreme Court in 2012. To stop abuse and plug the loophole of such indirect transfer of Indian assets, the government in 2012 amended the law to make such transfers taxable in India, they said, adding Vodafone was slapped with a fresh demand which the firm contested through international arbitration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||China announces anti-monopoly investigation on Alibaba||Chinese regulators on Thursday announced an anti-monopoly investigation of e-commerce giant Alibaba Group, stepping up the ruling Communist Party’s efforts to control fast-growing tech industries. President Xi Jinping’s government worries about the dominance of competitors such as Alibaba, the world’s biggest e-commerce company by sales volume, and Tencent Holding, operator of the popular WeChat messaging service and Asia’s most valuable tech company. Regulators appear to be especially concerned about controlling private sector companies that are expanding into online banking at a time when Beijing is trying to reduce financial risks. The ruling party says anti-monopoly enforcement, especially in tech industries, will be a priority next year. Since early November, regulators have tightened the reins by suspending the stock market debut of an online finance platform affiliated with Alibaba and summoned industry executives to warn them against trying to suppress competition. “The era of free growth and ultra-high growth is really over,” said Francis Lun, CEO of Geo Securities Ltd in Hong Kong. “The government will decide what you can do.” Thursday’s announcement said the state administration of market regulation is looking into Alibaba’s policy of “choose one of two”, which requires business partners to avoid dealing with its competitors. The one-sentence statement gave no details of possible penalties or a timeline to announce a result. Proposed rules issued in November would ban exclusive contracts, subsidies and other tactics regulators say hurt competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Dalmia Cement ups capacity in Bengal||Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited has expanded its capacity in Bengal by 2.3 million tonnes at an investment of Rs 360 crore, taking the total capacity of the cement major in the state to 4 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) and pushing the total investment to around Rs 600 crore. The expansion comes amid expectations of revival in demand following business disruption because of Covid. Demand for cement, including pent up demand, is anticipated from infrastructure projects and affordable housing. The expansion in Bengal would be followed by brownfield capacity addition of 2.3mtpa in Odisha. The cement maker also plans to revamp operations of Murli Industries with 3 mtpa capacity in Maharashtra. “Today we are at around 29 mt approximately and we should be going to 31 mt by the first quarter of the next financial year and by the third quarter we should be around 34mt,” said Ujjwal Batria, COO, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. He added that the company plans to produce blended cement to ensure reduced carbon footprint as part of its plans to become carbon negative by 2040. Demand for cement has been gradually improving in the third quarter. “The pandemic had a big impact on the first quarter and there was low demand. But we have seen growth coming back in the third quarter. But even with this, growth for the year will be at around 3-5 per cent is what we anticipate today. We will also have the benefit of pent up demand. Lot of focus on infrastructure and low cost housing projects and this gives us hope that going forward demand will look up,” he said. Indrajit Chatterji, executive director and head — sales and marketing (east) —  said demand for cement has improved in the east in the last couple months. “The biggest advantage of this addition would be the supply commitment of around 8-12 hours by road. This will enable the channel partners to get the product well on time,” said Chatterji. Market analysts are also bullish about the demand scenario. “Buoyant demand scenario combined with support from offtake in government infrastructure projects provided a filip to the industry with current revised expectations of flattish growth for FY21,” said Kunal Shah, analyst, institutional equities, Yes Securities. But pricing in the eastern market is expected to remain under pressure on account of capacity addition, Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Adani Power cancels Odisha power pact||Adani Power on Thursday said the agreement to acquire a 49 per cent stake in Odisha Power Generation Corporation (OPGC) from the affiliates of the AES Corporation, is formally cancelled now. The Odisha government, which holds a 51 per cent stake in OPGC, had exercised the right of first refusal (RoFR) to purchase the 49 per cent stake held by AES. In June this year, Adani Power announced it had signed a share sale and purchase agreement to acquire from AES OPGC Holding and AES India Pvt Ltd (collectively referred as sellers) a total of 89,30,237 equity shares held in OPGC representing 49 per cent of the total issued, paid-up and subscribed equity share capital. OPGC operates a 1,740MW thermal power plant at Banharpalli in Jharsuguda district, Odisha. This plant is the mainstay of Odisha for base load power supply and among the lowest cost power generators in the state. The plant has a long-term power purchase agreement valid for 25 years with the state-owned off taker GRIDCO and sources fuel from a nearby captive mine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
25-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: decision to hold talks likely to be taken on Saturday||As the protesting farmers’ organisations met on Friday over the government’s new letter inviting them for talks, some unions indicated that they may decide to accept the request to find a solution to the ongoing deadlock over the three contentious agri laws. The unions informed that they will sit again on Saturday for another discussion, where a decision is likely to be taken formally. An official in the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers' welfare also said the government was expecting the next round of meetings to take place in the next two-three days. A farmer leader, who wished to remain anonymous, said their demand for a legal guarantee on the minimum support price will remain in force. “We have another meeting tomorrow to take a decision on the Centre's letter. In this meeting, we may decide to resume talks with the government as it appears through its previous letters that it has not been able to understand our issues so far,” the leader said. He said the government's letters have no proposals, the reason why farmer unions may decide to hold fresh talks and make it understand their demands. “MSP cannot be separated from our demand of repealing these three laws. In these laws, there is mention about private mandis. Who will ensure that our crop is sold at fixed MSP if it is not there,” another leader sought to know. On Friday, several farmer unions held a meeting, but no decision could be taken on the Centre's latest letter. On Thursday, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal wrote to the protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be ‘logical’ to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. On Wednesday, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 unions protesting at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for the last 28 days, had asked the government to not repeat the proposal of ‘meaningless’ amendments that they have already rejected but to come up with a “concrete offer” in writing for the resumption of talks. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Friday demanded that the Centre arrange trains so that farmers from different parts of the country reach the ongoing protests at Delhi's border points, adding that they are ready to pay the cost of tickets for all peasants. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with a political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with the protesting farmers and asserted that his government was willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Modi blames Opposition 'agenda' for deadlock with farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a direct attack to people with a political agenda, said that they were responsible for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers. He asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. In a speech targeting the Opposition, Modi said when the agitation began farmers had some genuine demands like guaranteed minimum support price. Later, people with political motives took over and began making unrelated demands like the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free, he said. Defending the three new agri laws fiercely, Modi said that an overwhelming number of people had welcomed the Acts, and also listed their benefits during an interaction at an event, where he released Rs 18,000 crore to 2,000 crore farmers. His government is approaching dialogues with protesting farmers with an open heart, Modi said, claiming that the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their political agenda by misleading farmers and using their shoulders to fire at the government as they lack any logical argument against these laws. Defeated in elections, these parties are now indulging in event management for selfies and are appearing on television for publicity, he said. “Our decision can be tested on logic and facts. If there are any shortcomings, it should be highlighted. It is a democracy. We are not claiming that God has given us all knowledge,” the Prime Minister added. “Farm reforms became necessary because poor farmers, who are over 80 per cent, were getting poorer during rules of earlier governments,” he said. “Though the government is making humble efforts to resume the dialogue, some are not letting talks happen due to political reasons and are misleading the farmers,” Modi said. In a specific attack, he lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal while alleging that they have destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided every year. “Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long,” Modi said. Blaming political parties for infiltrating the farmers’ protest, he said, “You would have seen that when the agitation started their demand was about MSP guarantee. They had genuine issues because they were farmers. But then those with political ideology took over.” “MSP, etcetera were pushed aside and now what is happening is that they are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free, opposing policies that have existed through several governments. Why have they shifted from farmer's issues to new demands,” he added. Despite that, farmers across the country have wholeheartedly welcomed agriculture reforms, he said, assuring farmers that he will not let them down. Referring to some strong allegations and attacks made on him, Modi said politicians, who do not believe in democracy and are known in other countries as well, have used a kind of language that he cannot share but he has tolerated this and will appeal to protestors to talk with the government in the interest of farmers. “I don't know what all they have said. I cannot even share that. Despite all this, tolerating all this and keeping my cool, I once again appeal to those who are protesting that our government is ready to discuss with them in the interest of farmers. But the discussion will be on issues, facts and logic,” Modi said. Some of his attacks appeared to be aimed at Left-affiliated parties. “Those ruling Kerala for years are joining Punjab farmers for selfies and publicity but they did nothing for the mandi system in their own state”, he said, claiming that many leaders have used the protests to further their own ideology. Targeting his rivals, Modi said some of them have been feigning concerns about farmers' land even though everyone knows whose names came up in the media for land grabbing. His remarks appeared to be aimed at Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra, who has been accused of irregularities in owning large tracts of land, a charge he has often dismissed as a vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||PM’s speech attempt to divide us, say farmers’ unions||Protesting farmers’ unions on Friday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address seemed like an attempt to “divide and mislead” farmers, saying that they want a legal guarantee that minimum support price (MSP) will continue to be in place. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, while reacting to Modi’s allegations that the opposition was misusing the protest to push their agenda, said that they do not allow any political parties to use their stage. He further accused the government of diverting the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the Centre's talks with protesting farmers and asserted that his government is willing to hold dialogues with all, including those staunchly opposed to it, as long as talks are based on farm issues, facts and logic. “The prime minister's claim that we are being misguided by other political parties is false. It has been a month since we have been protesting at Delhi borders, and we have not offered our platform to any politician,” Kohar said. “In fact, we have banned them from using our stage. Our protest is not political,” he added. “In public speeches, the prime minister said the MSP will remain. Then why is he afraid of giving a legal guarantee for it? Why cannot the government give it in writing,” senior leader of the Sankyut Kisan Morcha Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI. He added, “PM Modi made an attempt to divide and mislead the farmers during his address today...in election rallies, he says his government has fixed MSP as per the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Committee. But in court, they say it was not possible to do so.” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee secretary Avik Saha asked why the Centre was not giving a legal guarantee on MSP. Saha said the prime minister on Friday only addressed farmers from six states and wondered why he did not address issues of protesting peasants. Kohar, a member of Sankyut Kisan Morcha, said during his speech, “PM Modi claimed that the three farm laws will benefit farmers, but he did not tell how the new laws will be beneficial for the peasants.” “You cannot go away by saying that it is good law, you will have to prove how it is good for farmers. There should be arguments based on facts,” he said. Avtar Singh Mehma, state press secretary, Krantikari Kisan Union (Punjab), alleged that the government's claim that some farmers are in support of the three laws is ‘false’. “We had targeted political parties like the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the AAP before we came to Delhi. So how can we be misguided by these political parties,” Mehma asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Smriti Irani accuses Rahul of lying to mislead farmers||Union minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday, accusing him of "lying and misleading" farmers over the Centre's recent farm laws. Addressing a farmers' rally in her parliamentary constituency Amethi, Irani said, "Rahul Gandhi is telling lies and misleading farmers. He is shedding crocodile tears for farmers and misleading them, his own jija (brother-in-law) has encroached upon the land of farmers." Irani's attack on Gandhi comes amid protests by farmers on various border points of Delhi against the Centre's recent farm laws. Throwing a challenge at Gandhi for a debate on farmer issues, Irani asked him to come in the midst of farmers here and claimed that she would expose him for every single sin committed by him. The Union minister addressed the rally in Singhpur block in Tiloi as part of a mega exercise undertaken by the BJP to reach out to farmers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). Irani said Gandhi, whom she defeated in the last parliamentary election, is showing sympathy for farmers now, but he himself has "grabbed" the land of farmers. "The kind of development which had taken place before I came here is known to all. This family had knowingly kept Amethi and its farmers away from development. They kept misleading them, enjoyed the fruits of power sitting in Delhi and lived in a palace of gold," she alleged. Irani alleged that the Gandhi family did not think about the development of Amethi after winning elections. She also listed various development works undertaken after the BJP formed government in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||No benefit and a lot of harm: Kejriwal on farm laws||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday claimed the Centre's new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and do a lot of harm. According to the BJP, Kejriwal said, the laws will enable farmers to sell their produce outside mandis. But they only get half the price for their crop outside mandis so how is that a benefit. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government. "BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. They have repeatedly rejected a government offer to amend the farm laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the MSP system and stuck to their demand for the repeal of the legislations -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi squarely blamed those with political agenda for the deadlock in the government's talks with protesting farmers and said genuine apprehensions about MSP guarantee have got overshadowed by unrelated issues such as the release of those accused of violence and making highways toll-free. He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||IIM-A decides to raze dorms over ‘unsafe’ conditions of living||The Indian Institute of Management- Ahmedabad (IIM-A) on Friday said it will demolish 14 of its dormitories designed by legendary American architect Louis Kahn, as they have become ‘unsafe’ for living. The institute said “dilapidation and structural deterioration” in the dorms have prompted them to make the decision. It reasoned that these buildings had borne the brunt of time over the years, and had become beyond repair as it withstood a lot, including the 2001 earthquake and water seepages. Kahn, a world-famous architect, had been invited to Ahmedabad by renowned scientist Vikram Sarabhai to design several buildings. IIM-A was one of the iconic buildings that was built by him in the 1960s. In a letter to the alumni, IIM-A director Errol D'Souza shared photographs of the damaged conditions, which the buildings are in. “We felt it necessary to keep you informed as we are the custodians of the Louis Kahn buildings that have the potential to inspire future generations. Over the past couple of decades, the buildings have undergone dilapidation and structural deterioration,” he said. “The earthquake at the beginning of the millennium and water seepage through ageing and deterioration of the exposed brick walls has resulted in large cracks in the masonry and periodical detachments of it in fragments. They are unsafe for living,” he said. “We have grappled with questions as to why we should presume that the past is not changeable and why we should assume that future generations will value things in exactly the same way that past generations have. We wondered if it is appropriate for us to colonise future perceptions of living spaces,” he added. “It has not been easy to deal with the issues that have come up as we have attempted to restore these buildings,” D’Souza said in the 11-page letter. “As is well-known that concrete encasing was not used by Kahn to protect the embedded reinforcement bars in the brickwork and that has resulted in rusting of the bars and cracks in the brickwork. The bricks used were not the best in class and had an in-built efflorescence,” said the letter. “The bricks used by Kahn were what architects call second class bricks as per IS 3102-1971 with an average compressive strength of 4.89 N/sq mm and with in-built efflorescence,” the it said. “The pointing that was used to hide the blunt edges of the bricks got damaged and allowed collection of water, which resulted in ingress into the masonry. The earthquake of 2001, among other things, posed challenges to the structural stability of the buildings,” it said. “We have attempted to address these issues with the best team of conservation architects anyone could ask for- SNK (Somaya & Kalappa Consultants). We had invited international restoration consultants Peter Inskip and Stephen Gee to advise us and they suggested we first restore one building and then based on our findings we could proceed to take up further work in other buildings,” the letter added. “We decided to restore Dorm 15 and the Library,” D’Souza said. “Wherever cracks were found, they were stitched with stainless steel helical bars. Where the cracks were deep, face bricks were removed and fresh brick-work was done. In some cases, like the flat arches on the east facade of the library, they were completely redone with stainless steel reinforcement,” he said. “After completion of the complex work, we were curious about the longevity of the buildings. We appointed an independent structural consultant, who opined that the compressive and tensile stresses in the walls exceed the limits as per the coda requirements of IS:1905-1987 and that the buildings are unsafe,” he said. “After long deliberations, it was decided to commit to doing whatever it takes to restore the core of the Louis Kahn buildings, the library, the faculty wings, and the classroom complex and the dorms on the periphery of the system of buildings,” the director said. “For the other dorms, however, it was decided to be guided by three imperatives: (1) functional needs, (2) cultural heritage, and (3) available resources,” he added. “After much circumspection, we have decided to restore Dorms 16 to 18. Along with the restored Dorm 15 as you would recollect they constitute the periphery of the built campus and are the first buildings that persons who enter the campus see and understand along with the LKP and associated buildings as the grandeur associated with the work of Kahn,” he said. “For the other dorms (1 to 14) that are in the inner core, we will invite architects from across the world to present us options as to how we should go about making new dorms,” D'Souza said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Treat laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, says Rajnath||Union Minister of Defence and BJP leader Rajnath Singh on Friday urged protesting farmers to try the three new farm laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, assuring that the government will bring in necessary amendments if they are not found beneficial. Calling the agitating farmers as his own people, Singh said, “Those who are sitting on dharna are farmers and are born to farmers' families. We have a lot of respect for them.” Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three agri-marketing laws for a month now, at different borders of Delhi, demanding their repeal. Five rounds of talks between them and the Centre have failed to end the deadlock, as they remain firm on their grounds. Addressing a rally at Dwarka in the national capital, Singh said he himself is a farmer’s son and assured that the Modi government “will never do anything which is not in the interest of the farmers”. “People are trying to mislead farmers about these farm laws that they are not in their interest. I am the son of a farmer and have worked in farms. I want to assure you that there is not a single provision in these laws which is against farmers,” the minister said at the rally, organised as part of the BJP’s campaign to spread awareness about the benefits of the laws. He reiterated that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue and some people are trying to create a misconception that it will end. “For once let this act (acts) be implemented, for a year or two... Try this experiment and if you feel that this act (acts) is not in the interest of farmers, then I can say you this with conviction as I know the intention of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi we will do all necessary amendments in it,” the former president of the saffron party said. Underlining that all problems can be resolved through dialogue, Singh said Prime Minister Modi wants the talks with farmers to continue, and therefore, the government has extended an invitation to them. He appealed to all protesting farmers to come forward for discussions on the farm laws and if they want to rope in experts for discussions, the government is ready for that as well. “Several rounds of talks have been held whatever suggested by farmers our government has ready to do all those amendments. The problems can be resolved through dialogue only, wherever there is scope for amendment the government is ready to do that,” the minister said. Hailing former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh as the great farmers' leader, Singh also attacked opposition parties saying that Congress and CPI always cheated and breached the trust of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
25-12-2020||India||Modi lashes out at Mamata govt for not availing central benefits for Bengal farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday bashed the Mamata Banerjee-led government in Bengal while alleging that they have destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided with every year. The PM was speaking at an event where he released over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmer families under the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' (PM-KISAN). With the push of a button, Modi enabled the transfer of money at an event which the ruling BJP has made into a mega exercise to reach out to farmers by having its leaders interact with the farming community at more than 19,000 venues across the country and also listen to the prime minister's address. Modi released the instalment of Rs 2,000 to every farmer on the birth anniversary of the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which is every year celebrated as "Good Governance Day" by the ruling party. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The prime minister wondered while there were agitations against the new farm bills, no protests were visible against West Bengal's decision of not implementing PM-Kisan scheme. "Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long," he said Modi said the Mamata Banerjee government has destroyed West Bengal and was playing politics by stopping benefits for farmers in the state. He said the entire country is benefiting from the PM-KISAN programme, but only one state, West Bengal, has not implemented this scheme. As a result, over 70 lakh farmers are not able to take benefit of this scheme and this money is not reaching them, he said, adding that this is because of political reasons. "Why there was no protest for ensuring PM-KISAN money," he said. "If you listen to 15 years old speech of Mamta Ji, then you will know how much this ideology has ruined Bengal," he said. Modi said everyone knows how the state has been ruined by the political ideology of those who ruled there for decades. "The public is watching those doing selfish politics very closely. The parties that do not speak on the benefit of farmers in West Bengal are engaged in harassing the citizens of Delhi here in the name of the farmers and are ruining the economy of the country," he said. Modi also made a veiled attack on the once-potent political force in the state, the Left parties, saying that those who ruled the state for three decades, brought it down and did not do anything for farmers. Assembly elections are due in West Bengal in April-May next year and the BJP has already launched a massive campaign to unseat Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the state. Banerjee has been West Bengal's Chief Minister since 2011 after ending 34-year-old Left rule in the state. "The people following one specific ideology ruled Bengal for 30 years, brought the state down and the whole country knows about it. The parties that do not speak on the benefit of farmers in West Bengal are engaged in harassing the citizens of Delhi here in the name of the farmers and are ruining the economy of the country," he said. In an apparent attack on Left parties, Modi said, "Parties which are missing APMC-mandis nowadays, but repeatedly forget that there are no APMC-mandis in Kerala. And these people never agitate in Kerala." The CPI(M) is also leading the LDF government in Kerala. While putting up a strong defence of the three new farm laws, Modi said the Centre is willing to resume the dialogue on all farmers-related issues, even with those staunchly opposed to his government as long as the talks are based on issues, facts and logic. He asserted that an overwhelming number of farmers across the country have welcomed the new laws and are already reaping the benefits, and listed out the BJP's victory in panchayat elections across states, in which farmers were the main voters and including in areas surrounding protest sites. He said the parties rejected by the electorate are pushing their own political agenda by misleading farmers. Referring to the protests, Modi said farmers had some genuine apprehensions about new laws including on MSP guarantee when the agitation started, but soon people with political affiliations came in between and started firing from peasants' shoulders to push their own and unrelated demands. "You would have seen that when the agitation started their demand was about MSP guarantee. They had genuine issues because they were farmers. But then those with political ideology took over," Modi said. "MSP, etcetera were pushed aside and now what is happening. They are demanding release from jail of those accused of violence... They want highways toll-free. Why have they shifted from farmer's issues to new demands," he said. "Despite that, farmers across the country have wholehearted welcome agriculture reforms I assure you that I will not let you down," Modi said. Modi alleged that the farmers' protest is also being used now for opposing many existing policies. The programme comes amid protests by various farmer unions against three farm laws recently enacted by the Modi government. The government has insisted that these reforms are in the interest of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||No corporate can take away farmer's land, asserts Shah and Modi||No corporate can snatch away any farmer's land as long as Narendra Modi is Prime Minister of the country, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday and asserted that the provision of MSP will continue and mandis will not be shut down. Addressing a gathering in Kishangarh village in the national capital, Shah said if farmer organisations felt that any provision of the three new farm laws is against their interests, the Modi government was ready to discuss and consider the same with an open mind. Shah blamed the Opposition, including Congress, for spreading lies about the minimum support price (MSP) and other provisions of the farm laws. "The Opposition is speaking brazen lies. I again reiterate that the MSP will continue and the mandis will not be closed. Farmers' welfare is the top-most priority of the Modi government," Shah asserted. The years-old demand of one and half times MSP on crops has been implemented by the Modi government during 2014-19, he said. Shah attended Kisan Samman Nidhi event and listened to Prime Minister Modi's video interaction with farmers from several states, along with other BJP leaders at a Gaushala in Kishangarh village. Modi also reiterated his cabinet colleague's stance after a while. While addressing the virtual meet, the prime minister sought to allay the fears that private firms might grab farmers' land under a new contract farming law enacted by the Centre, as he listened to success stories about benefits of the new Acts while interacting with peasants from seven states. In their interaction with the PM, the seven farmers shared their success stories and also highlighted the benefits of recently enacted agri-laws. They also shared their good experience of working with private players under contract farming agreements. "Sitting in Arunachal Pradesh, you are sure that your land is safe. But some people are spreading a myth that those who enter into a contract (agreement) with a company for sale of crops will also lose their land. So many lies are being spread. I am happy that you have shared your experience," Modi said while interacting with farmer Gagan Parin. He also said some politicians, for their own agenda, are spreading lies that the laws will impact the farmers. Parin also said he has received Rs 6,000 as part of the PM-KISAN scheme and used that money for purchase of fertiliser and meeting labour cost. Sharing his experience with the prime minister, farmer Ram Gulab from Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh said a newly set up FPO with 300 farmers has entered into an agreement for sale of sweet potato with an Ahmedabad-based company. "Earlier, farmers used to sell sweet potatoes at Rs 10-15 per kg, but now we have entered an agreement for Rs 25 per kg. They will take the produce from the farm field. We need not bear transportation costs and not face middlemen problems," he said. When Modi asked if he feared losing land (after entering into an agreement), Gulab said: "No sir. Our land will not go." He also said that the new laws will be beneficial for farmers. Modi said: "Lies are being spread. When people like you talk, there will be confidence in others that no one will lose land, only crops are sold...." The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 is one of the three laws against which farmers, especially from Punjab, are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly a month now. Clearing the apprehension about the contract farming, Modi said earlier there was a penalty on farmers for violation of a contract agreement. The new law ensures that there is no penalty on farmers. "We are getting reports of how farmers are taking benefit of the laws. The government is standing with farmers at every step. The government has set up strong legal support to help farmers," he said. When someone enters into an agreement with a farmer, that person will provide farm inputs and services to farmers to get good produce. In case the crop is damaged, still, those who have entered into an agreement have to give the rate at which it was entered into to a farmer, Modi said. "He (private party) cannot end an agreement at his will. On the other side, if a farmer wants to end an agreement he can do it. Isn't this in favour of farmers?" the prime minister asked. Further, Modi said, in case the crop is good and market rates are higher than the agreed price, then a farmer will have to be given the agreed rate and also a bonus above that. "Earlier, all risk was on farmers and return used to be for others. Now, all risk will be borne by a company that enters (into an agreement) and returns will be for farmers," he added. Sharing benefits of other farm schemes, farmer M Subramani from Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu talked about how he was able to address the water problem in four acres of land using drip irrigation. "Earlier, there was water to farm only one acre. Now, I get water for the remaining three acres using drip irrigation. Earlier, I was earning Rs 40,000, now I am getting Rs 1.40 lakh," he said. Another farmer from Odisha (Naupada district) Naveen Thakur said he has received Rs 10,000 under the PM-KISAN scheme and also got the benefit of a crop loan at a lower interest of 4 per cent rate through Kisan Credit Card. On benefits of crop diversification, Haryana-based farmer Hari Singh Bishnoi from Fatehabad district said he has diversified to horticulture crops in 10 acres of land, in which he has planted lemon in three acres of land and guava in seven acres of land. "We sell outside mandis. We are getting more money," he added. Taking advantage of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Maharashtra-based farmer Ganesh Rajan Bhosle from Latur district said he paid a premium of Rs 2,580 and took crop insurance in 2019. He received a claim of Rs 54,314 for damage to his soybean crop due to excess rains last year. He also informed the prime minister that his fellow farmers are also associated with this scheme. "This is a good scheme and every farmer is benefitting."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Farm unions likely to hold meeting to respond to Centre's letter||Protesting farmer unions are likely to hold a meeting on Friday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with farmers during a money transfer event as the agitation at Delhi's borders against the new Agri laws is about to complete a month. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- is expected to meet later in the day to discuss the Centre's letter and respond to it formally. On Thursday, the protesting farmer unions alleged that the government's latest letter for talks is nothing but propaganda against the peasants to create an impression that they are not interested in dialogue and asked it to put the scrapping of the three recent farm laws in the agenda to resume the parleys. The Union Agriculture ministry while extending a fresh invite, however, made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to minimum support price (MSP), saying it was out of the purview of the new farm laws. The ministry also reiterated it is ready to find a "logical solution" to the issues raised by protesting farmer unions. With the push of a button, Prime Minister Modi will enable the transfer of more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore beneficiary families. The amount will be the next instalment of financial benefits to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). The protests have led to closure of roads in Delhi, and diversions have also caused traffic congestions. Taking to Twitter on Friday, Delhi Traffic Police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic. "Pl take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad,Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road & NH 44," the department said in a tweet. In another tweet, the traffic police said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi. "People are advised to take alternative route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders," it mentioned. In an advisory, the Delhi Traffic Police said NH-44 beyond Singhu Border has been closed for general traffic with effect from Saturday, and diversions have been made accordingly to avoid inconvenience to the public. According to another advisory, vehicular traffic going to Haryana from NH-44 via Palla red light is being diverted from NIIT to Holambi 100-foot-road and DSIDC 80-foot-road to pass through Lampur border and Safiabad border. Another diversion is from the U-turn near DSIDC and Singhu village cut towards the Singhu school toll tax. Vehicular traffic coming from Haryana via Safiabad, Saboli, Pau Maniyari borders is being diverted from the Safiabad More, Saboli More, Ramdev Chowk and sector-A/5 Narela via Raja Harish Chander hospital towards NH-44 to go to Delhi. Vehicles coming from Lampur border is being diverted towards Grain Mandi and then Munim ka Bagh via Harish Chander red light to NH-44. Vehicular traffic coming from Azadpur Mandi to GTK depot will be diverted from GTK depot towards Rohini. Vehicles coming from Mukandpur to Singhu border will be diverted towards Mukandpur, the advisory stated. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Covid recoveries cross 97 lakh as more than 23,000 test positive||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,01,46,845 on Friday with 23,067 new infections being reported in a day, while total recoveries crossed 97 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll increased to 1,47,092 with 336 new fatalities, the data at 8 am showed. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,17,834 during the same period, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.77 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 2,81,919 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 16,63,05,762 samples have been tested for detection of COVID-19 up to December 24 with 9,97,396 samples being tested on Thursday itself. Of the 336 new fatalities, 89 were reported from Maharashtra, 37 from Delhi, 32 from West Bengal, and 22 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 49,058 fatalities, followed by 12,039 from Karnataka, 12,036 from Tamil Nadu, 10,384 from Delhi, 9,505 from West Bengal, 8,267 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,089 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,260 from Punjab. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||President, PM pay rich tribute to Vajpayee on his birth anniversary ||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the dignitaries who paid rich tribute to the former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. President Kovind paid homage to Vajpayee at 'Sadaiv Atal', a memorial to the former prime minister, here, the Rashtrapati Bhavan stated in a tweet. Besides Kovind and Modi, top Union ministers also attended a prayer meeting at the memorial and paid homage to the first prime minister from the saffron party. Vajpayee's visionary leadership saw the country's development reach unprecedented heights, Modi said in a tweet. "His efforts for making a strong and prosperous India will be remembered forever," he said. Naidu shared several poems penned by Vajpayee to remember him fondly and lauded him as a "great visionary" and the "man of masses ". "Atal Ji was a leader par excellence who was respected across party lines. He was an exceptional orator, a distinguished scholar and a gifted poet, but above all, he was a large-hearted human being who cared deeply for the country and its welfare," he said. Home Minister Amit Shah said Vajpayee's ideas and dedication to the country's development will always inspire them to serve the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda were among other key leaders who paid homage to him. Born in 1924, Vajpayee was a founder member of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP, a party which rose from the margins to rule India for the first time in the 1990s with him being its main face. His tenure is credited with ushering in a fresh wave of liberalisation, boosting growth and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Assets attached in Kerala gold case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 1.85 crore, including those of senior Kerala bureaucrat M. Sivasankar, in connection with its money-laundering probe in the alleged Kerala gold smuggling case, the agency said on Thursday. “Fixed deposits along with seized cash recovered from the bank lockers totalling Rs 1.85 crore have been attached. Among the attached assets, Rs 1 crore belongs to M. Sivasankar, IAS, and former principal secretary to the chief minister of Kerala,” the agency said in a statement. Sivasankar was arrested by the agency on October 28 and he is now in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Fresh claim on Krishna birthplace ||Four persons have jointly moved a petition in a Mathura court on behalf of Bhagwan Keshavdev (Lord Krishna) to claim the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust’s right to the 13.37 acres of land where a temple and a mosque stand, a place identified by Hindutva entities as the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Two advocates — Mahendra Pratap Singh and Rajendra Maheshwari — and two Hindutva organisations — the United Hindu Front and the Dharm Raksha Sangh — claimed in their petition before the court of the senior civil judge on Wednesday. that the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sangh, the management committee of the Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura, and the Intezamia Committee of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Masjid had illegally entered into an agreement on October 12, 1968, to coexist. The petitioners have said the property actually belongs to the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust. They did not say when this trust was formed. “Obviously, the Sewa Sangh and the Intezamia Committee have no right to the land. We have documents to prove that the disputed land where the temple and the mosque stand side-by-side belongs to the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust, which also owns the Thakur Keshavdev Virajman Mandir in the Bangar area of Mathura. The case will be heard on January 22,” Singh said. There has been a concerted attempt to build an Ayodhya-style movement in Mathura, projecting the area where the temple and the mosque coexist as the birthplace of Lord Krishna. On November 13, a Supreme Court lawyer had moved Allahabad High Court on behalf of Lord Krishna, seeking possession of the Shahi Idgah. A third case is pending in the district court of Mathura. Mehek Maheshwari, the petitioner in the high court, had requested that the Shahi Idgah be handed over to Hindus, claiming that Lord Krishna was born in a prison located at the same spot in the Dwapar Yuga. He has demanded the excavation of the place where the mosque is located so that it could be proved that the spot was the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The petitioner has also challenged the Places of Worship Act, 1991, which advocates status quo, as of 1947, at places of worship. The management committees of both the temple and the mosque have said they have nothing to do with such disputes. On October 1, Ranjana Agnihotri, a lawyer from Lucknow, and six others moved the Mathura district court claiming that a Krishna temple existed at the birthplace of the God before it was destroyed several times by Muslim invaders and Mughal forces. Describing themselves as “friends of Lord Krishna Virajman”, Agnihotri and the others had stated in court that the place where the Shahi Idgah stands was the prison of Kansa, the demon who had wanted to kill his nephew Krishna soon after his birth. A local court — that of the civil judge, senior division — had earlier rejected the petition while observing that being devotees of a god is not reason enough to claim ownership of a sacred place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Kerala renews farm session bid||The Kerala cabinet on Thursday decided to make a recommendation to the governor to convene a special session of the Assembly on December 31 to pass a resolution against the controversial farm bills. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had in a controversial decision turned down the earlier recommendation of the cabinet to convene a special session on December 23 in a direct face-off with the Left Democratic Front government. The ruling and Opposition parties, barring the BJP, had slammed the governor for overstepping his constitutional duties in rejecting the state cabinet’s decision. An irate Congress had on Wednesday demanded that the government should push for its rights and not be cowed down by the governor. Congress leaders wanted the government to move a resolution and table an ordinance against the farm bills. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday told a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram that he hoped the governor would go by the cabinet decision this time. “According to our parliamentary system, a governor can only accept what the cabinet has decided,” said Vijayan who had recently written a strongly worded letter to Khan citing constitutional provisions and legal precedence that clearly state that the governor had no discretionary powers over convening or proroguing the Assembly. The chief minister alluded to the ongoing farmers’ strike across the country and said Kerala was not self-sufficient in food grains. “The farmers’ agitation has caused a lot of concern in our state that depend on others for food grains. Hence it is inevitable that we discuss the issue in the Assembly and find solutions,” Vijayan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Karnataka scraps night curfew ||The Karnataka government on Thursday withdrew its night curfew order a day after shocking the hospitality industry that was gearing up to welcome New Year revellers. The government had on Wednesday issued an order enforcing night curfew from 11pm to 5am starting from December 24 to the morning of January 2. The government attributed the turnaround to public opinion. “It has been decided to withdraw the night curfew after receiving feedback from the public and discussing with senior officials,” the government said in a statement. However, New Year’s Eve revelry will not be allowed on the streets anywhere in the state, and pubs and restaurants can allow only 50 per cent of the seating capacity. The government had cited the mutant Covid virus detected in Britain as the reason for clamping down during the festive season. Two passengers who arrived in Bangalore from London had tested positive for the coronavirus. Sources said several BJP lawmakers were unhappy with the decision that would have hit the hospitality sector very hard.The president of the Bangalore Hotels Association, P.C. Rao, welcomed the curfew withdrawal. “We had already said that the night curfew would not be beneficial in any way. We are glad that the chief minister has listened to our requests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||Delhi High Court poser on beaten youth who died||Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to police seeking a status report on the investigation into the death of a youth who was seen in widely circulated video clips being beaten by cops on a Delhi road during the February riots, following which he died. The court issued the notice on the basis of a petition filed by Kismatun, 61, alleging that her son Faizan was later tortured in custody before he was released and he died in hospital. The videos had showed Faizan and four other youths lying injured on a road while policemen assaulted them with batons and kicked them, ordering them to sing the national anthem and taunting them with the word “azadi”. In her petition before the court, Kismatun had sought the constitution of a court-monitored special investigation team to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the death of Faizan. The petition had also said that although the police had registered a murder case, there had been no progress in the investigation. According to the petition, the investigation conducted by the crime branch over the past nine months was nothing but a sham and designed to shield the guilty men in uniform rather than investigating the crime. Faizan’s family has alleged that while the five youths lay on the road after the police assault, they were taken not to a hospital but to a police lockup and brutalised again. Delhi police had registered a case accusing “unknown people” of killing Faizan. A senior police officer claimed that a mob had assaulted Faizan and four others in Jaffrabad, the epicentre of the violence, and the police had taken them to hospital. “A probe is still on to identify those who assaulted the five youths.” Told that the videos showed policemen beating the youths with batons and that Faizan’s family had alleged custody torture, the officer said on the condition of anonymity: “The cops did not beat them. They rushed them to hospital when they saw them lying on the ground after being assaulted by a mob.” He, however, said it was a big mistake on the part of the police to force the youths to sing the national anthem. “An inquiry is on to identify these policemen.” During the northeast Delhi riots, several videos had surfaced purportedly showing the police supporting the rioters, either standing and watching the mobs run amok or, in some instances, accompanying them as they raided Muslim neighbourhoods. One close-shot video showed Faizan and the four other injured youths lying on the ground, one of them bleeding, trying to sing lines from the national anthem. A policeman is heard saying: “Achchhi tarah ga (Sing it properly).” The police were seen prodding and beating the youths with their batons, and abusing them. Delhi police on Thursday raided the office of lawyer Mehmood Pracha, who is handling several cases related to the riots in which 53 people died. He is representing many of the accused in the riot cases. A police officer said Pracha’s office was searched after obtaining a warrant from a local court. The lawyer said the cops seized his computers and laptop. Delhi police have alleged that Pracha had tutored victims to give false statements in riot cases. Pracha has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-465
25-12-2020||India||ICAR research station in Leh||A regional research station of the ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute (ICAR-CAZRI) was inaugurated virtually at Leh on December 21. The inauguration was done by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and junior ministers Parsottambhai Rupala and Kailash Choudhary. Also present were Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) secretary Sanjay Singh; Dr Trilochan Mahapatra, the secretary of the Department of Agriculture Research and Education and director-general of ICAR; Dr S.K. Choudhary, deputy director-general (NRM) of ICAR; Dr O.P. Yadav, director, ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur; and Dr Dipankar Saha, head, RRS-Leh. Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, the Ladakh MP, attended the event. The ICAR regional hub will “address the multiplicity of mountain ecosystems in a holistic manner, eyeing through natural resources and its management for the sustainable development of Ladakh region and its people and environment”, according to a media note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||It stands to Reason that word of mouth is safer in India now||After almost half a century of making films — and waging legal battles to ensure they are screened — Anand Patwardhan is as determined but more cautious. His latest film, the multilingual Reason, or Vivek in Hindi —  completed in 2018 — is set for a ticketed online screening with English subtitles on bookmyshow.com on December 27 at 3pm, followed by an interaction with the director. Publicity has only been by word of mouth, to shield the exhibitor from any extra-legal pressure against the screening. Besides winning awards, Patwardhan is a veteran of such pressures. Screenings even in classrooms and private spaces have been disrupted — often violently — by Right-wingers who are recurring characters in his films like In the Name of God. So far, Reason has only made it to film festivals. An unauthorised version with Hindi subtitles is available for free viewing on YouTube. The Mumbai-based filmmaker explained: “The need to tell such stories becomes greater when circumstances are difficult. Otherwise we will live under complete fascism if no one dares speak out. Even though our voices are hard to get across because of distribution obstacles, making films cannot be stopped. “Today people make films on their mobile phones.… Look at the farmers’ movement in Delhi. Even when the mainstream media do not cover it well, people are covering it on their phones. You cannot keep things a secret now.… (My) films may not be well publicised but people are eager to see it. There will be an audience through word of mouth, even if it is not in the major papers.” Reason is four hours long and divided into eight parts. They deal with the killings of rationalists allegedly by the Hindu revivalist group Sanatan Sansthan, the protest in Gujarat over the flogging of Dalits who clean animal carcasses, the suicide of Hyderabad scholar Vemula Rohith Chakravarthy, and the lynching of Mohammad Akhlaq in Dadri over false rumours of beef possession. Patwardhan said: “It (Reason) basically talks about rising majoritarian values, but it also traces historic roots from over a 100 years ago. When Hindus and Muslims united during the First War of Independence in 1857, the British won through divide-and-rule tactics. Later, to fight the growing nationalism of the Congress under Mahatma Gandhi, they supported the Muslim League, the Hindu Mahasabha and the RSS at the same time. The hatred created against Gandhi finally resulted in his murder in 1948.” The Centre stalled the screening of Reason at last year’s International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala, which is the only Indian festival where a film can qualify for the Oscars. The organiser, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, and Patwardhan approached Kerala High Court and won the case to screen the film. It was the runner-up in the Long Documentary category. This January, he had to go to court again after his film was not selected for The Mumbai International Film Festival. Patwardhan said: “...They did censorship through the backdoor by installing a selection panel that rejected Reason and other films critical of the government and its ideology. (Director) Pankaj Rishi Kumar and I went to Bombay High Court, stating that both our films had won international awards that qualified our films for the Oscars. But under the present government, most courts are clearly scared. “On the first day the judge gave a long lecture that he knows how often the government has attempted to censor my films in the past. But after the weekend, he suddenly indicated that he cannot really supersede the selection panel. So we withdrew the case rather than lose and set a bad precedent for others.” Last year, students screened In the Name of God, known in Hindi as Ram ke Naam, at Presidency University, despite denial of permission and electricity being disconnected during the screening. At the University of Hyderabad, incidentally Vemula’s alma mater, the organisers of a screening were detained by police. At Ambedkar University in New Delhi, the screening was disrupted by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. The film about the Hindu nationalist mobilisation to demolish the Babri Mosque was released in 1992 — just before the demolition — and won the National Film Award for the Best Investigative Documentary. Patwardhan had to go to court for it to be telecast on Doordarshan, finally in 1997. His debut film, Waves of Revolution, on the Bihar Movement was released underground in 1975. Prisoners of Conscience on the horrors of the Emergency was given a “U” certificate in 1978 only after a letter from Satyajit Ray. Patwardhan said: “Why was Ram ke Naam attacked? They (proponents of Hindutva) don’t want their own people to see it because some of them have changed their minds after watching it.… Even 30 years later I still come across kar sevaks and sympathisers who had gone for the demolition, but contacted me to tell me that the film had opened their eyes.” He added: “Most people who watch my films understand what I am trying to convey and the films do not provoke violence, but quite the contrary. I have fought many court cases against censorship and we used many precedents from Supreme Court judgments that state that when the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) looks at a film, they should not cater to the most deranged point of view in the audience and worry that such a person might get inflamed. “The most ill-informed person cannot hold the rest of the population to ransom. The CBFC should imagine that there is a reasonable audience, and not an audience full of mad people who live on fake news.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||This Christmas, a ‘thief’ who can bless us||Yeshuve, ninnodothannnu Kurishilchatha kallane Urachunilkkuvanullu Ninte neethikku sakshiyay Balachandran Chullikkadu, poet This Christmas, Kerala is celebrating a reformed thief who is being equated with God’s signature and who has emerged holier than some of the men who wear the cloth. Raju, then a petty thief, faced a difficult choice 28 years ago. If he testified against the suspects in the high-profile murder of a nun in a Kerala convent, he would have to incriminate himself by confessing he had been at the site to steal. The choice he made in 1992 has now helped nail the priest and nun who killed Sister Abhaya and turned him into the toast of Kerala. It is a mere coincidence that the verdict was delivered three days before Christmas. The coincidence --- and the role of a section of the Church -– prompted many to circulate the searing Malayalam lines penned by  Balachandran Chullikkadu, one of the most renowned poets in Kerala, that have been reproduced at the start of this report. An inadequate translation: “Jesus, the thief who died with you on the cross is the only one who stood firm as witness to your justice.” Even the special CBI court that delivered the verdict and sentence acknowledged that Raju “may have been a thief, but he was and is an honest man... (and) a speaker of truth nonetheless”. Its judgment noted how Raju had stuck to his statement amid intimidation and blandishment. It said the police had held Raju in custody for 58 days, tortured him and implicated him in 40-odd theft cases, while offering him lakhs of rupees, a new house, free education for his daughters and a job for his wife if he changed his testimony. But Raju stood firm throughout as successive administrations went slow on a case that involved the reputation of the Church. The case passed from the district police to the crime branch, which claimed suicide, and to the CBI, which tried to file three closure reports. Eventually, under court directions, the accused were arrested and the trial began last year. “They tried to lure me with all kinds of things,” the now sixty-something Raju said after Tuesday’s verdict, “but I have two daughters.” Sister Abhaya, 19, a Class XII student of BCM College in Kottayam, had been found dead in a well at the St Pious X Convent hostel in Kottayam on March 27, 1992. After waking at 4am to prepare for an exam, she had gone down to the kitchen and allegedly seen a nun, Sister Sephy, in a compromising position with Father Thomas Kottoor, Abhaya’s college lecturer. They strangled and hit Abhaya on the head with a small axe before dumping her, still alive, into a well. On Tuesday, a special CBI court convicted Kottoor and Sephy of murder and, on Wednesday, handed them life terms. Father Jose Poothrikkayil, another accused and a lecturer in the college, was acquitted for lack of evidence. Raju, who came forward on his own to testify, admitted to stealing copper strips from the lightning arrester on the convent’s rooftop on two successive nights. On the third night, he said, he saw two men approach the staircase of the convent with flashlights shortly before the time Abhaya was murdered. He identified one of the men as Kottoor. A local activist who had waged a long battle seeking justice for Abhaya, described Raju’s presence at the site as divine intervention. “God appeared as Adakka Raju and became an eyewitness,” Jomon Puthenpurackal said. (Raju had earned the nickname “Adakka” or betel nut from his practice of raiding betel groves at night.) The court said: “It is noteworthy that PW3 (prosecution witness 3 — Raju) was subject to continuous, severe and gruelling cross-examination by two lawyers for two long days, but he, uneducated and untrained though he was, stood his ground.” He “may have been a thief, but he was and is an honest man, a simple person without the need to dissemble, a human being who became a professional thief by the force of circumstances, but a speaker of truth nonetheless”, it added. As for the theft cases against Raju, the courts threw them out for lack of evidence. Raju says he quit theft and took to manual labour after becoming a witness in the Abhaya case. He now refers to Abhaya as his daughter. Abhaya’s parents died about four years ago and her brother works in Dubai. “So I’m talking as her own father. I’m very happy. Today I’ll drink in joy,” Raju told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Centre soldiers on with Boris plan||The external affairs ministry (MEA) on Thursday said British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit for this year’s Republic Day parade was on, amid speculation that it may have to be cancelled owing to the rapid spread of a mutated version of the coronavirus in the UK that has forced several countries including India to stop flights to Britain. Asked if the visit was still on considering India has already stopped flights to and from the UK till the year-end, MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava said: “We had invited the Prime Minister of the UK as the chief guest for the Republic Day parade in 2021. When UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab was here, he had publicly confirmed his (Johnson’s) acceptance. So we look forward to welcoming the Prime Minister here.” The Shiv Sena has taken a swipe at the Narendra Modi government for going ahead with the visit, likening it to hosting US President Donald Trump in February-end by which time the World Health Organisation had already declared the coronavirus a “public health emergency of international concern”. In the party mouthpiece Saamana, the Shiv Sena questioned whether it would be alright for Johnson to visit India in January when the world had suspended flights in and out of the UK and India, too, insists on visitors from Britain quarantining for 14 days. British MPs are in the process of drafting a letter to Johnson to clarify his understanding of the farmers’ protests and also raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the visit. An initiative of Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the effort has cross-party support. Earlier, he had got three dozen MPs from across all parties to sign on a letter to Raab, urging the UK government to speak up for the rights of farmers to peaceful protest and also raise the issue of the three contentious farm laws with the Indian government as 92 per cent of Sikhs in Britain have ties to agricultural land in India. Dhesi spoke about the farmers’ protest in the House of Commons earlier this month and Johnson’s reply had raised eyebrows as he had said it was an India-Pakistan issue that was for the two countries to resolve. The British government later clarified that the Prime Minister had “misheard” the question. Given the strength of the Punjabi and Sikh diaspora in the UK, several MPs are being petitioned by their constituents to raise the issue. Also, the protesting farmers here have made it clear that they would tap their links in the diaspora to mobilise opinion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Government letter tests farmer patience||The Centre on Thursday sent a fresh invite to the protesting farmers for talks at a time of their choosing but offered them little else apart from a statement that it was ready to find a “logical solution”, prompting the cultivators to express exasperation at “one more letter” and point out that the Narendra Modi dispensation was being tone deaf. The three-page letter sent by the joint secretary in the agriculture ministry’s department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare, Vivek Aggarwal, does not provide any indication of what a “logical solution” could be but makes it clear that there is no question of discussing any new demand relating to the minimum support price (MSP). “Any new demand related to MSP, which is out of the ambit of farm laws, is not logical to include in the talks. As informed earlier, the government is ready to discuss all the issues raised by farmer unions,” Aggarwal wrote. Along with the repeal of the three new farm laws, the protesting farmers have from the beginning been demanding a law to guarantee MSP for 23 crops, fearing that the reform-oriented legislation would eventually elbow out this protective mechanism. Neither is there any indication in the letter that the government is willing to meet the farmers halfway, except for the perfunctory statement that it is willing to talk with an open mind. The farmers had on Wednesday made it clear in writing to the government that they were not interested in having talks for the sake of talks without something concrete on the table to discuss, and that this had to be more than the amendments the Centre had offered. The proposed changes have already been rejected by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the banner under which the protest is being undertaken. Reacting to Thursday’s letter, Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the “Dilli Chalo” call — said in a broadcast message: “The reply unfortunately repeats what the government has been saying for the last month.” As if this was not enough to upset the protesting farmers, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar continued with the exercise of meeting farmers who claim to be in support of the new laws. This has irked the protesting farmers considerably as they view it as a divisive tactic. In their letter to the government on Wednesday, the SKM had said: “In addition, the government is constantly trying to be divisive by holding parallel talks with so-called farmer leaders and organisations that exist only on paper.…” Saha stated that if the new laws were reformist, these reforms were not for the farmers but for agricultural trading. He alleged that the government was refusing to bend to protect the “strongman” and “demigod” image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “who can do no wrong”. Seeing through the government’s agenda to tire them down, the protesting farmers have been maintaining that they have no option but to continue with their agitation as the new farm laws are a “death warrant” on them. As the protest at Delhi’s borders — particularly at Singhu and Tikri — gears to complete a month on Saturday, support for the movement has been growing and farmers from other states have been moving towards the capital in batches. However, according to the AIKSCC, the Uttar Pradesh government in particular is leaving no stone unturned in trying to stop the farmers as the government and the BJP want to present the agitation as Punjab and Haryana-specific and not a nationwide one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Ten unions skip virtual meeting on labour laws||If the agitating farmer unions have alleged the talks with the Centre have been a “monologue” with the government ignoring their suggestions, the workers’ unions have now voiced a similar apprehension. Ten central trade union organisations on Thursday boycotted a virtual meeting called by labour minister Santosh Gangwar to finalise the rules for the new labour laws, alleging an online discussion would be a “monologue” rather than a meaningful discussion. Labour ministry sources said the Prime Minister’s Office had suggested the meeting keeping in mind the agitating farmers’ allegation that the three new farm laws had never been discussed with them before their passage in September. The trade unions too had alleged that no “meaningful” consultations had been held with them on the four new labour laws. However, most of the workers’ bodies rejected Thursday’s online talks, demanding physical meetings — one for each of the four laws. “There cannot be any meaningful discussion within four hours in a virtual forum where the government can mute and unmute any speaker,” Amarjeet Kaur, a leader of CPI labour  arm Aituc, said. “These laws affect the 48-crore (strong) workforce. They contain many anti-worker provisions. But the government wants the consultation as a ritual: the rules are already decided. That is why we did not take part in such a monologue.” Apart from Aituc, those that boycotted the talks included the Congress-affiliated Intuc, CPM-backed Citu and the independent body Hind Mazdoor Sabha. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) attended the meeting along with a few of the smaller workers’ bodies. Several trade union organisations had submitted a memorandum on Tuesday demanding the government defer Thursday’s meeting and hold face-to-face talks. However, the meeting went ahead and discussed the rules for the Code on Wages and the Code on Industrial Relations. Because of the protest, the discussions on the rules for the two remaining laws — on occupational safety and social security — have been postponed to January 12. It has not been confirmed whether that meeting would be held online too. Intuc leader Ashok Singh attended the meeting only to say the government must accept the unions’ demand. Singh said: “I did not speak about the subject. I registered my protest over the way the meeting was being held and told the government to accept our demand.” While the Code on Wages was passed last year, the other three — the Code on Industrial Relations; the Code on Social Security; and the Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions — were passed during this year’s monsoon session. When the last three were passed in the Rajya Sabha, the major Opposition parties had been staying away in protest against eight MPs being suspended for demonstrating against the passage of the three farm laws. According to International Labour Organisation conventions to which India is a signatory, laws on labour welfare must be passed and the rules implemented only after tripartite discussions among the employees, employers and the government. A labour economist who did not wish to be quoted said the process of rule-making had been opaque. “After the draft rules were notified, hundreds of comments came for modification. The government has prepared a final version that should be shared with the trade unions to let them know whether their suggestions have been accepted or rejected, and why. But the government has not shared the final version,” he said. One of the provisions in the Code on Wages is that the allowances paid to an employee cannot exceed 50 per cent of the total compensation (that is, it cannot exceed the basic pay). Employers have opposed this while the workers have welcomed it. “Industries pay less under the head of basic wage while the allowances make up the major chunk of the salary,” BMS general secretary Vrijesh Upadhyay said. “This helps the industries keep down their provident fund contribution.” He said the new provision would force the employers to cut the allowances and raise the basic pay by an equal amount, benefiting the workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Christmas message: Where are we heading to?||This Christmas, I remember my fellow Jesuit, Fr. Stan Swamy. December 25 is his 79th day in jail. I wonder how he is celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ at Taloja. As a true Jesuit, I am confident that he is reaching out to the fellow prisoners and sharing with them the joy of the newborn divine Baby Jesus, and if the jail authorities do not ask him to appeal to the court for permission, he would distribute some sweets and wish them all a Feliz Navidad. As winter sets in, close to 2.6 billion Christians across the globe, and other believers alike, brave themselves up for Christmas. It is now a global festival that has transcended the perimeters of religion and symbolises different sentiments — love, friendship, hope, benevolence, forgiveness and amity. It is the season of gaiety and giving. It teaches us to share the joys of life; for it is in giving that we receive. Unfortunately, Christmas celebrations now are far removed from the first Christmas celebrated 2,020 years ago by only three people in a manger in a small little village in Bethlehem — Joseph, Mother Mary and Baby Jesus — in the company of some shepherds. Now it has become highly commercialised, devoid of its human elements. Hence, its true essence is lost. It is the shepherds who received the good tidings of Jesus’ birth first. I remember the tens of thousands of farmers who are protesting in Delhi and elsewhere against the unconstitutional and draconian farm laws. I pray that this Christmas brings them some good news. This loss of humanism is all the more glaring in the treatment being meted out to an octogenarian, Fr. Stan. The world is not unaware of the arrest of the 83-year-old Jesuit who has committed his entire life to the uplift of the poor, the marginalised and the voiceless, and who is also suffering from advanced Parkinson’s disease. For all his commitment and services, today he is under investigation by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) for his alleged participation in the Elgar Parishad case — since October 7. What is even more pathetic is that a person with his condition had been denied his basic necessities by the insensitive bureaucracy — his straw and sipper. These two harmless and nondescript items have been an integral part of his existence for the past few years now and yet the powers that be have turned a blind eye towards this. If this is the kind of treatment being meted out to a person who is only under investigation, then one can wonder at the treatment accorded to ordinary inmates who may or may not have been wrongfully detained for years. Where are we heading to? Where is our humanity? How many times shall the Son of God have to descend to the Earth to save us from our own selves? Can this Christmas be an occasion of hope and freedom for thousands of unfortunate prisoners like Father Stan and distressed farmers who are the lifeline of our country? I appreciate the steps taken by some good people who campaigned to provide Father Stan with a straw and a sipper. He needs more than these — fair trial and justice. Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore had said: “Every child comes into the world with the message that God is not yet disappointed with humans. Let our celebration of Christmas not turn into a meaningless annual ritual but an event of hope and freedom.” It is said: “A thousand times in history a baby has become a king. But only once in history did a king become a baby.” On this joyous occasion of Christ’s birth, I wish all readers a Merry Christmas and a joyful New Year 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||PM agenda to help cronies: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that Narendra Modi would go to any extent to discredit those who oppose his agenda of “transferring India’s wealth” to a few crony capitalists, arguing that agitating farmers were being defamed as they had stood up to oppose the Prime Minister’s plan to hand over agriculture to corporate entities. Asserting that no power in India can survive the wrath of the “kisan-mazdoor”, the Congress leader said: “Farmers and labourers have understood that the BJP and Modi have only one objective. Modi works to make money for three-four capitalists. Anybody opposing this will be called a terrorist. Anybody standing against Modi is a terrorist now. If Mohan Bhagwat stands against Modi, he too will be called a terrorist. Even as the entire India opposes a decision, Modi will remain with his capitalist friends.” Speaking to the media after meeting President Ram Nath Kovind to submit a memorandum with two crore signatures against the new farm laws, Rahul said: “Modi will construct whatever narrative is required to transfer the wealth of the country to three-four business people. He will do anything to discredit those who oppose this. He will even call them terrorists. You can offer some help to your friends but Modi works for them.” Asked about the Prime Minister’s argument that the farm reforms would bring investments and boost agriculture, the former Congress president said: “Millions of people live off agriculture; it is the backbone of India. You can’t destroy systems in the name of reforms. Millions of farmers, agriculture workers and small traders won’t be able to feed themselves. This will generate massive pain in the country. Nobody will be spared; everybody will have to face the effects of these laws.” Describing Modi as “an incompetent man controlled by some people”, Rahul said: “This is being done when China is at the border. He doesn’t talk about China but is weakening India from within, breaking its systems. Kisan-mazdoor ko maar raha hai (He is killing the farmers and the labourers). I am warning the country — see what is happening. The media should also see. The country is in trouble. The country is drifting on a dangerous path.” Asked about the arrest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other Congress leaders by the police that didn’t allow a march to the President’s house, and whether peaceful protests shouldn’t be allowed in a democracy, Rahul burst out: “Democracy…? Which country are you talking about? There is no democracy in India. It may be in your imagination.” Congress office-bearers, members of Parliament and workers had assembled in large numbers at the party headquarters since morning as a march had been planned to Rashtrapati Bhavan. But the police stopped the march within yards, allowing only Rahul, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Chowdhury to proceed to Rashtrapati Bhavan in a car. As other leaders led by Priyanka sat on the road in protest, they were taken to Mandir Marg police station. Priyanka also launched a stinging attack on the government for defaming the farmers by claiming Khalistani and Naxal links. Asked about the Prime Minister’s charge that farmers had been misled by the Opposition, she said: “It is the Opposition’s duty to give voice to the farmers’ cause. But they know what is good and what is bad for them. Nobody can mislead or instigate them. It is their movement. They wouldn’t have been sitting in this cold with their children and families if it was an Opposition ploy.” Rahul too responded to the charge of misleading and instigation, saying: “Do you say farmers have no understanding? Have they come to the Delhi border to eat sweets? They have realised Modi is stealing their incomes.” The memorandum submitted to the President explained the “catastrophic” consequences of the three new farm laws that have also been opposed by experts and agriculture scientists, and requested him to tell the government to withdraw them. The memorandum also dwelt on the miseries suffered by the protesting farmers, 44 of whom have lost their lives in the biting cold. The truckloads of signatures were later sent to the agriculture ministry. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, has asked all office-bearers to spend at least 20 days in a month in the field, working among the people to rebuild the party organisation in the state. Priyanka gave specific tasks to office-bearers and senior leaders as part of the Sangathan Srijan Abhiyan beginning on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: Section 144 versus Section 288||In an evening light at a border, Amreek Singh from Pilibhit on the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border says he drove his tractor with a hitched trolley for 300km on a song. Amreek Singh is from the Terai. He is 36 years old. Where we are talking is the National Highway 24. In the distance is the garbage dump of Delhi’s refuse. The tractor he drives is a “New Holland”. It has bass speakers fixed on metal pillars. The border here is between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. All in India. There is also, literally, a “No Man’s Land”. The distance between the rolled iron fence of the Uttar Pradesh police and the concrete brick barricade of the Delhi police is 100 metres. It took less than that from my house on Sardar Sankar Road to Lake Market in south Calcutta. On National Highway 24 that connects Calcutta and Lucknow to Delhi, there is a flyover at the border. There are barricades erected on the border. The border is on the flyover. The flyover anachronistically is a border. There is music. Blaring from the speakers that have been attached to the pillars of a tractor. It is loud. And there is banner. In the service-lane of the flyover where the police have erected a barricade, there is a placard reading “yahan section 144 laagu hain”. (Section 144 CrPC is imposed here onwards). Section 144 is a British colonial-era law that prohibits a gathering of five or more people. Next to the banner on Section 144 is a poster that reads “Yahaan, kisanonka Section 288 lagoo hain”. It is a take that mocks the police notification. It says, “if you have 144 that prohibits, we have 288 that gathers”. From the distance to that banner, there is music playing. Actually a rock that beats to a sound of resistance. India’s national capital New Delhi has six main highways that converge and dissipate. That was not so always. Before 1911, the capital used to be Calcutta. The last time Delhi was gheraoed — surrounded — was in 1857. The year that is marked as “Sepoy Mutiny”. In a moment to capture, Amreek Singh said: “It is not that we want to be here. We are here because we know we rule the country. Remember that in the midst of disease and death, people returned home to kheti (farming).” He was seated on a divider that separates a service lane from the toll road. Next to him was a Nihang Sikh from Uttarakhand, Sardar Gurpreet. And there is Nafis Ali. He is not the customary Muslim in this story. He is here and he is real. Today, farmers are on India’s and South Asia’s widest road. The Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). Indian citizens are being stopped from entering India’s capital. And they are being blamed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Kerala journalist case transferred ||The additional district and sessions judge-I of Mathura will now hear the case involving Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan and three others, with a court here holding that the chief judicial magistrate was not competent to hear the matter and order remand of the accused. “The chief judicial magistrate, Mathura, would ensure transfer of all the records, remand papers, etc. to the court of the additional district and sessions judge-I immediately,” stated an order passed by district and sessions judge Yashavant Kumar Mishra earlier this week.  Mishra said further hearing in the case would continue in the court of the additional district and sessions judge-I. Journalist Kappan and three others were arrested by Mathura police on October 5 when they were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of a Dalit woman who had died after her gangrape and assault. Kappan, Atiqur Rahman, Aalam and Masood, with alleged links with the Popular Front of India, were booked under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The case was initially probed by the crime branch of Mathura police but was later transferred to the Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF). The district and sessions judge said that according to the apex court ruling, no other court except the session judge’s court is authorised to hear such cases. The order was delivered on an application by Rakesh Kumar Paliwal, deputy superintendent of police (STF), Gautam Buddha Nagar, seeking transfer of the case to a sessions judge. Defence counsel Madhuban Datt Chaturvedi said they had raised the matter during the remand hearing, but it was rejected by the judge. He asked who would be held responsible for the “illegal confinement” of Atiqur Rahman and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-466
25-12-2020||India||Muzaffarnagar riots: Attempt to let BJP leaders off the hook||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has initiated the process of withdrawing cases related to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots against three BJP lawmakers. Rajiv Sharma, a government counsel, told reporters in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday that he had moved an application in a local court to withdraw the cases against the three leaders — Suresh Rana, Kapil Dev and Sangeet Som, the MLAs of Thanabhawan, Muzaffarnagar and Sardhana, respectively. “The state government had sought my opinion on the withdrawal of the cases and I gave a report that it was possible. Finally, the government asked me to move the application in court to exonerate these leaders,” Sharma said. “Now it is the discretion of the court to decide.” The three leaders had allegedly given inflammatory speeches at a rally in the Nangla Mandaur area of Muzaffarnagar on September 7, 2013, following which massive violence broke out. The rally had been organised in reaction to the killing of Gaurav Singh and his cousin Sachin Singh in Kawal village on August 27 that year. The two youths of adjoining Milakpur village had beaten one Shahnawaz Qureshi on the charge of molesting the sister of one of them. Shahnawaz died of injuries in a hospital the same evening. The communal violence that started during and after the Nangla Mandaur rally eventually claimed 60 lives and displaced 50,000 people in Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Baghpat districts. Karan Singh Yadav, a police sub-inspector, had filed cases against Rana, Dev and Som. The BJP stood by its leaders from the beginning and even honoured them at a programme in Agra on November 21, 2013, soon before an election rally of Narendra Modi. Rana, Dev and Som had been arrested after the riots in 2013 and the National Security Act imposed against them. However, the NSA advisory board revoked the charges after a few months and a court granted them bail. Som was also accused of posting a fake video on his Facebook page purporting to show violence in Muzaffarnagar. But the police found out that the footage was from another place a few years ago. The then Samajwadi Party government had also allegedly tried to withdraw the cases against the three leaders but the move was aborted when the news was leaked to the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
25-12-2020||India||Asaram blanket stunt in UP jail ||More than 75 blankets were distributed in an Uttar Pradesh jail on Tuesday along with pictures of Asaram, a jailed “holy man” serving a life sentence for rape who was once close to Narendra Modi and the BJP. The incident happened in Shahjahanpur, home district of the raped girl and a witness in the case, Kripal Singh, who was murdered. The two alleged blanket donors had earlier been lodged in the same jail, accused of conspiring to kill Kripal, before obtaining bail. District magistrate Indra Vikram Singh has serve a notice on jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar seeking an explanation. Asaram, a self-styled “godman”, had since 2008 got embroiled in controversy over the disappearance and alleged murder of young boys from many of his dozens of ashrams across northern and western India, prompting Modi to distance himself from him. In 2018, he was convicted of raping the minor Shahjahanpur girl at his Jodhpur ashram in 2013. He is lodged in a Jodhpur prison. Tuesday’s event came to light after the jail administration issued a media release, identifying the blanket donors as Arjun and Narayan Pandey, residents of Asaram’s Lucknow ashram who are accused of plotting the July 2015 murder of Kripal in Shahjahanpur. Sources in the Shahjahanpur administration said pictures of Asaram on glossy paper and books and booklets of his sayings were distributed along with the blankets. The said a follower of Asaram addressed the inmates, glorifying the jailed baba. “I have sent a notice to the jail superintendent. Further action will be initiated on the basis of his reply and other facts,” the district magistrate said. The jail superintendent said permission had been taken for the blanket distribution but was silent about Asaram’s pictures being handed out. He alleged that “rumours” were being spread about the programme. “Some religious texts were distributed among the jail inmates with the blankets. Unfortunately, the organisers put up banners about Asaram at the event site,” he said. He did not explain how banners could be put up on jail premises without permission. The Shahjahanpur rape victim’s father, who had been a follower of Asaram before the assault of his daughter, told reporters: “I have sent a complaint to the district magistrate to probe the jail administration’s lapses.” In December 2017, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of Hindu monks, had declared Asaram a “fake baba”. Kripal was the third witness to be murdered in criminal cases against Asaram or his organisation. Akhil Gupta of Muzaffarnagar was killed in January 2015 after telling a local court he had seen two girls entering Asaram’s room in his Surat ashram in 2004. The girls had accused Asaram and his son Narayan Sai of sexual assault. Amrut Prajapati, a witness in the disappearance of two boys from a Gujarat ashram, was shot dead in June 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
25-12-2020||India||India’s largest hockey stadium to come up in Odisha||India’s largest hockey stadium will come up in the steel city of Rourkela in Sundergarh district, about 500km from here. The stadium will host the Men’s Hockey World Cup-2023 along with Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. Announcing this chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said, “Odisha will once again be the proud host of the prestigious Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2023. The tournament will be organised both in Rourkela and Bhubaneswar.” Terming Sundergarh as a powerhouse of hockey talent, Naveen said, “Many great hockey players from the district have represented the nation at the international level. Dilip Tirkey and Suntia Lakra who led the Indian Hockey Team, have brought laurels for the country” As per the government plan, the hockey stadium, spread over 15 acres of land, will have a seating capacity of 20,000. The stadium will come up on the campus of Biju Patnaik University of Technology, Rourkela. At present, the sitting capacity of Kalinga stadium in Bhubaneswar is 16,000. Stating that the contribution of the district to Hockey is unparalleled anywhere in the world, Naveen said, “As a tribute to the contribution of Sundergarh to Indian Hockey, I would like to announce that we will build a new international level hockey stadium in Rourkela with a seating capacity of 20,000.” It will have all the modern amenities and will offer a unique experience. “I hope it will emerge as the best venue for Field Hockey in the world,” Naveen said. Reacting to Naveen’s announcement, Former Hockey India Team Captain Dilip Tirkey tweeted,” What could be better news than this! Hon’ble Chief Minister announced a new world-class hockey stadium in my home city Rourkela, set to host FIH Men's Hockey World Cup 2023 along with previous host.” Odisha had hosted the Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018 and all the matches were played at Kalinga Stadium. “It’s a rare opportunity for any country to host the world cup, but Odisha as a state is going to host it for the second time in a row,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-467
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Half-truths and distorted facts in PM’s speech, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra modi, alleging that he was trying to mislead people by telling half-truths and distorted facts over the non-implementation of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in the state. She said that the Prime Minister was feigning his concerns over the farmers’ issue, and was doing nothing proactive to resolve them. “While he (PM Modi) publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB (West Bengal) through his PM Kisan Yojana and alleges non-cooperation of the state government, the fact is that he is trying to mislead the people with half-truth and distorted facts,” Mamata said in a statement. Earlier in the day, Modi had alleged that the Bengal government had destroyed the state and was doing politics by stopping over 70 lakh farmers of the state from getting benefits of the Centre's flagship PM-KISAN scheme under which Rs 6,000 is being provided every year. Mamata countered that her government was always ready to cooperate with farmers. Maintaining that she has written two letters to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and has even spoken to him two days ago, the chief minister said "they are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains". Maintaining that she has written two letters to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and has even spoken to him two days ago, the chief minister said, “They are refusing to cooperate and are instead indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains”. She said that when the state is implementing so many schemes with the central government, the question of not cooperating on a scheme that is benefiting farmers seems absurd. “Today I regret that more than 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal have not been able to get benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. More than 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme. But the state government has stopped the verification process for so long,” Modi had said in his address on Friday. Quashing his accusations, Mamata said the BJP-led Union government is used to indulging in politicking even at the cost of violating the established practices and norms regarding the implementation of central schemes by state governments. She also reminded the Centre of the GST dues, saying it is “yet to release even a portion of the Rs 85,000 crores of outstanding dues that includes unpaid GST dues of Rs 8,000 crores”. He asked the prime minister to release the amount or a part of it if he truly cares about Bengal. Stating that lakhs of farmers are protesting on the roads demanding the withdrawal of the new farm laws, the TMC supremo claimed that these enactments are anti-farmer as these “threaten to dilute the MSP, the state procurement system, and take away the basic protective mechanisms of the farmers, hence leaving them at the mercy of big private players”. Mamata claimed that in the interest of the people of Bengal, her government will do everything that is needed on its part. “Even if it means supporting schemes of central government that are purely meant to further their political agenda, are at odds with the spirit of federalism, and are definitely not guided by their desire to help the people at large; so long it ensures even incremental benefit for the people of Bengal,” she said in her statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
25-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC worker found dead in Cooch Behar with injury marks||A Trinamul worker from Rampur-Jaldhowa village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district was found dead at field with injury marks on Thursday morning. Trinamul leaders claimed they have found a flag of BJP and a dagger near the body of Khalek Mian, 70, and alleged that goons backed by the BJP killed him. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh who met the party worker’s family also said: “We suspect the BJP is behind the murder.” BJP leaders denied the charges as fabricated. Khalek went missing on Wednesday evening, said his daghter-in-law Hanufa Bibi. “He went to the market but did not come back.” Baxirhat police recovered his body on Thursday and gave it for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||BDO works after hours to hand health insurance cards||A block development officer went beyond the call of duty to visit a primary health centre late on Wednesday to hand over Swasthya Sathi (free health insurance offered by the state government) cards to patients being treated at the centre. Among those who received the cards include four pregnant women from remote villages nestling in the hilly tracts of Buxa. Prasanta Burman, the block development officer of Kalchini, reached the Latabari health centre of his block around 9pm on Wednesday along with some employees of his office. Burman’s arrival to the centre so late on a chilly night left the doctors and the medical staff surprised. Burman then told them that he was there to find out whether the patients being treated at the centre had the Swasthya Sathi card. “I deemed it necessary to personally find out whether all the patients who are there at the health centre have the card. There is a clear instruction from the administration to reach out to as many people as possible so that they can avail benefits of the card. That is why I went to the centre,” Burman explained to this newspaper on Thursday. Accompanied by the doctors and nurses, he spoke to each patient. Eventually, he found out that 10 patients did not have the health insurance card and had not applied for it as well. “We then distributed them the forms to get the card and helped them fill up the details. Then we distributed the cards among them. It took about an hour but I think it was effective as we could help these people get enrolled under the scheme,” the BDO added. Around 10pm, Burman left the health centre with the staff. This month, the Mamata Banerjee government launched the “Duare Sarkar” campaign to reach welfare schemes to all, even those who have so far not applied for them. Duare Sarkar camps are being opened in rural and urban areas to help people get them registered under welfare schemes provided by the government. Under this outreach project, Swasthya Sathi has turned out to be the top draw with the highest number of applicants. Burman’s initiative to reach the health centre around 9pm can be an extension of this initiative. Patients, doctors and paramedics of the centre appreciated his initiative, more so because it was beyond working hours. “It was nice to see that a BDO at work beyond official hours. He came to the centre and handed over the cards to us. Earlier, he had gone to Buxa hills by foot, visited some villages and enquired about the problems we face,” said Nilmaya Chhetri, one of the pregnant ladies from Buxa who received the card from Burman. The BDO downplayed the plaudits. “As a government official, one should not bother about working hours. I just did my job,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||4 ill during Raiganj University protest||Four guest faculties of Raiganj University who were into an indefinite sit-in demonstration on the varsity premises fell ill on Thursday and were admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. Their colleagues, however, are still continuing the “dharna,” demanding their inclusion under the category of SACT (state-aided college teachers). Sources said recently, the state education department had announced that part-time and contractual faculties of colleges and universities will be under the SACT category. The decision was welcomed by around 13,500 such teachers as it would mean a higher pay and some additional benefits like gratuity. “However, the guest lecturers were not included under SACT that is why we have launched the demonstration on December 21. We want our inclusion. Unless our demand is met, we will continue the agitation,” said Debopriya Ghosh, a guest lecturer of economics at the Raiganj University. According to Ghosh, 22 guest lecturers have been working at Raiganj College since 2009. In 2015, as the college was upgraded to a university. “There is no reason as to why we should not be provided with equal benefits. Because of cold weather, four of our colleagues have fallen ill and are under treatment. We hope the state higher education department and the varsity authorities will look into our demand.” University authorities said they have contacted the higher education department about the demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Explosives, cough syrup seized from plantations in Malda||Around 250 crude bombs and materials used in making such explosives were seized from two plantations — mango and (an adjoining) bamboo — at Kaliachak in Malda on Wednesday night. Police said also on Tuesday they seized 2,500-odd bottles of cough syrup — often consumed by drug abusers — from another mango plantation in the same area. They suspect that a section of smugglers and miscreants are using the mango plantations as their “stockyard” during winter as these plantations remain deserted during winter months. Horticultural activities at the plantations commence in the spring season, said sources. “Today (Wednesday) we found some suspected explosives, balls and other items used in making bombs. It seems that some people had made the explosives and stored them at the plantations,” said a police officer. “As the plantations are near the India-Bangladesh border, we suspect that the illegal consignment (2,500 bottles of cough syrup) was stored there to be smuggled to the neighbouring country,” the officer added. During the raid on Tuesday, the police arrested Harun Sheikh, a suspected member of a smuggling racket and also seized two stolen two-wheelers from the spot. “We are in search of three suspected smugglers, one from Habibpur and two from Kaliachak,” said a police officer. Alok Rajoria, Malda police chief, said were on alert. “We request those living at the vicinity of these orchards to report if they notice any unusual activities at these orchards,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Narendra Modi links Tagore ideal to atmanirbhar Bharat ||Prime Minister and Chancellor of Visva-Bharati Narendra Modi made a virtual address to mark the start of the varsity’s centenary celebrations on Thursday where he lauded Rabindranath Tagore’s “inclusiveness” and “self-reliance”. “Gurudev was carrying on the ideology of inclusiveness, omniscient co-existence and cooperation for the betterment of human beings. This vision of Gurudev for Visva-Bharati is also the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India),” Modi said from Delhi via videoconference to address a gathering of university officials, teachers and alumni. Tagore officially founded Visva-Bharati in December 1921. Apart from praising Tagore’s ideology, Modi did not forget to share links of Tagore and his elder brother Satyendranath with Gujarat. However, Modi’s mention of self-reliance has given rise to questions on the lack of central help by way of grants for the varsity during his tenure. Old-timers, especially, pointedly asked whether the advice to be self-reliance was to justify the Centre’s “neglect” by way of slashing grants. In contrast, senior varsity professors recalled how the varsity used to get financial support during the time of earlier prime ministers such as Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and others. These prime ministers used to visit the campus regularly and helped the institute with special grants during their visits, recalled old-timers. “In 1996, during the varsity’s 75th year, the then Prime Minister’s office donated a package of Rs 100 crore. In recent memory, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had announced a special grant of Rs 95 crore from the dais of convocation in 2008. It is interesting that we did not hear any such announcement (of a grant) from our present Chancellor today apart from the advice to being self-reliant,” said a varsity professor. As Chancellor, Modi has attended the varsity’s convocation once since he came to power 2014. Modi came to the varsity town in May 2018 to inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavana along with his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Apart from the construction of the building, the Bangladesh government had provided Rs 10 crore as a corpus fund to run the institution. Varsity officials said they had requested Centre for a corpus fund but it is yet to come. Several varsity officials said allotment for Visva-Bharati had been unprecedentedly slashed during Modi’s tenure. Varsity officials said the Centre had asked the institute to be “self-dependent” and the fund crunch was such that authorities had requested employees to contribute for repairing the Upasana Griha (prayer hall), which was set up by Tagore’s father Debendranath in 1890. The varsity had to issue a notice alerting employees for a probable delay in payment of salary due to “paucity of funds” in February. However, laer the Centre allotted a special grant of Rs 20 crore to release employees’ salaries on time. On Thursday, a new market Bharat-Tirtha was inaugurated at Ratan Pally for small traders. To raise funds, the varsity has decided to raise monthly rent from the hawkers in lieu of allowing them to set up stalls. Officials said the varsity intends to earn around Rs 3.5 lakh annually from renting the stalls. Even the VC also admitted in writing that the fund from the Centre was being slashed regularly and asked the employees to donate their salaries in one of his missives issued in June this year. “All this has ensured that the university is left with a single source of income: the MHRD. It is a known fact that the government support is routinely slashed and so the university is increasingly burdened with the responsibility of raising funds for its own upkeep,” the missive by the VC had stated. In February, too, the VC claimed the university was in an acute financial crisis and running on ‘life-support’. Modi went on to highlight Tagore’s Gujarat connect. “Tagore’s elder brother Satyendranath Tagore was posted as an ICS officer in Ahmedabad and Rabindranath Tagore used to visit Gujarat frequently and spent a long time there. While residing in Ahmedabad he wrote two poems and a part of the famous Kshudito Pashan,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid: active cases decline in Bengal for 59th day||Bengal on Thursday logged 2,054 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,590 new infections and 32 deaths, including nine from Calcutta, as the recovery rate rose for the 63rd consecutive day to 95.45 per cent. With 15,193 Covid-19 active cases now, the state reported its 59th successive day of decline in the total after Dashami. “We are, almost certainly, going to end the year with less than 14,000 active cases. The turnaround since Puja has surpassed even the most optimistic estimates,” said a minister. In the 59 days since Dashami on October 26, the state recorded over 2.08 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.89 lakh infections found. Bengal has over 5.43 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.18 lakh recoveries and 9,505 deaths. The recovery rate rose over eight per cent from the 87.44 per cent of October 22. The national rate now is 95.74 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.92 per cent now, improving steadily from 8.27 of November 20. “The fall in positive confirmation rate is clearly indicative of a reduced spread in the outbreak,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Congress gives 'formal approval' for pact with Left||The Congress central leadership on Thursday gave “formal approval” for an alliance with the Left in Bengal for the Assembly polls, the party’s state unit chief and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Chowdhury, in Delhi, took to Twitter to announce the party’s decision. “Today the Congress High command has formally approved the electoral alliance with the Left parties in the impending election of West Bengal,” he tweeted. The development has been on the cards as leaders of the Bengal Congress unit had held multiple meetings with Left Front representatives in the past few months to clear the decks for an alliance. Chowdhury told the media in Delhi that negotiations for seats would now start. “The people of the state are completely fed up with the ceaseless slanging match between Trinamul and the BJP. The state is yearning for freedom from this ugly political warfare...and the Congress-Left would emerge as the obvious alternative,” he said. Dismissing the BJP’s claim that they would come to power with 200-plus seats, he said: “The BJP has this false perception that they can replicate the performance of the parliamentary election. This is not going to happen.” Some state Congress leaders said while they welcomed the announcement from New Delhi, they were upset that it came a bit late in the day. “It is December-end...The state goes to polls by April. We should have done it before,” a Congress legislator said. A source said Chowdhury spoke about the alleged delay to Rahul Gandhi on Thursday morning while they were on their way to meet President Ram Nath Kovind. “Adhirda said the ground is prepared, but it is important that the high command officially announces the alliance at the earliest,” this person added. Later Chowdhury received a call from the Congress leadership to make an immediate announcement. The central committee of the CPM — the largest partner of the Left Front in Bengal — had approved the alliance in October. CPM legislator Sujan Chakraborty acknowledged the Congress’s official announcement should’ve come earlier but added that with the formal nod from AICC, the alliance will be stronger. The Left and Congress had fought the polls together in the 2016 Assembly polls but managed to win only 76 out of 294 seats. Back then, leaders from both parties alleged a lack of clarity over the alliance and that it didn’t trickle down to grassroots workers. “We don’t want any confusion this time. Everyone in the party, from top to bottom, will fight hand in hand with the Left this time,” a state Congress general secretary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP's new-convert Suvendu Adhikari Contai road show ||BJP neo-convert Suvendu Adhikari’s popularity on home turf was on display on Thursday with supporters taking over the 5km stretch of Contai’s Mechheda bypass. While nearly 20,000 showed up for the Trinamul rally on Wednesday, sources said a far greater number — some said a lakh — marched in Adhikari’s road show on Thursday that ended with a meeting at the Contai bus stand where he announced a rally on January 8 in Nandigram to counter Mamata’s meeting the day before. On an open jeep, Adhikari was accompanied by BJP MP Saumitra Khan and state party vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Speaking to reporters, Adhikari dismissed Trinamul’s election prospects in 2021. While Adhikari did not specifically cite where the allegiances of his father Sisir and brothers Soumendu and Dibyendu lay at the moment — the whole clan has been associated with Trinamul — he said: “The Adhikaris would stand first over here (read Contai), and the rest second.” “Thursday’s huge turnout proved that Suvenduda has passed the people’s test with flying colours,” said a BJP supporter. Speaking at the meeting, Adhikari allied himself to his new party’s ideological line, saying: “Bengal may be my home but India is my land... The common man is with us. They have given the TMC a befitting reply.” The former transport minister claimed that the blessings that people showered on him on Thursday showed that he did the right thing by joining the BJP. Adhikari specifically chose to hit out at Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy — who publicly denounced him on Wednesday —  and questioned their political ethics. “They are trying to ensure that I languish in my home district, but that will not be the case. They cannot rein me in,” Adhikari said. He added that while he had never needed any help to win elections, he reminded Roy that he, Adhikari, had to campaign for the Trinamul leader for the Bongaon North bypoll. Without naming Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, he said the Trinamul MP’s effort to stifle him by using state force would prove futile. Before ending his speech with cries of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki Jai”, Adhikari said he would only rest after ensuring the BJP’s victory in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata fury at ‘land encroach insult’ to Amartya Sen||A furious Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lambasted the BJP for their alleged disrespect to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, adding the economist to the list of Bengal icons that she accused the saffron ecosystem of insulting, and sought his forgiveness on their behalf. In a news meet at state secretariat in the evening, the chief minister was asked if Sen had illegally occupied land in Santiniketan. The question was in the context of a purported list prepared by Visva-Bharati — a central varsity, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chancellor — of alleged illegal occupants of its land, including Sen. “I respect Amartyada immensely. The whole world does. Every home in Bengal is proud of him. He is a Nobel laureate...Rabindranath Tagore, Amartya Sen, Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, Mother Teresa…. Do you really believe that there would come a day when Amartya Sen would have to encroach in Santiniketan?” asked a visibly outraged Mamata. Visva-Bharati sources said they have listed around 78 plots either illegally occupied or wrongly registered in land records, and sent the list to the state government. According to a senior varsity official, Sen’s house, Pratichi, is on a property leased out to his deceased father, of around 125 decimals of land, but Sen’s family allegedly occupies around 138 decimals. “As far as I know, their family has been there for eight decades or so. Those saying these things, where are they from? How much do they know Bengal? They have no right at all to insult the likes of Amartya Sen,” said the chief minister, who has been at loggerheads with the varsity since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, allegedly favourably disposed towards the saffron ecosystem, took charge. “All because of what? Because Amartya Sen, personally, is a little against the BJP, ideologically…. That is why, (there are) all sorts of things (being said) against him,” she added. Sen has been publicly critical of the Modi government at the Centre and some of the core philosophies of the RSS. “This will not be tolerated by the people of Bengal. This is not only his insult; this is an insult of all of us. With folded hands… please forgive them Amartyada, they do not know how to show respect to even someone like you, I am sorry,” Mamata said. She went on to ask Bengal’s chief-secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, deemed an expert on Bengal and its culture for his erudition, to explain the association between Sen’s family and Tagore. Mamata also reacted to the recent controversy wherein an outfit of the varsity’s teachers claimed that vice-chancellor Chakrabarty in a faculty meeting on December 9 said that Sen had called him up identifying himself as “Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen” and requested Chakrabarty not to evict hawkers from the varsity land near his home as it would inconvenience his daughter who buys vegetables from there. Sen had denied the alleged conversation. “He has illegally occupied (land), he has allowed hawkers to illegally occupy (land)…. They will say anything they like against his home, Pratichi…. Those who insulted (him) will have to seek forgiveness. If they don’t, I will appeal to the entire civil society of Bengal, stand by Amartyada. Even at this age, he was not spared this insult. Everybody rise in protest,” added Mamata, promising to demand answers on the alleged insults to Sen, Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and other icons of Bengal, from her Bolpur rally next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata denies being invited by Visva-Bharati event||Mamata Banerjee squarely denied being invited by Visva-Bharati to Thursday’s event where Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the chancellor made a virtual address to mark the varsity’s centenary celebrations. The chief minister attributed it to the BJP’s “hatred” for her to counter the saffron ecosystem’s claim that she insulted Rabindranath Tagore by giving the event a miss. In a news meet on Thursday, Mamata was asked if she was invited and yet she chose not to attend it, which the BJP accused her of. “When did they call? Whatever the BJP says, I have to pay heed to? I have an office. I do not know anything. Yesterday (Wednesday), he (vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty) sent an intimation, that when I go for a couple of days to Bolpur-Santiniketan next week, if I give him some time to meet. To that, I apologised and said I am unable to give him time...because there are many programmes lined up already,” she said. “This programme today (Thursday), they never invited me. No invite, no phone, none,” she added, hours after the BJP and its various affiliates circulated a purported letter of invite by Chakrabarty to her dated December 4. “They don’t like me. Instead, they hate me,” she said. The Trinamul chief has been at loggerheads with the current dispensation at the central varsity since Chakrabarty — allegedly with pro-saffron leanings — took charge. “When they need my presence, they invite me. Like when Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikha Hasina Madam came, they invited me. This time, it was only the BJP’s event...it was a political event, clearly,” she said. Mamata asserted that she tweeted her statement to mark the occasion in the morning. She wrote: “Visva-Bharati University turns 100. This temple of learning was Rabindranath Tagore’s greatest experiment on creating the ideal human being...” She said her congratulations were for those who “actually contributed” to the varsity and Tagore’s vision. “Today, one or two have suddenly come, brimming with religious fundamentalism. They cannot ruin Visva-Bharati in a day. Those who contributed over a century, them we respect…. Those here now, they are temporary. Their days are numbered,” she said. She flayed the BJP over its alleged attempts to undermine Bengal and its icons. “The semi-human language they use…. They think they got hold of a Mamata Banerjee… a simple, straightforward, girl next door. She is abused everyday. She doesn’t protest...But from attacking me they have started attacking Bengal’s icons. Vidyasagar, Tagore… what do they want, to make people forget history, geography of Bengal?” she asked. “Without Bengal, the world cannot run.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-261
25-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata announces Tajpur port plan with query for Centre||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that the state government would float an expression of interest (EoI) seeking applications from global agencies to set up a deep-sea port in East Midnapore’s Tajpur, which, according to her, would boost the economy of the region and generate about 25,000 jobs. “The state government would float an EoI on Monday seeking applications from agencies across the globe to set up the deep-sea port in Tajpur. This will be the state’s own project and a sum of Rs 4,200 crore would be invested to develop the deep-sea port,” said the chief minister at Nabanna. However, a key question stayed unanswered. Though Mamata announced the government’s decision of going it alone in developing the port, senior government officials did not make it clear whether the state has come out of the MoU signed between the Centre and the state, where the Centre holds 74 per cent stake, to develop the port. A senior official said the state government repeatedly expressed displeasure over the pace the Centre was carrying out pre-feasibility study before floating the tenders to develop the port. “But I am not aware if the state has officially communicated to the Centre of its decision to set up the port on its own,” the official said. Mamata said that a total of Rs 15,000 crore would be invested in the entire project altogether once the deep-sea port comes up. “A total of Rs 15,000 crore would be invested in the entire project which would generate 25,000 jobs. No land acquisition would be needed for the project,” she said. The chief minister said that if the project comes up, it would change the economic landscape of the entire region. “The state’s contribution to export of iron and steel would increase from existing 13 per cent. The deep-sea port would increase investment in the steel manufacturing sector in West Midnapore-East Midnapore districts. Moreover, export of seafood from East Midnapore to Japan and Southeast Asia would also increase,” she said. Singur plan Mamata also said her government would set up an industrial park in Singur over an 11-acre plot where agro-related industry units could come up. “The West Bengal Small Industrial Development Corporation has the plot located near the railway station and trauma care centre. Investors would get plots ideal for agro-related industries,” she said. Mamata said 38 acres would be allotted for a unit that manufactures films needed for food packaging at the Panagarh industrial park. She said land was available with Hidco for IT units at the Silicon Valley in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-262
25-12-2020||North East||Bodoland council chief wins floor test||Newly appointed Bodoland Territorial Council chief Pramod Boro on Thursday won the floor test as directed by Gauhati High Court by show of hands, an outcome his immediate predecessor Bodoland People’s Front chief Hagrama Mohilary has decided to challenge legally. Boro had the support of 22 members in the 40-member BTC belonging to the three-party post-poll alliance of the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Gana Suraksha Party (GSP). Gauhati High Court had on Tuesday ordered a “composite floor test” on or before December 26 after Mohilary and others had on December 18 challenged his appointment on the ground that the governor had not invited the leader of the single-largest party to form the council. In the recently concluded polls to the 40-member BTC, UPPL had won 12 seats, BJP nine, GSP one and Congress one. The BPF emerged as the single-largest party with 17 seats. Since the results were out on December 12, a BPF member and the lone Congress member have supported the alliance. However, the BPF has not accepted the floor test result as it claimed that the pro-tem Speaker Katiram Boro did not conduct it as per rules. The main grouse of the BPF members was that the pro-tem Speaker had declined their request to hold the floor test through ballots. Boro, who is from UPPL, went for show of hands. BPF members chanted slogans and displayed placards with “death of democracy” written on them while Boro was taking oath. The House was adjourned for 10 minutes. Asserting that he will move court over the outcome, Mohilary, who had been BTC chief since its formation in 2003, said the floor test was not carried out by the pro-tem Speaker in accordance with the direction of the high court. “We wanted secret ballot but our demand was not accepted. We will challenge it legally,” he said. The earlier high court case will come up for hearing on January 11. After winning the trust vote, Boro said,  “The alliance will work for the peace and development of the Bodoland Territorial Region, work for development of all 40 constituencies. I also appeal to the BPL to extend its support to the BTC.” The importance of being part of the BTC was underlined by North East Democratic Alliance convener and Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at the ruling BJP’s state executive meeting in Karimganj. He said the party’s win in BTC has ensured the BJP’s win in 2021. He thanked the party workers for the feat because the party had failed to win a single seat in the BTC in 2016. BTC has 12 seats. The executive meeting focused on issues related to the 2021 polls and came ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Assam on December 26. Besides attending several official functions, Shah will take stock of the state unit’s preparations for the Assembly elections. Sarma also flayed the Congress and the AIUDF whose alliance, he said, could pose a threat to Assam’s identity. The Congress, too, is getting into the poll mode with the four newly appointed AICC secretaries (assisting in-charge general secretary Jitendra Singh) holding a meeting with senior PCC leaders, sitting MLAs and MPs on the party’s strategy. Media department chairman Bobbeeta Sharma said the four secretaries — Vikash Upadhyay, Aditya Sharma, Prithviraj Prabhakar Sathe and Anirudh Singh — will be touring the state to prepare the party for the polls from the booth level. They will look after zones assigned to them. Party insiders welcomed the development but said the think-tank has to come up with a “positive, inspiring and a practical” narrative besides getting senior leaders to work as a team and speak in one voice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
25-12-2020||North East||NSCN(K) faction  announces ceasefire||The NSCN(K) faction led by Niki Sumi has decided to revive the ceasefire with the Centre  to “strengthen and support the peace process at this crucial juncture”. “Our leaders have established contact with the officials of government of India in this connection. To facilitate the process and keeping in view the desire of the Naga people particularly Naga civil society organisations and NGOs, the NSCN has further decided to revive the ceasefire with immediate effect by revoking the earlier decision of unilateral abrogation of the ceasefire in 2015,” a statement issued by Sumi on Wednesday said. The NSCN-K, led by the then chairman S.S. Khaplang,  had joined the ceasefire in 2001 but walked out of it in 2015 after an ambush on Indian security forces that left 18 soldiers dead in Manipur’s Chandel district.  Sumi is the main accused in the ambush case. Sumi’s move is expected to give a huge boost to the ongoing peace efforts involving the NSCN (IM) and the seven-group Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). Sumi was chosen the president of the faction led by him on December 18 and he is expecting the Centre to respond positively to his decision to revive the ceasefire. After the death of SS khaplang in 2017 in Myanmar , the chairmanship passed on to  Khango Konyak who has since joined the NNPG. Konyak was replaced by Myanmar-based Yung Aung, a close  relative of Khaplang,   who expelled his deputy C-in-C Sumi in July. Reports suggest Sumi is camping along the Indo-Myanmar border in Phek district. The peace process has presently got stuck because both the Centre and the NSCN (IM) have not been able to resolve the latter’s demand for a separate flag and constitution. The announcement by Sumi, who hails from Nagaland's Zunheboto district, follows the December 18 notification by the Nagaland home department declared all factions of the NSCN (K) as an “unlawful  association” because its activities were “detrimental to sovereignty and integrity of India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
25-12-2020||Opinion||Party pooper: Oli and Nepal's many challenges||Is the person bigger than the party? That seems to be the case in Nepal where the prime minister, K.P. Sharma Oli, has dissolved the House of Representatives and called for fresh elections in a few months’ time. Mr Oli’s principal rival, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, has responded predictably: Mr Oli has been removed by the central committee of the ruling Nepal Communist Party from the post of party chairman. The feud is expected to get uglier, and Mr Oli can claim credit for this marked deterioration. The genesis of this crisis can be traced back to the simmering tensions between the comrades. The Nepal Communist Party was born when Mr Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) decided to bury the hatchet with the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre) led by Mr Dahal.  But this unity was far from robust. Mr Oli had been a staunch critic of Mr Dahal’s role in the civil war. He also reneged on the pledge to share power with his rival after a stipulated period of time. The prime minister’s critics allege that he has used the time in office to consolidate his hold on the levers of power, hoping that his anti-India rhetoric would help him retain his grip both on the people and institutions. But Mr Oli’s confidence — an acquiescent president notwithstanding — may be misplaced. The public mood in Nepal is grim. With the pandemic accentuating an economic crisis, political instability is hardly what Kathmandu needs at this hour. The prime minister’s dissolution of the House of Representatives has also been challenged in court. It remains to be seen whether it passes judicial scrutiny. With his ‘constitutional coup’ Mr Oli has also cornered himself within the ranks of the party. New Delhi would be following the developments in its Himalayan neighbour quite closely. An unstable Nepal is not in either country’s interests. Whatever the outcome of this fracas in Nepal, the coldness that has crept into Kathmandu’s ties with New Delhi needs to be addressed urgently. The bitterness may have something to do with China’s growing imprint in Nepal. New Delhi must rely on its long and special relationship — the fruits of which are open borders and unhindered movement for people — to smoothen the emerging creases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
25-12-2020||Opinion||Spot the winner: in J&K, the alliance has spoken||The Union minister of law and justice has described the results of the District Development Council elections in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a ‘historic’ triumph for the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP, at first glance, seems to have performed well. It has emerged as the single largest party winning over 70 seats, sweeping southern Jammu and even pocketing three seats in the Valley. But the minister, as is the wont of this dispensation, has spotted the wrong winner. For it is the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration — its constituents include the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and others — that has emerged as the real winner. The PAGD, which is seeking to restore Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood that the BJP took away, is in a position to dominate not only the district boards in Kashmir but — this is significant —  quite a few in Jammu if the Congress decides to lend a helping hand. The alliance has made a mark in north Jammu, and a closer look would reveal that some of its smaller members — the CPI(M) and the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference are examples — have had the best strike rates among the contestants. Contrastingly, the BJP, which has ceded some strongholds in Jammu and polled a little over three per cent of votes in Kashmir, clocked a strike rate of 32.6 per cent although it fought the highest number of seats. The election results have not been disputed, but this should not deflect attention from the formidable hurdles that the PAGD had to confront. There was the all-too-familiar vilification: the Union home minister described the alliance as a ‘gang’, insinuating its sympathy for separatists; PAGD candidates were also prevented from campaigning freely on specious grounds. The people have now replied unambiguously against this orchestrated intimidation. Local elections are usually benign affairs. But what made the DDC elections singular was that this was the first election that took place since the controversial abrogation of Article 370. There is thus reason to view the outcome as an expression of the people’s opinions on the Centre’s interventions. The message should be chastening for the BJP. However, another concern seems to have escaped public scrutiny. With the creation of an additional layer of governance — the DDCs are not statutory bodies since their genesis lies in an executive fiat — what would be the prospect of the state assembly, if there is one, in the future? Parallel institutions need not be a sign of the triumph of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
25-12-2020||Opinion||Similar flaws: democracy's response in Bihar and the US||The Covid-19 pandemic could be seen as an experiment to test democracy’s responsiveness towards, and its ability to overcome, widespread sufferings through reasoned public opinion and elections. Elections have taken place amidst the pandemic, be it in the United States of America or in Bihar. Do these elections in the midst of the pandemic sufficiently reflect people’s anger, political discontent and, therefore, the sensitivity of democracy? Comparisons of electoral outcomes between the US and Bihar might appear to be disproportionate in terms of State capacity to address the crisis. Nonetheless, the results, be they in the US or those in Bihar, raise more questions than answers about democracy’s sensibility in the hour of crisis. Institutions devoted to the safeguarding of democracy by upholding the rights of the people and fostering the scientific temperament lie weakened, their autonomy diluted. Partisan divisions in the federal structure are now explicit. An independent and progressive judiciary is allegedly not the norm today but an exception. Institutional integrity and a responsible media are rare. The results — the dissemination of conspiracy theories and unscientific claims and the glorification of hatred — have been along expected lines. Electoral issues in the US vary from those in Bihar. The debate on healthcare dominated the US polls, while caste and communal politics determined the Bihar elections. Nonetheless, the pandemic led to some shared experiences. The US recorded massive infections and job losses and thousands of deaths. Bihar, one of India’s poorest states that sends 7.5 million migrant workers to other states, was witness to unprecedented sufferings of migrants who were forced to undertake perilous journeys on highways and along railway tracks without any aid in terms of food, transportation or medicine. Therefore, many of the experiences of voters in Bihar and in the US — deaths, job losses — were common. The turnout in the US rose to 66.8 per cent from 60.1 per cent in 2016. Bihar’s turnout increased to 57.1 per cent from 56.7 per cent in 2015. Can it be argued that the figures suggest the robust health of democracy in the two nations? If this were the case, the turnouts would have been far higher since electoral participation is easier than what it was earlier. Strikingly, the results did not indicate that the voters had overwhelmingly rejected the incumbent governments in spite of their mismanagement of the pandemic. About 37.1 per cent of the 42 million popular voters in Bihar trusted the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance. In the US, the Democrats won the presidency with 51.1 per cent of the popular vote but the outgoing Republican president also received 47.2 per cent of the vote. If only two per cent of the popular vote had swung in favour of Republicans, Donald Trump would have been re-elected even though his governance in the time of a pandemic was a spectacular failure. It is evident that both in the US and Bihar, democracy has not responded in the manner one would expect it to. The electoral verdict went in favour of the incumbent government in Bihar, while in the US, the serving president lost narrowly despite the fact that both administrations have grossly mismanaged the Covid-19 pandemic. This goes to show that the problem does not lie with the form of democracy; it lies in the content with which democracies are functioning today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
25-12-2020||Opinion||Arts of giving||They came bearing gifts. Christmas: time for the Magi, wise men from the East, to come with gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. Or just one magus, coming to the east from elsewhere. Gold is for earthly kingship, an aspiration embodied in the promise of a Golden Bengal; frankincense evokes deity, pertinently; myrrh is used for embalming, thus representing death — all around us, from infectious sickness, or unscrupulous violence. Violence was one of the themes of the Union home minister’s perorations on his pre-Christmas visit to West Bengal. The state is ill-famed for its poll-related violence and the home minister said that 300 Bharatiya Janata Party workers had been killed here. Even the national president of the BJP was attacked on his Bengal tour, which the home minister condemned, since “[the] BJP believes that in a democracy everyone should have the right to voice their views”. He was serious. So was the prime minister when he beautifully described Aligarh Muslim University on its centenary as a “mini India” and declared that its diversity was the country’s strength. That diversity, however, is more a pretty show than a characteristic of national life. All must sink religious and ideological differences for the single aim of achieving national goals. It is the prime minister and his party who define these goals for Atmanirbhar Bharat, or Naya Bharat, not the diversity of people. But the prime minister reassured his listeners that there was no discrimination in the march to progress; no one would be left behind because of religious or other differences. It was almost as if police attacks on student protesters within the AMU campus did not happen. These students, and numerous others elsewhere, were protesting against the citizenship laws that many believe to be targeted against the minority community, part of the “diversity” the prime minister celebrated. Jails are quite crowded with such protesters as with other activists, teachers and writers known to champion the rights of the underprivileged, accused of being associated with the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence between Dalits and right-wing upper-caste groups. If Dalits are beaten up — Una is just one example — or members of the minority community killed in the name of cow protection or punished for love jihad, it is all for the sake of the national march to progress. The BJP’s idea of democracy is special. The prime minister must be seen washing a manual scavenger’s feet while the Union home minister eats in the homes of Dalits and marginalized people — no less than a Baul in Birbhum would do — on election campaigns. Pageantry is an excellent screen for disrespect. And voicing views is fine as long as they fit. Otherwise you can be ‘detained’ — and there if you lose your glasses you must await the State’s pleasure for another pair, if you are over 80 with Parkinson’s, you may or may not get a sipper to drink water, or if you are acutely sick you might, after many efforts by your family, be at best incarcerated in a hospital room. The Union home minister seemed to be bringing the gift of that special democracy to West Bengal, a state — he was sure — which wished to be free of the Trinamul Congress’s corruption. The BJP is munificent enough to help its Opposition here, because the Union home minister welcomed into his party a number of TMC leaders, one of whom, together with two others who had joined the BJP earlier, figured in a video clip of a sting operation that showed them accepting money before the 2016 assembly elections. The BJP’s site had uploaded this as proof of the West Bengal government’s corruption. This being the season of peace and goodwill, that clip has been taken down. The BJP must be a purifying agent, and the clip — no doubt like other items in other situations — was simply an invitation to be cleansed. The carrot-and-stick combine hides a message of welcome: post-election triumphs in state after state are testimony to that. Carrots are good for health. Fittingly, the Christmas pageant — a form of masked theatre in many cultures — was a pageant of love for Bengal. The Union home minister plunged into visits and eulogies to Bengal greats as though Vidyasagar’s statue had not been decapitated at an earlier roadshow he led, or the BJP’s casualness towards Birsa Munda had not been exposed. Bent on being an ‘insider’, the home minister held forth on personalities that Bengal treasures, dropping names from Vidyasagar and Netaji to, of course, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, for unless the residents of the state knew he was the boy next door, his meticulously done homework would go to waste. Such ardent love can seem weird to cynics; great-man pilgrimages and election campaigns make a distinctly odd couple. But the residents of Bengal were obviously waiting to learn from a Union minister that Swami Vivekananda was one of the most dynamic spiritual leaders of the country who familiarized the world with the philosophy of India. And that — the point of the homework — Vivekananda gave the call to worship the nation as ‘Bharatmata’ in his Chicago address. Like the roadshow in Bolpur that dazzled the home minister with his own popularity, the visit to Santiniketan was the crowning glory of the pageant. Earlier the BJP had a happy notion that Rabindranath Tagore was born there. The party’s relationship with the man has been difficult. Acquiring him for Hindutva by pulling bits and pieces of his remarks out of context has not borne fruit yet, neither have proposals to excise his writings on nationalism from text-books or drop his national anthem. Yet, the state BJP president, who believes that cow’s milk carries gold — another promise of Golden Bengal — thought that Sahaj Path was Vidyasagar’s work. But the idea of Tagore must be mastered — and edited — if Bengal is to be won. The Union home minister’s certificates to “Gurudev” were overwhelming. He imagined the honour the Nobel committee must have felt in awarding Tagore the prize, because the poet’s creations were so much greater. Frankly, those who are not won over by this do not deserve the BJP’s gifts. The emphasis, however, seemed to be on nationalism — two national anthems, an inspiration to Indian nationalism, to Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose — thin ice here, but Amit Shah said it. Tagore is supposed to have remained the “embodiment of Indian-ness” in spite of opening the doors to various cultures and languages. Gurudev’s contribution to the freedom movement will be forever remembered — did a star just fall, agonized? — and the BJP is “committed to fulfill [sic] Gurudev Tagore’s dream and restore the lost glory of Bengal”. No doubt we relish the idea of lost glory. It does not matter that the prime minister’s ideal of wiping out differences would have sent Tagore out of the room. Quoting from him in a newfound love for Bengal, the prime minister claimed at the Visva-Bharati centenary celebrations that the idea of Atmanirbar Bharat is also a derivative of Gurudev’s sentiment behind his attempt to benefit “entire humanity” through India’s spiritual awakening. Although Tagore’s stay in Gujarat was mentioned, his work for farmers was somehow left out. But Visva-Bharati, the embodiment of his vision and work for “Mother Bharati”, presented a strong image of nationalist sentiment during Independence. The bell tolls. Even if we overlook the implications of this projection of Tagore, it has to be asked: how eager is Bengal for the gift of myrrh? It is time to recall that Vidyasagar, Vivekananda, Tagore, and numerous others fought ceaselessly against bigotry in their many ways. They were champions of humanity, of all human beings without exception — a fact that remains unmentioned in the BJP’s proliferating eulogies. They came bearing immortal gifts. Is it the history they tried to make that West Bengal wants, or the one the BJP is trying to remake in its own image?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-98
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to host online district-level chess events ||The East Singhbhum District Chess Association is set to conduct two online district-level events on December 29 and 30. While the women’s championship will be held on Tuesday,the  district open event is scheduled for Thursday. District association general secretary Narendra Kumar Tiwary said trophies and certificates will be handed over to the top 10 finishers in each of the two championships. “We are organising the events online because of the pandemic where social distancing has to be maintained,” Tiwary said. Entry fee for each event has been fixed at Rs 150. Players from East Singhbhum are only eligible to participate in the championships. Participants can send their entries to Chandan Kumar Prasad, chief arbiter for the women’s event and Vishal Kumar Minz, chief arbiter for the open category championship. Giving details about the mode and system of the tournaments, Prasad, a FIDE-accredited arbiter, said each contestant would be given 15 minutes and five seconds (Li- Chess System and Chess.com). “We had adopted this mode and system in earlier district tournaments for different age categories,” he added. Prasad said that the tournament will go on from 1 pm to 6 pm, adding that the events would provide ample opportunity to participants to showcase their skill. “The best way to keep our chess enthusiasts engaged is by conducting online events,” he said. In November, the association had conducted online chess events for under seven and under nine age groups. East Singhbhum has several promising chess players who have won medals in state and national level championship. The steel city has a full- fledged training centre run by Tata Steel sports win at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Some former players and arbiters also run private coaching classes across Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Projects worth Rs 2,500 cr to be showcased to mark Hemant’s first year in office||Projects worth Rs 1,458.95 crore will be inaugurated while foundation stones of new projects worth Rs 1091.92 crore will be laid and 15 new schemes will be announced on December 29 to mark the completion of one year of the Hemant Soren-led coalition government. While Ranchi’s Morabadi stadium will host a state-level programme, celebrations to mark the day will be held in all districts simultaneously, officials in the chief minister’s office said. On Thursday, Hemant took stock of preparations and finalised the nitty-gritty of the new schemes that will cover various sectors, namely, industries, sports, agriculture and social welfare. In Ranchi, the function will be of two-hour duration. “It will start at 12.30pm. The ground is being readied in accordance with Covid safety norms to ensure proper entry and exit, seating arrangements so that social distancing is maintained,” said an official in the Ranchi district administration. As many as 19 projects will be inaugurated on the day. These include a women’s helpline (dial 181), emergency response (dial 112), a command control and communication centre for the Ranchi Smart City project, an electronic manufacturing cluster in Adityapur, sub divisional courts in Chandil and Seraikela-Kharsawan, and a dairy plant in Deoghar. Foundation stones will be laid for 11 projects. These include revival of the Nehru Park in Dhurwa (Ranchi), a pharma park in Ranchi, a leather park in Dhanbad, an eco-tourism circuit, a state pharmacy institute in Chaibasa, and  community health centres in Gumla and Latehar districts. In all, 15 new schemes will be rolled out. These include a farm loan waiver plan, CM pashudhan yojana to boost animal husbandry, a state tourism policy 2020 and a new sports policy. The state government will also sign two MoUs with All India Football Federation (AIFF) and National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) for promotion of sports and the dairy sector, according to an official communiqué.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||No mask? Spend 8 hours in a steel city jail, pay Rs 500 as fine||Driving a car or bike without a mask in the steel city during the remaining days of the year will mean that the offender will have to spend eight hours in a camp jail. That is not all. Jamshedpur police will also subject the offender to a Covid test and slap a penalty of Rs 500 on him/her. "We have launched the drive and set up checkpoints at strategic locations in all 17 police stations areas. But our focus will be on the checkpoints located in Bistupur, Sakchi, Jugsalai, Mango and Golmuri," said City SP Subhash Chandra Jat on Friday. He pointed out that police would intercept only those riders who were without masks and helmets. Even if a rider is wearing a helmet but is without a mask, or a pillion rider is without a mask, then the person without a mask would be penalised and put in a camp jail for eight hours. "We have set up two camp jails in the city. One is at Motilal Nehru Public School at Bistupur and another at the closed Incab Industries Ltd in Golmuri. Those put in camp jails will also have to undergo a Covid test," he added. If caught without a mask, those in cars or on bikes would also have to produce all vehicle papers, including a driving licence. The police drive is on at Bistupur, Jugsalai, Sakchi, Kadma, Sonari, Golmuri, Mango and Telco. It will continue till the New Year and beyond, said senior police officers, including SSP M. Tamil Vanan. City SP Jat said police opted for the harsh measure during the festive month because a large number of people, especially youngsters, usually hit the streets with their two-wheelers without paying heed to traffic rules. “Also, we wanted to ensure everyone takes precautionary measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Jat said. The City SP said that those travelling in cars would also be watched. All occupants of a car would have to wear masks. Sources said police have spread out across the city and checking would be widespread. "This will be a kind of random checking. Moreover, during such drives police personnel from the traffic wing as well as from police stations will be deployed,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town vendors stage protest over congestion at Hirapur market||Over a hundred shopkeepers of the Hirapur market in Dhanbad on Friday gathered near the static garbage compactor station of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, demanding allocation of parking areas for vehicles in the market. The move comes after the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation decided to develop a vacant space inside a children’s lawn, used for keeping cars, into a full fledged park. Already facing a problem of congestion due to narrow lanes and overcrowding, the corporation’s decision infuriated the vendors, who in turn staged the protest on Friday. The protesters, led by Amitesh Sahay, president of the trade wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, also demanded setting up a vending zone at the Machhli Patti locality in Hirapur to provide space to shopkeepers sitting on pavements. “Ahost of issues, including the encroachment by some shopkeepers and lack of parking space, have created such a situation in the market that despite having the best quality of products many vendors get very few customers,” Sahay told reporters. “After all how and where the customers will park their vehicles in this congested area,” the prominent hotelier said. He added that the corporation should shift its static compactor station from Hirapur and develop a parking area, which would solve the problem. “There is no logic in establishing a static garbage compactor station in the densely populated heart of the town. It will have serious implications on the health of people living in surrounding areas due to the foul smell coming out of it” said Sahay. “We also demand that the DMC authorities develop a vending zone at the Machhli Patti locality of Hirapur under the National Urban Livelihood Mission so that the pavement shopkeepers encroaching the market can be shifted there. I will solve the problem of permanent rehabilitation of the street vendors and simultaneously help to decongest the Hirapur Park Market.” Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of  Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, said, “The DMC plan to develop a children’s park will aggravate the problem and so an alternative parking lot should be immediately developed at the compactor station. The rehabilitation of pavement shop keepers by developing a vending zone is also necessary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||This year, state celebrates a different Christmas||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||More than 170 fresh Covid cases, two deaths in a day||Two more Covid-19 patients, both residents of Ranchi, died during treatment on Thursday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1016 and that in Ranchi to 211, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. While recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, Ranchi continued to report the highest count of cases among the 24 districts even on Thursday. However, the number of patients dropped in the district as it reported 82 recoveries against 78 cases, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). In terms of recovery too, Ranchi achieved the top spot among the districts in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. As many as 750 people were battling the infection in Ranchi by the end of Thursday. As many as 177 people were found infected across Jharkhand on the day, while 213 patients recovered. As per government data, the number of active cases dropped to 1595 after Thursday's findings. At least seven districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Thursday, while only three districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro – reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 24 cases against 30 recoveries, while 17 people were found infected in Bokaro and 13 recovered there. Pakur, where the number of active cases had come down to zero on Wednesday, did not report any fresh case of infection on Thursday. The number of Covid patients increased in Simdega from nine to 12, while Godda and Giridih had nine and six active cases respectively by the end of Thursday. The government tested swab samples of 16485 people on the day and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 47.10 lakh people and tested 46.97 lakh of them. Of the 113786 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand, at least 111175 have recovered, reveals government data. As per government figures, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 97.70 per cent, which is better than the national average of 95.70 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, has remained close to 0.9 per cent in the past one month. The NHM bulletin on Thursday stated that it would take 465.44 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand. In India, the doubling rate was 333.58 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Nabard presents credit potential for Jharkhand ||The Ranchi regional office of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) projected a credit potential of Rs 28,643.64 crore for priority sectors of Jharkhand during 2021-22 which was 6 per cent higher than Rs 27,020.81 crore that was projected for the current financial year 2020-21. This was revealed in the state focus paper for 2021-22 released by chief minister Hemant Soren at a state credit seminar organised by Nabard at a Ranchi hotel on Thursday. While Rs 11,183.07 crore that accounts for 39.04 per cent of the total projected credit for priority sectors has been earmarked for agriculture sector, Rs 12,669.20 crore (42.83%) has been suggested for MSME sector in the focus paper. Of the total amount projected for agriculture sector, Rs 6.908.70 crore accounting for 61.78 per cent has been earmarked for crop loan while Rs 3,382.25 crore (30.24%) suggested for allied agriculture activities and Rs 495.15 crore (4.42%) for agricultural infrastructure and ancillary activities. “Nabard has been playing an important role in giving financial assistance to the state and also advising it but more loans are required to be given to the farmers as low interest loans help them a lot in becoming self-reliant,” Soren said after releasing the state focus paper. Citing example of neighbouring Chhattisgarh, he said farmers were given loans worth Rs 7,000 crore in that state during 2019-20, which was much higher than the loans worth Rs 233 crore only given to 65,000 farmers of Jharkhand. “Strengthening rural economy by helping farmers is like strengthening the roots of the society,” Soren opined, adding improvement in farmers’ economic condition would help securing a sustainable growth. State’s finance and planning secretary Himani Pandey stressed on improving investment in dairy and fisheries sectors. “Since Jharkhand was formed in 2000, Nabard has given it financial assistance worth Rs 16,000 crore, helped build 15,000 km rural roads, irrigate 3 lakh hectares of cultivable land and construct bridges measuring about 1.5 lakh metres,” informed Nabard chief general manager A.K. Padhi. As a part of its credit planning function, Nabard has been preparing potential linked credit plans for all the districts of the state in consultation with stakeholders, he further said, adding the basic objective behind the exercise was to map credit potential in different sectors depending on availability of infrastructure and linkages, thrust areas, government policies and strengths and weaknesses of financial institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand notifies workplace policy on tuberculosis||Jharkhand has become the first state in the country to notify a workplace policy on tuberculosis (TB). The feat assumes significance for India, which leads the world in TB cases, according to WHO’s 2018 Global TB Report. Of the 10 million new and relapsed cases in 2017, India accounted for 27 per cent of the global burden of normal (sensitive) TB. The country also led in cases of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), accounting for 24 per cent of the cases followed by China (13 per cent) and Russia (10 per cent). The Jharkhand health department released the policy on Wednesday after it received the cabinet’s nod on Tuesday. “The decision is part of the strategy set by the Union health ministry for elimination of TB by 2025, five years ahead of the global target of 2030. (Elimination of TB will mean there should be less than one case of TB for a population of 10 lakh by 2025, according to WHO norms). “As part of a strategic plan, we have conceived a workplace policy on TB and its related comorbidities, including occupational lung diseases for industries, and this has been ratified by the cabinet,” state principal health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. Under this policy, all industries operational in Jharkhand will have to arrange for the treatment of employees under an employer-led model for TB and its related comorbidities, including occupational lung diseases. The policy also entails that the employer has to ensure safe and healthy working environment for employees so that they do not suffer from such diseases and also arrange for periodic testing of all employees for TB and other related diseases. If any employee is diagnosed with TB, the employer has to arrange for proper medical treatment. “This is the first-of-its-kind policy in India made for TB, diabetes, HIV and other lung-related diseases,” added a senior National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) official preferring anonymity. The policy also outlines specific roles of state TB control cell, AIDS control programme, non-communicable diseases (NCD) unit, workers union and NGOs. The treatment of the affected employees will be free under the National Tuberculosis Control Programme. As recommended by WHO, the state provides free medicines to patients via the directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) centres. Significantly, TB can be fully cured by a six-month antibiotics course. But India accounts for a fifth of TB-related deaths worldwide. The government has recognised that people in remote tribal districts, with poor access to nutrition and medicine, are a priority group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
