26-12-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out on a large swathe of grassland opposite in New Town||A fire broke out on a large swathe of grassland opposite Westin Hotel in New Town, near Eco Park, on Friday afternoon. The Telegraph photographer spotted the smoke from Eco Park, around 1km away, and rushed towards the site. He alerted a police team on the way and the cops got in touch with the fire brigade. One fire tender took 30 minutes to control the flames. A group of people who stay in a cluster of huts near the grassland used bamboo sticks to beat the grass and the bushes to prevent the fire from spreading, while another group poured buckets of water on the flames. This newspaper has reported on several occasions how fires on grasslands have made it difficult for residents to breathe. They are forced to keep doors and windows shut because of the smoke. Such fires also have a devastating effect on the habitat of a variety of birds. Fires in New Town grasslands are lit for reasons ranging from burning waste to scaring away snakes. An exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee titled Aparajito Soumitro began at the Academy of Fine Arts in Calcutta on Friday. The exhibition organised by Prachi Protichi is a tribute to the thespian by painters and sculptors of Bengal and Bangladesh. “Soumitra was a true Bengali in every sense and he inspired generations of actors, elocutionists, poets, painters and sculptors of both the countries. This exhibition is a tribute to his legacy,” said Tapos Mallik, convener of Prachi Protichi. According to Mallik, nine works of nine Bangladeshi painters, 24 Indian painters and seven Indian sculptors are on display at the exhibition open for public till December 31, from 5pm till 8pm. “Organising the exhibition at the time of the pandemic was indeed a challenge as we had to get the paintings from Bangladesh.... So many people, including officials in both India and Bangladesh, helped us put together this exhibition,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Christmas revelry at Calcutta||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Crowds throng Park Street on Christmas ||Park Street had to be closed to traffic for around two hours on Christmas evening after the number of pedestrians on the “party street” suddenly surged, leaving no space for vehicles. Thousands of people — young and old — went to Park Street to see the lights and soak in the festive mood, rare in a year reigned by the pandemic, throwing traffic out of gear. As Park Street became out of bounds for vehicles following the crowd surge, traffic stalled on Chowringhee Road. South-bound traffic had to be diverted through Outram Road, Ho-Chi Minh Sarani and Camac Street. The ripple effect stretched to Esplanade, Red Road and the Park Circus seven-point crossing as hundreds of vehicles had to be diverted in different directions. Fewer people compared with previous years visited Park Street on Christmas Eve, possibly because of the pandemic, leading police to guess that the footfall would be low on Christmas evening, too. As planned by the administration, the lights and decorations were scaled down this year and no food stalls were allowed on footpaths to discourage people from visiting Park Street. However, all expectations were proved wrong as thousands descended on the 1.5km stretch, resulting in a gathering the city has not witnessed since the Covid outbreak in March. Senior officers said that although they had a back-up plan, they did not think it would have to be enforced because of the pandemic. “There were families with children, there were couples and aged people, too. Despite our repeated announcements to wear masks and keep walking, most of them were removing face coverings to click pictures. Many were also queuing outside bars and restaurants,” said an officer of Shakespeare Sarani police station, who was posted on Park Street on Friday. A senior police officer said the sudden surge of people forced them to prevent vehicles from entering Park Street. “There was no option. There was hardly any space for vehicles to move,” the officer said. Park Street was split into two flanks for pedestrians to move in either direction. In the last few years, the party corridor — between the Chowringhee Road crossing on one side and the Wood Street intersection on the other — would be closed to vehicles on Christmas Eve and Christmas evening. The road would be reserved for pedestrians on the two occasions. “This year there was no such formal plan to discourage revellers from thronging Park Street,” an officer said. Many who went to Park Street said they had not stepped out with family even during Durga Puja. “This is the last festival of the year. My kids were really excited. We did not step out even during Durga Puja. I thought it would not cause any harm if we followed all Covid norms and spent some time on Park Street. I have asked my children not to touch anything,” said Ishan Ghosh, a resident of Thakurpukur. “From 7.30pm, we started to push the crowd on either side of the road and make way for vehicles. By 8pm, Park Street was clear for vehicles. The crowd had also thinned by then,” said an officer of Park Street police station. Traffic movement on and around Park Street became normal by 9pm, the police said. Elsewhere Christmas celebrations were muted across many of the city’s usual holiday hotspots because of Covid. From Victoria Memorial in the heart of the city to Eco Park in New Town, there were much less revellers compared with previous years. The familiar sight of families enjoying picnic at Alipore zoo, the Maidan and Eco Park was missing. “We are just here for an outing. We won’t have food outdoors as the virus is still around and the risk of contracting it is still very much real,” said Sharmila Chakraborty at Eco Park. At Nicco Park, the few revellers who had turned up were happy that they did not have to wait to board a ride. Park officials failed to recall the last time the footfall was so low on Christmas. “Today’s footfall was 5,000. On Christmas last year, the footfall had been 15,000,” an official of the park said. Alipore zoo had around 30,000 visitors on Friday, down from 68,000 on Christmas 2019. “Not a single group has hired me for a ride till now today,” Mohammad Shamim, whose horse carriage takes revellers around Victoria Memorial, said on Friday afternoon. “Last year by this time I had taken at least 10 groups on joy rides.” Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Goa emerges top draw for Covid-wary travellers||Thailand is out of bound because of Covid-19 and so are other countries of the region, prompting many Calcuttans whose favourite holiday destination is south-east Asia to fly to Goa to spend the year-end festive season. Kochi, Rajasthan, the Andamans and a few other places are also drawing tourists from Calcutta, but Goa, with its beaches, waterfalls and old churches, seems to be the main attraction. What has made Goa the top draw, apart from direct flights, is the fact that many hotels there are offering rooms at much cheaper rates compared with other years because of lack of international tourists, who typically drive the demand during this time. SpiceJet launched it’s five-days-a week Calcutta-Goa flight on Friday. An official of the airline said 180 of the 189 seats were booked on the inaugural flight. “The seats on the next few days’ flights are selling well. Most flights to Goa have more than 150 seats already sold. Our market survey had shown a lot of demand for Goa from Calcutta, so we decided to launch the flight,” said Debjit Ghosh, regional sales head (east), SpiceJet. “The flights to Kochi and Port Blair are also chock-a-block during this period. Many tourists are using Kochi as a transit destination before going onwards to the Maldives,” said Ghosh. IndiGo airline, which, too, has a direct flight to Goa, had its flight almost full over the past few days, said sources in the airline. Officials at the Calcutta airport said seats on flights to other destinations, apart from those to metro cities, were remaining unsold. Most of the passengers on those flights are returning to their places of work. “For many years, southeast Asia, particularly Thailand, has been a favourite Christmas and year-end destination for Calcuttans. The best alternative for that is Goa and this winter we have many clients who used to go abroad asking tour operators to make for them short holiday packages for Goa,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. He said about 50 per cent of the people who would earlier visit southeast Asia during the Christmas-New Year window are mostly travelling within the country this year and the bulk of them are going to Goa, Punjabi said. A few are headed for international destinations like Dubai and the Maldives. Hoteliers in Goa said the yield this time was low because international tourists were not coming and they had to depend almost fully on domestic tourists. Apart from regular commercial flights, a number of chartered flights ferrying foreign tourists would land in Goa in winter every year. “This year the bookings are good but the yield is less because of lack of international tourists and big spenders. We had to offer rooms at cheaper rates,” said Sudesh Shankar, one of the directors of Yu Hotel in Candolim, north Goa. He said the hotel was more than 75 per cent full but the rooms were offered at rates 25 per cent less compared with the tariff offered during this period, considered the peak season. Another hotelier said the tariff for regular rooms at his north Goa property would vary between Rs 22,000 and Rs 25,000 per night during Christmas-New Year window. This time the tariff has come down to Rs 17,000. Ryan Rodrigues, the director of Spazio Leisure Resorts at Anjuna in north Goa, said his property, too, was having about 75 per cent occupancy but only after offering discounts on tariff. “From the usual Rs 7,000 per room per night, we had to bring down the tariff to Rs 4,500,” Rodrigues said on Friday. He said many small and medium hotels were not getting enough guests because people were generally preferring known brands to ensure safety amid the pandemic. Apart from Goa, tour operators said Rajasthan and the Andamans were attracting tourists, too. Tourists headed for Port Blair need to carry Covid-negative certificates and get tested within 48 hours of departure for the islands. “Despite that many people have booked seats on flights to Port Blair,” said an official of a private airline. Tour operators have also got group bookings for places like Rajasthan and Kerala, but there are fewer members in each group compared with previous years. “Earlier, one group would consist of 30 to 40 tourists. This year we have brought down the number to around 15,” said Raktim Roy, the  managing partner of Dolphin Travels, a city-based travel agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||386 booked for Christmas Eve road offences||As many as 386 motorists were prosecuted on Christmas Eve for violating the traffic norms in the city. Among them 21 were booked for drink driving and more than 300 for riding two-wheelers without wearing helmets or riding with more than one pillion rider. The majority of the cases involving two-wheelers were reported from the Shakespeare Sarani, Park Street and Loudon Street areas, while most of the cases of drink driving were reported from the Sovabazar crossing and the Golpark area. Calcutta police have started prosecuting motorists for drink driving after a gap of nine months following a number of accidents involving men driving in an intoxicated state. All 25 traffic guards in the city have been asked to remain alert against traffic violations in the festive season and prevent accidents. More than 180 lives have been lost in road accidents this year till now. Last year, the death toll from road accidents stood at 267. “There was minimal traffic on the roads for several months because of the lockdown. We want the trend of fewer accidents to continue and will try to restrict fatalities through strict enforcement of rules and prosecutions,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. As many as 93 cases of riding two-wheelers without helmets, riding with more than one pillion rider and dangerous driving were reported from Theatre Road, Loudon Street, Park Street and Camac Street on Christmas Eve. The police said vehicles —both four-wheelers and two-wheelers — were speeding down Park Street and Theatre Road. “Most of the motorcyclists who were stopped said: ‘Aajker din ta chhere deen’ (leave us at least today),” said an officer posted on Park Street. Despite the handicap of not being able to use breathalysers to detect the presence of alcohol in blood, the police have started a drive against drink driving. Breathalysers are not being used as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The drive was started days after a Volkswagen Polo, driven by a 23-year-old-youth allegedly under the influence of liquor, had fatally hit a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||IISER partially resumes research activities||IISER Kolkata, which had suspended all research activities because of a rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus earlier this month, resumed the activities with restricted attendance on Monday. A notice issued by the dean of students’ affairs at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) says: “Research work is now allowed and 3 persons are allowed to work at a time in a standard 750 square feet research lab and two persons are allowed to work in a smaller lab.” “List of Laboratories will be kept at the Security Gates. Security personnel will strictly follow the norms of 3 persons at a time regulation and will have the right to refuse the entry of the fourth person,” the notice says. “Research activities have been resumed,” said Sourav Pal, the director of the Kalyani institute. An official of the institute said the situation was reviewed on December 18 and a decision to resume research partially was approved. All students are required to submit a copy of “Covid-19 negative report” to the respective department/section offices. “Day scholars must carry the Covid-19 negative report while entering the campus,” said the official. The administrative committee of the institute had on December 4 discussed the Covid situation with members of the students’ affairs council and decided to suspend research till December 27. “But an improvement in the situation has led to partial resumption of research activities from December 21. We have completed mass testing for students,” said a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Meet with hospitals on govt scheme||The state health department has called a meeting with private hospitals on Monday to discuss how to ensure they do not refuse patients covered under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the meeting had been convened to see to it that patients holding Swasthya Sathi cards were not denied treatment at private hospitals. “We are expecting an increased demand in Calcutta since a lot of people are enrolling for the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” Nigam said on Friday. “There are 1.43 crore beneficiaries across the state now. We are anticipating that the numbers will grow by 2 crore in the entire state.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced in November that the state government would bring all residents of Bengal under the fold of Swasthya Sathi, a cashless health insurance scheme launched by the state government in December 2016. The scheme offers health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The state government pays the premium. “We have been invited to a meeting to discuss the role of private hospitals in implementing the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The scheme will benefit many people, but there are certain things that need to be discussed,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “Will private hospitals also admit patients with Swasthya Sathi cards for primary or secondary care, or only for tertiary and advanced care? If patients requiring primary and secondary care flood private hospitals, beds will get occupied,” said Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Lakhs of people are filling in forms for the Swasthya Sathi scheme during the Duare Sarkar campaign, as part of which government officials are holding camps in all localities where people can enrol for various government schemes, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). The CMC is responsible for Duare Sarkar camps in Calcutta. Many private hospitals are not willing to admit patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme and the West Bengal Health Scheme, which is meant for state government employees only, as the rates are very low. “The Swasthya Sathi rates are even lower than the West Bengal Health Scheme rates. It is difficult for private hospitals to sustain if patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme flood hospitals,” said an official of a private hospital in the city. “A C-section delivery at our hospital costs Rs 60,000 if the patient pays in cash. For a person with cashless medical insurance, it will cost Rs 50,000. The rate is Rs 15,000 under the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” said the official. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission recently asked a hospital to conduct an eye surgery free of cost since the patient had a Swasthya Sathi card. It asked another hospital to refund to a patient the amount that is not reimbursed under the West Bengal Health Scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point school introduces mode of online communication||South Point school has introduced a mode of online communication where parents can raise issues concerning their children through the school portal. The message will directly reach the department concerned and, if not addressed, will be escalated  to the higher authorities of the school. The idea is to limit the need for guardians to visit the school office, a takeaway from the pandemic. Guardians could raise issues concerning academics, transport, fees and IT services, and make applications for certificates online without visiting the school. “Till now, guardians had to visit the school office for all kinds of enquiries and requisitions. But in view of the ‘new normal’ forced by the pandemic, we have worked towards providing a solution which will not only limit the need for guardians to visit the school office unless absolutely imperative but also ensure accountability and responsiveness in respect of the guardians’ communications with the school,” a notice from the principal says. The school portal, introduced in April, is used to send notices to the parents. The module is called “help desk” and it can be accessed through the school portal through the parents’ log-in credentials. “During the pandemic we have noticed that parents had to face the hassle of dropping applications to school and in some cases they did not reach the departments concerned. This online communication mode will ensure more transparency, accountability and ease of communication for parents without having to visit the school,” Krishna Damani, trustee of the school, said. The notice says that the issue raised by the guardians will directly reach the department concerned and will be addressed in a timely and effective manner. “Escalation system is automatically built into the solution, in case a timely response is not sent to the guardians,” the notice says. “If a parent has made a requisition and the school requires more information regarding the matter, the parent will have the option of providing it through the portal,” a school official said. “Certificates or documents can also be provided online. Since we have a huge number of students, we are trying to streamline the entire system,” Damani said. During pre-Covid times, parents mostly communicated with the school regarding things like if a student needed to leave the school early or if a student would not need the school bus. For issues like these the parents needed to send applications to the school. During online classes issues related to bandwidth and connectivity, choice of subjects, fee status come up for discussion, a school official said. Guardians also get notification if there is any update on their requests, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Four deerskins, 9 Tokay geckos seized in Kultali and Namkhana||Four deerskins and nine Tokay geckos were seized in two raids in Kultali and Namkhana in South 24-Parganas on Friday. A forest department official said this confirms an active poaching racket was working in the Sundarbans. Two of the deerskins were soaked in turmeric. “This indicates that those were fresh kills. The others were from relatively older kills. All four skins were seized from 62-year-old Manoranjan Jana, from Ukilerhat Namkhana,” a senior forest department official said. During questioning, Jana said he and a few other men would set up snares in the Sundarbans to trap deer. “They would skin the trapped animals and keep the carcasses buried for several days before selling the meat to people they knew. They would not sell the meat to strangers for fear of getting caught,” the official said. Based on a tip-off that some men were looking to sell deerskins, foresters from South 24-Parganas contacted Jana through their network. “After receiving confirmation that the skins were with him, we conducted a raid early on Friday and seized them. We arrested Jana, who had brought the skins,” said Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. Jana was part of a group that would venture deep into the mangroves to set snares and kill animals and birds, another forest department official said. “We are trying to track down the other members of the poaching ring,” he said. Another team from the same division, based on information they had received, contacted four men who were looking to sell Tokay geckos. The geckos were seized from a house in Kantamari in Kultali, where the men had gathered to sell them. The four — Asit Siuli, 30, Krishnapada Mondal, 36, Paritosh Naskar, 34, and Ardhendu Baidya, 35, all residents of Kultali — were arrested. “Nine geckos were alive and one was dead. They were going to sell the dead one, too,” a forest official said. The Tokay gecko is a species of Asian lizard characterised by orange spots on the skin and a shrill croak. The reptile is found in rainforests, particularly in the Northeast, apart from Nepal, Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines and New Guinea. It is protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. “The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 bans wildlife trade but wildlife poaching and trafficking has become a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals and birds from India and Calcutta is a key point in the corridor,” a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Man injured in pick-up van mishap dies||A man who was among the people who got injured after a pick-up van overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover on Wednesday afternoon died early on Friday. The condition of six others injured in the accident is serious, doctors at the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital said. Ranjit Roy, 42, was admitted to the NCB ward of the hospital after being rescued from the accident spot. He was put on ventilation on Thursday, doctors said. Following the death, police amended the charges and drew up a fresh case under Section 304 (II) of the IPC against the driver of the pick-up van, who is yet to be arrested. Section 304 of IPC deals with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “Clause II makes the driver guilty of being knowledgeable enough to understand that the manner in which he was driving the vehicle could cause death if it met with an accident,” a police officer said. On Wednesday, around 4.25pm, the pick-up van carrying 29 people overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover injuring seven passengers. They were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of a family member. The accident happened near the east-bound ramp of the flyover, which connects it to the Parama flyover. Investigations revealed that the Tata 407 in which the family was returning was travelling at a high speed and lost control metres ahead of the spot where the flanks towards the Parama flyover and the Park Circus seven-point crossing diverge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
26-12-2020||Business||Brexit deal breaks FTA thaw||With the European Union and the UK clinching a post-Brexit trade pact, India should now aggressively pursue free trade agreements (FTAs) separately with both the regions, according to experts. Although it is premature to assess the gains for India from the agreement between the European Union (EU) and the UK, Indian goods would not get much benefit from this pact, they said. However, India can explore opportunities in service sectors such as IT, architecture, research and development and engineering in both the markets as the EU-UK pact does not cover services, they added. “There is not much gain for Indian goods, but we can gain in the services sector in both the UK and EU markets. We will gain more in the UK market as we are an English speaking country,” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) director-general Ajay Sahai said. He said there are no specific customs duty benefits for domestic goods from this agreement. “Now we should push the FTA negotiations with both the EU and the UK. Indian competitors like Vietnam have greater duty advantage in sectors like apparel and marine goods,” Sahai said. Sharing similar views with Sahai, Biswajit Dhar, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said India had a lot of contentious issues while negotiating FTA with the EU. owever, after Brexit, the UK could have different stand on those issues and now “India should pursue FTA talks again with both the regions”. He added that there is a possibility of doing a favourable free trade pact with the UK. FIEO President Sharad Kumar Saraf said that India should now “aggressively” move on starting negotiations for FTA with both the EU and UK. “We have requested the government to sign an MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) regarding a deadline to conclude FTA talks with Britain during the visit of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson next month in India,” Saraf said. Rakesh Mohan Joshi, professor at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), said that after the trade deal with the EU and the UK, India will get a better opportunity to cater to the demands of both the markets. “But India needs to plan accordingly,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Central Bank sells housing arm||Centrum Housing Finance Ltd (CHFL) is acquiring the 64.40 per cent stake held by Central Bank of India in Cent Bank Home Finance (CBHFL) for Rs 160 crore. CBHFL is a financing and mortgage company jointly promoted by four public sector institutions — Central Bank of India, National Housing Bank, Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India and Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco). The company’s asset under management stood at Rs 1,211.70 crore as on September 30, 2020. Total income was Rs 65.81 crore. At present, it operates through 18 branches and two extension offices in nine states in the country. “This is to inform that the bank has entered into a binding agreement to divest its entire equity stake of 64.40 per cent or 1,61,00,000 shares of face value of Rs 10 each in CBHFL, to Centrum Housing Finance, subject to approvals from regulatory authorities,” Central Bank of India told bourses. RBSA acted as the exclusive transaction adviser to the PSU bank for this transaction. Centrum Capital, the parent of Centrum Housing, said in a separate filing that the cost of acquisition is about Rs 160 crore on cash basis. “The company’s subsidiary, Centrum Housing Finance, has entered into a share purchase agreement with Central Bank of India for acquisition of the bank’s entire equity stake in CBHFL constituting 64.40 per cent of the share capital of CBHFL on a fully diluted basis,’’ Centrum Capital said in the filing. It added that the target entity is in the same line of business as the subsidiary, and therefore, this is a strategic acquisition.   ``This transaction forms a key part of the bank’s divestment programme to facilitate unlocking the value of its non-core investments,’’ Ajay Malik, MD & head of investment banking at RBSA said while commenting on the development.   Centrum Capital further said that the deal is expected to be closed in about two to three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Reliance Industries buys out IMG Worldwide stake||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) is buying out IMG Worldwide LLC from their sports management joint venture for Rs 52 crore. The oil-to-telecom giant said in a regulatory filing that it will buy IMG Worldwide’s 50 per cent stake in IMG-Reliance Ltd (IMG-R) for no more than Rs 52.08 crore in cash. RIL added that it will rebrand the company after the closure of the deal. RIL had formed an equal joint venture with IMG Worldwide, an international sports marketing and management company, in 2010 to develop, market and manage sports and entertainment in India. According to RIL’s annual report for 2019-20, it held more than 5.33 crore shares in the joint venture. The value of this holding was pegged at Rs 201 crore. The net worth attributable to its holding stood at Rs 99.18 crore. IMG-R had a turnover of Rs 181.70 crore (including GST of Rs 25.79 crore) and a net profit of Rs 16.35 crore in 2019-20. IMG is a global leader in sports, fashion, events and media, operating in more than 30 countries, and is a part of the Endeavor network. IMG-R is engaged in the business of creation, management, implementation and commercialisation of sporting, fashion and entertainment events in India. It focuses on consulting, licensing, events, talent representation and sponsorship management. The joint venture was in the news last month when it won the global mandate to market Cricket Australia’s ‘Virtual Inventory’ rights. “The company has entered into definitive agreements to acquire the shares held by IMG Singapore Pte Ltd in IMG-R, for a cash consideration not exceeding Rs 52.08 crore,” RIL said in the communication to the bourses. IMG Singapore Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IMG, holds 50 per cent of the share capital of IMG-R. RIL added that after the completion of the acquisition, IMG-R will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company and will be rebranded by the company. Direct-to-home operator Dish TV on Friday said it has received a demand notice from the government for payment of Rs 4,164.05 crore, which includes licence fee and interest. The ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) through a letter dated December 24, 2020 asked the Essel group firm to pay the said sum towards licence fee from the period from the date of issuance of DTH licence till the financial year 2018-19, the company said in a regulatory filing. “No governmental or regulatory approvals are required for the aforesaid acquisition and the acquisition is expected to be completed during this calendar year,” RIL said while adding that the acquisition does not fall within related party transactions and none of RIL’s promoter or promoter group companies have any interest in the transaction. In 2010, RIL and IMG Worldwide had entered into an equal joint venture to build a professional sports business in India. Its move was expected to give a boost to the country’s sporting arena. The partners had said that the joint venture entity will have parallel complementary strategies to provide and operate world-class infrastructure and coaching facilities in the country to unlock India's sporting potential and to create and operate major sports and entertainment assets in the country. Reliance had said that developing athletic talent is a key component of the joint venture and that it will work with like-minded organisation and invest in developing immensely talented young Indians. IMG Academics was to provide management knowledge and coaching skills to the management and coaching teams of academies in India which will be managed by the joint venture entity. The joint venture was also slated to develop new sports and entertainment assets in India modelled on the structures of such assets in mature market places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Trade deal a priority with Biden in office||Asserting that the long due US-India mini trade deal should be on top of the agenda of the incoming Biden administration, US India Business Council president Nisha Desai Biswal has said that the ties between the two nations continued to be “strong and vibrant” and 2021 will provide important opportunities to broaden and deepen this partnership. India and the US are negotiating a deal to iron out differences on trade issues to boost economic ties. “The US-India relationship has continued to be strong and vibrant. That has been the case in the prior administration, in the current administration and I’m confident in the next one as well,” USIBC president Biswal said in an interview on Thursday, noting that the year 2020 started with the “strong and robust” visit of President Donald Trump to India. Despite the fact that the US and India weren’t able to see a mini trade deal launched, they did see that the robust strategic partnership was continuing to be advanced throughout the year, she said. Be it the defence ties, close co-ordination between the US and India on regional and global challenges, the third 2+2 ministerial or further strengthening of the QUAD grouping (India, the US, Japan and Australia) in the Indo-Pacific, the bilateral has continued to strengthen, Biswal noted. “Unfortunately, we haven’t seen the same level of progress on the trade front. That is something that both countries will need to reflect on...2021 perhaps (would) provide some important opportunities to broaden the US-India partnership, continue the deep strategic convergence and broaden the partnership to reflect on some additional areas of opportunity,” she said. Biswal, who in her capacity as the assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia was one of the prime drivers of the India-US ties during the second term of the Obama administration, observed that the Covid-19 pandemic has underscored the importance that the two nations work together not only for the benefit of their own people but globally as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Fertilisers seek end to inverted duties||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman needs to address the inverted duty structure in the fertiliser sector in the Union budget for 2021-22 to boost domestic industry and cut the import bill. The industry is hopeful that the government as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission would reduce the import duty on non-urea fertiliser raw materials and increase it on finished products. “Globally, import duty on raw materials is kept lower than the finished products. But it is not so in our country and as a result we still face competition from imported finished phosphatic (P) and potassium (K) fertilisers,” said Satish Chander, director-general of the Fertiliser Association of India. He said the customs duty at 5 per cent on imported raw materials such as phosphoric acid and ammonia and 2.5 per cent on rock phosphate and sulphur is rendering domestic P&K fertiliser manufacturing uncompetitive vis-a-vis imports. Subsidy rate is the same for domestic and imported phosphatic and potassium fertilisers. Raw materials/intermediates should be exempted from customs duty, or, only a nominal rate of 1 per cent customs duty be levied. There is a need to increase the rate of customs duty on imported P&K fertilisers to encourage domestic value addition. The industry has requested the government to eliminate the customs duty or reduce it to 1 per cent on imported raw materials, viz-a-viz rock phosphate, ammonia which are the basic raw materials to produce phosphate fertilisers such as DAP. This will help boost domestic production and cut import bill. Moreover, the absence of time-bound refund of unutilised input tax credit and no refund against GST on input services also increase the cost of domestic production of P&K fertilisers. Under GST Law refund of Input Tax Credit (ITC) for fertiliser sector be made time bound like exports. Also, there is a need for differential subsidy for domestic and imported P&K fertilizers, he suggested. India imports about 60 % of DAP requirement & new investment in Phosphatic fertiliser has not been done for over a decade now. Timely Subsidy payment is critical for attracting new investment in the Phosphatic industry. Decreasing share of domestic natural gas in total supply to the urea sector over the years from 76% in 2012-13 to around 27% at present has increased the cost of energy for urea production and also the amount of subsidy. The government should bring more domestic gas into pool. LNG for new plants should be procured on auction basis to minimize gas cost. The industry body said there are always massive arrears and even now the payment for April-June quarter is not complete. "But, allocation of Rs 65,000 crore under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat should help clear all arrears and make the payment on a weekly basis as envisaged in Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) policy of the sector," he added. The government allocated Rs 71,000 crore for fertiliser subsidy in the 2020-21 financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Ikea loss widens to Rs 720 crore||Furniture retailer Ikea India saw its net loss widen to Rs 720.1 crore in the financial year ended March 2020, according to regulatory documents. The company had registered a loss of Rs 685.4 crore in the financial year ended March 2019, according to a Registrar of Companies filing shared by market intelligence firm Tofler. However, Ikea India saw its net sales grow 64.68 per cent to Rs 566 crore in 2019-20 from Rs 343.7 crore in the previous fiscal. Its total revenue during 2019-20 was at Rs 665.6 crore, up 63.18 per cent, against Rs 407.9 crore in the previous financial year. Ikea India, which has opened its second retail store this month in Mumbai, saw its revenue from “other income” in FY20 was at Rs 99.6 crore against Rs 64.2 crore in 2018-19. Ikea said India is an important market for the company and it is investing to offer customers an omnichannel experience. “India is an important market for Ikea. We are here in India for the long term. We are in the initial years of operations in the country where we are investing in our priority markets to offer customers an omnichannel experience,” said Ikea India CFO Preet Dhupar. Part of Ingka Group, Ikea India had opened its first retail store in Hyderabad in August 2018, followed by online stores in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune. Besides its new flagship store in Navi Mumbai, Ikea has plans to set up two stores in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Chinese ban on Australian coking coal to benefit Indian steel makers||The Chinese ban on Australian coking coal is expected to benefit Indian steel makers such as Tata Steel and JSW as the input raw material cost would remain low in the near term and boost domestic production. The cost of production for India’s steel producers using the blast furnace route would remain contained in the near term, supported by the negative bias on coking coal prices because of China’s ban on Australian coking coal. Softer coking coal prices shall directly support EBITDA/tonne accretion of around Rs 2,600 over 2020-21 for companies using the blast furnace route, India Ratingsand  Research (Ind-Ra) said in a research report. EBIDTA stands for earning before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation. Such companies are likely to have cut the cost of steel production around Rs 1,800 per tonne year-on-year in the second half of the fiscal, supported by the reduced cost of coking coal of around Rs 7,300 per tonne in the second half compared with Rs 9,100 per tonne in the corresponding period a year ago and Rs 10,000 per tonne in 2019-20. Chinese newspaper Global Times has said that China’s National Development and Reforms Commission had authorised the lifting of import controls on coal from all countries except for Australia. According to research and consultancy firm Woodmac, typical volumes to China are between 6 million tonnes and 10 million tonnes (thermal and metallurgical combined) but the estimated shipments were only 0.4 million tonnes (mt) in November. The implication of the Chinese ban on metallurgical (met) coal will be greater than on thermal coal because the volume of imported metallurgical coal is over 10 per cent of the seaborne market, while for thermal coal, it is less than 5 per cent. “Around 20 per cent of Australian met coal exports now have an uncertain future,” Woodmac added. Trade flows will shift now, as Australian coal firms look for new homes and higher volumes of non-Australia coking coals move to China. Ind-Ra said it expects Australia premium hard coking coal (HCC) CNF prices would be around $120 per tonne for the rest of the fiscal compared with $111 per tonne in November and $125 per tonne for the eight months of the fiscal. The rating agency  has assumed there would be no weather-related disruptions. China and Australia have been the largest coking coal traders. China imports 40 per cent of the coking coal, while Australia exports 65 per cent of coking coal in the world. Despite China’s healthy steel production growth of 7 per cent in the first seven months of the fiscal compared with 6 per cent growth in the previous year and 10 per cent in 2018-19, its coking coal imports have significantly reduced by 12 per cent against an increase of 14 per cent in the last fiscal, reflecting the country’s increased reliance on domestic coking coal. Considering the low coking coal imports by China, an excess supply would build up unless Australian miners reduce their output considerably. Ind-Ra said it expects  prices would remain soft although other major coking coal importers such as India, Japan and South Korea’s production levels have recovered to pre-Covid levels. Coking coal import prices plunged to a 52-month low by mid-November 2020, declining 27 per cent since early-October 2020, because of the reports of a verbal ban on Australian coal imports by China and in anticipation of an oversupply in the global market. Australian premium HCC prices have been under selling pressure as spot demand in Southeast Asian markets remained weak. China coking coal imports reduced 6 per cent month-on to 6.72mt  in September 2020, despite production remaining stable. As Chinese end-users are likely to increase their domestic coal production or import coking coal from countries such as Indonesia, Russia, Canada and the US, Indian buyers would gain more bargaining power with Australian coking coal. India and China have been the largest consumers of Australian coking coal, competing with each other and composing 25 per cent and 24 per cent  respectively, of Australia’s  metallurgical coal exports. Indian steel players have increased imports at 4% month on month and 19% m-o-m higher in September 2020 and October 2020, respectively, and this is indicative of strong domestic steel production in the coming months. Furthermore, the low coking coal prices have incentivised domestic steel players to increase imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Fines on select deals get service tax relief||A recent ruling of the principal bench of the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), New Delhi, stating that service tax is not applicable on penalty arising out of a commercial contract in certain cases of “declared service” could affect tax claims of a similar nature under GST. The service tax department in April 2017 in a show cause notice to Coal India subsidiary — South Eastern Coalfields — stated that the company had evaded the  payment of service tax worth Rs 35.26 crore on Rs 266 crore collected as earnest money deposit forfeitures, penalty and liquidated damages from the buyers of coal, contractors and material suppliers during the period July 2012 till March 2016. The penalty is applicable on the buyers of coal for short lifting/non lifting of the contracted quantity of coal and non-compliance of the terms and conditions of the fuel supply agreement. Penalty is also applicable on contractors for the breach of terms and conditions of contract. Justifying the levy, the service tax department said the penalty amount falls under the category of “declared service” and is tantamount to tolerating an act on the part of the buyers of coal/contractors, for which service tax would be levied under section 66 E(e) of the Finance Act. “Under the declared service entry, the scope of levy of service tax would apply to even a situation where the actual activity is nonexistent and consequently a person would be required to pay tax even for not doing anything. Even if a person refrains from doing a particular activity for which a consideration is received or receivable, such consideration would be taxed,” the principal commissioner had said in its order. The CESTAT, however, differed with the views of the service tax authorities and allowed the appeal filed by SECL. It set aside the service tax demand along with penalty and interest as raised by the service tax department. “The recovery of liquidated damages/penalty from other party cannot be said to be towards any service per se, since neither the appellant is carrying on any activity to receive compensation nor can there be any intention of the other party to breach or violate the contract and suffer a loss.” Tax practitioners said that the GST has similarly worded clauses as that of the service tax regulation. “This is a very important judgment and will have significant ramifications in the present GST regime as well, wherein identically worded provisions exist,” Sanjay Dixit, partner, Rajeev Agarwal & Co, told The Telegraph he said. “The purpose of imposing compensation or penalty is to ensure that the defaulting act is not undertaken or repeated and the same cannot be said to be towards toleration of the defaulting party. The expectation of the appellant is that  the other party complies with the terms of the contract and a penalty is imposed only if there is non-compliance," the tribunal said in its order. Under Schedule 2, clause 5 of CGST Act, subclause (e) specifies agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation, or to do an act, to be treated as a service. Sanjay Dixit, partner, Rajeev Agarwal & Co, told the Telegraph that the provisions in the erstwhile service tax regime and current GST regime are more or less the same. "This is a very important judgement and will have significant ramifications in the present GST regime as well, wherein identically worded provisions exist," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||India||BJP to push idea of ‘one nation, one election’||The Bharatya Janata Party will organise nearly 25 webinars over the next few days on the issue of “one nation, one election”, as it seeks to build popular support for what has been a strong plank of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Party sources said its senior leaders, besides members of academia and legal fraternity, will be attending these ‘webinars’, seminars that are held online. “We plan to hold 25 webinars by the end of this month,” a party leader said. Since coming to power in 2014, Modi has often advocated holding all elections together, from Lok Sabha to state assemblies and local bodies, arguing that this will orient various elected bodies fully towards development as the current cycle of frequent polls across the country hampers work. Recently, while addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference, the prime minister had pitched for “one nation, one election”, saying it is the need of India as polls taking place every few months impact development works. “Elections are held at different places every few months and the impact it has on development works is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on ‘one nation, one election’,” Modi had said. The Law Commission under Justice B S Chauhan had a couple of years ago recommended holding simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money. The draft, submitted to the Law Ministry, had, however, cautioned that holding simultaneous elections is not possible within the existing framework of the Constitution. It had recommended amendment to the Constitution and electoral laws. The Centre has been toying with the idea for quite some time now. The government think-tank, NITI Aayog, had suggested synchronised two-phase Lok Sabha and Assembly polls from 2024 to ensure minimum campaign-mode disruption to governance. Modi had held a brain storming session with heads of 21 political parties on holding simultaneous polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Saradha scam: CBI files fresh plea to quiz IPS officer||The Central Bureau of Investigation has moved the Supreme Court again, seeking to question senior IPS officer Rajeev Kumar in links with the multi-crore-rupee Saradha chit fund scam case. The central investigation agency, which has been directed by the Supreme Court to solve the ponzi scam case in Bengal, has moved the fresh plea, alleging that the officer was not cooperating with their investigation, sources said. The CBI said that it is necessary to quiz Kumar to find out the larger picture in the case. The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing on the reopening of the apex court after the winter break. The Saradha group of companies allegedly duped lakhs of people to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of return on their investments. Kumar was the Bidhannagar police commissioner when the scam was discovered in 2013. He was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the Bengal government to probe the case, before the Supreme Court handed it over to the CBI in 2014, along with other chit fund cases. In November last year, the top court had sought the response of the IPS officer on the CBI's appeal challenging the anticipatory bail granted to him in the chit fund scam by the Calcutta High Court. The probe agency had filed an appeal in the apex court against the October 1, 2019 order of the Calcutta High Court, which had granted Kumar the relief saying it was not an appropriate case for custodial interrogation. The high court had directed Kumar to cooperate with the investigating officers and make himself available before them for questioning on a 48-hour notice by the CBI. On September 21, 2019, a pre-arrest bail plea of the IPS officer was rejected by the Alipore District and Sessions Court in Kolkata. The Centre and the West Bengal government were also locked in an unprecedented standoff after a CBI team had reached Kumar's official residence for questioning him, but had to retreat as the local police detained its officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||BCI condemns police attack on advocate in UP||The Bar Council of India, the country’s apex bar body, Saturday condemned the incident in which Uttar Pradesh Police allegedly assaulted an advocate after dragging him out of his house in Etah. It also urged the CJI and Allahabad High Court Chief Justice to take action against guilty. The BCI said the UP police had “crossed all limits of atrocities” and that it was worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal. A video clip, purportedly of the incident, showing police personnel breaking open the door of a house, dragging a man in advocate’s dress out and assaulting him mercilessly, has gone viral. “The UP police has crossed all limits of atrocities and similar incidents were witnessed in West Bengal, Bihar and from other parts of the country. “Such action of the police is rather worse than the crime committed by any hardened criminal,” the BCI said. It said, “The act of police of Uttar Pradesh is shocking, it cannot be expected from the protectors of Law and Order.” “The brutality clearly shows that the police personnel of Etah were acting with some planning with some ulterior motive. “The Council, thus, resolves to request Chief Justice of India and Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court to take immediate steps to find out the guilty police personnel and issue a direction to UP government to immediately put them under suspension, transfer them and remove them from service,” it said in a press release. It said that such incidents cannot be tolerated anymore and if the judiciary and the government ignore such atrocities on lawyers, or even on common man, “the Bar will have no option except to come on roads”. The BCI said it has also resolved to write to the Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take suitable action in the matter and make suitable laws for providing protection to lawyers. “The Bar Council of India has resolved and stated that the entire Legal Fraternity is in support of Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh and Lawyers of Uttar Pradesh on this issue. “The Council is going to convene a joint meeting of representatives of all the State Bar Councils through Video-Conferencing to decide the future course of action within 3-4 days,” it said. It said the joint meeting shall also consider the “inaction” of Union and state governments who have failed to provide any financial assistance to lawyers during the tough time of pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Need to plug loopholes in anti-defection law: Naidu||Underlining the need to make the anti-defection law more stringent, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said if loopholes in it are not plugged, “we will be making a mockery of democracy”. He also cautioned that people will lose faith in the political class unless urgent and collective action is taken towards cleansing the system and promoting clean politics. Delivering the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture organised by the India Foundation in Hyderabad, Naidu lamented that the absence of value-based politics, lack of ideology, hunger for power, muscle and money power and the entry of people with a criminal background into politics were leading to violence in the political arena. “Unless these undesirable trends are checked, the situation will further deteriorate and cause irreparable damage to the country’s polity,” he cautioned according to the text of his speech. Drawing attention to the manner in which the anti-defection law has been rendered ineffective, Naidu emphasised the need to make it more stringent and effective. Noting that defection matters cannot remain undecided for long periods, he suggested making it mandatory for the presiding officers to dispose of defection matters within three months. “We will be making a mockery of democracy if we fail to plug the loopholes in anti-defection laws,” Naidu, also the chairperson of Rajya Sabha, observed. According to PRS Legislative Research, the anti-defection law seeks to prevent political defections which may be due to reward of office or other similar considerations. The Tenth Schedule was inserted in the Constitution in 1985. It lays down the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the presiding officer of a legislature based on a petition by any other member of the House. He felt that all political parties should put an end to “politics of convenience” and practice the “politics of conviction” and “politics of consensus” as demonstrated by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He also called upon the political parties to shun populism and accord priority to long-term development. Expressing dismay over the sway of 4Cs - cash, caste, criminality and community - in Indian politics, he appealed to the people to elect their representatives on the basis of other 4Cs - character, conduct, calibre and capacity. Naidu emphasised that it is the duty of all political parties to ensure that their members, including legislators, maintain ethical conduct at all times and at all places. He also appealed to the legislators to raise the level of debates, follow standards, avoid unruly behaviour and always adhere to 3Ds - discuss, debate and decide - avoid the “4th D” - disrupt. Speaking on the theme of this year’s lecture, “Building democratic consensus - The Vajpayee way”, Naidu said for Vajpayee, consensus was not an expedient political tool rather it was a core element of his convictions. His consensual approach made him widely acceptable across the social and political spectrum, the vice president added. This consensual approach enabled him to successfully lead a large coalition to its full term in an era of unstable coalition governments. Naidu described Vajpayee as the “father of coalition practices” in India. However, Vajpayee's ability to forge consensus did not necessarily mean compromise all the time, Naidu said. He cited the example of Vajpayee’s second stint as the prime minister in 1999 when he refused to budge under the pressure of a coalition partner and sacrificed his government. Calling Vajpayee as ‘vikas purush’, Naidu said that despite heading a coalition government, he successfully overcame all hurdles and paved the way for socio-economic transformation of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Oxford vaccine likely to be the first to be approved in India||The Oxford vaccine may be the first one against Covid-19 to be rolled out in India, as the drug regulator in the country is looking forward to a UK nod to the vaccine, which according to sources is likely next week. India, which hopes to come up with a vaccine in January, will then decide on giving an emergency use authorisation to the Serum Institute, which is manufacturing the shots in the country. Once the UK drug regulator gives its approval to the Oxford vaccine, the expert committee on Covid-19 at the CDSCO will hold its meeting and thoroughly review the safety and immunogenicity data from the clinical evaluations conducted abroad and in India before granting any emergency authorisation for the vaccine here, official sources said. The process of granting emergency use approval for Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ may take time as its phase 3 trials are still underway, while Pfizer is yet to make a presentation. “Going by this, the Oxford vaccine ‘Covishield’ is likely to be the first to be rolled out in India,” a source said. Serum Institute of India (SII) last week also submitted some additional data required by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the sources said. Amid fears about the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the UK, government officials recently said that it will have no impact on the potential of emerging vaccines that are being developed in India and other countries. Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines early this month. The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on December 9 had sought additional safety and efficacy data for Covid-19 vaccines of SII and Bharat Biotech after deliberating upon their applications. The application by the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer was not taken up for deliberation as the company had sought more time for making a presentation before the committee. The Pfizer vaccine has already been approved by several countries including the UK, the US, and Bahrain. While considering SII's application, the SEC had recommended that the firm should submit an updated safety data of phase 2 and 3 clinical trials in the country, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India, along with the outcome of the assessment of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) for grant of EUA. As for Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, “after detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial in the country for further consideration”, the SEC had said. The Pune-based SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has made a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. The SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from the DCGI, officials recently had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||BJP ally in Rajasthan quits NDA over farm laws||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convenor and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday said that he was quitting from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), citing the Centre’s three new contentious farm laws. “I am not stuck with Fevicol with the NDA. Today, I separate myself from the NDA,” Beniwal said while addressing a farmers' rally in Shahjahanpur in Alwar district. The RLP chief had on Friday announced a march to Delhi on Friday  in support of farmers organisations holding a protest against the contentious laws. “I was stopped from entering the Lok Sabha with a fudged Covid report. Had I been there, I would have thrown away the copy of the farm bills in the house,” Beniwal, 48, said at the rally. He had earlier said that the RLP will “think about continuing” its alliance with the NDA if the ‘black laws’ are not repealed. The RLP is the latest high-profile political party to quit the NDA this year amid a backlash over the three agri-marketing laws. Earlier this year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had split from the alliance over the same legislations. Farmers from Rajasthan have been protesting in Shahjahanpur near the Rajasthan-Haryana border on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for 14 days. Meanwhile, farmers’ unions on Saturday accepted the Centre’s offer to hold a dialogue and end the deadlock over the issue. In a letter to Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said, “We propose that the next meeting between the farmers' representatives and the Government of India be held on December 29 2020 at 11 am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Farmers' unions to hold talks with Centre on Tuesday, Dec. 29||Farmers’ unions protesting against the three new agri-marketing laws have accepted the Centre’s offer to hold a dialogue and end the deadlock over the issue. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions on Saturday wrote to the government asking it to hold talks on December 29. In a letter to Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said, “We propose that the next meeting between the farmers' representatives and the Government of India be held on December 29 2020 at 11 am.” “As the government is willing to hold talks with us and asking us for a date and our issues, we have proposed to hold a dialogue on December 29. Now, the ball is in the court of government when it calls us for talks,” Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait told PTI. The unions reiterated that repealing the three contentious laws and legal guarantee for MSP should be part of the agenda for the talks with the Centre. According to the letter, the agenda proposed by the protesting unions includes amendments to be made and notified in the Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020 to exclude farmers from its penal provisions. The farmer unions also demanded that changes in the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 to protect the interests of farmers should also be part of the agenda for the next round of dialogue. Earlier this week, Aggarwal had written to the 40 protesting unions and invited them for fresh talks, but made it clear that it would not be "logical" to include in the agenda any new demand related to the MSP, which is out of the purview of the three new farm laws. “Unfortunately, your (Aggarwal's) letter continues the government's attempt to mislead the public by suppressing true facts about the deliberations in the previous meetings. We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts,” the letter said. “If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings. The campaign launched by the entire state machinery to defame and malign the farmers' movement must stop forthwith,” the Sankyukta Kisan Morcha said in its letter. At the press conference, farmer leader Darshan Pal said that it was also decided that farmers will hold a tractor march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) highway on December 30 in protest against the Centre's agri laws. “We request people from Delhi and other parts of the country to come and celebrate New Year with protesting farmers,” Pal said. Another farmer leader, Rajinder Singh, said, "We will march from Singhu to Tikri to KMP. We ask farmers from surrounding states to come in huge numbers in their trolleys and tractors. If the government doesn't want us to block the KMP highway, then they better announce the repeal of the three farm laws."  The move comes after the organisations held meetings on Friday and Saturday to decide on the Centre’s offer of holding talks to resolve the impasse over the situation at the borders of Delhi, where farmers have been protesting for a month now. The decision also comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a strong attack on the Opposition, said that it was misleading the farmers for “political reasons”. He firmly defended the farm laws, asserting that the government was ready for talks “with an open heart”, provided that the dialogue was factual and logical. “I want to tell also those who are opposing us that the government is in favour of farmers and that it is ready for discussions, provided that the talks are based on sound arguments and facts,” Modi said. However, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday said there is “no confidence” in the words of the BJP-led government, referring to Modi’s assurance that the laws would be beneficial to farmers. “There is no confidence in Modi government's assurances for discussions with farmers since these bills were passed without any prior discussion and by preventing a vote in the House. No confidence in whatever they say. The PM claimed today that some money had been released. But this is part of a pre-poll ongoing scheme,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, more farmers from Maharashtra and Punjab are on their way to join the protests at Delhi and make them even stronger. Following Modi’s steps, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday urged protesting farmers to try the three new farm laws as an ‘experiment’ for a year or two, assuring that the government will bring in necessary amendments if they are not found beneficial. “For once let this act (acts) be implemented, for a year or two... Try this experiment and if you feel that this act (acts) is not in the interest of farmers, then I can say you this with conviction as I know the intention of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi we will do all necessary amendments in it,” the former BJP president said at a rally in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Manoj Tiwari willing to help Kejriwal understand benefits of farm laws||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday invited Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to his residence here, offering to clear his "doubts" and explain to him benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Kejriwal, who is Aam Aadmi Party's convenor, on Friday claimed the new agricultural reform laws will not benefit farmers in any way and will do a lot of harm. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Tiwari said Kejriwal does not allow anyone to enter his house and refrains from meeting public representatives or extending invitations. Recently, three mayors and other leaders of BJP-ruled municipal corporations sat on a dharna outside the chief minister's residence for 13 days but he did not meet them. Tiwari tweeted to Kejriwal, inviting the AAP convenor to his official residence on Mother Teresa Crescent in Lutyens Delhi on Sunday at 3 pm to explain the benefits of farm laws before media persons. "Let's do constructive politics for farmers' benefit," Tiwari said in his tweet. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, the chief minister had visited Singhu border, one of the protest sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the city government. "The BJP says that these laws will not harm farmers. But what is their benefit? They say that now the farmers will be able to sell their crop anywhere outside the market. But outside the market, the crop is sold at half the price. How is this a benefit? The truth is that these laws will do a lot of harm and don't have a single benefit," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Friday. Tiwari, former Delhi BJP president, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday explained benefits of farm laws and senior leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and national president JP Nadda have repeatedly assured that MSP and Mandis will continue as well. "Still, if Arvind Kejriwal cannot find any benefits in the three farm laws and has some doubts he may accept my invitation. I will be happy to help him see the benefits of the farm laws," Tiwari said. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for four weeks now to demand repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. The three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
26-12-2020||India||Suvendu vows to be a 'disciplined soldier' of BJP||Suvendu Adhikari, TMC's Nandigram face who has joined BJP, on Saturday said that he will work as a disciplined soldier of the saffron party to bring it to power in West Bengal in the 2021 state polls. BJP is the world's largest political party and is dedicated to the service of the nation, while in TMC there is no discipline, he said at a felicitation programme for those joining BJP from TMC. "We will work so that BJP comes to power in the state and transform West Bengal into Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal). West Bengal has to be handed over to the hands of the able leader Narendra Modi", he said. Adhikari said, "In BJP we will work as a disciplined soldier of the party to dislodge TMC and put BJP in power in the assembly polls in 2021". He said that it was due to Syama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Jan Sangh who raised his voice against Bengal getting transferred to Pakistan during partition that "We are able to live in present-day West Bengal". Referring to PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Adhikari said many states have taken advantage of it to benefit farmers. But West Bengal government has denied and deprived the farmers of getting those benefits. "It is a need that the party which is ruling the country also comes to power here (in Bengal)", he said. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said "Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is saying that BJP is an outsider party. Bengal was going to Pakistan. It was Syama Prasad Mukherjee who raised his voice against this and present day West Bengal is here due to him". Hitting out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the "outsider" controversy, Vijayvargiya said she even considers Prime Minister Narendra Modi an outsider. The world recognises Modi's leadership but not Banerjee, he said. "Modi is respected by the people of Balochistan in Pakistan and sends rakhi to him. Even Amit Shah is termed as an outsider by her. She is trying to create a wave by crying outsiders against people who come to West Bengal". Vijayvargyia said that the car of TMC MP Sunil Mondal, who recently the saffron party, was attacked by TMC workers while coming to BJP office during the day. "I have given a report to the union home minister", he added. Continuing his criticism of Banerjee, he said that while she wears a white saree and chappal her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) wears a spectacle which costs Rs 25 lakh and stays in a seven crore bungalow which has an escalator. "This is what the Trinamool Congress leaders are saying". "Who is behind cattle smuggling, syndicates? It is her nephew who is all behind these", he alleged. "TMC is running dictatorship in the state. In BJP democracy prevails", Vijayvargiya added. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the party's wings are spreading across the state. Modi's Mann Ki Baat Programme on the radio will be aired in every booth on December 27. National vice-president of BJP Mukul Roy claimed that TMC will go into oblivion in the next assembly polls. BJP knows how to give respect to its workers, unlike TMC. "TMC will taste defeat surely", he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||RSS ‘sanskar’ responsible for success in political life, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said the lessons and ‘sanskar’ he learnt from the stalwart leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have helped him succeed in politics. The senior BJP leader revealed he was writing a book on the value system of the RSS and its “karya-paddhati” (working methodology) and how it can impact corporate and management sectors Gadkari was speaking at the Yeshwantrao Kelkar Yuva Award program at the 66th national convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the RSS' student wing, here. The Union road transport minister said journalists often ask him how he was able to execute big infrastructure projects successfully. "I am neither engineer and techno savvy nor was I a genius or brilliant student. I ask them (journalists) do you know the RSS, its ideology, its style of functioning?" he said. He got the opportunity to work closely with Sangh leaders of the past such as Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras, Gadkari said, describing them as geniuses. “The success I achieved is certainly due to the sanskar (lessons on values) received from the ABVP and RSS and these leaders,” he said. “For the last few months, I am trying to put into book the sanskar and working methodology learned from Yeshwantrao Kelkar, Dattopant Thengdi and Bhaurao Deoras. (On) How this working methodology can impact the working in corporate and management sectors,” the Union minister said. Manish Kumar, who is working on organic farming, received the Kelkar award at Gadkari's hands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Central Vista: MPs' offices coming up in place of two buildings ||The Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan in Lutyens' Delhi will be the first two buildings to be razed to pave the way for the construction of chambers of Members of Parliament there as part of Central Vista redevelopment project. An official from HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, which has prepared the master plan of the ambitious project, said that MP offices will come up where Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan are currently located on Rafi Marg and Sansad Marg respectively. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building where the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The National Emblem will crown the new Parliament building. According to the plan, a tunnel would be constructed to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex. "The new Parliament will have six committee rooms to conduct business," the HCP official said. The government has identified around four locations -- in Gole Market, K G Marg, near Africa Avenue and near Talkatora Stadium -- in central Delhi for the temporary shifting of offices of various ministries. Government sources said that the demolition of buildings will be carried out in phases to ensure smooth functioning of various ministry offices. To construct Common Central Secretariat for ministry offices, several buildings like Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan among others are likely to be demolished. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. According to the CPWD's latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista, the prime minister's new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. The prime minister's new residence will be built on a 15-acre plot and it will have 10 buildings and they will have ground plus three floors, the CPWD said in its proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||North East excelling under PM's leadership, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday asserted that the North East has emerged as the growth engine of the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said Modi considers the North East as the focal point for the nation's development and has visited the region "30 times in the last six years and each time, he has come with some gifts". Speaking at a programme to launch various projects, Shah said Assam has embarked on a journey of peace and development under Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. "Assam was earlier known for agitations and violence, but Sonowal and Sarma have unified the people of the state and the region with the rest of the country by upholding and promoting heritage and traditions," he said. Shah said NDA's triumph in the just-concluded Bodoland Territorial Council polls was like a semifinal before the assembly elections in which it will emerge winners with a huge majority. The home minister said all militant organisations in the state have surrendered and returned to the mainstream. He also urged farmers agitating against the new agriculture laws to resolve their issues through discussions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||PM attacks Opposition over J&K local polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that the DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir have written a new history in the region, saying the transparent election process and enthusiastic participation of voters to say it is a “moment of pride” for India. Taking a hit at the Congress yet again, he said that the party was offering him lessons of democracy, while “not carrying out panchayat and municipal polls” in Puducherry, a Union Territory where the Opposition is in power. The Prime Minister was speaking at an event where he launched a scheme via video-conference to extend the benefits of Ayushman Bharat to all residents of the union territory. Attacking the Congress without naming it, he said some people in Delhi offer him lessons in democracy day in and day out, and use “abuses” for him, but they have not organised the panchayat polls in Puducherry despite a Supreme Court order. Modi noted that the three-tier panchayat polls were carried out in Jammu and Kashmir in over a year after it became a union territory. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a recent attack on the PM over the farmers’ protest against the agri laws, had said that there is no democracy in India. “The District Development Council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir have seen people winning due to their work and not names,” the Prime Minister said. The Centre has undertaken all-round development of Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Modi said a big mistake of those who were in power for decades in the country was to ignore the development of border regions, including Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states, but his government has rectified this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth progressing well, says hospital||Superstar Rajinikanth, who was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad for severe blood pressure fluctuations, is progressing well, the hospital said on Saturday. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami spoke to the actor over the phone and enquired about his health, an official release here said, adding he prayed for the star's speedy recovery. The hospital said the actor's blood pressure was still on the higher side although it is under better control than on Friday. Investigations have not revealed anything 'alarming' so far about his health, the hospital said in a bulletin. The 70-year old actor is scheduled to undergo more investigations on Saturday, reports of which would be available by the evening, it said. "Mr Rajinikanth who was admitted in the hospital yesterday is progressing well. He has had an uneventful night and his blood pressure is still on the higher side although under better control than yesterday," it said. His blood pressure medications were being titrated carefully and he would continue to be under close monitoring, it said. He has been advised complete rest in view of his labile blood pressure and visitors were not being allowed to meet him, it said. Based on his investigations and control of blood pressure, a decision on his discharge would be taken by the evening, the bulletin added. Rajinikanth was on Friday admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad for severe blood pressure fluctuations. He was in the Telangana capital since December 13 to shoot for Tamil flick, 'Annathe,' a Sun Pictures production and he isolated himself after four of the crew members tested COVID-19 positive days ago. The superstar, however, tested negative. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu and actor-politician Kamal Haasan have wished the actor a speedy recovery. The actor is set to launch his own political party next month ahead of the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Anti-conversion law: UP going strong at more than one arrest per day||Going full steam, the Uttar Pradesh police have made more than one arrest a day since the controversial anti-conversion ordinance came into effect a month ago, having apprehended about 35 people so far. Nearly a dozen FIRs have been lodged since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 27. Eight arrests were made from Etah, seven from Sitapur, four from Greater Noida, three each from Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh, two each from Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Kannauj and one each from Bareilly and Hardoi, officials said here. The first case was registered in Bareilly just a day after the legislation came into force. The police cracked the whip following a complaint of Tikaram Rathore, the father of a 20-year-girl and resident of Sharif Nagar village in Bareilly. He alleged that Uwaish Ahmad (22) had become friends with his daughter and was trying to "coax, coerce and lure" her to convert. An FIR was lodged at Deorania police station in Bareilly district and the accused was arrested on December 3. Acting swiftly after being tipped off about interfaith marriages, the Lucknow Police stopped a ceremony in the state capital, asking the couple to meet the legal requirements first. In Muzaffarnagar district, one Nadeem and an accomplice were arrested on December 6 for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Nadeem, however, got reprieve when the Allahabad High Court directed the police not to take any coercive action against him. Likewise, in Moradabad, two brothers, arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, were released on an order of a CJM court. Rashid and Salim were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar's office in Moradabad to record Rashid's marriage to a Hindu woman whose family had filed the complaint. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38), who is married, was picked up in Mau district on December 3 and 13 of his accomplices booked for allegedly abducting a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with an intent to change her religion. An FIR was lodged at Tambor police station in Sitapur district and 22-year-old Zubrail along with five of his family members and two locals was accused of kidnapping a 19-year-old girl and converting her. All, barring Zubrail, were arrested on December 5. In Bijnor, 22-year-old labourer Afzal was arrested on December 13 for allegedly kidnapping a girl from her home. A 19-year-old woman lodged an FIR with Shahabad police station in Hardoi district on December 11 alleging that she was raped on the pretext of marriage and also pressured to convert by one Mohammed Azad. She also alleged that she was being sold by Azad in Delhi. Azad was booked for rape, for flouting UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020 and for human trafficking. He was arrested on December 16. Rashid Ali (22) and Saleem Ali (25) were arrested under the new law in Moradabad district on similar charges. A man was sent to jail in Bijnor on December 16 for 'love jihad', a term coined by BJP leaders and right-wing activists to describe the crime against which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also spoken out. Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of 'Ram Naam Satya Hai' to threaten those who do not respect daughters and sisters. Amid a hue and cry over the law, social activist Shantanu Sharma said, "We have no problems with the new law but its enforcement should not cause harassment to people. It should be ensured that it is not misused." "Making a new law doesn't mean that forcible conversions will be checked easily. Ultimately, it will be the police which will enforce it. It's too early to predict whether it will succeed in its purpose or not, but it should be used carefully," he said. Former UP Director General of Police Yashpal Singh said that when a girl flees, there is pressure for her recovery. "It (law) is good as per the social structure and with this there will be not exploitation. However, as per modern social outlook, people can feel stripped off their freedom." High court lawyer Sandeep Chowdhury said, "The law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. It militates against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution." He pointed out that a PIL has already been filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the law and now it is for the court to decide. The high court has asked the state government to respond to a petition which contended that the new law impinges upon the fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. During the hearing, the high court refused to grant any interim relief and directed the state government to file a counter affidavit by January 4. The ordinance aimed at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, got the assent of UP Governor Anandiben Patel just within days of the state cabinet approving its draft. The law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for any violations. Under the law, which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the accused and the convert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Delivering justice during pandemic||Bombay High Court and lower courts across Maharashtra stepped into the mostly uncharted waters of virtual hearing during the year as the coronavirus pandemic forced the state into lockdown. After actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death shocked the country in June, there was a flurry of litigation related to the case. Actor Kangana Ranaut also found herself at the courts doorstep when the Mumbai municipal body demolished 'illegal' construction at her Bandra bungalow. The lockdown led to some important criminal cases such as the September 2008 Malegaon blasts and Sheena Bora murder getting stuck, as examination and cross-examination of witnesses posed a difficulty due to movement restrictions. In April, a few benches of the high court in Mumbai started hearing urgent matters through video conference. The facility was also made available at the benches at Aurangabad, Nagpur and Goa and in subordinate courts all over the state. Justice Dipankar Datta of the Calcutta High Court took over as new Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court towards the end of April. Amid lockdown, he chose to drive from Kolkata to Mumbai with his son, covering the distance of 2,000 km in three days. The high court functioned through the annual summer vacation. The number of benches hearing matters virtually was gradually increased and by October all the benches were back in action. In November, the high court decided to resume physical hearings. But as a few lawyers' associations demurred, Chief Justice Datta said the high court would conduct virtual hearings once a week and physical hearings on other days. This system is to be in operation till January 10, 2021. In April, the high court passed a directive that all interim orders passed in civil and criminal cases shall continue till further decision as litigants could not travel to courts. The directive has been extended till January 2021. In September, when all hearings were being conducted virtually, the high court came to the rescue of Kangana Ranaut by staying the demolition of her office-cum-bungalow in Pali Hill area, initiated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The court held that the action was illegal and smacked of malice. Ranaut's legal troubles, however, continued with a magistrate's court ordering police to lodge a First Information Report against her and her sister Rangoli Chandel for alleged offences of sedition and trying to incite hatred and communal tension through Twitter posts. They moved the high court, which in November granted them interim protection and asked them to appear before the police to record statements on January 8, 2021. Lyricist Javed Akthar filed a defamation complaint against Ranaut over some of her statements. A magistrate's court on December 19 directed the Mumbai police to probe the complaint and file a report. Actor Richa Chadha filed a defamation suit against another actor Payal Ghosh, who had accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault, for making false statements about her. Ghosh apologised to her, following which Chadha withdrew the suit. Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami was arrested by Alibaug police for alleged abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik in 2018. He failed to get interim bail from the Bombay High Court but was granted relief by the Supreme Court after he had spent a week in jail. Goswami and his channel also moved the high court seeking the quashing of a case registered by Mumbai police over an alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging racket. Following Sushant Singh Rajputs death on June 14, 2020,his girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty was accused by his family of abetting the suicide. She, in turn, filed a complaint against Rajput's sisters for allegedly forging a prescription to procure drugs for anxiety for him. Rajput's sisters moved the high court which granted them interim protection from arrest. A petition was filed in the high court by some former IPS officers and others seeking regulation of media coverage in cases such as Rajputs death which spawned many conspiracy theories. The high court has reserved its order on the plea. An offshoot of the probe into Rajput's death was the discovery of evidence about alleged drug use in Bollywood. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in September arrested Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others for allegedly procuring narcotics. While Rhea was granted bail by the high court in October, her brother managed to get bail only in December. The NCB later arrested comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya for alleged consumption of drugs but both were released on bail by a magistrates court. In February, the high court granted bail to former media baron Peter Mukerjea, who along with former wife Indrani Mukerjea is accused of being party to the conspiracy to kill Sheena Bora, her daughter from an earlier relationship. Indrani Mukerjeais still behind bars. Some of the accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case had to knock on the courts door for simple amenities in jail such as winter clothing. Stan Swamy, 82, suffering from Parkinsons disease, filed an application in the sessions court seeking a direction to jail authorities to provide him a straw and sipper. Activist Gautam Navlakha, another accused, complained that his spectacles were stolen in jail and the authorities refused to accept the new pair sent by his family. The high court said these are humane considerations and should not be denied. It suggested that a workshop should be conducted for jail officials to sensitise them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Less than 300 casualties in a day for first time in six months||India's daily new Covid-19 fatality count was reported below 300 after over six months, taking the death toll to 1,47,343, while the infection tally rose to 1,01,69,118, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. A total of 251 more deaths and 22,273 new infections were reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,40,108, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.78 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 2,81,667 active coronavirus infections in the country, constituting 2.77 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,71,59,289 samples have been tested up to December 25, including 8,53,527 on Friday. The 251 new fatalities include 71 from Maharashtra, 31 from West Bengal and 30 from Delhi. The total 1,47,343 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,129 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,048 from Tamil Nadu, 12,044 from Karnataka, 10,414 from Delhi, 9,536 from West Bengal, 8,279 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,091 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,269 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Translocated tigress released into wild in Rishikesh||A tigress that was translocated to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve was safely released into the wild on Friday. The gate of the enclosure at Motichoor where the tigress had been kept was opened around 1.30 pm in the presence of Member Secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority, SP Yadav; Uttarakhand's Chief Wildlife Warden J S Suhag; and scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India, Rajaji Tiger Reserve Director Dharmesh Kumar Singh said. A radio collar has been fixed on the six-year-old tigress to keep a constant track of its movement, he said. The tigress was translocated on Thursday from the Bijrani range of the Corbett Tiger Reserve to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve to give a boost the tiger population there. This is the state's first successful attempt at tiger translocation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-462
26-12-2020||India||Fire in Delhi factory leaves one dead||A 45-year-old man died in a fire at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri area early Saturday morning, a Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said. A call about the fire was received around 3.50 am, and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said. DFS Director Atul Garg said fire officials broke down the door of the factory and rescued three people, one of whom was unconscious. The man was taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where he was declared brought dead, he said, adding that he was identified as Jugal Kishor. The fire broke out on the third floor of the factory where machines and raw materials are kept, Garg said. The two people rescued were identified as Aman Ansari (18) and Feroj Ansari (24), officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Cold conditions persist in Delhi, mercury likely to rise||Cold conditions persisted in the national capital as the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. "Shallow" fog reduced visibility to 1000 meters at Safdarjung and 800 meters in the Palam area, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. According to the weather department, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 meters, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". The mercury is likely to increase slightly on Sunday and Monday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Moderate fog is likely during this period, Srivastava said. Cold wave conditions will return December 29 onwards, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. Delhi's air quality improved slightly, but it was still "very poor". The city's air quality index (AQI) was 324 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday, 433 on Wednesday and 418 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". A marginal improvement is predicted by Sunday as wind speed picks up under the influence of the WD, Srivastava said. However, he said, the air quality will dip again, starting Monday, due to predicted high humidity, low wind speed and temperatures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Farmers reply 'not for sale'  to Centre's PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme payout||The Centre’s decision to make a big “song and dance” about the payment of the seventh instalment of a farm scheme on Friday appears to have further strengthened the resolve of the protesting farmers to stay the course — all hurdles created by the State, the bitter cold and other difficulties notwithstanding. The day not only saw a bigger mobilisation at the Ghaziabad border of Delhi with farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh breaking down barricades to proceed further. The cultivators also responded to Friday’s payout of Rs 2,000 for all those in the farming community registered for the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme with the “FarmersNotOnSale” hashtag on social media. Also, the boycott of the Mukesh Ambani-owned Jio is gathering steam with farmers now cutting off power supply to the company’s cellphone towers and public announcements in villages of Punjab urging people to port their connections to other telecom service providers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi heard an echo of the protests in person during a programme organised at the Central Hall of Parliament to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee when two AAP MPs began shouting slogans in support of the farmers. During the day, the farmers who had left Nasik earlier this week to join the protests reached Shahjahanpur on the Jaipur-Delhi highway near the Haryana border and created a Maharashtra flank of the ongoing agitation to counter the government’s claim that the movement was limited to only Punjab and Haryana. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the call for “Dilli Chalo” on November 26 and 27, accused the government of deliberately “not reading” their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill, 2020, that plans to reduce subsidies. The AIKSCC has given a call for observing Saturday as “Dhikkar Diwas” and boycott of Ambani and Adani products and services on the premise that the three new laws are aimed at helping corporates who have been the biggest donors to the BJP. The AIKSCC also made it clear that the farmers are in no hurry to show the government that its tactic to tire them down will not work. Many farmers have said that they have been hardened by farming, which has also taught them patience. About the claims made by Modi in his address to selected farmers from six states, the AIKSCC’s Avik Saha said: “It was a fusion of false, fake and fabricated news.” Modi told the farmers that the government was ready for talks with “an open heart”, yet again defended the farm laws and accused the Opposition of misleading the peasants for “political reasons”. (See Page 4) Taking a dig at Modi for talking to farmers from different states while ignoring those sitting at Delhi’s door with their demands, Saha said: “He has taken a decision to selectively play Prime Minister to whoever he wants.” On the PM-Kisan scheme, announced in February 2019 and given retrospective effect from December 2018, Saha said: “Why the Prime Minister chose to make such a song and dance about this scheme which has been going on for a long time is for everyone to see.” The unkindest cut, according to the AIKSCC, is the Prime Minister’s claim that the protesting farmers are shifting the goalposts when their demand has all along been the repeal of the three laws and a legislation to guarantee minimum support price, which Modi had himself demanded as chief minister. Likewise, defence minister Rajnath Singh’s suggestion to try out the laws for a couple of years was rejected on the ground that it would disrupt the sector no end and there would be no way of return. “The impact of the law is already predictable and known. What is there to wait for when the crisis is already so acute for farmers?” said another farmer union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Indian scientists express support for free access to academic research||Sections of India’s science community have asked the Centre to oppose a petition by three international academic publishers in Delhi High Court seeking a ban on two alleged pirate websites that offer free access to academic research. Over 2,000 teachers, scholars and students from institutions across India in a statement released on Friday urged the court and the Centre to allow researchers in India continued access to Sci-Hub and LibGen. Three academic publishers — American Chemical Society, Elsevier and Wiley — have sought a ban on the two websites that provide free access to research papers and books. Sci-Hub, created in 2011 by Alexandra Elbakyan, a web developer based in Kazakhstan, calls itself “the first pirate website in the world to provide mass and public access to tens of millions of research papers” to “remove all barriers in the way of science”. The website library has over 85 million papers. The other site LibGen (Library Genesis) also offers free access to scientific papers, comics and magazines. Elsevier had in 2015 filed a similar legal challenge against both Sci-Hub and LibGen in the US, and a New York court had in 2017 awarded $15 million in damages for copyright infringement by Sci-Hub and LibGen. The lawyers who filed the petition for the publishers in Delhi High Court and the lawyers representing the two websites were not immediately available for comments. But Indian scientists have now expressed their support for Sci-Hub and LibGen. “We support their initiative which, we contend, does not violate any norm of ethics or intellectual property rights as the research papers are intellectual products of the authors and institutions,” a scientists’ group called the Breakthrough Science Society said in a statement. The Society has said academic publishers have adopted business models under which they treat the knowledge created through academic research funded by taxpayers’ money “as their private property”. More than 2,000 faculty members, students and scholars have signed the statement. While researchers and reviewers of papers are not paid, the academic publishers “make windfall profits of billions of dollars by selling subscriptions to libraries worldwide at exorbitantly inflated rates which most institutional libraries in India and even developed countries cannot afford”, the Society said. Padmanabhan Balaram, a senior biochemist and former director of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, also wrote on Friday to India’s science and technology ministry to intervene to ensure that this case does not block access of Indian researchers to content from the websites. “The websites are serving public good in the way perhaps Robin Hood was serving public good,” Balaram told The Telegraph on Friday. “We have to understand the circumstances and conditions under which Robin Hood did what he did.” “Even the most well-endowed academic institutions in India are unable to afford the subscription costs of all the journals they would like to have,” Balaram said. Balaram, in his letter to the secretaries of India’s departments of science and technology, biotechnology, and scientific and industrial research, said the government should not allow the websites to be blocked without an investigation “into monopolistic and unfair pricing in the science publishing industry”. India, Balaram wrote, spends hundreds of crores of rupees through multiple library consortiums and open access charges paid by Indian scientists using public funds, referring to “open access” journals that ask scientists to pay for papers they want to publish. He said scientific publishers had profited from both scientists and libraries, “exploiting cleverly the author pays and reader pays models”. He has asked the government departments to find ways to get publishers to “negotiate on their unreasonable business model that results in a colossal waste of research funds”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Govt trying to tire out farmers: Congress||The Congress on Friday alleged that the Narendra Modi government was displaying political dishonesty by engaging with the protesting farmers while simultaneously working on a strategy to tire them out. Lamenting that the death of 44 farmers had failed to move the government, the Congress said the Centre was so committed to help the corporate sector that it had decided not to withdraw the “black laws”, come what may. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claims of welfare measures were a farce as farmers had got a raw deal during his rule. Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister said Rs 6,000 would be given to every farmer in a year. According to the agriculture census of 2015-16, there are 14.64 crore farmers in India but only 9.24 crore have been selected as beneficiaries of the scheme. He is publicising the sanction of the next installment under this scheme without revealing that input cost has gone up by Rs 15,000 per hectare over the last six years, which means collection of additional Rs 2.36 lakh crore from the farmers every year.” The Congress spokesperson gave a break-up: “Diesel price is up by Rs 25, 5 per cent GST on fertiliser for the first time in history, 18 per cent GST on pesticides, 12 per cent on tractor and other agricultural equipment. The price of DAP fertiliser increased from Rs 1,075 per bag to Rs 1,450, urea bag quantity reduced by 5kg at the same price, potash fertiliser price up by Rs 500 and super fertiliser up by Rs 90 per bag. This works out to a total additional collection of Rs 2.36 lakh crore for the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Bella Ciao gets a Punjabi version||In the span of a year, the streets of India have proved to be fertile ground for the churning out of two Indian versions of Bella Ciao — the Italian protest folk song that became an anti-fascist resistance anthem against Nazi German occupation. After the anti-CAA “Wapas jao”, which borrowed the tune of Bella Ciao and tailored it to the context of the protest against the Centre’s citizenship thrusts, the second version — “Farm laws wapas jao” — is a throwback to the original sung by the mondina (seasonal rice workers) in protest against the harsh working conditions in the paddy fields of north Italy at the turn of the 20th century. It was this original that had taken a life of its own during the anti-fascist resistance as a universal symbol of protest. “Given the history of Bella Ciao, it just made sense to make a version of it tailored to the farmers’ protests,” 27-year-old Poojan Sahil, the man behind both Indian versions, told The Telegraph as the Punjabi version of the song has gone viral online within a fortnight of its release. Poojan’s song has been made into a video and uploaded on YouTube. The video, which has a montage of pictures from the farmers’ protest, has been produced by Karwan-e-Mohabbat, a people’s campaign for constitutional values. Poojan plans to visit the farmers’ protest site over the weekend to see for himself if the song has struck a chord with the farming community picketing at Delhi’s borders, particularly at Tikri and Singhu where the majority are from Punjab. Released on YouTube on December 17, the video has already got nearly three lakh views, given the aggressive use of social media by not just the protesters but also those supporting them in India and across the world. Poojan, an engineer by training who chose to take up teaching mathematics at school level, tried his hand at Bella Ciao for the first time around this time last year during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the Hindi version also had gone viral. A Punjabi himself, he took the help of his parents to pen the song for the farmers’ protest and would like to perform it at one of the sites if there are takers. Though he makes his own music, Poojan likes to work around already familiar songs for such issues because he feels the familiarity helps in spreading the word. “Music and rhyme are a good way to communicate; particularly to people who may not agree with you.” And, a song like Bella Ciao has shown it has the staying power. As for his politics, the Delhi boy insists that like many of his generation, it has evolved because the politics of the country has thrown them into the deep end of the pool over the past six years. “Like many of my generation who came out to support the anti-CAA protests, there is disappointment at what is going on around us. We feel that we will have to struggle for freedom of thought, the very existence of our friends.... essentially the world the generations before us took for granted,” Poojan said, reliving what Bertold Brecht said in the 1930s: “In the dark times will there also be singing? Yes, there will also be singing. About the dark times.” And, Bella Ciao is not alone. Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s Hum Dekhenge has also got its own farmers’ protest edition in a mix of Punjabi and Tamil as an offering of a Chennai-based youth initiative by the name of Justice Rocks and has been hashtagged “Madrasis4Punjabis”, showing that the agitation have found resonance across the country and linguistic barriers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand villages end deadlock after 90 years ||Love blooming between young minds has forced two Uttarakhand villages to bury the hatchet after 90 years. And when the time came for truce, it took just one hour to staunch the bad blood. The residents of Hachina and Ajera in Pithoragarh district have also decided to allow marriage alliances between youths of the two villages. The elders went to Kokila Mata temple located between the two villages on Friday and sought permission from the Goddess to forge the friendship. The residents of Hachina and Ajera had fought with each other in 1930 to claim their right to the nearby forest of Lori. The elders say both villages used to collect wood from Lori but one day the residents of Hachina declared that since the forest was closer to them, they would use its resources exclusively. The enmity that started then triggered many fights. Then one day in 1930, residents of the two hill villages went to Kokila Mata temple separately and resolved that they would have no contact with each other. The divide ran so deep that there was no intermingling down several generations and residents did not even enter each other’s village. “Recently, we realised that although the youths of our villages don’t talk to each other when they are here, many of them have secretly developed romantic relationships and friendships in their colleges. Initially, the elders had resisted but gradually they began considering ending the deadlock,” said a villager who didn’t want to be named. Jaman Singh Bora and Kaman Singh, two social workers of Hachila and Ajera, respectively, said they realised that there was no point allowing the enmity to fester. They feared that the intermingling of the boys and girls could trigger another confrontation if the dispute was not resolved soon. “After a series of meetings with the villagers, it was decided that the panchayat chiefs of Hachila and Ajera, Hansa Devi and Baldev Singh, would invite their fellow villagers to the temple to discuss the issue. It was decided after an hour of meeting at the temple that they would forgive each other. They will also start marriage alliances,” Bora said. “The villagers submitted a joint application before the Goddess through a priest that they wanted to end the enmity,” Bora said. “The villagers are very happy as they have removed a 90-year-old burden from their minds and hearts,” Kaman Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||21-year-old chosen mayor in Kerala||It won’t be someone from the BJP but the next time Prime Minister Narendra Modi lands in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, he could be received by the country’s youngest mayor. Arya Rajendran, a 21-year-old BSc student, was on Friday picked as Thiruvananthapuram mayor by the local district committee of the CPM. The decision would have to be ratified by the party’s state committee, which, according to CPM sources, would be a mere formality. Arya defeated the Congress’s Sreekala by about 2,800 votes in the Mudavanmugal ward of the Kerala capital in the recent local body polls. The BJP, attempting to gain a toehold in Kerala, had desperately wanted to take control of the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation so that the party’s own mayor could receive Modi whenever he comes calling. A dark horse, Arya was nowhere in the reckoning during the election campaign when the CPM projected O.G. Olena and S. Pushpalatha as the probable candidates for the mayor’s post. But both of them lost the elections. Arya is a state committee member of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the campus wing of the CPM, and the state president of the party’s children’s organisation, Balasangham. She belongs to a CPM family, with both parents and elder brother active members of the party. Her father Rajendran is an electrician, while mother Sreelatha is an insurance agent and elder brother Aravind works in Abu Dhabi after graduating in engineering. The choice of Arya illustrates the importance the CPM has given to youths in the recent polls. She is currently a second-year BSc student at All Saints College in Thiruvananthapuram and is determined to continue with her studies. Arya said her background with Balasangham and the SFI had helped her during the campaign. “It is my experience with Balasangham and the SFI that gave me the courage and confidence to face an election,” she said, adding: “It’s the same background that will give me the strength to move forward as a councillor.” Arya exuded confidence while saying that she would continue her studies alongside her work as a councillor. “During my campaign, people had told me to continue my studies even if I manage to win. Fulfilling that promise is one of my major goals,” she told a news channel. The CPM-led Left Democratic Front won 51 of the 100 wards in the Thiruvananthapuram corporation, up from 43 in the 2015 civic body polls. The Thiruvananthapuram mayor’s post has been reserved for women this term. With 50 per cent of all local body seats in the state reserved for women, mayoral positions are alternated between men and women. V.K. Prashanth of the CPM was elected mayor after the 2015 local body polls. But he vacated the post after getting elected to the Assembly in a by-election to the Vattiyoorkavu seat in the Kerala capital in October 2019. K. Sreekumar of the CPM had replaced him. While all political parties had fielded a lot of youngsters in the local council polls, the youngest was the CPM’s Reshma Mariam Roy, who turned 21 and thus became eligible to contest elections just a day before she filed her nomination papers. She won from her home ward number 11 of the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Ministers meet Kerala governor over session to oppose farm laws||Two senior Kerala ministers met governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday in an effort to end the standoff triggered by his rejection of a cabinet decision for a special session of the Assembly to oppose the Centre’s contentious farm laws. The meeting on Christmas came a day after the cabinet made a second recommendation to convene the House on December 31. Khan had earlier triggered a massive controversy by rejecting the first recommendation to hold a one-day session on December 23. While law minister A.K. Balan and agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said they had a cordial discussion with the governor, they could not say for sure if Khan would approve the cabinet’s recommendation to convene the special session on New Year’s Eve. The ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front want to pass a resolution against the farm laws that have set off protests across the country and are detrimental to the interests of Kerala that depends on other states for its food grains. After a 30-minute discussion with Khan at Raj Bhavan, the two ministers told reporters that they expected a positive outcome. “It was a very positive approach from the government and the governor,” Balan said. “The governor raised some points and the subsequent action would be based on what he said,” the law minister said without going into the details of the discussion. Agriculture minister Kumar said: “We expect the governor to take a rational decision on the special session.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||US lawmakers urge Mike Pompeo to speak for farmers||Seven US lawmakers have urged secretary of state Mike Pompeo to speak to Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar about the ongoing protests against the new farm laws in the context of America’s “commitment to the freedom of political speech abroad”. While other US lawmakers have already picked up cudgels for the farmers’ right to peaceful protest, this is the first time a group of members of Congress are petitioning the secretary of state to make an intervention. Essentially, all of them are responding to a demand from their own constituents as Punjabis in general and Sikhs in particular have a significant presence in their respective constituencies. The seven signatories to the letter — five Democrats and two Republicans — have explained the reason for seeking the US government’s intervention. Referring to reports of water cannon attacks, barbed wire barricades and teargas used on the farmers, they said: “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikh Americans linked to Punjab although it also heavily impacts the Indian Americans belonging to other Indian states. Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned for the well-being of their families in India.” Understanding the importance of the India-US relationship, which enjoys bipartisan support in Washington, the US lawmakers have been careful to acknowledge the right of every country to draft their own laws. “As national legislators, we respect the right of the government of India to determine national policy, in compliance with existing law. We also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against agricultural laws that many Indian farmers see as an attack on their economic security.” Indian-origin Democrat Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal is one of the signatories to the letter. Jayapal had last year angered the Indian foreign ministry establishment by moving a bipartisan resolution in Congress on the Kashmir clampdown. The other signatories are Donald Norcross, Brendan F. Boyle, Brian Fitzpatrick, Mary Gay Scanlon, Debbie Dingell and David Trone, taking the number of US lawmakers who have raised concerns about the protests to over a dozen. While the number of legislators across world capitals expressing concern has grown as the protests have prolonged, the Indian external affairs ministry has not commented since its statement after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke up for the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-463
26-12-2020||India||Narendra Modi dismisses farmers' protest as politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, yet again, firmly defended the farm laws, asserted that the government was ready for talks “with a open heart” and accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers for “political reasons”, as the administration and the BJP went all out to claim they had the majority of the cultivators behind them. A routine government work of giving out doles was turned into a political spectacle aimed at not only countering the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders but also claim that an overwhelmingly large section of the peasantry was happy with the three new laws. On former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Modi released an instalment of Rs 2,000 into the bank accounts of each of 9 crore farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Modi used the occasion to interact with and then address the farmers. Ministers, chief ministers, MPs, MLAs and BJP leaders fanned out across the country to listen to Modi’s address on live screens along with gatherings of mostly farmers, according to the party. The government and party machineries were deployed to gather crowds at different locations across the country for the event. The BJP claimed that crores of farmers listened to Modi. The overdrive appeared part of the sustained effort to discredit the protesting cultivators by indirectly claiming that “crores of farmers”, or a majority of them, were with the government. A BJP general secretary had claimed on Thursday that “just about 1 per cent of the country’s farmers” were protesting. After releasing the money, Modi first interacted with select farmers from different states through videoconference and then delivered a speech. Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh were stationed at different locations in Delhi to interact with gatherings and listen to Modi’s speech with them. Transport minister Nitin Gadkari was sent to Assam on a similar mission and many other ministers were in their respective states or constituencies. Modi’s speech, like many since the farmers’ protest started, had a twin purpose — to defend the new laws as a “game-changer” for farmers and slam the Opposition and accuse it of misleading the “bhole bhale (gullible)” farmers for “political gains”. The agitating farmers have termed the laws “anti-farmer” and demanded that they be repealed. Along with the wider Opposition, Modi on Friday singled out Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and also the Left and accused them of misleading the farmers while ignoring the plight of tillers in Bengal. “On every issue of farmers, the government is ready to talk with an open heart,” Modi said after launching his attack on the Opposition. The government has been consistently following the carrot-and-stick policy. On the one hand it has been criticising the agitating farmers, saying they were being misled and used by the BJP’s political rivals and firmly defending the laws, and on the other saying it was ready for talks. “I want to tell also those who are opposing us that the government is in favour of farmers and that it is ready for discussions, provided that the talks are based on sound arguments and facts,” Modi said. Modi, like his party leaders have been doing, latched onto a protest by a section of farmers on Human Rights Day to claim that the peasants’ agitation was politically motivated. BJP leaders have been accusing the protesters of being “Khalistanis” and “Naxals”. “The movement started with the demand for inclusion of MSP in the agri-laws. Then political people jumped in and they started demanding freedom of some who are in jail after being accused of violence. Then they started a movement against toll plazas,” the Prime Minister said. Modi pointed out that he was not attacking the farmers but those political parties that were misleading them. He appealed to the farmers not to get misled and have faith in him. While the Prime Minister defended the laws and urged farmers for talks, defence minister Rajnath tried to woo them by saying that the government would amend the laws after an year if they were not found beneficial. Rajnath, while addressing a crowd at Delhi’s Dwarka where he had gone to listen to Modi’s speech, requested the farmers to try the new agri-laws as an experiment, stressing that the Prime Minister would never do anything that was against farmers. Addressing farmers at Kishangarh village in Delhi, Shah said no corporate entity can snatch a farmer’s land as long as Modi was Prime Minister. The home minister asserted that the provision of minimum support price (MSP) would continue and mandis would not be shut down. Modi’s interaction with select farmers appeared like an exercise to display how beneficial the farm laws were for the farmers. He started with a farmer named Gagan in Arunachal Pradesh, who claimed he was a beneficiary of the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme and said he grew organic ginger and sold them in Bangalore and Delhi. As soon as the farmer said he sold his produce in two big cities, Modi intervened and asked: “So you sell to private companies. Does the private company take only your ginger or your land too?” Gagan replied that he had entered into a contract with a private company to sell his produce, and not the land. Modi said: “You, sitting in Arunachal, are confident that your land is safe but some people are spreading this misinformation that farmers’ land will go if they enter into a contract to sell the produce. So much lies are being spread.” The other beneficiaries with whom Modi interacted appeared to have been picked carefully to ensure they hail the government’s existing schemes and also the new laws. The drift was that contract farming with private companies was more profitable. The agitating farmers have been saying the new laws are aimed at benefiting private companies as the government wants to slowly withdraw the MSP safety net. During his interaction with Hari Singh, a farmer from Haryana’s Fatehabad, Modi appeared happy when he said that he grew fruits apart from paddy and wheat and sold them in the open local market at a good price. The moment Hari Singh tried to say that he had sold his paddy for the MSP, Modi cut him short and congratulated him for the fact that he and his three brothers did joint farming and had not divided their land. He then switched to the next beneficiary from Odisha. Though the government has been claiming MSP would continue, the agitating farmers fear that with no legal guarantee in the new laws, they would be forced to sell their crop to private entities at rates detrimental to them. Farmers from Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh figured in Modi’s interaction but none from Punjab, which has emerged as the epicentre of the protests against the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
26-12-2020||India||Retired bank officer from Odisha cracks NEET||Age is no bar to acquiring new knowledge. Retired bank officer Jaya Kishor Pradhan has cracked the NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test)  examination and is going to enrol his name in the prestigious Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla to pursue an MBSS course from this academic session. The 64-year old Pradhan was about to enrol himself for the course on Thursday but could not make it because he failed to arrange the medical certificates at the last moment. He will be doing it on Monday. Dean and principal of VIMSAR Brajan Mohan Mishra told The Telegraph, “Now Pradhan has arranged the required certificates duly approved by the notary. We have received all the documents and all clearance has been given to him. We will enrol him as our student on Monday as he has passed the NEET examination. I had never heard of a student pursuing a medical degree at the age of 64.” Pradhan, who hails from Attabira in Bargarh district in Western Odisha, had retired as deputy manager in State Bank of India in 2016 from Bargarh branch. Pradhan, who had dreamt of becoming a doctor during his youth, had appeared for the medical entrance examination in 1974 but failed to crack it. Pradhan, who is physically challenged, later pursued his BSC degree in 1977. After passing out from the college, he joined as a teacher in Attabira ME School. “Later I appeared for the bank entrance examination and joined the Indian Bank and then State Bank of India in 1983. Later I retired as deputy bank manager of State Bank of India,” Pradhan told this newspaper. While the minimum age to appear for the NEET examination is 17, there is no upper age bar for taking the entrance test. “The Supreme Court’s decision to allow students above the age of 25 years for NEET helped me to pursue my dream of becoming a doctor. I will get the MBBS degree at the age of 70,” said Pradhan. Pradhan’s two  daughters — Jai Prava and Jyoti Prava (twins) — were studying for  Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) in a private college in Bilaspur in Madhya Pradesh. But Jai Prava passed away on November 20.  His only son Joyjeet is studying in Class 10. On how he prepared for the examination, Pradhan said, “While my daughters were preparing for the medical entrance examination, I read their books.  After the SC court removed the age bar for appearing of the entrance examination, I became serious and appeared for the examination this year and cracked it.” Pradhan, who has an infirm right leg, appeared the examination through the handicapped quota. Though he is sad about having lost one of his daughters he is keen to serve the poor through his knowledge. Director VIMSAR, Prof. Lalit Kumar Meher said: “We are happy to enroll a 64 year old student in our institution.” One of the senior medical professors of the VIMSAR college said, “Let us see how he would take up the pressure of attending classes and lab rooms. I wonder if he can do what you get students can do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
26-12-2020||India||Sand mafia gobbles up Sher Shah’s causeway ||The five-century-old and 4km-long stone causeway built across the Sone river by emperor Sher Shah Suri (1486AD-1545AD) as part of the famous Grand Trunk Road was considered to be the most significant archaeological find in Bihar after Independence. It was virtually intact when Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials discovered it in 2016. Today, the sand mafia is destroying it with impunity. They have wantonly damaged the causeway at many places; several portions of the structure are collapsing under the weight of huge sand-carrying vehicles and earthmovers. The causeway, located between Dehri in Rohtas district and Barun in Aurangabad district, is also being used as a jetty to illegally mine and load sand from the river. Mounds of sand are stacked along the causeway. Several huge stone slabs used in the structure are missing. The locals say they are being stolen to feed the stone-crusher units illegally active in the vicinity. Armed gangs roam around the area, dissuading common people from going anywhere near the causeway. Locals allege the nefarious trade is conducted in a nexus with the police and district administration officials. All this is happening despite chief minister Nitish Kumar’s frequent visits to archaeological sites and his vow to protect and conserve them. The leader is yet to visit the causeway. “The entire sand mining is illegal because ghats near any monument or bridge are not given on lease for the purpose. The sand mafia’s morale is very high and they are working unchecked. “The local administration turns a blind eye to their activities and it seems that the state government is also not serious about cracking the whip on them. Very drastic steps are needed to protect the causeway from them,” Rohtas-based history and archaeology researcher Shyam Sundar Tiwari told The Telegraph. The 20-feet-wide causeway made from 10-feet-long dressed sandstone slabs having a height and width of one foot each runs across the entire river bed of the Sone to bridge its two banks. The causeway was a part of the fabled Grand Trunk Road — known as the Uttarapath (the North Route) in ancient times and Sadak-e-Azam or Badshahi Sadak during the medieval era — stretching from Sonargaon and Chittagong in present-day Bangladesh to the Balkh region of Kabul in Afghanistan. The GT Road was considered to be of much military, commercial and transportation importance. The causeway, which had got buried under sand on the riverbed, was discovered when copious amounts of water released by the Bansagar Dam in Madhya Pradesh washed away the sand in 2016. The causeway was found by ASI deputy superintending archaeologist Shanker Sharma as part of the Uttarapath mapping project that now figures on the tentative list of the Unesco World Heritage status. Any site, property or monument considered to be a cultural or natural heritage of outstanding universal value and therefore suitable for being designated as a World Heritage is included in the tentative list. Asked about the ongoing destruction of the causeway, Sharma refused to comment. Patna circle superintending archaeologist H.A. Naik, under whose jurisdiction Bihar falls, expressed ignorance about the damage being perpetrated on the causeway. “We have not received any information or report from the state government or any other source about the destruction of Sher Shah’s causeway. We will send a team to find this out,” Naik told this newspaper. Then ASI director-general Rakesh Tewari, under whose tenure the structure was found, asserted that the onus of its protection was on the state government. “It is not a protected monument of the state or the Centre. However, its protection is the responsibility of the state government and the local administration. The causeway is a very important structure discovered by us,” Tewari said. Aurangabad district magistrate Saurabh Jorawal said he did not know about either Sher Shah’s causeway or illegal mining. “I have no idea about Sher Shah’s structure or illegal sand mining activities. However, we will get it checked,” Jorawal told this correspondent. Asked about the destruction of Sher Shah’s stone causeway due to illegal sand mining, Aurangabad police superintendent Sudhir Kumar Podika said: “This was not in my notice. I will ask my men to look into it. We conduct continuous raids against the sand mafia. Officials from the police, district administration, mining, transport, weights and measures are part of the raiding teams.” Since bridges of such span were not constructed in the 16th century, the causeway was an engineering marvel that allowed people and animal-drawn vehicles to cross the river. Surkhi-chuna (burnt clay and lime) mortar was used to connect the stone slabs of the structure. Stone chips were used to add strength to the mortar. The side of the causeway facing the flow of the river water was veneered with small stones to provide protection to the structure from the swift currents. Culverts were constructed on the causeway at regular intervals to allow the passage of water and the foundation of the entire structure is several metres deep. It became defunct during monsoon when water flowed over the structure and ferries were used to transport people, horses, elephants and carts from one side of the riverbank to the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-464
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Madhyamik starts from June 1, HS from June 15||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Saturday that the Class X and Class XII board examinations will start from June 1, with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The Madhyamik (Clas X) examinations will continue till June 10, an official said. “We have uploaded the details of the schedule for the 2021 Madhyamik (secondary) exams on our website. The examinations will be held with strict adherence to Covid protocols,” he said. The board exams, Madhyamik and Ucchyamadhyamik, are usually held between February and March every year, but the pandemic has deferred the schedule in 2021. The Ucchyamadhyamik exams will begin from June 15. The state government had on Wednesday announced that the secondary and higher secondary (class XII) exams would be held one after another in June next year. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ had earlier ruled out conducting board examinations for class 10 and 12 till February next year in view of the Covid- 19 situation. State Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday said that though the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has already announced the dates of the board exams, authorities have been asked not to hold any test on June 30 on the occasion of ‘Hul Diwas’. Hul Diwas is observed annually on June 30 in memory of tribals - Sidho and Kanhu Murmu -who led the Santhal hul (rebellion) on June 30, 1855. Asked about the possibility of reopening schools and colleges, Chatterjee said, “The Covid-19 situation in the state is under control now. We will take an appropriate decision at the right time.” The educational institutes in the state have been closed since mid-March due to the coronavirus pandemic and the authorities of schools, colleges and universities have made arrangements for online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC doesn't align with Santiniketan culture: Amartya Sen||A big gap exists between the Santiniketan culture and that of the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor, “empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal”, economist Amartya Sen has suggested in response to a question from The Telegraph on a land controversy kicked up by the varsity establishment. “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal. I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist,” said Sen, whose family has been an integral part of the Visva-Bharati community since the days of Rabindranath Tagore. According to the Visva-Bharati estate office, it had recently prepared a list of “illegal occupants” that includes the name of Sen as his house, Pratichi, occupies around 138 decimals while the original lease was given on 125 decimals. The way a section of the varsity has gone about making public the information through innuendoes has fuelled suspicion that an attempt is being made to malign Sen, whose indefatigable pursuit of scholarship and stellar accomplishments in academia reflect the highest ideals that prompted Tagore to set up what eventually became a central varsity. Ever since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty assumed office two years ago, the varsity has taken some controversial steps that have given the impression that efforts are on to try out the Sangh parivar agenda. Sen, Nobel laureate and the Thomas W. Lamont University Professor at Harvard University, has been a vocal critic of some of the policies of the Modi government. On Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee also wrote a letter to Sen to express solidarity with him and say that she would always be by his side as his sister. Earlier in the day, in response to a series of questions from this newspaper, Sen said: “We are being told by Visva-Bharati university that its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is busy arranging the ‘eviction of unauthorised occupation’ of leased land on the campus and that I have also been named in the ‘list of occupants’, even though Visva-Bharati has never complained about any irregularity of landholding to us.” “The Visva-Bharati land on which our house is situated is entirely on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul,” Sen added. Tagore had invited Kshitimohan Sen, the maternal grandfather of the economist and Sanskrit scholar of repute, in 1908 and he played a key role in building the university along with the Bard. It is well-known that Sen, born in 1933, was named Amartya by Tagore. It’s also common knowledge on the campus that several plots were given to many eminent persons on 99-year lease since the time of Tagore. On Friday, Sen said: “For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others.” In his inimitable style, Sen also responded to an account attributed to the vice-chancellor at a faculty meeting on December 9 that the Nobel laureate had called him up, identifying himself as “Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen”, and requested him not to evict hawkers from the varsity land near his home as it would inconvenience his daughter who buys vegetables from them. In response to a related question on the matter, Sen said on Friday: “The vice-chancellor would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with my introducing myself as Bharat Ratna — something that no one has ever heard me do. The VC, of course, is an inventive artist as well.” A few hours later, Mamata wrote to Sen: “Kindly count me as your sister and friend in your just war against intolerance and totalitarianism. Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusations, and unfair attacks. We shall overcome.” Addressing Sen as “Respected Amartya da”, Mamata said in the letter: “We are all aware about your family’s deep and organic linkages with Santiniketan. Your maternal grandfather, the revered scholar Kshitimohan Sen, was one of the early leading settlers in Santiniketan, while your father Ashutosh Sen, a noted educationist and public administrator, had his famed house Pratichi built up in Santiniketan about eight decades back. Yours have been a family weaved in the culture and fabric of Santiniketan, inalienably. “Some nouveau invaders in Visva-Bharati have now started raising surprising and completely baseless allegations about your familial properties, etc. This pains me, and I want to express my solidarity with you in your battles against the bigotry of the majoritarians in this country, the battles that have made you an enemy of these forces of untruth.” Several old-timers in Santiniketan and some of Sen’s relatives said VC Chakrabarty’s purported claim that Sen introduced himself as Bharat Ratna, an honour conferred on him in 1999 after he received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1998, sounded preposterous. “He never speaks like that. It is sad for us, the descendents of Kshitimohan Sen, that such false allegations and humiliation are coming from the varsity and its present VC,” said Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of the Nobel laureate. Many felt that Chakrabarty is deliberately trying to malign Sen. “I am ashamed that such allegations are being hurled at the eminent Sen family. I can only say it is unfortunate, very unfortunate,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendent of the Tagore family and former Patha-Bhavana principal. Some veterans lamented that under Chakrabarty, Tagore’s abode is losing its legacy. “The culture of Santiniketan has changed so much that even Amartya Sen is not spared from humiliation. It is nothing but a degeneration of culture and tradition under this vice-chancellor,” said Swapan Kumar Ghosh, a writer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Government schemes that deserve eyeballs||The Bengal government has about 25 social welfare schemes for the benefit of people of various categories. The launch of the Duare Sarkar programme has brought into focus a slew of welfare schemes that largely stay unknown to people. These schemes below are not part of the 11 programmes that the government has included in Duare Sarkar. These include: Muktir Alo Department: Women and child development, social welfare Aim: Launched in 2015, it is a rehabilitation scheme for trafficked women after their rescue and for sex workers to bring them back to the mainstream. Women are imparted training for self-development, stipend, food, accommodation during the six-month-long training and offered one-time financial assistance on its completion Compensation: Rs 25,000 (one-time grant) Where to apply: Gram panchayat/ municipality/ district social welfare officer Manabik (Pension for people with disabilities) Department: Women, child development & social welfare Aim: Launched in 2018, monthly financial aid is given for treatment of people with more than 40 per cent disability, having an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh per annum. The person should not have availed of any other financial assistance either from the central or state governments Compensation: Rs 1,000 per month Where to apply: District portals/ BDO/ municipality Ex-gratia scheme for victims of natural calamities, snakebite, accidental death Department: Women, child development & social welfare Aim: Launched in 2009, it aims to compensate families of those killed in natural calamities like flood, cyclones, earthquake, lightning or snakebite. The amount of compensation is directly disbursed by the district magistrate within 24 hours of the incident. Compensation: Maximum compensation for death in natural calamities is Rs 5 lakh and severe injuries Rs 1 lakh. The amount of compensation for snakebite death is Rs 2 lakh and injury is Rs 1 lakh Where to apply: BDO office/ municipality Swabalamban (special) Department: Women and child development, social welfare Aim: Launched in 2006 to make sex workers and their children self-sufficient by imparting acting lessons for jobs in the entertainment industry Compensation: Entire training cost, food and syau Where to apply: District portals/ BDO/ municipality/ West Bengal Women Development Undertaking. Swami Vivekananda Swanirbhar Karma Sansthan Prakalpa (Atmamaryada) Department: West Bengal Swarojgar Corporation Limited Aim: Launched in 2015, the scheme is aimed to develop entrepreneurship among unemployed youths in the age group of 18-45. Any unemployed youth individually or a by forming a self-help group with a minimum of five persons can avail of subsidised loan for entrepreneurship Compensation: For an individual initiative, the maximum loan offered is Rs 10 lakh and for a group initiative the maximum eligible amount of loan is Rs 25 lakh Where to apply: West Bengal Swarojgar Corporation Limited through BDO/ municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||New start in the new normal||Cynthya Limbu Subba, 27, had to sail from the United States for one-and-half-months to reach Darjeeling in June amid the Covid-19 pandemic that handed her a furlough. Mandip Subba, 29, a sailor, was also forced to anchor at Tianjin, China, because of the lockdown and finally reached hometown Darjeeling in July. “I had to do something back at home,” said Cynthya. Six months back she experimented by selling her branded clothes. “The initiative started doing well,” said Cynthya and she is now running her own start-up Sister’s Wardrobe, Darjeeling. Mandip is also on his way to fulfil his dream project TIB-SIB (Tibetan-Siberian) food outlet. “I wanted to experiment with American, South African and Cantonese food but Covid played spoilsport,” said Mandip. The pandemic forced many young professionals to “think different” and the new dreams were given wings by Decibel, an organiser of events, and Vik-Run Foundation, through the Gundri Bazaar. Gundri Bazaar is the name of Darjeeling’s old market which no longer exists now. Decibel and Vik-Run Foundation, however, decided to set up a swanky Gundri Bazaar at Chowrasta — a three-day starting Thursday. “Many livelihoods were affected in bigger cities forcing young people to return home. We thought of providing a platform for them through Gundri Bazaar,” said Manish Lama, founder of Decibel. Nearly 40 stalls have been put up at Chowrasta and the event was jointly inaugurated by Darjeeling SP Santosh Nimbalkar and Bishop Stephen Lepcha on Thursday. “Most stalls have been put up by people who returned home to begin their own start-ups. We plan to take this Gundri Bazaar platform to different places in the region,” said Vikram Rai, founder Vik-Run Foundation. So Kabya Lama, 25, a photo-journalist in Mumbai is now the owner of Kurseong Fresh and is selling mushrooms with much success. “For Gundri Bazaar we have also introduced packed organic products like turmeric from the famous Bungkulung area of Mirik,” said Kabya. Aaron Edwards, a graphic designer working from home, is helping his wife Manisha Rai, 25, set up The Localists that sells organic aroma discs (room fresheners), body butter and lip balm online. Siddharth Bhitrikoty, 36, could also muster courage to quit his job as a bank manager in Bangalore and focus on his NGO, Manusatva, which initially started as a virtual community helping people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad to start Kanchenjunga Stadium upgrade||The newly formed Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP) has decided to prioritise upgradation of Kanchenjunga Stadium, a football arena that was considered one of the finest in Bengal after Calcutta’s Yuva Bharati Kriragan. The stadium, built in 1988, has in the past hosted several national and international football tournaments. A source said: “However, in the past there have been instances where we lost opportunities to host matches for prestigious Durand Cup and other premier tournaments because of poor infrastructure.” All sporting activities stopped in the stadium since March because of Covid-19 induced lockdown. This has further put pressure on the maintenance of the stadium which has a seating capacity of 27,000. Sources said urgent repair work right from the spectator’s gallery to players changing rooms to drainage system was required. “Unless immediate repair work is undertaken the infrastructure will crumble further,” said the source. On Thursday, a new committee of the SKMP, the apex sport’s body of Siliguri, was formed. “We have one of the best sporting infrastructures of the state at Kanchenjunga stadium. However, it is now lying in a dilapidated state and we will work hard in the coming days to change its face,” said Kuntal Goswami, the newly elected general secretary of the SKMP who replaced Arupratan Ghosh. There have been major changes in the sport’s body structure following the election. “We will go to the grass root to hunt more talents so that we can fully utilise the infrastructure available here,” said Goswami. The newly elected committee has decided to approach the state government to seek help for upgrading the stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||HC pay relief for Visva-Bharati professor||Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed Visva-Bharati to pay a varsity professor her pending salary, which authorities stopped since June on the plea of excess payment made to her from the time of her joining in 2014, by the end of 2020. Sources said the varsity administration had in June this year told Shruti Bandopadhyay, a professor of Manipuri dance at Sangit Bhavana, that she had been paid an excess in increment since she joined Visva-Bharati in April 2014 and the extra amount paid over six years would be deducted in instalments starting with her June salary. Varsity sources claimed that Bandopadhyay had been paid an excess of Rs 21,060 every month since 2014 and she was told that the extra amount would be deducted in tranches from her monthly salary. The professor objected to the deduction and moved high court against the decision. The varsity instead of deducting the excess amount stopped giving her salary. Hearing Bandopadhyay’s plea, a single judge bench of the high court in August restrained the varsity from deducting any amount from the teacher’s salary till the disposal of the case. The varsity in December moved the high court division bench to challenge the single bench’s order and the matter was heard by Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen. Bandopadhyay’s counsel Puspal Chakraborty said the division bench on December 24 ordered the varsity to disburse the salary of the professor pending since June by December 31. “The honourable division bench directed the varsity to pay Rs 2,30,258 as salary without prejudice to the petitioner. It has also directed the varsity authorities to open a bank account and deposit the excess amount worth Rs 21,060 in it every month till the disposal of the writ petition in accordance with law,” Chakraborty said. In the order, the division bench observed that they hoped and trusted that the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor would look into the matter and resolve the issue keeping in mind the academic excellence that Tagore aspired to. “There cannot be any denial of fact that Manipuri dance is the integral part of the dance drama conceived by Tagore and it is in the interest of the university that a Professor of Manipuri Dance is not shabbily treated,” the order reads. “It would not be in the best interest of the university, we hope and trust that the vice-chancellor of the university shall look into the matter and resolve the issue… we expect that this institution ensures preservation of the “Philosophy of Tagore” in all fields and excel in all directions. It is a pride not only of West Bengal but India,” the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP, TMC battle for Malda’s tribal belt||The BJP has started eyeing the tribal belt in Malda district, but Trinamul for now has managed to convince five disgruntled tribal leaders to stay with the party. On Friday, BJP’s national secretary Arvind Menon spent the day at Habibpur town of Malda trying to woo tribal farmers by promising “golden days” if the BJP was voted in. Trinamul managed to retain five presidents of area committees of Bamangola block, which falls under Habibpur Assembly seat after a closed-door meeting with district party president Mausam Noor. All had recently resigned from party posts after criticising the party leadership. Tribal voters form the bulk in three out of 12 Assembly segments in Malda district. In 2016, the CPM managed to win two and the third had gone to Congress. The two CPM MLAs, however, defected to the BJP. An observer said that the minority community is the deciding factor in the rest nine of the 12 Malda Assembly seats. “So the BJP seems to be concentrating on tribal belts.” BJP MP from Malda North Khagen Murmu claimed the tribal areas of Malda were “always supportive of the BJP”. Trinamul had more reasons to cheer with five leaders staying back. “ We had resigned (from party posts) after being fed up with the party block leadership. Joining the BJP was never on our mind,” said Sakeb Hansda, one of the five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC leader shot at, BJP claims gun attack||A Trinamul leader from Alipurduar was shot on his leg in the small hours of Friday while on his way to Siliguri while another BJP leader said he missed bullets fired at him in Cooch Behar on Thursday. The Cooch Behar incident trigged violence in the districts’s Mathabhanga subdivision on Friday evening. Manoranjan Dey, the sahokari sabhadhipati of Alipurduar Zilla Parishad and the president of Trinamul’s Alipurduar-1 block committee had got of his car to answer nature’s call near College More at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri on NH31 around 2am. “As soon as he off the car, some people arrived in another car and fired three rounds at Dey. Though Dey tried to flee, he was hit on his leg by a bullet,” said a source. Dey’s security guard and another passenger in the car rushed the profusely bleeding leader to a private nursing home in Siliguri. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor spoke to Dey on Friday. His condition is reportedly stable. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, and one of the party’s tallest leaders in north Bengal, blamed the BJP for the attack. “We had suspected that the BJP will attack our prominent leaders from the region as they do not want a peaceful election. Dey is one of the pillars of our party in Alipurduar. BJP is bringing in culture of violence in our region,” said Deb. The Alipurduar Trinamul  town block committee also organised a rally in town today to protest the decision. Wangden Bhutia, ASP, Jalpaiguri (rural) said that they had sent a team to Siliguri to take Dey’s statement. Ganga Prasad Sharma, the BJP district president from Alipurduar, denied all allegations. “None of us are involved in this incident, which may actually be a fallout of either business rivalry or an internal party conflict.” The BJP claimed the general secretary of Cooch Behar district committee, Avijit Barman, was fired at on Thursday, but had a narrow escape. “TMC attacked BJP supporters in parts of Mathabhanga area and hurled bombs at us. I had gone to the police station yesterday (Thursday) to file that complaint. On my way back some people shot at me near Sutunga bridge. The bullets missed me and hit my vehicle,” alleged Barman. On Friday afternoon BJP supporters held protests at Mathabanga after which violence erupted in the subdivision town. “When our party supporters went to demonstrate in front of Mathabhanga police station, Trinamul supporters attacked our people, hurled bombs and fired at us. The police did not intervene,” Malati Rava Roy, the president of BJP’s Cooch Behar district committee, alleged. Binay Krishna Barman, the state minister for backward class welfare department, denied Roy’s charges. “BJP supporters vandalised properties in Mathabhanga and ransacked three of our Trinamul party offices. They attacked our workers and hurled bombs. Such hooliganism of BJP workers will not be tolerated,” Barman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Christmas cakes run out, people party hard||Father Christmas brought a record number of travellers to Darjeeling this Yuletide, a gift that surprised even the biggest optimist in the pandemic year. Ajoy Edwards, owner of the iconic century- old Glenary’s in Darjeeling said that the rush was so great that they ran out of Christmas cakes two days ago. “This has never happened before in our history,” he said. Given the curbs on movement because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Glenary’s family had baked fewer cakes. “We had prepared 3,000-odd X’mas cakes unlike the usual 5,000-odd cakes in normal years,” said Edwards. By December 23, all 3,000 Christmas cakes were sold out. Pastries and other items can be seen on the counters but not the cakes. And there won’t be any for New Year too, as “the entire process of preparing a Christmas cake takes almost a month”, Edwards said. Seasoned businessman Edwards was way off the mark in his predictions for cakes. The statistics from another iconic eatery in Darjeeling, Keventer’s, tells a similar tale. “Going by our sales figures this Christmas, I can safely say that there have been an increase of more than 50 percent in tourist footfall compared to December last year,” said Rahul Jha, owner of Keventer’s. The pandemic had not hit India last December and thus this figure has surprised everyone. “There is a huge queue to enter Keventer’s throughout the day,” said Jha. The scene before Glenary’s was no different on Friday. Glenary’s might have run out cakes but not on the fun spirit of the festival week. A piped band from Kalimpong played on the Glenary’s selfie stand with their music synchronising with the huge signage that read: HOPE. “We all are looking ahead to the new year 2021 with a lot of hope,” said Edwards. Apart from the band, musical shows have been lined up at Buzz, the resto-bar of the eatery throughout the week. A few hundred metres uphill, Chowrasta, too, bustled with people on Christmas, having undergone a sea change from the recent near-empty scenes. Tourists are being spoilt for choice at “Gundri Bazaar”, an event organised by Decibel and Vik-Run Foundation that is providing a platform for new start-ups. From local handicrafts and food to organic products, the buyer is inundated with goodies. The festive spirit on full display in Darjeeling might entice more tourists. But rooms are in short supply. “I was looking for five rooms and I could not find one. Most places are fully booked through this week,” said Samir Singhal, treasurer of the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’s Assocation. “All categories of hotels are doing well,” said Singhal. A member of the hotel association — around 300 odd hotels are affiliated to his group — said not enough rooms speaks volumes of the tourist flow in Darjeeling. Travellers are mostly from Bengal. “More than 90 per cent of the tourists are from Bengal. Darjeeling has always been a quick getaway. Many are reaching here on their own vehicles and also on bikes,” said Rajesh Rajak, general manager, Pine Tree Resorts. The urge to travel seems to be pushed by a number of factors, the dominating factor being the “stifling feeling” brought about by Covid-19 restrictions. “I do visit Darjeeling frequently but after lockdown I had this very strong urge to get out of Calcutta as there was this stifling feeling within the family,” said Sudipto Ghosh, a businessman from Taratala, Calcutta. Many holidaymakers said it was easy to plan holidays as most educational institutions are closed. “Also the hotel prices are very competitive. I had booked my rooms almost a month back,” said Kingshuk Shah from Behala, Calcutta. Hotelier Rajak said most bookings came through online platforms. On a normal year, Darjeeling receives almost 4 lakh domestic tourists on an average. This year, Darjeeling has been without tourists for most part of the year, until now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Government eases austerity measures||The Mamata Banerjee government has relaxed its austerity measures that were initiated in the backdrop of pandemic in April to the extent of allowing some departments to start new schemes. The move, sources said, meant that the chief minister is likely to announce some new schemes ahead of the state polls in 2021 summer. According to a notification issued by the finance department recently, departments such as PWD, irrigation, PHE, urban development and municipal affairs were allowed to initiate new schemes worth up to Rs 3 crore. All other departments were allowed to start new schemes up to Rs 50 lakh. “This gives us a hint that the chief minister wants to go ahead with new and pending projects before elections. Pending road, water supply and urban services projects have direct link with the day to day lives of people,” said a senior government official. The state government had issued a blanket ban on all new projects since April this year citing Covid. The state government’s revenue generation had also dried up significantly in the lockdown. Now, the state’s own revenue generation has improved and Covid costs have reduced too. “We are generating nearly Rs 3,000 crore a month, almost double of what we did in July-August,” said a senior official. Initially, the state was spending nearly Rs 1,000 crore a month on Covid-related costs for patients and safety gear for health workers. “In addition, the state was also spending a huge amount to beef up Covid-related infrastructure in hospitals. Now, once infrastructure is ready and the number of active patients fewer, we are spending about Rs 80 crore that includes running safe homes,” said a bureaucrat. So projects such as restoration and renovation of state highways, repairing of damaged embankments, renovation of Durgapur Barrage, household connections of pipeline-based water supply and solid waste management projects in urban areas are some that the state government has decided to focus on. “It will be a tough election and we cannot just sit back and let people accuse us for their plights,” a minister said, adding that many projects could not be complete because the Centre did not give funds. “The Centre has not given us Rs 54,000 crore,” he said. He added they would try to make people understand that the Trinamul-led state government was doing its best despite being “deprived by the Centre”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi uttering half-truths: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee hit out at Narendra Modi on Friday evening, reacting sternly to his allegations on her government’s approach towards farmers in Bengal, and accused him of misleading the people with “half-truths” and “distorted facts” for political gains instead of addressing the real concerns of protesting farmers. The Bengal chief minister posted a tweet, in which she included the statement attacking Modi on his priorities. “Our farmer brothers & sisters have been on streets protesting against new farm laws. Instead of addressing them, PM today chose to mislead the people with half-truth & distorted facts. BJP-led Centre is not cooperating & only indulging in propaganda for petty political gains,” she posted on the microblogging site. In the two-page statement that she included, Mamata pointed out that lakhs of farmers were protesting on the streets and demanding the withdrawal of the controversial farm laws, which she said are “anti-farmer” as they threaten to dilute the minimum support price, the state procurement system, and take away their basic protective mechanisms. “While he publicly claimed his intention to help farmers of WB through his PM-Kisan and alleged non-cooperation of the (Bengal) state government….Let me set the record straight – we have always been ready to cooperate in the interest of the farmers,” she added. The Trinamul chief has been a thorn in the flesh for Modi and his party amid their discomfort at the groundswell of opposition from farmers, especially from states like Punjab and Haryana, where the minimum support price is a key issue. While the saffron camp could have chosen to disregard her “unconditional support” to the farmers’ movement, as they had during her resistance to demonetisation, or played down her opinion, as they had during her anti-citizenship tripod movement, they cannot afford to do either now, with the timing being so close the crucial Bengal polls. Mamata brought up two letters she had written both in the public domain to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, stating Bengal’s conditions for inclusion in the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi. The chief minister had made it clear in the letters that the state government already had schemes of its own to cater to the needs of the potential beneficiaries under the central scheme. At the same time, the state government was open to allowing the central scheme additionally, if the Centre was willing to fully fund them and route the disbursement of funds through the state machinery. “When we are implementing so many schemes with the central government, the question of not cooperating on a scheme that is benefiting farmers seems absurd,” she wrote on Friday. “The fact is that this BJP-led central government is used to indulging in politicking even at the cost of violating the established practices and norms regarding the implementation of central schemes by state governments.” She added that she was willing to do anything in the interest of the people of Bengal, even if it meant supporting such schemes, “purely meant to further their political agenda, are at odds with the spirit of federalism, and are definitely not guided by their desire to help the people at large”. Modi’s attack against Mamata possibly came in the wake of two delegations sent by the Bengal chief minister to express solidarity with the protesting farmers at the Delhi borders. While she lauded their movement with her “full support”, the farmers also hailed her gesture and urged her to visit them. Mamata has thrown her weight firmly behind the cause and her party has already carried out a slew of programmes this month, including a three-day dharna at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. “… let me remind you that my ideology is consistent with the vision of founding fathers of this country, and I have wholeheartedly served the people of WB with the right intent, efforts, and with everything I have,” she wrote. “For me, the people of the state are my family. I have full faith that they will not only see through these malicious allegations but will also recognise what we have done for the state and give a befitting reply to those who are trying malign us and our state,” she added, after reiterating her demand for the Centre to clear Rs 85,000 crore in outstanding dues to the state. “For all the posturing of the central government, the fact is that the Modi government has done nothing to help the state of West Bengal,” she added. A Rajya Sabha member from Trinamul said her “farmer-friendly image”, from the Singur-Nandigram days, has been a crucial part of her political capital. “Others might relent on such issues, but she certainly won’t…. She is unwilling to miss opportunities now to make the right noises that are likely to be echoed in the pan-India space,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Modi targets present and past Bengal governments||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee government, accusing it of depriving his “kisan bhai bahen (farmer brothers and sisters)” from Bengal of central assistance under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme because of “political reasons”. In a public address, Modi singled out the farmers of Bengal for being deprived. “I feel sad for this... that farmers of the entire country are getting benefited, governments of all ideologies are linked with this (the welfare scheme), but only the West Bengal government (is depriving) more than 70 lakh farmers, my farmer brothers and sisters from Bengal,” he said. The Prime Minister was addressing the farmers virtually from Delhi after releasing money to farmers under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Modi went on: “They (Bengal’s farmers) are not able to take the benefit of this scheme. They are not able to get this money because the Bengal government, because of its political reasons, (is depriving) farmers of their state of this central government scheme.” The central government and the BJP had turned this routine government welfare exercise into a big event this time in a bid to counter the ongoing farmers’ protests against the new farm laws which they feel would benefit big corporate houses and deny them of the minimum support price buffer, among others. As the heat of the upcoming electoral battle warmed up Bengal’s December, Modi also used this opportunity to pursue his party’s Mission Bengal. He launched a scathing attack at the Bengal government in an attempt to reach out to the farmers of the state in view of the upcoming polls. Modi said that several farmers from Bengal had directly written to the central government and applied for money under the PM-Kisan scheme but the state government was not allowing the Centre to transfer money. “Can you imagine, lakhs of farmers have applied online to take the benefit of the scheme but the state government has blocked that too,” he said. He wondered aloud why there were no protests in the state to ensure that farmers got the benefits of the PM-Kisan scheme. Under the Centre’s flagship PM-Kisan scheme under which Rs 6,000 per year is given to each eligible small and marginal farmer. The money is given to each farmer thrice a year in three equal installments. Modi used this opportunity to slam the Left too, but without taking names. He addressed the Left as “jo log, jo tees saal tak Bangal me raaj karte thhey (those people who had ruled Bengal for 30 years)”. He claimed that they not even once had raised their voice against this deprivation of farmers by the ruling party in Bengal. He said that though they (Left) were in the Opposition and had their party cadres, they didn't hold any protest in this matter. “What kind of people are they? In Bengal they have their party, their organisation....not once did they, for this scheme under which farmers get Rs 2,000, run any protest.” he said. “If they (indicating the Left) have so much love for farmers then why didn’t you protest for justice for the farmers so that they get their money under the (PM-Kisan) scheme,” Modi added and then went to question their participation in the farmers’ protest in Punjab. “And from there (Bengal) you reach Punjab, then questions arise,” Modi said, seeking to accuse the Left of opposing the farm laws over politics. The Prime Minister also took a swipe at the Left-ruled Kerala government, pointing out that these people never agitated there. The Left and the Congress have decided to fight the upcoming 2021 Bengal state polls together. They had fought the 2016 Assembly elections together too, but won only 76 out of the 294 seats in Bengal. Modi levelled the same charge against Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul, again without taking names. He said that while depriving the farmers in Bengal, those associated with the Bengal government had gone to Punjab. He also accused the Trinamul of secretly joining hands with the Left to mislead the farmers of Punjab. Against the backdrop of the release of the PM-Kisan instalment on Friday, Modi also posted a series of tweets in Hindi about the dole to farmers, which he termed good governance, hit out at the “politics of selfishness in Bengal” as well as defended the new farm laws. He said that earlier the entire risk was borne by the farmers and others took away the return. But the new farm laws and reforms had changed the scenario, he added. He also said that countless canards were being spread regarding the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases drop below 15,000 in Bengal ||Bengal on Friday achieved the target of taking its total of Covid-19 cases to below 15,000, with 14,749, back almost to where it was 161 days ago on July 17. The state on Christmas reported 1,954 recoveries, 1,541 new infections and 31 deaths, including seven from Calcutta, which resulted in the drop in total active cases for 60th consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “We have achieved even our revised, audaciously optimistic targets for the year end. From wanting to end the year with 23,000 active cases (when the total had been 37,190 on October 26), we are now below 15,000,” said a minister. The total of active cases fell over the 60-day period by over 22,000, improving by 60.34 per cent. In these 60 days, the state recorded over 2.1 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.9 lakh cases found. The state now has a total of over 5.44 lakh Covid-19 cases, including the 5.2 lakh recoveries and 9,536 deaths. The recovery rate rose for 64 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.54. The national rate now is 95.77 per cent. “Our year-end target for the recovery rate was 93, revised later to 95. Having achieved both, we will almost certainly get past the national recovery rate by the year-end,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.9 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. With 40,089 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count rose to 68.96 lakh, at 76,633 tests per million people. Of the total novel coronavirus toll in Bengal so far, the state government attributed 7,992 deaths or 83.8 per cent to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, compared to the national rate of 1.44. Bengal reported 14.32 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.48 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-260
26-12-2020||North East||Vijaynagar arson key accused, Ngwazaso Yobin, arrested||The All Yobin Students’ Union (AYSU) president Ngwazaso Yobin, the key accused in the December 11 Vijaynagar arson case in which at least three government offices were destroyed by a mob led by the AYSU, was arrested along with four others from Roing in Lower Dibang valley on Wednesday. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav told The Telegraph that five persons have been arrested from Roing, including Yobin. “They were trying escaping from Wakro. He had released a video claiming responsibility for the arson,” he said. Soon after the arson a video message started doing the rounds on social media purportedly showing Ngwazaso Yobin claiming responsibility for the arson in Vijaynagar circle of Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh. Yobin also blamed the government for not meeting their demands of cancelling the settlers’ voting rights. He also says that they are ready to give up their lives to save their land and the settlers should move out as “their 30-year lease is over”, among others. The mob demanding cancellation of voting rights to non-indigenous people, mostly ex-Assam Rifles settlers, and their removal from the area as soon as possible. A Gorkha delegation from Vijaynagar had few days ago met Union defence minister seeking a “permanent solution” to the issues raised by the Yobins, among others. Covid-19 induced restrictions failed to dampen the Christmas in Odisha though the celebrations were a low-key affair, reports our correspondent. The state government     made elaborate security arrangements in Kandhamal, the district ravaged by communal riots in 2008 to ensure that celebrations were trouble-free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
26-12-2020||Opinion||Many-splendoured thing: saffron terror||What are the colours of Christmas? Perhaps the colours of joy and sharing, goodwill and peace — imagined hues. There are visible ones, too. White for snow, real or imaged, in the North and brilliant colours under the sun in the South, green for the Christmas tree, red for Santa Claus and Rudolf the Reindeer’s nose, with everything touched by the brightness of twinkling lights — silver, orange, blue, pink or anything pulled out of the rainbow. When a child learns the difference between red and blue, he or she is still innocent of the power of colour. The colour of skin will matter, as will the colours of the flag they are born under. These associations suggest a certain crudeness that centuries of civilization have been unable to remove. Freedom from such shackles lies instead in going back to a pure sense of colour that can be glimpsed in the artist’s absorption in his own palette, the dyer’s excitement in the hues of plants and flowers with which he douses threads and fabrics, or the bird or butterfly lover chasing the flash and swirl of many-shaded life. But colour seeps quietly into perceptions and hardens into symbols and metaphors that may vary from culture to culture. Jealousy is a green-eyed monster in the West, but the green on the Indian flag stands for prosperity, faith, hope and similar ideals, just as saffron symbolizes courage and sacrifice. At the Christmas Eve celebrations of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, Father Rodney Borneo from the archdiocese of Calcutta referred to the colours of the Indian flag in which lay India’s love. He was objecting to the use of the phrase, “saffron terror”, emphasizing that terror has no colour: it resides in the person. The monks hosting the event wore saffron robes that Indians equate with holiness and peace, not aggression and violence. In Hindu culture, saffron is for those who forego earthly rewards to serve god and human beings. The most important point the priest made was that violence has no colour — violence is in the heart. The moral force of this remark must be acknowledged — given its unspoken context. It is undeniable that Hindutva is nowadays often imagined as saffron — it relies on the visible support of sadhus to increase its appeal — while the aggressive use of religion in politics has shorn saffron of its sacrificing shades. This is the politics of exclusion, in which religious discrimination as political strategy emanates, thinly disguised, from the Centre or is frankly flaunted by chief ministers in the states, one of them in saffron. The colour thus becomes frightening to many. The priest is right: it is the heart full of violence that must be confronted, not the colour used to conceal it. Just like violence, goodwill and peace are in the heart too, and wearing saffron should not take that away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
26-12-2020||Opinion||Changed life: Marina Wheeler’s book||The year, 2020, has actually been a vintage year for books, among them is Marina Wheeler’s The Lost Homestead: My Mother, Partition and the Punjab. She has nothing to say about her former husband, Boris Johnson, other than that “six months into all this, after three trips to India and the first to Pakistan, my life hit turbulence, ending my marriage of twenty-five years”. The book focuses on her Sikh mother, (Kul)dip (pronounced Deep), who grew up in Sargodha in west Punjab, but when that was allocated to Pakistan, the 14-year-old fled with her family to India. Dip was disastrously married off at 17 to Khushwant Singh’s younger brother, Daljit, 10 years her senior. Her second marriage, in 1961, to Charles Wheeler, the BBC’s star correspondent in Delhi, proved a happy one and produced two daughters — Marina and her elder sister, Shirin. Charles died in 2008, Dip in February this year, aged 88, at her home in Sussex. Marina, a barrister and Queen’s Counsel, journeyed to Sargodha in search of “the lost homestead”, which had long vanished. But through the people that she meets, including her numerous relatives, she tells the story of her mother and the larger one of Partition and the evolution of modern India. British colonial history is currently in a furious churn, with opposing views on whether it should be taught in schools. Marina, who says Britain and India have a “shared history”, tells me it should: “I don’t think it’s right to say this is somehow off limits.” She has been thinking of applying for an Overseas Citizen of India card. “Absolutely I think I am changed — my life is certainly enriched by... the greater understanding of India and Pakistan.” Incidentally, I noticed Marina and Subhas Chandra Bose both went to Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, though it was called Fitzwilliam Hall in Netaji’s time. Still groovy Harry Rodger Webb was born in Lucknow in 1940, grew up in Howrah and emigrated with his parents and three siblings to Britain in 1948. He is now better known as the pop legend, Cliff Richard, who has sold over 250 million records and had chart toppers in five consecutive decades. Last Sunday Sir Cliff, now 80, chose eights of his favourite records, including Elvis Presley’s “Heartbreak Hotel”, when he was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs. He first appeared on the programme 60 years ago in October 1960 when he had just turned 20. In the past six decades, Britain has changed beyond recognition from a white country to a multicultural society with 2.5 million Indians. Cliff’s biographer, Steve Turner, believes the singer is Anglo-Indian. But when he was starting out, Britain was a much less tolerant place and admitting he was Anglo-Indian might have ruined his career. Today, it would be lit up in neon. Quite a curry Indian cuisine is commonplace now, but I was surprised when Bertie Wooster mentioned curry in Jeeves and the Leap of Faith by Ben Schott — a “homage to PG Wodehouse [Plum]”. At one point, Bertie observes the following at his club: “I parted the velvet curtains at a quarter to ten to find the joint jammed to the rafters and louder even than curry night at the Drones.” Ben assures me: “Many London clubs did — and some still do — offer curry days or nights where the usual club nursery fare would be spiced up... with Anglo-Indian food. The Garrick — Plum’s former club — has curry lunches now and then. Moreover, the classic dish of mulligatawny soup and kedgeree were and are staples of this kind of cuisine.” He adds: “I included the curry night reference in Leap of Faith as a deliberate nod to Gussie’s love of steak and kidney pudding, mentioned in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves”. In that tale, Bertie tells Jeeves that “cold steak and kidney pie” is Gussie Fink-Nottle’s favourite dish: “I’ve known him to order it even on curry day at the Drones. He loves the stuff.” Ben gives me other curry references in Wodehouse. There is clearly enough for a monograph on Plum and the curry connection. In “Bingo and the Little Woman”, for example, Bertie suggests the following luncheon menu to Bingo — “‘How would this do you, Bingo?’ I said at length. ‘A few plovers’ eggs to weigh in with, a cup of soup, a touch of cold salmon, some cold curry, and a splash of gooseberry tart and cream with a bite of cheese to finish?’” In Something New, a recipe for “Curried Lobster” involves using “half a spoonful curry powder”. Upcoming drama One novel we will be reading soon is Rumer Godden’s Black Narcissus, which was published in 1939 and turned into an Oscar-winning movie, starring Deborah Kerr, in 1947. The tale of a group of nuns trying to establish a school in a remote palace in the Himalayas, north of Darjeeling, has been adapted into a three-part BBC drama, which airs on consecutive nights in the UK. Godden spent a big part of her life in Narayanganj in East Bengal, Calcutta and Kashmir. The new version, filmed in India, stars Gemma Arterton in the lead role of Sister Clodagh and the late Diana Rigg as Mother Dorothea, while Dipika Kunwar, a British Nepali actress, makes her debut as Kanchi. A critic once said Black Narcissus “looks at the themes of sexual desire, religion and repression”. Footnote Bengalis and Italians have one thing in common — the love of good food. The Feluda adventures share a feature with the murder mysteries tackled by the Italian commissario, Salvo Montalbano. Feluda, Jatayu and Topshe seem to enjoy Bengali hospitality wherever they go. Montalbano, meanwhile, insists on silence as he relishes his favourite dishes — timballo, caponata, pasta 'ncasciata, fried mullet, arancini, and spaghetti with cuttlefish, always with wine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
26-12-2020||Opinion||A political vacuum||In the summer of 1974, amidst a deepening economic downturn, an increasingly authoritarian Central government faced off against striking railway workers. The 20-day railway strike, led by George Fernandes, would help fortify an anti-government sentiment that was already gathering pace with the JP movement, which would eventually lead to the undoing of the powerful Indira Gandhi government. It is tempting to hear the echoes of that turbulent summer in the winter of 2020 when lakhs of farmers have encircled the national capital for over three weeks. This is also perhaps the first time in five years that the government has found itself on the back foot politically, its dazed response veering between conciliation and condemnation. However, unlike the pre-Emergency protests that roiled India, these protests are not potent enough to pose a fundamental threat to the popularity of this government. This is because these protests have neither the leadership nor the vision to challenge the ideological hegemony of the government — the basis of its political dominance. This is a self-contained, civil society-led movement with limited demands. As the recent local body polls in rural Rajasthan indicated, there isn’t any evidence to suggest that these protests have the potential to shake up popular support for the Bharatiya Janata Party. However, much like we saw with the protests against CAA-NRC last winter, such protests can spark a certain romantic imagination of an alternative idea of India bubbling up from below. A giddy expectation that the masses will lead us to the promised land; a distilled political vision emanating from the enchanting confection of songs, slogans and placards. But a political vision only comes from a political leadership. Without leadership, the immense energy generated by civil society-led protests would, sooner or later, dissipate into the footnotes of history. To make history, you need a leadership expounding a vision and an organization to carry it through. In other words, you need a political movement. Both the anti-CAA-NRC and the farmers’ movement have been similar in two respects. One, its guiding impulse has not been politics but an apolitical idealism, consciously eschewing the support of political parties. Two, in place of a clear leadership, both protests have been led by a dizzying array of civil society actors with differing conceptions of the objectives of the movement. The success of the JP movement was premised on exactly the opposite — a political vision (‘Total Revolution’) that brought Opposition political parties together on a common platform, and the towering leadership of Jayaprakash Narayan, which connected disparate student movements in Gujarat and Bihar, melded it with the grievances of farmers and workers, thereby expanding it into a national movement. It must be noted that an uplifting political vision does not mean an exact political programme. JP’s ‘Total Revolution’ — a mix of democratic decentralization and corruption-free governance — was vague enough to attract a broad swathe of the population while being inspiring enough to energize people into anti-government action. Unlike the present farmer leaders, Fernandes, who led the railway strike, was a militantly anti-government political actor who enthusiastically supported the JP movement and unabashedly linked the strike to the destruction of the government. In March 1974, Fernandes had remarked that “railwaymen could unseat the present Central Government through a general strike.” Similarly, whereas the Gujarat student movement was largely apolitical, the Bihar student movement was led by budding political leaders linked to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the Socialist Party and the Lok Dal. This was the reason the Bihar movement became a breeding ground for a generation of politicians who would dominate Bihar in the coming decades. Even though Jayaprakash Narayan did project an ‘above politics’ image, he openly courted the support of the political parties. They included the Jana Sangh, whose annual meeting he addressed, and the RSS, whose cadre formed the organizational core of the JP movement. The limited political horizons of the farmer protest can be gauged from the fact that almost all other protesting farmer unions promptly distanced themselves from the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), which organized demonstrations for the release of political prisoners. Joginder Ugrahan is perhaps the only major farmer leader with an alternative political vision, who has clearly linked the woes of the farmers to the shrinking space for democratic freedoms. The anti-CAA protests, although they were more forthright in their ideological challenge to the government, were largely unsuccessful in expanding beyond minority-dominated spaces and, hence, at no point did they threaten the political calculations of the government. In both cases, the protests remained confined to their particular constituencies because of an absence of leadership. While the predilection of activists is always to cater to their base, only a political leadership has the will and the capacity to forge coalitions of distinct constituencies on the basis of shared goals. This is why any hope that the challenge to the BJP might come from outside the established political parties needs to be tempered with a heavy dose of reality.  We have seen civil society protests for much of the last few years, but unlike the pre-Emergency protests, these protests have not given birth to any genuine mass leader. Civil society protests have their place, and are no doubt inspiring in many ways, but they can’t take the space of the political Opposition. This brings us to the incompetence of Opposition political parties, which have singularly failed to capitalize on the government’s failures and the resulting undercurrent of resentment, and have ceded this space to civil society organizations. One part of the reason students, minorities and farmers have hit the streets at various times is that they have little faith in the effectiveness of Opposition parties to push through their concerns. Most of the Opposition parties have acquiesced to the larger ideological framework of the BJP, and are too timid to mount a forthright ideological challenge. These recurring protests are an outcome of the contradictions present in the BJP’s system of dominance; yet there is no political leader, like Jayaprakash Narayan, who has the skill, imagination and credibility to convincingly articulate how these contradictions tie into each other, formulate an alternative political vision, and build a sustained political movement based on it. Until we have such a political leadership, the BJP might lose a few battles of public opinion but will keep winning the war. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tatanagar Loco Shed employee dies in accident while on duty||A railway employee on Saturday died in an accident that took place at the Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed, about half a kilometer away from the Tatanagar Railway Station. Eyewitnesses said that the deceased, 45-year-old Binod Mahato, was trying to shift a wheel of a locomotive with the help of an overhead  ceiling crane when the accident took place. “One of the parts of the heavy crane broke and it hit Mahato's head who was standing on the floor. He bleeded and collapsed on the ground,” an eyewitness said. He was rushed to the Khasmahal-based Tatanagar Railway Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead. Mahato, a resident of Pramathanagar in Parsudih, worked as a technician at the Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed for more than seven years. A chaos prevailed at the loco shed spot soon after the accident. The crane was immediately stopped and work came to a grinding halt at the spot. Station director of Tatanagar H.K. Balmuchu said, “Such a mishap took place for the first time at the electric loco shed. A probe has been initiated in this regard.” Mahato’s body was sent to MGM Medical College at Dimna for post-mortem, which according to railway sources, will be conducted under the supervision of a medical board. The Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) carries out maintenance and repair work of electric locomotives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant invited to speak at Harvard University India Conference||Chief minister Hemant Soren has been invited to share his experience of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and talk on a host of other issues, including tribal rights, sustainable development & welfare policies in Jharkhand, at the 18th Annual India Conference at Harvard University to be held next year between February 19-21. According to officials in Hemant’s office, his address is tentatively scheduled for February 20. As per an official statement on Saturday, the organisers of the  conference at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, sent an invitation to the chief minister on December 25 (Friday), seeking his consent to be a part of the event as a speaker on a keynote panel. Hemant’s office confirmed his participation by a tweet on Saturday: “Hon'ble Chief Minister @HemantSorenJMM has been invited by @Harvard University to deliver a lecture in February 2021.The Chief Minister has accepted the invitation & thanked the organisers. He will speak on tribal rights, sustainable development & welfare policies in Jharkhand.” Hemant is probably the first chief minister of Jharkhand to deliver a lecture at the university. The India conference is the largest student-run conference in North America focusing on India, and is one of the world’s leading forums for dialogue, debate, networking around issues pertaining to contemporary India. Over 1,000 people from academia, industry, business leaders, policy makers and government bodies are among usual attendees. The conference reaches to over five million people through its social media channels, said the organisers. Suraj Yengde, a PhD scholar and senior fellow at Harvard Kennedy School who extended the invitation to Hemant, said in his letter that his work since assuming office has been of keen interest to most research fellows and that he had emerged as a proud tribal/indigenous politician with a welfarist development agenda. “Your acumen in handling governance and politics, making it people aspirational is important for strengthening of democracy that is locked in caste and feudalistic nepotism,” he wrote, adding that they are looking to have Hemant in the chief ministers’ panel virtually to discuss on the issues of governance, state-centre relations, handling of Covid-19 and the intersections of caste and tribal identities in the current politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host international race walking meet in February, 2021||Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has allotted the big-ticket 8th national open and 4th international race walking championship to Jharkhand Athletics Association to be held in Ranchi on February 13 and 14, 2021, JAA officials announced on Saturday. JAA joint treasurer Sashank Singh said the event was significant because AFI would pick athletes for the next Olympics based on performances at the meet.  Ranchi first hosted this tournament in February this year in Morabadi, during which Bhawana Jat was the lone candidate to book her place for the Olympics. “There is a place for total of four athletes in men’s and women’s categories. So, three more players have to be picked,” said Singh, adding that about 280 Indian and over 30 overseas athletes, besides delegates and jurists, were expected to take part in the tournament. Singh said AFI chose Ranchi over other venues because of its weather and he facilities at the Morabadi venue. “The walking trail used in the first edition in Morabadi suited all participants and everyone liked the weather conditions here. Hence, we have been given a second chance to host this tournament. “We hope by February, the Covid-19 situation will gradually subside,” he said, adding that they would still put in place a host of Covid safety norms in accordance with government and AFI guidelines. The meet will be held in three categories — 50km men, 20km Olympic qualifying for men and women and under-20 men and female 10km for Asian championship qualification. Jharkhand doesn’t have enough athletes in this discipline, except a handful from Ramgarh. JAA officials said it was due to lack of proper coaching facilities, but expressed the hope that with successive hosting of such events, it would gain popularity in the state. “In our first edition, only two players—Kundan Kumar and Aman Kumar of Ramgarh and Ranchi respectively _ took part. Kundan won bronze and he has now bagged a job in the Army. In Ramgarh, the army cantonment board there has a coach for this discipline,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Angling club plans to open doors to women||Angling will no longer remain a male bastion in the steel city in the days to come as the over seven-decade-old Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC), with 230-odd members, is working towards opening its doors to women. “We would like to welcome women to join us and take to angling with all seriousness. In fact, we want women to support us in promoting angling in Jamshedpur,” said JAC secretary Sukumar Ghoshal. A club member said women played an active role in angling clubs in Bangalore, Chennai and Calcutta. “Women are members of angling outfits in these cities. They also participate in competitions. We should also welcome women,” he said. The club had started some serious work on enrolling women as members some five years back. Some women had also evinced interest in joining JAC and had even approached for joining as members. However, things did not make any  headway, another member said. He added they have plans to discuss membership for women in the next meeting. “We plan to distribute pamphlets and hang banners near water bodies to invite women to join the club,” the member said. Membership entails a one-time deposit of Rs 30,000 and an annual fee of Rs 1,000. Angling is conducted at Jayanti Sarovar (in Jubilee Park), Beldih Lake (in Dhatkidih) and Bara Lake (near Sidhgora). The club also organises an annual competition at Jayanti Sarovar on the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna JRD Tata on July 29, besides a day-night event at the same venue in November. However, these two competitions could not be held this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Jubilee Park, where the sarovar is located, is still shut for visitors. The club had planned to resume angling activities at Beldih and Bara lakes after Durga Puja but things could not materialise. “We’ll resume angling once Jubilee Park reopens. Jayanti Sarovar is the mother tank and our members have decided to resume angling at all the three water tanks once Jubilee Park reopens,” Ghoshal reasoned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||BJP kisan sabhas across the state on Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||Even as farmers protests against the new farm laws continue unabated along Delhi borders, opposition BJP in Jharkhand on Friday organsied kisan sabhas in over 500 mandals (party units) across the state on the occasion of late Atal Bihar Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Party workers read out the contents of the open letter by Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar justifying their recent farm centric moves. At each venue, the gathering also telecast prime minister Narendra Modi’s virtual interaction with farmers on the occasion of the release of the second installment of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, where Rs 18,000 crore was disbursed among bank accounts of around nine crore farmers. In Jharkhand, around 30 lakh farmers are enrolled with this central scheme that offers Rs 6000 annually to small and marginal farmers in three installments. PM-KISAN was originally launched by the centre in February last year ahead of the parliamentary polls, which helped BJP storm back to power with a thumping majority. However, a year later, Modi 2.0 is now in the middle of an intense stir by unrelenting farmers against the government's new farm laws. State BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu dismissed the protests as a trend stating that the Union government continues to enjoy farmers support because of several landmark steps by the Modi government. PM Kisan scheme is one such to help crores of small and marginal farmers across the country. BJP is committed to farmers welfare unlike the opposition parties who are misleading them by false propagandas,” said Sahu, adding that today’s events across the state were a grand success. Ranchi MLA CP Singh, who was part of the programme held at state BJP headquarter said, “India has today emerged as a global powerhouse only because of Modji’s vision and leadership which is inclusive and progressive. The government is currently working overnight to fulfill its vision of doubling farmers income by 2022.” Detailing on the line of events held across the state, party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that kisan sammelans were held in all 513 mandals (units) to mark the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihar Vajpayee. “We spoke on Vajpayee’s vision of India, efforts of the Modi government towards making India a global power and read out Union agriculture minister’s open letter to farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
