27-12-2020||Calcutta||International Calcutta Book Fair postponed till Covid-19 situation improves: Guild official||Organisers of the International Calcutta Book Fair have finally decided to postpone the annual event for several months till there is an improvement in the Covid-19 situation, an official said on Sunday. The Publishers and Booksellers Guild had initially decided to postpone the 45th edition of the book fair to a later date, the official said. The book fair was originally scheduled to be held from January 27 to February 7. The fair will be held once there is an improvement in the pandemic situation and the threat of infection lessens, he said. "With normal international flight movement yet to begin and with the school, college campuses closed, we cannot put the health safety of lakhs of people at risk," Guild president Tridib Chatterjee told reporters. Regulating the entry of people in a book fair of this magnitude, and not giving book lovers access to over 700 stalls on the fairground will not be feasible, Chatterjee said. "It is more advisable to wait for some more time till the situation improves," he said. The Calcutta book fair cannot be held on the lines of a local fair as it will then lose its international character, he asserted. International book fairs such as the London Book Fair have already been postponed. The 44th International Calcutta Book Fair in 2019 had attracted over 15 lakh bibliophiles in 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Call to Firhad Hakim sheds light on death-certificate delay||A Calcuttan called up the outgoing mayor on Saturday to complain about delay in getting a death certificate. The outgoing mayor and now the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, admitted that he has received several complaints on delays in getting birth and death certificates. Hakim received the call during the weekly phone-in programme, Talk to CMC, where citizens can tell him directly about any complaint regarding civic services. “I have received several complaints about delays in getting birth and death certificates. I have asked officials why this delay is happening,” Hakim said after the weekly programme. A death certificate, issued by a local physician if someone dies at home or by a hospital if someone passed away in a hospital, has to be submitted at the cremation ghat or the burial ground. The family of the deceased is handed over a two copies of the death certificate issued by the CMC after the funeral is over. A CMC official said people also approach CMC offices when they require more copies of certificates or when they have lost the certificate or if they wanted to make some corrections. The civic body issues birth and death certificates from both its headquarters on S.N. Banerjee Road and from the borough offices in the 16 CMC boroughs. Before the Covid-induced pandemic, people used to queue up at the CMC headquarters as well as at the 16 borough offices to submit applications for birth and death certificates. The CMC used to restrict the number of applications each day and many complained that they had to return without being able to file the applications. After the pandemic began, queues have been prohibited and people have to submit their applications in drop boxes. “There is no limit on applications now. We are not being able to process all applications received in a day. As a result the applications are piling up,” said an official. Before the pandemic, CMC officials sitting at the counter used to check the applications before receiving them. They could communicate the absence of any required document immediately, said a senior CMC official. Nowadays, people have to write the problem and what they want in a white paper and give necessary documents and drop the applications with the attached documents in the drop box. CMC officials check the application and call the applicant and give a date to collect the certificate, if all documents are in order. “Our officials have to call the applicants if some document is missing. The entire process is getting delayed,” said the senior official. Hakim added on Saturday that he has asked the municipal commissioner to create a mobile app where people can file their applications. “We will give a date and time by when people would get the certificate,” said Hakim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Madhyamik to be held from June  1 to 10 ||Madhyamik 2021 will be held between June 1 and 10, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Saturday. The exams are usually held between February and March every year but the pandemic and then the state elections, whose final dates have yet to be announced, forced the delay. Each day’s test will start at 11.45am and continue till 3pm. The first 15 minutes will be allotted to the examinees for only reading question papers. The first examination will be of the first language followed by the second language examination on June 2. Geography exam will be held on June 3 followed by history on June 5 and mathematics on June 7. The life sciences exam will be held on June 8 followed by physical science on June 9. Madhyamik will end with the optional elective subjects exam on June 10. The dates for the tests in shorthand, typewriting, music will be announced later, a circular issued by the board says. Typewriting and shorthand exams will be conducted in Calcutta and Siliguri. The computer practical exams will be taken by individual schools and the practical for the vocational subjects will be conducted by the sector skill council or the individual schools. Last month, the state government had pruned Classes X and XII syllabuses, as on-campus classes could not be held because of Covid. The decision to hold board exams for Classes 10 and 12 in June came after Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ ruled out conducting them at least until February 2021. The higher secondary examinations scheduled for June 30 have been put off and a fresh date will be announced for that day’s exams. The decision was taken in view of Hul Divas, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Thursday. Hul Divas is observed on June 30 in memory of Sidho and Kanhu Murmu, who led the Santhal rebellion on June 30, 1855, against colonial oppression. Several organisations had written to the government requesting that the exams not be held that day, the minister said. Exams in statistics, geography, costing and taxation, home management and family resource management were scheduled to be held on June 30. The HS exams that begin on June 15 were earlier scheduled to end on June 30. The council had announced on Friday that exams of theory papers would be held between June 15 and 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||41 prosecuted  for drink driving||As many as 41 motorists and motorcyclists were prosecuted for drink driving in the city on Christmas night. The number of prosecutions on Christmas night was almost double the count on Christmas Eve and the highest on a single night in the past nine months. The majority of the prosecutions for drink driving were reported from the Sovabazar crossing, Rashbehari Avenue and Garia. Without breathalysers to detect the presence of alcohol in blood, the police stopped vehicles at random and used their instincts to identify if the person at the wheel was intoxicated. Breathalysers are not being used as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. In Sovabazar, some of the motorcyclists who were unable to stand properly were sent to the hospital for an alcohol test, the police said. They were prosecuted after the percentage of alcohol in their blood was found to be higher than the permissable level. In Golpark, the police found more than one case where the person at the wheel was reeking of alcohol, making it easier for the cops to ask them for an alcohol test. Some motorists resisted, saying a “test was unnecessary”. They were made to undergo the test in the hospital before being prosecuted. At the Sovabazar crossing, the majority of the 12 prosecuted for drink driving on Friday night were motorcyclists, said an officer of Burtolla police station. “We ensured that only the driver or the motorcyclist was taken to the hospital for the alcohol test. Those riding pillion or other passengers in case of four-wheelers were asked to go home,” said the officer. Traffic cops said during the pandemic, they had been taking precautions to ensure no one was unnecessarily exposed to hospitals. Nine people were prosecuted on Boral Main Road near Garia and four at the Rashbehari Avenue and Sadananda Road crossings. One person was prosecuted for drink driving at the Theatre Road and Loudon Street crossings, where maximum cases of the offence were reported earlier this week. A 20-year-old motorcyclist was injured after an unidentified vehicle hit him on Picnic Garden Road around 2.45am on Saturday. Bikash Roy, a resident of Panditiya Road, was taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, police said. He was treated and later discharged from the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Virus toll on creative segment||The relaxation of the lockdown curbs since July notwithstanding, six out of every 10 small to mid-size enterprises in the creative sector in India are uncertain of surviving beyond October 2021. Almost two in 10 enterprises are facing permanent closure. The second edition of a study on the impact of Covid-19 on the creative economy in India, released on December 22, provides a comparison of the situation since the outbreak of the pandemic, the national lockdown (March-June) and the period following the phased relaxation of the lockdown curbs (July-October). The Taking the Temperature Report has been developed by the British Council, in partnership with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the Art X Company. The first edition was released on July 7. A third edition is due in March. The first two editions together comprise responses from nearly 750 organisations and individuals. “Creative industries comprise sectors like advertising, architecture, arts and culture festivals, crafts, design and fashion, literature and publishing, museums, heritage and public monuments. They also include new media arts including gaming, film and video; performing arts including music, dance, theatre; public and street art; TV and radio; venues including theatre, cinema, galleries and parks; visual arts including painting, illustration, photography and sculpture,” the report says. Micro, small to mid-size enterprises (MSMEs) and self-employed groups make up to 88 per cent of the creative sector in India, according to the report’s first edition. Some of the key findings of the second edition: ⚫Sixty-seven per cent of the surveyed respondents are uncertain that they can survive for more than a year with current resources and funding ⚫Individual professionals and artisans are facing short-term hand-to-mouth existence even as sectors are adapting to digital and live business models to stay afloat ⚫Ninety per cent of the sector fears the long-term impact of social distancing ⚫The creative economy is contracting — 16 per cent of the sector is facing permanent closure ⚫Some of the workforces are leaving the creative economy The report makes a slew of recommendations in the wake of the feedback from the respondents. The monetary recommendations call for loans and grants to arts organisations under the CSR funding plan, micro-grants to freelance artists, gig workers and artisans and timely disbursement of existing grants. “While the first report helped to understand the immediate impact of Covid-19 on the creative economy; the second report reveals the diminished economic conditions that creative organisations and artists are now faced with,” said Jonathan Kennedy, director, Arts India, British Council. Many enterprises have turned to the digital platform to cope with the crisis. Malika Dudeja Varma, daughter of kantha revivalist Shamlu Dudeja, works with around 1,000 women in 10 villages across Bengal. She deals in a variety of kantha products. From late March to mid-May, things came to a grinding halt for her. The standstill prompted her to start a website. “We kept the organisation afloat because of the digital thrust,” said Varma, who was not part of the Taking the Temperature report. The study stressed the need for government support to the creative sector to grapple with the pandemic, highlighting the role of different states. The cultural affairs department of Assam provided Rs 2,000 per month in April, May and June to over 18,000 artists’ families of the state. Financial aid provided by the Bengal government has benefited 1.95 lakh folk artists. States like Uttarakhand and Manipur also extended financial help to artists, the report pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Fresh mask call after ‘leniency’||Around 200 people were booked for not wearing masks on Christmas out of the teeming masses that took to the city’s streets to soak in the festive spirit. Health experts and doctors said the figure was too small and there was need for everyone to be more cautious during this season. Between morning and noon on Friday, police said 106 people were booked across Calcutta for not wearing masks. At 9pm, the figure had gone up by another 103, with the majority of the prosecutions from popular spots including the Maidan, Victoria Memorial, Cathedral Road, Alipore zoo, Park Street, Camac Street, Theatre Road and New Market. Most were prosecuted under section 68 of the Calcutta Police Act (that deals with penalty for drunkenness or riotous or indecent behaviour in public) with a maximum fine of Rs 100. “Most of the offenders said their masks had fallen from their pockets in the crowd. Others said they had left it behind in their car because it was difficult to breathe in them in a crowded place,” said a senior police officer. “A few others said they had stepped out for a few minutes to get daily items from the market,” the officer said. But why is the figure so small? Senior police officers said several hundreds of masks were distributed to those found not wearing one, across all nine divisions in the city. The intention was to spread awareness and remind defaulters to be cautious of the virus instead of dampening the festive spirit. “When thousands are out on the streets, you can’t go around booking everyone not wearing a mask. We used loudhailers to continuously spread awareness about using masks,” said an officer overseeing arrangements across five zones in and around Park Street. “The average number of daily prosecutions for not wearing masks is over 100,” the officer said. On Friday evening, Park Street had to be closed to traffic for around two hours on Christmas evening after the number of pedestrians on the “party street” suddenly surged, leaving no space for vehicles. Thousands of people — young and old — went to Park Street to see the lights and soak in the festive mood, rare in a year reigned by the pandemic, throwing traffic out of gear. Many said they had stepped out for the first time since the start of the pandemic. Some said they had not stepped out with family even during Durga Puja. Several senior doctors, who have been treating Covid patients for the last few months, said the reluctance to either put on masks or maintain distance in a crowd on the roads would increase the susceptibility of patients who may not be aware whether the coronavirus infection would be mild and asymptomatic for them or turn severe. “The number of asymp-tomatic cases would go up and since lesser numbers are turning up for tests, this could be dangerous,” said Ajay Krishna Sarkar, a senior pulmonologist at Peerless Hospital. “But what is more alarming is that no one knows if the infection will remain mild or leave him/her in a critical state. So, there can be no two ways about maintaining the standard precautions,” he said. There is no particular pattern in the infection. “It can be the heart, the lungs, the kidneys or just about any other organ in the body. So, if one thinks I have a strong immunity and don’t need to wear a mask, it can be disastrous for the person and others who are in contact with him/her,” said Himadri Chakraborty, who leads a team of doctors across state-run Covid hospitals in parts of Bidhannagar, Baranagar, Dum Dum, Barasat and Barackpore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||The link between literary studies and ethics||The inaugural Krishna Bose Lecture on the occasion of the 90th birth anniversary of the teacher, social worker and three-time parliamentarian was delivered on Saturday by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, University Professor, Columbia University, who described Bose as one who fought for social justice. “If ever there is an example that literary work opens up for a practical interest in social justice, Krishna Bose is proof,”  Chakravorty Spivak said. The academic started the memorial lecture on a personal note and elaborating on Bose’s training in literary work, she referred to legendary teacher Tarak Nath Sen who taught them literature at the erstwhile Presidency College. “We spoke frequently of Presidency College, as it was then, and the importance of our early literary training.  I have often said the training into literary studies opens the imagination towards ethics because it teaches us, if we have professors such as Professor Sen, to suspend ourselves and go into the text on its own terms…. Professor Krishna Bose was a teacher of English for 40 years at City College, becoming the head of the department and finally the principal of the college. If ever there is an example that literary work opens up for a practical interest in social justice, Krishna Bose is proof,” she said. “It is examples such as hers that allow us to fight for the contemporary world which has lost its turn towards the ethical because of its interest in speed and efficiency alone and misplaced digital idealism. In my country of residence and my country of citizenship — the United States and India — we are suffering from this loss and, therefore, apart from all else, I feel the need to celebrate such persons as Krishna Bose, few and far between, in a global context today,” Chakravorty Spivak said. Bose had died on February 22 this year. On behalf of Netaji Bhawan, Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, sons of Krishna Bose, invited Chakravorty Spivak to inaugurate the lecture series. Reflecting on Krishna Bose’s practical interest in social justice, Chakravorty Spivak said: “As Sugata was saying, she should be very much better known by the English colleagues because of the connection between the literary study and a genuine interest in social justice, which goes towards political activism. So I spoke in some detail about her as an example of the scope and range of imaginative activism in the real world nurtured by literary education and pedagogy.” Sugata Bose, Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History at Harvard University, told Metro later that Chakravorty Spivak had offered “a very astute interpretation of my mother”. “After all, she (Krishna Bose) was an academic, a writer and teacher. Yet it must have been that literary and scholarly training that instilled in her the ethics to fight for social justice in public life. So the two worlds are not unconnected. That is what she (Chakravorty Spivak) was saying that, you know, the academic word and world of public service are inextricably connected. That is what she (Krishna Bose) was able to show. Not everybody is able to straddle both worlds. My mother could,” Sugata Bose said. Reflecting on the point of  misplaced digital idealism flagged by Chakravorty Spivak, Sugata Bose said: “The connection has to be deep. It simply cannot be achieved through speed and efficiency. Or else, it leads to a digital divide.” A bronze bust of Krishna Bose was unveiled in the driveway of Netaji Bhawan before the start of the lecture on Saturday evening. Krishna Bose’s website, krishnabose.com, was relaunched, too. The even concluded with Krishna Bose’s recorded recitation of the poem “Proshno (Query)” by Rabindranath Tagore. The hour-long lecture was held inside the auditorium on Netaji Bhawan, following physical-distancing norms. The chairs where the audience was seated were placed far apart from each other and the audience was asked to wear masks. The audience included several eminent Calcuttans, among them Jayanta Sengupta, the curator of Victoria Memorial, and oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
27-12-2020||Business||Indian Railways earnings  on track||The Indian Railways will meet its operating expenditure from its earnings despite the coronavirus pandemic, Railway Board chairman V.K. Yadav said on Saturday, assessing a year that  saw the national transporter scale down its passenger services to an unprecedented level to contain the spread of the virus. Addressing a year-ender press meet, Yadav said several expenditure-control measures and freight revenue earnings will help compensate for the losses in the passenger segment. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the railways’ passenger revenue has come down to just Rs 4,600 crore this year compared with Rs 53,000 crore last year, a slide of 87 per cent. Yadav said the railways expect an increase in freight loading revenue on account of enhanced transportation of non-traditional commodities such as foodgrain and fertilisers. “The railways has so far spent 12 per cent less than last year. We have controlled our expenditure and as few trains are operational we are saving on fuel and inventory. Despite Covid-19, we will meet our operating expenditure from our revenue. “We have almost surpassed both freight loading and freight revenue of last year. So, this year’s freight revenue would be more than last year’s,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
27-12-2020||Business||GST rule to affect 45K||The mandatory requirement of 1 per cent cash payment of GST liability with effect from January 1 would be applicable to about 45,000 taxpayers, which is only 0.37 per cent of the total businesses registered in the Goods and Services Tax system, sources in the revenue department  said on Saturday. To curb tax evasion by way of fake invoicing, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs had earlier this week amended GST rules making it mandatory for businesses with a monthly turnover of over Rs 50 lakh to mandatorily pay at least 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash. The new rule restricts use of input tax credit for discharging GST liability to 99 per cent, effective January 1, 2021. However, this restriction will not apply in cases where the managing director or any partner have paid more than Rs 1 lakh as income tax or the registered person has received a refund amount of more than Rs 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of unutilised input tax credit. Sources said data analysis indicates that out of the total GST taxpayer base of 1.2 crore tax payers, only around 4 lakh tax payers have monthly supply value greater than Rs 50 lakh. Of these 4 lakh, only about 1.5 lakh taxpayers pay less than 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash. “Now, when the exclusions in the rule are applied, 1.05 lakh taxpayers get further excluded from these 1.5 lakh taxpayers. Thus, the rule would apply only to 40,000 to 45,000 taxpayers. This would be around 0.37 per cent of the total GST tax base of 1.2 crore taxpayers,” sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
27-12-2020||Business||Rajasthan to borrow Rs 2731 crore||The Centre has allowed Rajasthan to borrow an additional sum of Rs 2,731 crore after the state successfully undertook the reforms on ease of doing business parameters. Rajasthan has now joined  five other states — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — which have completed the reforms on ease of doing business to be eligible for additional borrowing. These six states have been granted an additional borrowing permission of Rs 19,459 crore. “The state (Rajasthan) has become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources of Rs 2,731 crore through open market borrowings. Permission for the same was issued by the department of expenditure on December 24,” the finance ministry said in a statement. Ease of doing business is an important indicator of the investment friendly climate in the country. The government had in May decided to link the grant of additional borrowing permissions to states that undertake the reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. The reforms stipulated in this category include completion of first assessment of “District Level Business Reform Action Plan”, elimination of the requirements of renewal of registration certificates/approvals/licences obtained by businesses under various Acts. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19, the government had in May enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation was linked to the states undertaking citizen-centric reforms — implementation of the “One Nation One Ration Card System”, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. So far, 10 states have implemented the “One Nation One Ration Card System”, six states have done ease of doing business reforms and two states have done local body reforms. Total additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states, which have done the reforms, is Rs 50,253 crore, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
27-12-2020||Business||Franklin Templeton vote observer picked||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has appointed Taruvai Subayya Krishnamurthy, former chief election commissioner of India, as an ‘observer’ of the e-voting process for the winding up of Franklin Templeton’s six mutual fund schemes. The apex court had on December 9 asked the market regulator to appoint an observer for the e-voting scheduled for December 26-29. On Friday, Chennai Financial Markets and Accountability (CFMA) said it has filed an application in the Supreme Court alleging that despite its December 9 order, “no apparent steps’’ have been taken by Sebi to appoint an observer in the matter. “The concern of CFMA is, though the aforesaid order was passed on the 9th of this month, there has been no apparent steps taken by Sebi to appoint an observer. The voting is scheduled to commence from December 26 and there is no update about who the observer is, or his/her e-mail id and contact information,” CFMA had said. In a statement issued on Saturday, Sebi said it has also constituted a technical assistance team that will help the observer. Members of the team are —B.N. Sahoo, chief general manager of Sebi, Nayana Ovalekar,  chief operating officer of Central Depository Services, K. Sriram, company secretary and scrutiniser. It also includes assistant directors of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad — M Krishna and Ch E Sai Prasad. The Supreme Court had then also said that the result of the e-voting would not be announced and would be produced before the apex court in a sealed cover along with the report of the observer. “Accordingly, Sebi has appointed Taruvai Subayya Krishnamurthy, the former chief election commissioner of India, as the ‘observer’ on December 18, 2020,” Sebi said in a statement on Saturday. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. The fund house had announced the closure of these six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Recently, the fund house had said in a statement that the electronic voting will take place from December 26-28 and the meeting of unitholders of the relevant schemes on December 29. nitholders will have to take a call on whether to give consent to the winding up decision or withhold it, which would allow the schemes to reopen for purchase and redemption. Franklin Templeton MF had said the objective of the voting exercise is to seek, by simple majority, the consent of the unitholders for the decision made by the trustee of the fund house to wind up the six fixed income schemes in an orderly fashion. Consent will be sought from unitholders for each scheme separately. Franklin Templeton MF believes that it will be beneficial for unitholders to vote 'Yes' to the resolution as this will allow schemes to monetise assets without resorting to distress sales and will maximise value to unitholders. “If the decision to wind up the schemes in an orderly manner is not implemented, it would precipitate a rush of redemptions, which would force a distress sale of the portfolio securities, likely resulting in a reduction in the net asset value (NAV) of the schemes and substantial losses for unitholders,’’ the fund house had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
27-12-2020||India||RCP Singh appointed as JDU chief amid alliance strain||Rajya Sabha member Ramchandra Prasad Singh has been appointed as the new chief for Janata Dal (United) (JDU) by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The move comes immediately Kumar suffered a setback with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) its ally in Bihar poaching six of its MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh. According to sources, despite the party appointing Singh as its chief, it was Kumar who had expressed his desire to senior party leaders about having the former IAS officer appointed as the new JDU chief. The move many believe is a way of making himself unavailable for BJP, as Kumar, holds the saffron party responsible the poor performance of his party in the recently concluded Bihal assembly polls. In doing so, Kumar is pushing his confidante to both looking after JDU and also dealing with BJP. With change of fold of JDU leaders in Arunachal Pradesh and change of order in JDU it seems like all is not well between the two NDA allies, with BJP projecting itself as the dominant partner since the Bihar polls concluded. According to an NDTV report, Singh, a former IAS officer of UP cadre, is not just close to the Bihar CM but also belongs to the same caste. He has also served Kumar as his personal secretary during the former’s tenure as railway minister. When Kumar became the CM in 2005, Singh moved on to become the principal secretary. Half a decade later, Singh was nominated as the Rajya Sabha member, following which he has been Kumar’s representative in Delhi, especially after JDU returning to NDA in 2017. According to sources Singh had played a key role in forming the JDU-BJP alliance for both the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2020 Bihar assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Randeep Surjewala hits back at Nadda after he attacks Rahul over the ongoing farmers’ protest||The Congress on Sunday hit back at BJP president JP Nadda after he attacked Rahul Gandhi for opposing the new farm laws, alleging that he was trying to mislead the farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that before targeting Gandhi, the BJP chief should have known there is no MSP on potatoes and asked him why the government had to import potatoes when there is enough within the country. “Dear Naddaji, before misleading the farmers, you should have known that there is no MSP on potatoes. And...we also want reforms in the agriculture sector, but the question here is the way the life of farmers has been attacked with the three black laws,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “You should also tell why you are importing one million tonnes of potatoes from abroad while leaving the country’s farmers,” he said, replying to Nadda’s tweet. The BJP president on Sunday shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Lok Sabha in which citing a potato farmer, he seems to be advocating the need for farmers to get rid of the middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, as he accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers’ protest “What is this magic happening Rahulji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers’ interests. “You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards,” Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. The Congress has backed the farmers’ protest against three agriculture-marketing laws which give cultivators an option to sell their produce directly to private players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate India’s first-ever driverless train operations on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the country's first-ever fully-automated driverless train service on the Magenta Line of the Delhi Metro on Monday that will herald a new era of enhanced mobility driven by cutting-edge technology. With the commencement of these new-generation trains, the DMRC will enter the elite league of “seven per cent of the world’s Metro networks” which can operate services without drivers, the Delhi Metro said on Sunday. After starting driverless services on the 37 km Magenta Line (Janakpuri West Botanical Garden), another major corridor of the Delhi Metro, 57km Pink Line (Majlis Park Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by mid-2021, the DMRC said in a statement. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to inaugurate India's first-ever driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro's Magenta Line (Janakpuri West Botanical Garden) as well as the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line via video-conferencing tomorrow, scheduled at 11 am,” it said. These innovations are going to herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility for the residents of Delhi and other cities in the National Capital Region. The commercial operation of these new-generation trains, set to be a major technological feat, will begin later the same day, after the event, a senior Delhi Metro official said. “The driverless trains will be fully automated which will require minimum human intervention and will eliminate the possibilities of human errors. Delhi Metro has been a pioneer in introducing technology-driven solutions for passenger comfort and this is another step in the same direction,” the statement said. Once the driverless trains are operationalised on the Pink Link too, the Delhi Metro will have a driverless network length of about 94 km which will be approximately nine percent of the world's total driverless metro network, it added. After the launch, also it will be the first time when commuters will be able to use the NCMC on any corridor of the Delhi Metro. Prime Minister Modi in March 2019 had launched the indigenously-developed NCMC to enable people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including using metro and bus services across the country. Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the inter-operable transport card allows the holders to also pay for their bus travel, toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money. The NCMC, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Line will also be a major milestone as anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued in the last 18 months by 23 banks (all these are NCMC compliant as per directions of the Department of Financial Services, Government of India), from any part of the country will be able to travel on this line using that card, the Delhi Metro said. The same facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, it added. This is the first major event of Delhi Metro in 2020 which saw an unprecedented lockdown in the earlier months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation on the Yellow Line from September 7 after being closed for over five months. The Delhi Metro's currently operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including NOIDA Greater NOIDA line). On regular days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro is over 26 lakh. “Pre-COVID time, about 60 lakh ‘journeys’ were being performed every day on the Delhi Metro network making it the mass transportation backbone of the NCR,” it said. A ‘journey’ in metro parlance relates to a trip that includes all corridors used by a rider in a single travel. Driven by cutting-edge technology, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has been conducting various trials for its new 'driverless trains', whose flagging off will be a major technological milestone for the DMRC and the country. Although initially drivers will be deputed for operating the trains they would be gradually withdrawn to move to Unattended Train Operation (UTO). Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC's first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations. The driverless train, having six coaches, is equipped with several advanced features. The metro rail scenario in the entire nation has undergone a massive transformation in the last six years. While in 2014, only 248 km of metro lines were operational in five cities, presently 702 km are operational in 18 cities in India, the DMRC statement said. “In the days to come, over a thousand kilometres of new lines shall be added and about 27 cities in the country will have metro connectivity. By 2022, when the nation celebrates its 75th Independence Day, India will have a combined metro network of over a thousand kilometres which will carry more than a crore passengers every day,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Smriti targets Congress over farmers' welfare and cow protection||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday hit out at the Congress over the issues of farmers' welfare and cow protection. Irani's attack on Congress came days after the Opposition party had decided to take out 'Gai Bachao, Kisan Bachao (save cow, save farmers)' marches in different districts of Bundelkhand region to highlight alleged mismanagement in 'gaushalas' (cow shelters). "Those who had themselves grabbed land of farmers and have still not vacated, those who through their office-bearers had killed cows in a gruesome manner in Kerala and publicised it, do you think the people of Uttar Pradesh are confused and will forgive these people," Irani told reporters here. She said the people of UP know how much work her Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has done on the protection of cows. "The people of UP also know how Congress office-bearers in Kerala had organised a festival of killing cows. I am saying with full responsibility that after killing cows, these people got encouragement from the Congress high command. The people very well know the truth of the Congress party," she said in an apparent reference to the Congress's youth wing workers slaughtering a cow and serving its meat to people in Kerala to protest against the Centre's ban on the purchase of cattle from animal markets for slaughter. The minister, who represents Amethi in Lok Sabha, on Sunday heard the 'Mann ki Baat' radio address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Hajipur village. She also interacted with women, listened to their grievances, and assured them of addressing their problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Pradeep Sangwan's campaign to clear plastic waste from Himalayas draws PM Modi's praise||Haryanvi youth Pradeep Sangwan's campaign of clearing plastic waste from different areas of the Himalayas on Sunday drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 35-year-old who hails from Gurgaon is a mountaineer based in Himachal Pradesh and he established 'Healing Himalayas Foundation' four years ago. Sangwan, along with a team of volunteers, clears tonnes of plastic and other waste left behind by tourists each year. In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast of the year, Modi, while talking about new resolves for the New Year, said there are some people who continuously keep doing something new and keep on realising new resolves. "You must have also felt in your life that when you do something for society then the society itself gives us the energy to do much more. Normal sources of inspiration can accomplish great tasks. One such young man is Pradeep Sangwan," he said. He said Sangwan is running a campaign called 'Healing Himalayas' since 2016, as part of which he along with his team goes to different areas of Himalayas and clears the garbage left behind by tourists. "Till now, Pradeep has cleared tonnes of plastic waste from different locations of Himalayas," Modi said while praising Sangwan's initiative. Sangwan later told PTI, "It is very inspiring that Prime Minister acknowledges small efforts by people like me. I thank him for bringing the work, which we are doing for the sake of protecting our environment, to national attention. It will definitely act as a big motivation." Sharing details of how he launched his campaign, Sangwan said his father was in the Army and also wanted him to become an officer in the defence forces. However, destiny took a different course when he could not clear the interview to join the Army. While doing his graduation from Chandigarh's DAV College, he came into contact with some friends from Himachal Pradesh with whom he started to explore the Himalayas in 2007-08. "I moved to Himachal in 2009, where for the next five years I undertook extensive travelling, treks etc. I met a group of people from 'gaddi' (shepherd) community in Lahaul when we were doing on such trek from Chandra Taal lake to Suraj Tal lake," he said. Sangwan said that he along with a friend spent 3-4 days with the members of this community and he was very impressed by how, even in a very remote area, they cared so much for their environment. He said the projects of his foundation, which sustains on voluntary donations, are focused on clean-up drives, waste management and other activities in the rural Himalayan region. Each year in December, Sangwan says that he designs a calendar for the following year where volunteers can align their trips accordingly. "While going up for a trek, we collect all the trash. Mainly we find plastic bottles, multilayer packaging plastic waste, and then we store it at one location on the route. While coming back we bring it back to the base village and transport it to the nearest facility. In the process, we engage mainly our volunteers," he said. "I recall that during a trek to Kheer Ganga in Kullu district in two days we got 10,000 plastic PET bottles. "Another sad thing we came across is that many people after drinking dispose of beer and other glass bottles in a reckless manner or break them. We also come across cases where cows were unable to move because a piece of glass got stuck in their hoof leaving them in great pain," he said. Sangwan stressed on working at the community level for better results in waste management in the Himalayan region. "My focus remains on the Himalayan rural region. We mainly work in the districts of Kullu, Shimla, Mandi and Kinnaur," he said. His foundation has now set up a first waste collection unit, which will be operational soon, in a village called Rakcham near Chitkul in Kullu district, while the second one will come up near Kheer Ganga base camp. Third and the fourth one will come up in Lahaul where Atal tunnel has come up, which is witnessing a lot of tourist activity. He said that in his campaign social media has acted as a powerful tool and more and even film stars like Randeep Hooda, who is from Haryana, have supported and appreciated his cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Farmers bang 'thaalis' as PM harps on Aatmanirbhar Bharat in ‘Mann ki Baat’||Farmers, protesting against the new farm laws at various border points of Delhi, clanged thalis and shouted slogans on Sunday morning as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation during his weekly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast. The protest took place at several spots -- Singhu border, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts in Punjab and BJP-ruled Haryana -- as the Prime Minister spoke against single-use plastics, espoused the benefits of an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat", and paid tributes to the Sikh personalities of the country. Unlike his November address, the Prime Minister did not raise the issue of farmers, who have been protesting for a month at different borders of Delhi against three agri laws. Modi said that  people have supported the "vocal for local" campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. “The outgoing year saw the spirit of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ echo in society,” he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the Prime Minister asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolutions for the New Year. Modi also asked Indians to use Kashmiri saffron, saying that his government is working to make it a “globally popular brand”. The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. “We pay tribute to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion,” he said. As the programme went on, at many places, farmers, who were joined by people from other sections of society, raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni went to the Makrauli toll plaza in Rohtak district along with a group of farmers to protest against the legislations. “We are here to oppose Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’. We are registering this protest because the prime minister only says what he has to without listening to the voice of the people,” he said. The farmers had announced their plan of beating utensils last week. “Today again, PM Modi did ‘apne mann ki baat’ (spoke his own mind) and did not listen to ‘kisanon ke mann ki baat’ (farmers’ point of view). Farmers are demanding that the new laws should be repealed and the MSP (minimum support price) for crops be made a law,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri had told PTI at Noida on Friday, after Modi blamed the Opposition for politicising the farmers’ protest. The farmers' "thaali protest" was announced last Sunday. “On December 27 when the Prime Minister gives his Mann Ki Baat radio address, farmers will say 'we are tired of listening to your Mann ki Baat, when will you listen to our Mann ki Baat?' So we will bang utensils so that the noise of his Mann ki Baat doesn't reach us,” Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav was quoted as saying by NDTV. The idea of banging plates was proposed by Modi himself in March, to show solidarity with frontline workers of Covid-19 during the initial phase of the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Nadda posts Rahul's old speech to take a swipe at him||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday shared an old video of Rahul Gandhi's speech in Lok Sabha in which he seems to be advocating the need for farmers to get rid of middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, as he accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers' protest. "What is this magic happening Rahul ji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers' interests. You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards," Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. Congress has backed the farmers' protest against three agriculture-marketing laws which give cultivators an option to sell their produce directly to private players. Agitating farmers have argued that these laws are aimed at weakening the existing government's support for the farm sector, a charge denied by the Centre. In his speech, apparently made in the last Lok Sabha when he was an MP from Amethi, Gandhi is heard saying that a farmer during his trip to Uttar Pradesh asked him to explain the "magic" behind a packet of potato chips costing Rs 10 while farmers sell potato for Rs 2 per kg. When he asked what they thought was the reason for this, the farmer said factories are located very far from them and if they could sell their produce directly there, they will get all the money without middlemen earning any cut, Gandhi is heard saying in the short video posted by Nadda. That was the idea behind a food park and this is in a way what farmers and labourers of Amethi and 10-12 districts of Uttar Pradesh has been fighting for, he says in the clip. Gandhi had accused the Modi government during its first term of shelving the food park project in Amethi. The government had denied the charge and said the park never had the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||CBI should tell if Sushant's death was murder or suicide: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday urged the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to reveal if Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death was a suicide or murder. He said the CBI should bring out its probe report into the case as soon as possible. "The people of Maharashtra and the country are eagerly waiting for the CBI's report on its investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. People ask me about the status of the case...I request the CBI to reveal whether it was a suicide or murder," Deshmukh said in a press conference. "Five to six months have passed since the case was handed over to the CBI. Hence, the agency should make public its report as soon as possible to clear whether it was suicide or murder," he added. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra on June 14 this year. Earlier, the Mumbai Police had filed an accidental death report and they were investigating the matter. On August 19, the Supreme Court had upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father at Patna against the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI. The central agency had then taken over the probe from Bihar Police. In October, the medical board of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had ruled out murder in the death of Rajput, terming it "a case of hanging and death by suicide".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||North East now experiencing new thrust in development: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the North East in his heart and so brought a flood of development in the region, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. The BJP government under Modi has given a new identity to the region which is now experiencing a new thrust in development, Shah said at the inauguration and foundation laying programme of several projects at Hapta Kangjeibung here. Earlier, Manipur was known for insurgency, bandhs, and blockades, but now most militant organisations have joined the mainstream and those left would also do so following efforts of the BJP government, he said. He attacked the Congress for failing to solve the problems of Manipur when they were in power and asserted that since the last three years under Chief Minister N. Biren Singh the state is moving ahead on the path of growth. The Inner Line Permit (ILP) has been the biggest gift by the Prime Minister to the people of Manipur which they got even without asking for it, the home minister said. "Modiji realised that Manipur is not having the Inner Line Permit when other states surrounding it had it which is an injustice to the indigenous people and he found a way," Shah said. It was a matter of "great satisfaction for us when Manipur got it (ILP) on December 11, 2019", he added. Inner Line Permit (ILP) is an official travel document issued by the concerned state government to allow travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It is obligatory for the citizens from outside those states to obtain a permit for entering into the protected state. Shah arrived here from Guwahati Sunday afternoon on the last leg of his three-day visit to the North East and laid the foundation of seven projects, including a medical college at Churachandpur, inaugurated the Thoubal Dam and dedicate the Bishnupur-Tupul-Thoubal-Kasom Khullen Road to the public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||No farmers, but Aatmanirbhar Bharat, saffron find place in ‘Mann ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday during his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address of the year pitched for the resolution of saying no to single-use plastics, and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, and paid tributes to the Sikh personalities of the country. Unlike his November address, the Prime Minister did not raise the issue of farmers, who have been protesting for a month at different borders of Delhi against three agri laws, on Sunday. Modi said that  people have supported the ‘vocal for local’ campaign and asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products are made in the country. “The outgoing year saw the spirit of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ echo in society,” he said. Noting that the issue of single-use plastic could not be discussed much due to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the prime minister asserted that ridding the country of single-use plastic is one of the resolutions for the new year. Modi also asked Indians to use Kashmiri saffron, saying that his government is working to make it a “globally popular brand”. The GI tag has given it a unique identity, he said. During his address, he also paid tributes to several revered Sikh personalities, including sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep our culture safe. “We pay tribute to the brave Chaar Sahibzaade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. We remain indebted to these greats for their sacrifices and their spirit of compassion,” he said. As the Prime Minister continued with his address, protesting farmers in Haryana’s Rohtak clanged thalis and raised slogans against the Centre, which has refused to repeal the three contentious laws, NDTV reported. “Today again, PM Modi did ‘apne mann ki baat’ (spoke his own mind) and did not listen to ‘kisanon ke mann ki baat’ (farmers’ point of view). Farmers are demanding that the new laws should be repealed and the MSP (minimum support price) for crops be made a law,” BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri told PTI at Noida.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-459
27-12-2020||India||Covid: India reports less than 20,000 cases ||India's daily new Covid-19 fatality count was reported below 300 for the second consecutive day, taking the death toll to 1,47,622, while the infection tally rose to 1,01,87,850, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Sunday. A total of 279 more deaths and 18,732 new infections were reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,61,538, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.82 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The active caseload remained below three lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 2,78,690 active coronavirus infections in the country, constituting 2.74 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,81,02,657 samples have been tested up to December 26, including 9,43,368 on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Farmers set repeal-and-enact agenda for December 29 talks||Done with the government’s obfuscation, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have sought to buttonhole the Modi dispensation into discussing the real issues by sending a detailed agenda for the talks they have mooted on December 29. The proposed agenda lists the modalities for the repeal of the three farm laws and the mechanisms to be adopted to enact a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. The farmers have asked Narendra Modi to stop his “litany of lies”, saying it brings disrepute not only to the Prime Minister’s Office but also to the country. The farmers have expressed disappointment at the way the government has been trying to mislead the nation with “lies and fabrication of facts”. If the December 29 talks make no headway, the farmers are planning to intensify their protest. They say the government would be responsible for this. “If a survey is done of the number of times the Prime Minister lies in a day, it will be found that it is numerous times. This is a blot on the country. The Prime Minister’s Office is the face of the country. If the Prime Minister lies, it damages the image of the country.... We hope the Prime Minister will listen to us and quit lying and find the courage to be honest,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab. Rajewal was not alone in speaking about the Prime Minister’s “dishonesty” at a media conference held at the Singhu border protest site after the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had replied to the letter the government had sent on Thursday, which again invited the farmers for talks at a time of their choosing. Prior to Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakkaji” — who was formerly associated with the RSS-backed farmers’ union, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, and is now convener of a collective of 62 Madhya Pradesh-based organisations, the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh — too dwelt on how he had never come across a Prime Minister who was “so untruthful”. As an example, Sharma cited Modi’s repeated claim that his government had implemented the Swaminathan Commission formula for calculating the MSP when the government had actually submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court that this could not be done. These falsehoods and relentless propaganda against the protesting farmers are vitiating the atmosphere, the SKM said, urging the government to take the initiative to create an atmosphere conducive to talks and an early resolution. The SKM’s response to the government’s letter too flags this. “We have consistently demanded the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts, whereas the government has distorted our position as if we were asking for amendments to these Acts. If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings.” Suggesting the meeting be held on December 29 at 11am, the SKM has presented an agenda, including the sequence in which the issues should be taken up. First are the modalities for the repeal of the three laws, followed by the mechanisms to be adopted to turn a remunerative MSP, as recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission), into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities. The other issues on the agenda are amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, and changes to the Electricity Bill, 2020, to protect their interests. “If there is no progress at this meeting, the next day we will move with our tractors between the Singhu, Tikri and Shahjahanpur borders, and the responsibility of any inconvenience caused will be solely on the government,” farmer leader Rajinder Singh said. That the farmers are not hopeful of an early resolution is evident from their call to all Delhi residents to join them at the borders, where they are protesting, on New Year’s Day and eat at the langars as “we will not be able to return home to usher in 2021”. While this “leaderless” movement of 500 farmer organisations and collectives has by and large been peaceful except when they have had to force their way past police barricades, there is concern about some leaders trying to disrupt the agitation from within. This was hinted by Ranjit Singh Raju, convener of the Gramin Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, Rajasthan, when he urged farmers from his state to stick to the Shahjahanpur border with Haryana and not try and join the protest at Tikri. “The SKM has given Rajasthan the charge of the Shahjahanpur border but some farm leaders are creating problems to weaken the movement,” he told the media while urging people to extend the boycott of Jio, Mukesh Ambani’s telecom venture, to Fortune products of the Adani Group. The farmer unions sought to distance themselves from the severing of power supply to Jio towers in Punjab, insisting that their call was for boycott but people were going further because of the anger against the corporate house that they see as a big beneficiary of the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Omar Abdullah audio clip tests Narendra Modi’s DDC poll boast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared on Saturday that all parties in Jammu and Kashmir had acknowledged the fairness and transparency of the recent District Development Council elections. The claim faced an instant test with former chief minister Omar Abdullah releasing an audio clip purportedly revealing how alleged associates of the BJP were facilitating horse-trading. The tape features voices that suggest discussions to facilitate the defection of a winning National Conference candidate to a party considered as the BJP’s B team in exchange for the release of a relative from prison. Against considerable odds, the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for restoration of the special rights under Article 370, won the highest number of seats, 112, against the BJP’s 75. Hours after Modi’s speech launching the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme in Jammu and Kashmir, Omar addressed a media conference where he played the audio tape of a phone conversation. The conversation took place purportedly between an individual who was present at the media conference and the husband of the National Conference winner from Shopian, Yasmeen Jan who on Friday had joined the Apni Party, which is seen as the BJP’s B team. In the audio, a voice, said to be that of the husband, claims his wife switched sides after Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari promised him to get his brother released from jail if she joined his party. The individual is heard warning him that his wife would lose the DDC membership for deserting the National Conference, Omar’s party and one of the partners in the Gupkar alliance. “Forget about what will happen. He (Bukhari) gave me the word himself that they will get Farooq (his brother) released if we do it (join the Apni Party)…. I swear by God… that he assured me to wait for just three days only (to see the results),” the voice in the audio says. Apni Party leader Abdul Rahim Rather later denied that any wrongdoing was committed and claimed that people were joining them voluntarily. Arrests are routine in Kashmir and families have to run from pillar to post to get their relatives released. A 100-year-old woman who participated in a BJP rally this month said she agreed to do so after a local BJP leader promised her to get her out of jail. “The Prime Minister talked a lot about the DDC elections and said this was a victory. If so, the next steps should be based on democracy,” Omar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Farmers' protest: rage on ground forces BJP's Rajasthan ally Hanuman Beniwal to quit||Another NDA ally, Hanuman Beniwal, has quit the BJP-led alliance after the Shiromani Akali Dal, reflecting the intense pressure from the ground in agrarian states that the Narendra Modi government has so far chosen not to acknowledge. The loss of Beniwal, who hails from Rajasthan, need not in itself worry the BJP but its possible ripple effect may impact the stability of the coalition government in adjoining Haryana, where leaders are beginning to taste a farmer backlash. Beniwal on Saturday marched along with thousands of his farmer supporters from Rajasthan to Delhi’s borders and declared he was snapping ties with the NDA in protest against the three new farm laws. Following Beniwal’s march with the farmers, Delhi appears to be under siege from all sides — Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and now Rajasthan. Beniwal, whose Rashtriya Loktantrik Party derives strength from the landed Jat community in Rajasthan, had earlier threatened to quit the ruling NDA at the Centre if the three “anti-farmer” laws were not repealed. “I am not stuck to the NDA with Fevicol. Today I separate myself from the NDA,” Beniwal, who represents the rural Nagaur Lok Sabha seat in Rajasthan, said while addressing his farmer supporters at the Shahjahanpur-Kheda border with Delhi in Alwar district. “I have quit the NDA in protest against the three farm laws.… The laws are anti-farmer.… We won’t stand with anyone who is against farmers,” he added, amid loud slogans hailing his move. Although BJP managers had expected Beniwal to quit, the move is likely to add to the pressure on the government at a time the farmers’ protest is showing no signs of ebbing. Beniwal, his party’s lone MP in the Lok Sabha, got thousands of farmers to march from Jaipur to the Delhi border. The crowd of mostly Jat farmers from northeastern Rajasthan expressed anger at the farm laws. Beniwal said he was not leading the farmers’ march, he had only joined it. Beniwal, facing pressure from his Jat backers who have a substantial presence in Rajasthan, had first written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding repeal of the laws. He then quit as member of parliamentary panels before severing ties with the BJP on Saturday. The RLP has three MLAs in Rajasthan. The BJP-led government in Haryana survives on the support of Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party. Like Beniwal, Dushyant too banks heavily on the Jat community and is already under pressure to get the laws revoked or quit. Some of his 10 MLAs are learnt to be threatening to step down, citing intense pressure from their Jat voters. Dushyant, the deputy chief minister, faced boycott in his constituency on Thursday. Villagers dug up a helipad prepared for his visit to Hisar, demanding he relinquish his post in protest against the farm laws. Dushyant was forced to cancel his trip as local farmers refused to allow him to enter the village he was scheduled to visit. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the BJP has also been gheraoed and shown black flags by farmers. Early this month, Dushyant had called on defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urging them to resolve the crisis. After the meeting, he had expressed hope of a “conclusive result” in the next 48 hours. Weeks have passed but the government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself, continues to firmly back the new laws, calling them beneficial for farmers and accusing the Opposition of misleading the cultivators. “We are not worried about Beniwal. He will again join hands with us later,” a BJP leader said, underlining that the Rajasthan MP had said he would not align with the Congress. “We hope Beniwal’s move doesn’t put pressure on Dushyant Chautala and his MLAs.” Congress stalwart and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, also a Jat leader, is believed to be trying to win over the JJP’s MLAs. Since the difference in numbers between the BJP and the Congress is not very wide in the state, a threat looms over the Khattar government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Plan to widen scan for fast-spreading mutant||India plans to sequence the whole coronavirus genomes from five per cent of Covid-19 positive cases in all states to enhance surveillance for early detection and containment of the fast-spreading UK variant. A national task force on Covid-19 decided on Saturday to expand genome sequencing through nationwide sampling of five per cent of the positive cases. Scientists say the initiative would also provide better insights into Covid-19 variants already circulating in India. Routine sampling of positive cases for genome sequencing is an idea health authorities in Kerala had adopted over a month ago after a pilot study in September to sequence 100 samples from each of the state’s 14 districts each month. The task force had called a meeting to discuss testing, treatment and surveillance strategies amid concerns that it is critical to detect and prevent the spread in India of the variant named B.1.17 with increased transmissibility reported by UK scientists. The Union health ministry said on Saturday that around 50 Covid-19 positive samples from people who have returned from the UK in recent days are under whole genome sequencing analysis in designated government labs. The ministry had earlier this week recommended a temporary suspension of flights from the UK and directed surveillance authorities to genome sequence any positive cases with a history of travel from the UK since November 25. Scientists say the plan to sample five per cent of positive cases nationwide will address speculation whether the UK variant might already be in circulation in the country but has remained undetected because of limited coronavirus sequencing efforts. India had up to Saturday sequenced only 6,370 viruses isolated from among over 10.16 million cases, in contrast to more than 157,000 virus sequenced in the UK which has had around two million cases. Eight labs, including the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani (Bengal), will do the genome sequencing. The others are in Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar and Pune. The five per cent sampling would mean 1,000 samples would need to be sequenced if the number of positive cases is 20,000. Scientists in some of the labs say they have the capacity to sequence 3,000 genomes ever 24 hours. “Kerala obviously saw the value in genome sequencing months ago,” said a senior scientist. After an experimental study in September led by doctors at the Calicut Medical College, Kerala’s health department in November approved a proposal by a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research lab to sequence 100 viruses every month from the state’s 14 districts. “Regular genomic surveillance is critical to understand how the virus mutates and whether the mutations might have any implications on the behaviour of the virus,” the scientist said. Mutations emerge spontaneously in the virus and efforts are underway worldwide to catalog these genetic changes and determine whether they might impact testing or treatment strategies. Although the B.1.1.7 variant reported from the UK and a few other countries spreads from person to person more easily, medical researchers say there is no evidence that the variant has any impact on the infection severity or the need for hospitalisation. At Saturday’s meeting, the national task force determined there is no need to change treatment strategies for the UK variant. But health officials consider early detection and containment of the variant as critical to prevent large-scale spread within India. The Covid-19 epidemic in India has steadily shrunk since mid-September with around 280,000 active patients on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik bats for 33% women’s quota ||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday targeted the national parties for their failure to take steps for women empowerment and asserted that his party will fight on every conceivable platform for reservation of seats for women in Lok Sabha and legislative Assemblies. However, Naveen’s statement has been criticised by both the Congress and the BJP who have accused the chief minister of playing the women card for the sake of votes ahead of the urban polls scheduled next year. They also claimed that the Naveen government wanted to divert public attention from its failure on various fronts, particularly on the issue of safety and security of women. Addressing the 24th foundation day function of the BJD, Naveen said: “National parties remember women empowerment during elections and make commitments  in their manifestoes only to conveniently forget about it after winning the elections. BJD will keep reminding the national parties about this forgotten promise.” The chief minister said that henceforth BJD will raise the issue of women empowerment in every session of Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and in the legislative assembly to remind national parties of their promises in this regard. Naveen also maintained that his government was providing 50 per cent reservation to women in urban and rural bodies. “ Now it's fighting to give 33 per cent reservation to women in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The BJD is the only party in the country which gave tickets to 33 per cent women in the last general elections,” Naveen said. At present in the 147 members Odisha Assembly, there are 15 women members. Stating that the BJD has become a social movement and women are the soul of this social movement, Naveen said, “No household, no state, no country has progressed without empowering its women. We cannot deprive half of our population of their rights. They must have their rightful place in the political space of our country.” In fact, Naveen has done even better than his late father and former chief minister Biju Patnaik as far as providing reservation to women is concerned. While Biju was the first leader to introduce 33 per cent reservation for women in panchayat and urban bodies in 1992, Naveen enhanced this quota to 50 per cent. Reacting to the chief minister’s stand on women empowerment, state BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The state government has totally failed in providing security to women. Now they are raising the issue only to divert the attention of the people from their failures.” In the other hand, state congress Mahila Morcha (Women wing) president Bandita Parida said, “While Naveen Babu is raising the issue of respect for Maa and Matti (mother and motherland) women are being tortured in the state every day. The mother of the five-year-old girl Pari, who was murdered in July, is yet to get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||‘Mild’ Covid-19 mutations spotted in Kerala||Genome sequence studies have shown “mild” mutations in the Covid-19 virus circulating in Kerala although scientists have not clarified yet how similar it is to the fast-spreading variant in Britain. Kerala health minister K.K. Shailaja on Saturday told reporters that a research conducted by the health department has found that the coronavirus has undergone mutations in the state. “We could see a mild mutation in the research conducted in Kozhikode… we are conducting similar research in every d0.istrict,” said Shailaja. She said the mutant samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and the results were awaited. “Whatever it is, everyone needs to be very careful… some viruses could get less dangerous once they undergo mutation, but others could get more dangerous,” she said. The discovery of the mutation came amid eight passengers who arrived from the UK testing positive for Covid-19. “It is reported that the mutant virus found in Britain spreads very fast and is more contagious. Right now we have only these reports and no first hand experience. But scientists have urged extreme caution,” she said. “We called a meeting to discuss the precautions to be followed the moment we got to know about the new strain in Britain and heightened vigilance at our four international airports,” she said. As a precautionary measure the Kerala health department has also started monitoring all those who arrived from European countries shortly before Britain reported the mutation. Scientists have underlined that the coronavirus has a tendency to develop mutations over time. The purpose of cataloguing mutations is to determine whether some mutations might affect the behaviour of the virus and whether they might impact vaccine efficacy. The discovery of the “mild” mutation in the state came at a time when Kerala was bracing for an increase in the caseload as a direct aftermath of the recent local body polls. Although the state government and the election commission had urged political parties and candidates to strictly follow safety guidelines in view of Covid-19, health authorities fear a considerable rise in new cases. The first state to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January, Kerala has since had a full-blown second wave with daily cases going beyond the 10,000 mark on several days during September to October. After winning accolades for flattening the curve, Kerala saw a steep spike after the Onam celebrations in August coupled with Opposition protests against the government on a slew of issues ranging from a gold smuggling in which a senior bureaucrat was later arrested. The daily reported cases have since come down to around 5,000 with the state witnessing a slow recovery. The state reported 5,397 new cases and 4,506 recoveries on Friday taking the number of active cases to 64,028.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||JDU sees BJP ‘treachery’ in Arunachal Pradesh defections||The Janata Dal United reacted with shock and anger at the defection of six of its seven Arunachal Pradesh MLAs to the BJP, calling it an act of treachery by the ally and seeing in the move an attempt by the BJP to assert who is more powerful in Bihar. At the JDU’s two-day national executive meeting that began in Patna on Saturday, the focus remained firmly on the switchovers as leader after leader expressed disbelief at Thursday’s developments. JDU leaders from all over the country were supposed to discuss various issues pertaining to the party, including participating in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, but the Arunachal Pradesh setback took centre-stage with the party viewing it as not only back-stabbing by the BJP but also as a threat. The Bihar Opposition predicted the doom of the JDU and suggested party chief and chief minister Nitish Kumar to look for new allies to stay afloat. “This is treachery. We have been allies and yet the BJP did not give it importance. Moreover, it was in a comfortable position in Arunachal Pradesh and there was no need to do this. We were not even kept in the loop about the development,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity before attending the national executive session. Another JDU leader pointed out that although an “insignificant” development in Arunachal politics, “the defections are like a message to our party in Bihar or an attempt to show who is more powerful”. The JDU and the BJP are not allies in Arunachal Pradesh. The JDU provides outside support to the BJP government in the northeastern state. JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi expressed displeasure over the developments, saying the action by the BJP was “against the spirit of coalition politics.” Several senior JDU leaders, including Nitish, who is the party’s national president, have either kept mum or skirted questions on the Arunachal defections, indicating the sense of helplessness in the party and a realisation about the consequences of being the junior partner in the ruling combine in Bihar. Asked about his views on the defections, Nitish said: “There is nothing like this. We have our meeting and conference now. They (the Arunachal Pradesh legislators) have separated from us.” The development has come just 45 days after the JDU was reduced to being a junior partner of the BJP in Bihar following the Assembly elections. While the BJP won 74 seats, the JDU bagged just 43. The BJP had played second fiddle to Nitish and his JDU from 2005 to 2020. JDU sources said the Arunachal blow would be discussed at the meeting though the party may not issue an official statement on it. The BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh operation coincided with the party’s two deputy chief ministers in Bihar — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday. Sources in the BJP said Modi and Shah instructed the two leaders to ensure that the party’s participation in the welfare and development projects in Bihar is clearly visible, and that it gets the credit for better work done by the state government. The BJP said the JDU MLAs had switched sides on their own. “They followed their wish. What could we have done if they wanted to join our party? However, it is not going to have any impact in Bihar,” deputy chief minister Renu Devi said on Saturday. The Opposition parties in Bihar rubbed their hands with glee over the latest developments and predicted that the BJP would repeat the Arunachal feat in Bihar. “The JDU is completely finished due to Nitish Kumar’s wrong decision (to go with the BJP). It has destroyed itself. The party has started to break into pieces and very soon it would be wiped out in Bihar too,” Hasanpur MLA and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav said. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury, in a series of tweets, cautioned Nitish about the BJP and asked him to explore new options on the political front. “Dear Nitish Kumar ji, beware of the BJP, they are well adept and highly skillful in poaching operations like the notorious wild animal poachers of the Northeastern region. They believe in exclusive political ‘atmanirbhar’. Construction of only BJP and destruction of all non-BJPs is the mantra of the saffron brigade,” Adhir tweeted. “Before being torn into pieces and to be withered away by the same machination as you are now experiencing in Arunachal Pradesh, Nitish ji, explore new ideas which may include keeping in touch with the Opposition in Bihar as an antidote to withstand the Arunachal syndrome. Under the sun, the thirst of the BJP party’s wholesale aggression cannot be quenched,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Congress takes on BJP on cow & nationalism||The Congress, which took out a “save-the-cow” march in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, has asked its state units to organise “Tiranga Yatras” across the country on the occasion of its foundation day on December 28, finally waking up to the challenge posed by the RSS-BJP’s perceived monopoly on these symbols of nationalism. The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, had instructed the state leadership to take out a “Gai Bachao-Kisan Bachao Yatra (Save the cow, save the farmer)” in the wake of reports of the deaths of a large number of cows in government shelters in the state. The issue was linked to the farmers apparently for greater legitimacy as the agitation against the new farm laws has caught the national attention. The march was stopped by police and over 100 Congress leaders and workers, including state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and former Union minister Pradeep Jain, were taken into custody. While the Congress’s emphasis on cows raised eyebrows in certain secular circles, particularly on social media, and triggered allegations of being a BJP copycat, the Opposition party’s general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, wrote to the state units to take out Tiranga Yatras on the party’s foundation day. He went a step farther, asking leaders, office-bearers and workers to take selfies with the Tricolour and post the pictures on social media as part of the campaign run by the Congress’s central unit on its foundation day. The BJP has been taking out Tiranga Yatras across the country for the past few years. Congress leaders, however, fiercely contest the charge that the party was following the footsteps of the Sangh parivar, dismissing the debate as ill-informed and motivated. The Congress leaders insist that the BJP had exploited these symbols to further its majoritarian agenda and used it as tools of divisive politics and it would be foolish to let them go unchallenged. There seems to be a realisation among Congress leaders that the secular parties have vacated the space that has now been occupied by the Sangh parivar that has projected itself as nationalistic despite the fact that its politics is antithetical to the constitutional scheme and its track record during the freedom movement had been questionable. The BJP leadership has not only been successful in capturing the so-called nationalist space but also in painting its rivals and critics as “anti-national”. Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said: “Why should there be questions about Congress leaders taking selfies with the national flag and the campaign to protect the cow? Congress leaders have always been seen with the Tiranga, that is the defining image of the freedom movement. It is the RSS that opposed the Tricolour and even refused to hoist it at its headquarters. The Congress doesn’t need sermons on nationalism from anybody; we led the freedom movement and after that nationalism meant nation-building. And cows need to be protected but cow protection can’t be a tool of divisive politics.” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told The Telegraph: “What is nationalism? Is it persecution of religious minorities? Is it lynching innocent people in the name of cow and Ram? Is it using national symbols to divide the society, to terrorise opponents and critics? Can wanton violations of the constitutional scheme be called nationalism? It is unfortunate that the RSS-BJP’s formulations on nationalism and patriotism have not been scrutinised seriously by the mainstream media.” Vallabh added: “The BJP’s pseudo-nationalism rests on falsehood. If (former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister) Mehbooba Mufti forms the government with them, she is a nationalist. If the alliance breaks, she becomes anti-national. This fraudulent debate has been accepted by a section of the media. “Our nationalism has been enunciated by Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and other stalwarts of the freedom struggle. Our nationalism is farmers getting the right price for their crop, women getting respect and security, youths getting employment. Our nationalism is protection of rights and freedom of all citizens.” Nehru had forcefully articulated this position both before and after Independence, saying: “Who is Bharat Mata? The mountains and the rivers of India, and the forests and the broad fields, which gave us food, water, were all dear to us, but what counted ultimately were the people of India… who were spread out all over this vast land. Bharat Mata was essentially these millions of people and victory to her meant victory of these people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||Poll shock  for BJP in Jammu ||The BJP has lost a seat on the home turf of Ravinder Raina, Hindutva hardliner and the party’s face in Jammu and Kashmir, prompting rivals to claim the constituency’s predominantly Hindu voters had rejected his brand of “communal politics”. While the BJP is celebrating its 3 victories from the Kashmir valley’s 140 seats in the District Development Council elections, it has lost ground in Jammu, losing in nearly half the seats. The party won just 72 of Jammu province’s 140 seats, after bagging 25 of its 37 seats — more than two-thirds — in the 2014 Assembly polls. The BJP had won both of Jammu’s Lok Sabha seats in the last two general elections. Perhaps the most embarrassing among the BJP’s losses this time came in Raina’s home constituency of Nowshera in Rajouri, where People’s Democratic Party candidate Manohar Singh emerged the surprise winner over BJP rival Mohinder Singh by nearly 3,000 votes. Nowshera has three DDC seats, and the BJP won the other two. Across Rajouri, however, the party lost more than half the 14 seats. “Around 98 per cent of voters in my constituency are Hindus, and it’s they who made our win possible,” PDP general secretary Surinder Chowdhary, who led the campaign in the area, told The Telegraph. “They (BJP) played the communal card but we sought votes in the name of Hindu-Muslim amity and development.” While the Congress has won no seat from Hindu majority areas in Jammu, the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is fighting for restoration of Article 370 and includes the PDP, has done so from a few constituencies after fielding non-Muslim candidates. Raina, the state BJP chief, has been one of the strongest supporters of the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. Chowdhary said his party had sought votes for secularism, development, restoration of the special status and India-Pakistan talks. He said Manohar’s victory in Nowshera was a rebuff to Raina’s “communal politics”. “That man talks about India versus Pakistan, Hindu (versus) Muslim 24 hours a day. But people in the area have rejected his politics,” he said. “People want peace, development and employment.” Raina, seen as a loose cannon, had triggered controversy a couple of months ago by saying he would get former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Ghulam Nabi Azad to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and wear tilaks. The BJP claims the PDP – with which it ran a coalition government till June 2018 -- is “anti-national”, an allegation the PDP denies. A BJP leader, Ashwani Chrungoo, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission in October seeking de-recognition of the PDP. The Gupkar alliance has won 26 seats in Jammu while the Congress has bagged 17. The rest have gone to smaller parties and Independents. Across Jammu and Kashmir, the alliance has won 112 of the 280 seats and the BJP has won 75. BJP state general secretary Ashok Koul attributed Manohar’s victory to “gunda gardi” (hooliganism) and alleged Chowdhary had roughed up a shopkeeper in the area during his victory rally on Friday. He said the BJP had done “very well” in six districts of Jammu and “registered our presence” in the rest. “We have emerged as the largest single party and have the highest vote share. We have made a beginning in Kashmir, where they say we don’t exist…. In future, we will go to the people and remove their misconceptions,” Koul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-460
27-12-2020||India||National Conference leader switches to 'BJP’s B team' after winning DDC elections||A National Conference leader has switched to a party close to the BJP soon after winning the District Development Council election, prompting former chief minister Omar Abdullah to allege that money, muscle, threats and coercion were being used to facilitate horse-trading and defections. Omar’s National Conference is part of the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which has won the highest number of seats in the DDC elections — 110 out of 280. The alliance is in a position to take control of 13 of the 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir, at some places with Congress help. Rival BJP, which has bagged 75 seats, can take control of six districts while Independents hold sway in Srinagar district. Omar on Friday tweeted pictures of Altaf Bukhari, the president of the Apni Party, seen as the “BJP’s B team”, welcoming NC winner from Shopian Yasmeen Jan into the party fold. Yasmeen had polled 193 votes in a low-turnout election in Shopian’s Imam Sahib area, defeating her rival Independent candidate by 128 votes. Omar said the government had put NC leaders from Shopian under “preventive arrest” and the defection explains why it was done. “J&K police & the administration are facilitating horse trading & defections. The woman shown here joining the BJP’s B-team contested & won elections on a NC mandate,” he tweeted. “Shame on this administration for playing partisan politics to curry favour with the ruling party & their stooges. These parties couldn’t win seats so now they are using money/muscle/threats & government coercion to make up the numbers. So much for ‘democracy has won’!” Omar added. On Saturday, Omar claimed two of his leaders, Shabir Kullay and Showkat Ganai, have been put under preventive detention in Shopian, allegedly to facilitate horse-trading and ensure that the BJP and the Apni Party take control of district councils. Instances of horse-trading, which have become common in several parts of India and often the BJP has been accused of indulging in it, are rare in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Alliance, which is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, has put up an impressive show in the elections despite considerable odds. Its candidates were “locked up” on the ruse of their security and some of its leaders were named in alleged scams in the midst of the elections, arrested or put under house arrest on one pretext or the other. The allegation of horse-trading has added another dimension to one of the most controversial elections in Jammu and Kashmir’s history. On Wednesday, former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti had tweeted a post of Choudhary Abdul Aziz, the son of victorious Independent candidate from Shopian Abdul Hamied Sheikh, alleging that Sheikh had been abducted by “goons of Zaffar Iqbal Manhas”, a member of the Apni Party. “BJP & its proxies are sore losers & have resorted to abducting Independents who won DDC elections. They are shamelessly using all means to increase their tally. This isn’t dance but death of democracy in J&K,” Mehbooba had tweeted. Aziz, however, later deleted the post and has switched off his phone. Manhas had denied the allegations. Apni Party leader Abdul Rahim Rather said their rivals were levelling baseless allegations against them. “Earlier, they accused us of being the B team of the BJP, but people have now realised that it is not true. If somebody on his or her own comes to join us, we cannot stop them,” Rather said. The Apni Party was floated last year following the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The party is believed to have the Centre’s blessings and aims to be an alternative to traditional parties. The Centre is seen as having engineered a split in Mehbooba’s People’s Democratic Party to create the Apni Party, which has a few leaders from other parties as well. The Apni Party, however, has failed to live up to the expectations of the Centre, winning only 12 of the 280 seats in the DDC elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
27-12-2020||India||BJP-ruled Goa and Karnataka in a beef conundrum||Two neighbouring states ruled by the BJP are in a beef conundrum, with one trying to ensure fresh supplies for the festive season while the other pulling all stops to curtail cattle slaughter and illegal transport of the animals. While Goa doesn’t dare to plug supplies to beef consumers in the state, Karnataka is set to tighten control with its new bill that would severely restrict cattle slaughter and availability of the meat. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier this month assured meat traders in his state, who wrote to him about the crisis caused by the stoppage of supplies from Karnataka, that arrangements were being made to sort out the issue. But the state government is determined to notify the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which prohibits slaughter of any cattle, even if it means taking the ordinance route. After clearing the Assembly, the bill was recently stalled in the Legislative Council where the BJP doesn’t have majority. Former Goa chief minister Churchill Alemao told The Telegraph on December 18 that he had told Sawant to find a solution by getting fresh stocks of cattle. “It’s a very difficult situation as beef shortage has led to the closure of lots of shops. I have requested the chief minister to do everything to ensure adequate supplies since this is the festive season and beef is a staple for us,” Alemao said. Asked how his state would manage with the supply of slaughter animals from Karnataka thinning, Alemao said: “Do you think only Karnataka has cattle? We can source from Maharashtra.” Commissioner in Karnataka’s department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, H. Basavarajendra, told this newspaper that he had no idea about the beef shortage in neighbouring Goa. “We have not received any request from Goa. Even if we do, we don’t have a beef market ready to cater to the needs of any state,” said the official. A major supplier of slaughter animals to states like Goa and Kerala, Karnataka has officially slaughtered some 2.3 lakh heads of cattle in 2019 alone. “Illegal slaughter is rampant because the old law doesn’t have teeth,” he said. “There was a lot of illegal slaughter and transport of cattle to other states. We are trying to bring everything under a tight control,” said Basavarajendra. The existing law prohibits slaughter of cows, she-buffaloes and calves. Only oxen, bulls and he-buffaloes over 12 years old and certified as unfit for even tilling farmland can be slaughtered. Once the new law is notified, only buffaloes above 13 years and certified unfit for any utility would be available for slaughter in Karnataka. The bill also seeks to increase the punishment for illegal slaughter of cattle to seven years in jail, up from a maximum of six months enshrined in the existing law. Although the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, is still in force, things have changed after the Assembly voted in favour of the new law against stiff opposition from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular. “Everyone in our community is scared and no one wants to take any risk as we all know the sentiments around beef,” said beef trader Khasim Suhaib. Karnataka has witnessed innumerable attacks on beef traders and cattle transporters from Sangh parivar organisations over the years. The new law would severely restrict the availability of beef since only about 35,000 of the 2.3 lakh cattle slaughtered in 2019 were buffaloes. Suhaib Ur Rehman, who owns an online meat retailer business, dwelt on the problems of allowing only slaughter of buffaloes. “Unlike the north, south India does not have too many buffaloes. This would mean that lakhs of people who eke out their livelihood in the meat industry would be left unemployed,” Rehman told this newspaper. “Most of the people engaged in this line of business are from very poor background with little education. So they don’t even understand the impact of the new law,” he said, adding that the meat traders would challenge the new law once it comes into force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-461
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Dhankar says he will ensure peaceful polls in state||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Sunday said he will do everything in his capability to ensure that the Assembly elections in the state are conducted peacefully. The Bengal elections are scheduled to be held next year, around April or May. “In a democracy, people must have the right to vote without fear,” he told reporters at Joka, where he had gone to pray at the Swaminarayan temple. “I will do whatever is needed to facilitate peaceful and fair polls in the state. I am giving my word as the governor,” he said. “Bengal should be able to set an example before the entire world by conducting free and fair polls, and the administration should work without bias to make that happen,” Dhankar asserted. “It’s high time that the image the state has projected, with violence and clashes breaking out during polls, should be changed. The police and the administration should work towards that objective in a neutral manner,” the governor said. Dhankhar had on several occasions voiced concern over the “growing violence” in the state and urged the state administration to act above political considerations. Later in the day, Dhankar tweeted, “Prayed for peace, harmony and love for people of the State at Shri Swaminarayan Mandir Joka at 11.30 am.” Reacting to his statements, state education minister Partha Chatterjee said polls had been mostly peaceful in the state. “The governor, by saying all that he did, is acting in a partisan manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||'Gorkhaland no poll plank'||Anit Thapa led an impressive 16km-plus parivartan (change) rally on Saturday from Sonada to Darjeeling and announced that he would not seek votes on the Gorkhaland issue ahead of Bengal polls. At a public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction leader said: “It needs courage to say this, but I will not seek votes on the Gorkhaland slogan.” However, Gorkhaland has been the most important slogan in hill politics for not just Lok Sabha and Assembly elections but also civic polls. Bimal Gurung, who heads the rival and older Morcha faction, has been rallying for Gorkhaland ever since he started making public appearances recently. Both Morcha factions, however, are now alliances of ruling party Trinamul that is opposed to Gorkhaland. Thapa stressed the need for “politics of reality” and said hill leaders should stop seeking votes in the name of Gorkhaland. “If elections are to be won for Gorkhaland we should by now have had 10 Gorkhalands,” said Thapa stressing that elections won on Gorkhaland promises had yielded nothing since late 1980s. The Morcha leader, however, did a balancing act to say that the “demand (for Gorkhaland) is dear to the hill people” but should be pursued by apolitical and intellectuals. “Gorkhaland is our mother and we should not allow leaders to auction this demand during elections...apolitical people and intellectuals must pursue this demand with the state and Centre,” Thapa asserted. Thapa, who has been creating an image of an upfront leader in recent years, said his slogan for elections would be “hamro ghar, hamro matt” (our vote for our houses) which was an attempt to indicate that their election issue would centre around granting land rights for tea garden and cinchona plantation workers. More than 70 percent of the hill population do not have land rights. “I was, am, and will be working closely with the state government,” added Thapa. The Tamang-Thapa faction of the Morcha made “naya soch, naya bichar” (new thoughts, new ideas) their theme. Thapa in particular has refrained from attacking rivals in his speeches. But on Saturday, Thapa launched a vitriolic attack against Gurung. “He (Gurung) can do nothing to me in Kurseong. From today, I will be staying in Darjeeling, I will be a guardian of Darjeeling and I dare Gurung to chase me out of Darjeeling,” said Thapa. Many believe Thapa’s rally was to counter Gurung’s public meeting in Darjeeling last Sunday. Both drew large crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul rally in fissure belt||Trinamul on Saturday held a mega rally at Agarpara in North 24-Parganas, a faction-ridden district for the party, in a bid to show its strength after Trinamul’s Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta joined the BJP with former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore on December 19. Some 15,000 people turned up for the rally where leaders like MP Saugata Roy, district president Jyotipriya Mallick and former minister Madan Mitra tried to boost the morale of party workers in the wake of Adhikari’s defection. Sources said the rally was organised to send a message to Trinamul workers on the party’s strength and stem future defections to the BJP. “I will request Mamata Banerjee to allow me to contest in Nandigram against Suvendu,” said Mitra at the rally. Kajal Sinha, a Trinamul general secretary in North 24-Parganas and one of the rally organisers, said after MLA Dutta joined the BJP recently, the rally was important to boost the morale of local party leaders. “This rally told workers about our strength to make them believe in the ability to win the elections under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee,” Sinha said. A senior leader said mega Trinamul rallies would be held in all districts where Adhikari has a base to try and stop more defections. “We need to tell party workers that Trinamul will be back in power in 2021.” Rallies are likely to be held within a month in East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Murshidabad, Malda, North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar. Insiders said after it had become evident that Adhikari would join the BJP, Trinamul had started to map his followers across Bengal. “Already we have lists of those leaders contacting Adhikari to switch sides. We have got in touch with them and told them why it would be a wrong move. The efforts will continue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Nandigram leaders vow to back Trinamul||Trinamul in East Midnapore’s Nandigram received a shot in the arm on Saturday when most land agitation leaders, who have stood by Mamata Banerjee since 2007, publicly pledged their allegiance to the ruling party at a “preparation meeting” ahead of the chief minister’s January 7 rally. The rally, which is held annually to coincide with the date of the first three deaths in the Nandigram land agitation on January 7, 2007, is more significant this time after the party’s regional stalwart Suvendu Adhikari defected to the BJP. Trinamul leaders are planning to mobilise over two lakh supporters at Mamata’s rally, which is likely to see all district leaders by her side with the exception of former block president Meghnad Pal. Last week district Trinamul leaders appealed to Mamata to rally ground support in Nandigram following Adhikari’s defection. Saturday’s preparation meeting comes two days after Adhikari’s road show in Contai outshone that of Trinamul’s Firhad Hakim and Saugata Roy at the same place in terms of turnout. Trinamul leaders believe that the January 7 rally would be different. “Suvenduda’s stand is clear. But what is important is that many leaders who stood by him a month ago have publicly pledged allegiance to Trinamul,” a source added, referring to leaders, including panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher, panchayat samiti executives Sheikh Khusnabi and Swades Das and block-level leader Sudip Khara. Thirty of 35 leaders, who attended Saturday’s meeting, had skipped Hakim’s rally on November 10. Taher had been spotted with Adhikari at a public meeting that same day. Asked on his stand now, Taher said: “I have still not resigned from the party and am the panchayat samiti deputy chief. I will work my best to ensure the success of the January 7 rally.” Leaders at Saturday’s meeting affirmed Mamata’s role in the 2007 agitations and said that Nandigram’s sentiments were with her and no one else. “Our land was saved thanks to her. We can never forget that. It will become clear on January 7,” said zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. In all these years as Trinamul leader, Adhikari had lit candles at 4am every January 7 in memory of Biswajit Maity, Bharat Mondal and Sheikh Selim gunned down that day in 2007, a source said. “This year Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi would light the candles,” the source added. Mamata’s rally will be held at a nearby paddy field at 1pm. Adhikari will hold a rally to “counter Mamata” on January 8 at the same venue. “People are with us. You will see on January 8,” said a source close to Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Mann Ki Baat to focus on Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday will focus on Bengal while the BJP will air it across all its 78,800 booths across the state. “The PM will speak to people of Bengal on issues related to the state in his radio address,” party MP and state general-secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato told this paper on Saturday. It could be the first of many such addresses by Modi to focus on Bengal’s socio-political issues, he added. Multiple sources said while BJP national president J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah have made several visits to Bengal to kick-start the party’s election campaign, Modi will get involved in the process virtually first. On Friday, during his virtual speech to defend the three farm laws, Modi targeted the ruling dispensation in Bengal for its alleged failure to upgrade farmers’ lives. Similarly, to counter Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP is a party of outsiders, Modi tried to appropriate Rabindranath Tagore in his virtual speech to start Viswa-Bharati centenary celebrations on December 24. “Modiji is our most credible face. We will go to polls with him as mascot. It is natural that he will focus on Bengal in his radio address,” a source said. “He will come to Bengal every month from January,” the source added. “But, his first visit will be after January 12.” Shah is supposed to visit Bengal on January 12 to join an event of the BJP’s youth wing marking Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. BJP joint national general-secretary Shivprakash tried to quell feuds between the old guard and newcomers at a closed-door meeting on Saturday in Calcutta. Quoting Shivprakash, a source said: “No one is old or new in the BJP. Everyone is a party worker and will have to work for the party.” The meeting formally introduced 110 new entrants, including former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari, to the BJP. Former Trinamul MP Sunil Mondal, who joined the BJP with Adhikari, was attacked by alleged Trinamul workers in front of the BJP’s Hastings office in Calcutta. BJP minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya spoke to Shah about it and the Centre would provide security to Mondal, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Haldia-Varanasi cruise link soon: Minister||Union minister for port, shipping and waterways (independent charge) Mansukh L. Mandaviya, here on Saturday, said his ministry was trying to start cargo and cruise operations through the Ganga between Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Haldia in Bengal on a war footing. Mandaviya was in Malda to attend a slew of outreach programmes arranged by the district BJP. He claimed the waterways link from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to Haldia in Bengal through Sahebganj in Jharkhand would start on priority basis. “The Prime Minister wants the Ganga to be used for generating money for the citizens. We want to utilise our rivers in the interest of the citizens. The commencement of waterways journey between Varanasi and Haldia would ensure employment of youths too,” he said. He added that the central government planned to expedite herbal tourism in Bengal through cruises. “Like in Kerala, herbal treatment would be offered at various villages where enthusiasts can go through riverways,” the minister said. Asked about his ministry’s stand on the deep sea port at Tajpur in Bengal, the minister said: “We are ready to help the state government in all possible ways. We may have political differences but there should be no discrimination when it comes to development.” He said movement of cargo and passenger ships along the 4,000-km-long waterways across India had partially started and aid to the tune of Rs 4,500 crore had come from the World Bank. We are trying to connect waterways through the Padma rivers and this will help us export stone chips to Bangladesh which the neighbouring country imports from Bhutan,” he said. Mandaviya also added that Tripura, Assam and other Northeast states would be connected through waterways. “We are emphasising journeys through waterways because they are eco-friendly and cost-effective. Pollution would be significantly reduced if goods are carried through waterways,” he said. Comparing the cost of carrying goods via road, rail and water, the minister said, “While the minimum cost of carrying a kilo of goods through roadways is Rs 4 and Rs 2.50 through rail, it is merely 95 paisa through waterways.” Mandaviya spoke about the achievements of the central government and visited the house of one Rajani Hembram in Old Malda for lunch. He also met representatives of different communities, including teachers, painters, chartered accountants and businessmen at the Malda College auditorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||CBI reloads Saradha gun with old ammo||The CBI has filed an interim application before the Supreme Court in the Saradha case saying “the chief minister, West Bengal” and jailed prime accused Sudipta Sen had close links and seeking custodial interrogation of former Calcutta police commissioner Rajeev Kumar. The application, which comes in the run-up to next summer’s Assembly polls, claims the “highest state authorities” had colluded with Saradha and other companies accused of running deposit-mobilisation scams, and “deliberately scuttled” the CBI’s investigation. “It is submitted that examination of (Trinamul spokesperson, former MP and Saradha accused) Kunal Kumar Ghosh by the Enforcement Directorate during October 2013 revealed that the chief minister, West Bengal, and promoter of M/s Saradha Group Sudipta Sen, had very good relationship. It is submitted that the same establishes that the CM, Bengal used to talk to Sudipta Sen using phone of Kunal Kumar Ghosh,” the application says. A section of CBI officials said in private the application was nothing but a predictable political “ploy” ahead of the Assembly elections, and sounded more like “a BJP press release”. “This was in the pipeline. The political bosses were waiting for an opportune time,” a CBI official said, requesting anonymity. He said the affidavit did not mean anything legally since no evidence had been furnished but was intended at giving the BJP ammunition to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee directly ahead of the elections. “If the agency has new evidence, it should have presented it before the trial court and filed a fresh chargesheet,” he said. Instead, he said, it has used an application for Rajeev’s custodial interrogation as an excuse to repeat mostly old allegations against Mamata, without naming her directly but referring to her post, and try to make them appear more credible by taking them to the Supreme Court. Several Trinamul politicians have been accused in the 2013 scam. The BJP has used it as a political weapon to target Mamata and her party but she had returned to power with a bigger majority in the 2016 Assembly elections. Opposition parties have long been accusing the Narendra Modi government of using central agencies to target political opponents. The CBI said it was filing the application to bring on record certain new facts and seek custody of Rajeev, now state principal secretary (IT and electronics), who it claimed had shielded several VIP accused when he headed the probe into the scam. Its application alleges that Saradha had “funded Bengal Assembly elections 2011 to the tune of crores of rupees” and that Trinamul leader turned BJP politician Mukul Roy was one of the “key players” in the transaction. “It is submitted that the examination of Kunal Kumar Ghosh by ED during October 2013 further reveals that Sudipta Sen and K.D. Singh, promoter of Alchemist group, had funded Bengal Assembly elections 2011 to the tune of crores of rupees,” it says. “Kunal Ghosh had further stated that (former Bengal armed police DGP) Rajat Majumdar and Mukul Roy were the key players in this election funded by Saradha group ponzi companies.”  The application repeats the allegations that the accused companies were made to buy Mamata’s paintings at exorbitant prices as a way of boosting Trinamul’s coffers and donate to Puja committees whom the party wanted to keep happy. It says that Saradha employee Safiqur Rehman had during his examination by the ED in September-October 2013 revealed that Ghosh used to direct Sen to pay money to various Durga Puja committees. “It is submitted that as per the said statement when the chief minister, West Bengal, contested for MLA seat, Sudipta Sen was forced to sponsor all the Pujas of Bhawanipur,” the application says. It adds that Jago Bangla, a Trinamul mouthpiece, “sold a number of paintings, purportedly drawn by the hon’ble chief minister of West Bengal to promoters of ponzi companies during the year 2011-2013”. “It has come on record that not only M/s Saradha paid funds to the said mouthpiece but other ponzi companies like M/s Rose Valley Group, M/s Tower Group, M/s Pailan Group, Ms Angel Agro Group have also bought paintings worth lakh of rupees steered by certain persons linked to the highest state authorities,” it adds. “The following facts clearly show a larger conspiracy between highly placed state authorities and the companies under investigation which requires full and through investigation by the CBI which is being deliberately scuttled by the concrete efforts of the state authorities. “Further investigation has revealed that (Rajeev) Kumar was acting with a deliberate motive by concealing evidence and facts emerged during the course of investigation by the SIT (special investigation team) to shield influential persons associated with the larger conspiracy involved in the scam. “Further investigation has also revealed that evidence, which connected the ruling dispensation of Bengal at that point of time financially was concealed by Bidhannagar police under the stewardship of Kumar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Asok on doorstep, Trinamul cries ‘copycat’||CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, the Siliguri MLA who chairs the board of administrators of the municipal corporation, has started a door-to-door campaign to listen to people’s problems, prompting Trinamul to claim that the state government’s ongoing outreach event Duare Sarkar forced Bhattacharya to try out a similar approach. Bhattacharya, a five-time MLA from Siliguri who is likely to seek re-election in the 2021 Bengal polls, denied being aware of Duare Sarkar. “My ward visits and interactions with residents are to understand their problems and seek suggestions to improve civic services. I am unaware of any such programme like Duare Sarkar,” he said while visiting Natunpara in ward 5 of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Saturday. Trinamul leaders pounced on this statement. “Duare Sarkar is drawing huge response from citizens and is being widely appreciated. It forced even Bhattacharya to come out to interact with the public,” said Ranjan Sarkar, president, Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (plains). “The SMC has little to show in terms of concrete development,” he added. Duare Sarkar, aimed at people left out of welfare schemes, has already reached more than 1.12 crore people through 20,000-odd camps. Bhattacharya claimed he did not need such initiatives for “political dividends ahead of an election”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||West Bengal||Two-month drop in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday completed two months since Dashami on October 26 of a continuous drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, which fell from 37,190 to 14,108, improving by over 62 per cent. The total number of active cases now is back to almost where it used to be on July 16, 163 days ago. On Saturday, the state logged 1,861 recoveries, 1,253 new cases and 33 deaths, including a dozen from the city. “In these two months, there have been over 2.12 lakh recoveries, compared to 1.92 lakh new cases detected. This long spell that nobody had seen coming has been a total game-changer in our Covid-19 war effort,” said a minister. In these two months, there were 3,023 Covid-19 deaths. “This (two-month) spell helped us undo nearly six months of damage,” he added. The state now has over 5.46 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.22 lakh recoveries and 9,569 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 65 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.66. The national rate now is 95.79 per cent. “We will surpass the national rate in a couple of days. Ending the year with around 97 per cent would be truly remarkable,” said the minister, adding that the two-month spell helped the state achieve – even better – all the year end goals in the fight against the pandemic. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.88 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, lagging behind the national rate of 1.44 per cent. Of the toll, 8,023 deaths or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 30,641 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count rose to 69.27 lakh, at 76,973 tests per million people. Bengal reported 13.31 per cent occupancy in 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic and over 5.49 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-259
27-12-2020||North East||Amit Shah launches campaign for Assam polls ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday kicked off the ruling BJP’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls in Assam by launching a slew of projects and targeting the Congress and the new regional parties without naming them, but steering clear of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act that is being widely opposed in the state. Participating in a massive government function at Amingaon in north Guwahati under Kamrup district, Shah launched several mega schemes, including laying the foundation stone for the development of the Batadrava Than in Nagaon district, the birthplace of saint-reformer Srimanta Sankakrdeva, into a spiritual tourism destination such as the Golden Temple in Punjab. He also distributed financial assistance of Rs 2.5 lakh each to 8,000 naamghars (community prayer hall) besides laying the foundation stone of a second medical college in Guwahati at a cost of Rs 755 crore and nine law colleges across the state. The projects to develop Batadrava Than at a cost of Rs 188 crore and naamghars at Rs 200 crore are aimed at reaching out to a group that has considerable influence on a large section of population, especially in rural areas. The projects to boost health and legal education sectors are an attempt to woo the youth. Shah said the development of naamghars would strengthten the cultural heritage and preserve the legacy of Srimanta Sankardeva. Shah lamented the fact that the previous Congress government in the state did not take any step to free the land of Batadrava Than encroached upon by illegal immigrants, which the incumbent government did. Silence on CAA Though Shah touched upon almost all issues ranging from flood and insurgency to health and education, he did not even once uttered the word CAA, which has triggered another round of protests led by student groups and anti-BJP parties in the state. Those opposed to the CAA feel it would pose a threat to Assam’s identity, culture and language. In his speech, Shah stressed the importance of protecting and preserving the language, literature, culture and heritage of Assam while dwelling on the development of Batadrava Than and naamghars as they were an integral part of the state’s culture. The CAA was passed by Parliament in December 2019 but rules for its implementation have not yet been framed. The AASU, at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests along with the KMSS and the AJYCP, was quick to question Shah’s silence on the contentious law, which is set to emerge as a key poll plank in 2021 state elections. The “imposition” of the law is cited as one of the reasons behind the formation of two new regional parties — Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal. “The people of Assam have seen through Shah and the BJP government’s promises and commitments. They are talking of protecting Assam’s culture but have imposed the CAA and have taken no step to implement Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. The MHA-constituted committee submitted its report early this year. Nothing has happened. They are silent the on CAA because they know why the new regional parties were formed ” AASU president  Dipanka nath told The Telegraph. Clause 6 promises constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. The CAA makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. Attacking the Congress for not taking steps for the development of Assam and the Northeast, Shah listed the things the current government has done for the region such as releasing Rs 8,000 crore oil royalty to Assam, conferring Bharat Ratna to Dr Bhupen Hazarika and taking initiatives to usher in peace. He also lauded the state government for improving the education sector, offering scholarships and reaching out to the tea garden workers besides its appreciable efforts to combat Covid-19. Referring to the Congress and alluding to the groups indulging in agitations without naming either the AJP, Raijor Dal or the AASU, Shah urged the masses to strongly reject any effort to destabilise the state. He hoped the masses would always choose the BJP to lead the state towards peace, progress and development while ignoring the rumours and misinformation spread by the agitators. “The election season is coming. Some people will try to mislead the people by indulging agitations. Only youths have been martyred during agitation. But I want to ask what has agitation has given Assam? Has agitation led to development or creation of jobs? Some have floated a political party with the objective of splitting BJP votes... I want to ask Congress what it has done for the state? Can they do anything? Can they check influx? Can they develop Assam?” Shah said. Grand welcome Shah reached Guwahati just before midnight on Friday. He was accorded a grand welcome at the airport. Around 10,000 diyas were lit on both sides of the road from the airport to the National Highway and around 3,000 artistes from different ethnic groups showcased traditional dances. The streets were also lit up at several places on the way to Amingaon where he spent the night. AICC general secretary Bhupen Kumar Borah said the grand welcome accorded to Shah on “a cold Friday night” is a direct challenge to the people of Assam by the ruling BJP, which has “imposed” the CAA, among others. “People should realise this and give a fitting response in 2021,” Borah said. Assam PCC media department chief Bobbeeta Sharma questioned why were artistes were made to perform in the cold. “It is total disregard for the artiste community. They are silent on the CAA,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
27-12-2020||North East||Congress leaders seek new Assam chief ||Six senior Congress leaders from poll-bound Assam have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to change state PCC president Ripun Bora and appoint “anyone” whom the high command deems fit to lead the state unit in next year’s Assembly elections. Party insiders told The Telegraph on Friday that the letter, written on August 19 when Harish Rawat was the Assam minder, seeking a change of guard was signed by three sitting MPs — Pradyut Bordoloi, Ranee Narah, Abdul Khaleque, Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia and two AICC secretaries — Bhupen Kumar Borah and Rana Goswami.  Rawat was replaced by general secretary Jitendra Singh in September. APCC insiders, privy to the letter, said they were “compelled” to reveal about the letter after “waiting” for over four months so that the high command could take appropriate and corrective steps before it was too late. As on day, the state unit was drifting, faction-ridden and faced the risk of suffering another humiliating defeat at the hustings. The Congress had won 26 of the 126 Assembly seats in 2016 after three straight terms at Dispur at the hand of the BJP-led alliance. The letter by the six leaders is significant development because Bordoloi, Saikia and Borah are seen as possible contenders for the top post but have “collectively” conveyed to the high command that Bora needs to be changed because, among others, he “lacks” intra-party acceptability, the party’s lacklustre performance under him, the push to stitch an alliance with the AIUDF without detailed discussion and the CBI challenging his acquittal in the 2000 tea tribe leader Daniel Topno murder case, all “hindering” to the “emergence” of the Congress as a serious contender in 2021. The Gauhati High Court will hear the Topno case next month. Bora, who was acquitted by the lower court in 2014 for lack of sufficient evidence, says the case is a political conspiracy against him. Bora was appointed PCC president in 2016. Though three of the signatories to the letter this correspondent contacted declined to comment, the Congress insiders said there has been no change in the situation within the state unit since August when the letter was sent to the party president. Instead the state unit has been in the news for the “wrong” reasons of late, they said, citing the dismal performance in back-to-back autonomous council polls (BTC and Tiwa), a PCC general secretary Bithika Baruah going public about Bora’s alleged misconduct, a  “promising” leader in Kamal Kumar Medhi quitting the party citing “lack of strategy and seriousness” to take on the BJP in the 2021 polls. Then there was AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal in a TV interview advising party leaders to unitedly fight the Congress, a sitting MLA Sherman Ali Ahmad indirectly criticising Bora over handling the Ajanta Neog issue. Neog, a senior MLA, was on Friday expelled from the party for anti-party activities. She is reportedly set to join the BJP. “Moreover, new parties such as the AJP (Assam Jatiya Parishad) and Raijor Dal are more in the news, trying to emerge as an alternative to BJP, a position which should have been ours in the run-up to the polls. But what are we doing: we are collecting signatures in support of Bora with just over 100 days left for the polls. We also need to find out why people are leaving,” one of the insiders said. “There is even “no” clarity on pre-poll alliances or the issues we will be flagging. It is not enough to claim there is anti-government sentiment unless we can come up with a positive, concrete, doable and an inspiring narrative,” a party insider added, hoping the Congress high command would take some prompt corrective steps to take on a well-entrenched and well-oiled BJP poll juggernaut. Reacting to the development, Assam PCC media department chief Bobbeeta Sharma said the party gave its best in the council polls and will work even harder in 2021. On people leaving the party or speaking out of turn, she said such developments are taking place everywhere, whether it is in Assam or Bengal. “There are opportunists in every party. Sometimes people also leave to avoid harassment. I have not heard what the MLA (Ahmed) has said but then we are all mature enough, we should to know where to draw the line. “One cannot blame the president for these developments. We need to respect the chair,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
27-12-2020||Opinion||Gentlemans' Game ||In his sharp letter to the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) last week, veteran cricketer Bishan Singh Bedi said among other things the Feroz Shah Kotla stadium had been “named hurriedly and most undeservingly” after the late finance minister Arun Jaitley. The renaming of the stadium happened in August 2019, days after Jaitley’s death. The then DDCA president Rajat Sharma said, “What can be better to have it named after a man who got it rebuilt under his presidentship?” The sporting answer would have been, “By playing a great game”, but no one obviously hazarded that response. Yes boss Now, this is not the first stadium in India to be named after an administrator — there is Wankhede in Mumbai, Chinnaswamy in Bangalore, Chidambaram in Chennai — and there are still others renamed after politicians — Rajiv Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, EMS Namboodiripad. The game behind the name is anything but cricket. Take the case of the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium in Hyderabad. It was originally called Visaka International Cricket Stadium --- after its promoters, Visaka Industries. But in 2005, the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, Congress’s Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy decided to name it after the late party boss, Rajiv Gandhi, even if it meant that the Hyderabad Cricket Association had to pay Visaka a hefty fine running into crores. Likewise, the other renamings might have earned someone somewhere brownie points, but these never paid attention to historicity. Adam and the Ad-man Some of the oldest cricket grounds in the world are Lord’s, Trent Bridge Ground, The Oval, The Sydney Cricket Ground, Eden Gardens, Galle. Of these, only two are named after people. Lord’s is named after Thomas Lord, Englishman and first-class cricketer who owned the present site in St John’s Wood, but would have turned the grounds into a building estate had it not been for a Marylebone Cricket Club member. William Ward bought the place for 5,000 pounds and rescued cricket history. This was in the 1820s. Ward never felt the need to put his name to the grounds. So there is history and hungering sponsors, but there is such a thing as the imagination of the masses. And no matter how earnest or deferential, some names just won’t stick. No one calls The Oval by the official name of Kia Oval, and the Imperial Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg is mostly referred to as The Bullring. And while one hesitates to draw attention to exceptions within the country, lest it sets loose the Brownie Point Brigade, exceptions exist. One such is Eden Gardens in Calcutta. Yes, it takes its name quite unoriginally from the family name of the Governor General of India and first earl of Auckland, George Eden, who was in possession of the property in the 19th century. But those frothing at the mouth saying “colonial hangover”, do note that someone at some point negotiated the pitfall of an Auckland-something and settled on Eden Gardens instead. A nod, a wink, an implicit pledge to be cricket heaven, and perhaps a covert warning to the greedy Brownie Point Brigade about the consequences of The Fall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
27-12-2020||Opinion||Bad in law||India seems unwilling to exorcise the spectre of the retrospective tax provision that Pranab Mukherjee introduced in the 2012 budget in a pernicious attempt to nullify a Supreme Court verdict that had declared Vodafone PLC was not obliged to pay a $2 billion tax demand linked to its buyout of Hutchison Whampoa’s 67.5 per cent stake in the telecom venture in 2007. Last week, the issue surfaced once again when the Narendra Modi government decided to contest an arbitration award handed down by a Singapore court that had gone in favour of the telecom giant. The move is bound to spook foreign investors who have been sizing up opportunities in India. India has a reputation for being a tough place to do business because the executive’s decision-making can be both capricious and vindictive, undermining the viability of a business operation. The government has doggedly pursued its right to extract a sum of over Rs 221 billion from Vodafone International Holdings of Netherlands for the 2007 deal. The Singapore court had ruled that the tax demand was “in breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment”. The Centre’s argument is that its sovereign right to levy the tax cannot be trammelled by an arbitration award. This contention flies in the face of legal determination by the courts in the country and abroad that the demand is unfair. It also damages India’s dodgy record for contract enforcement. The Centre’s aggressive posturing comes at a time when it is trying to drum up investments as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative that gives primacy to domestic manufacturing over imports. The government has also faced another rap from an arbitration court in the Netherlands for expropriating the shares of Cairn India to satisfy a Rs 102.47 billion retrospective tax demand arising from capital gains tied to a restructuring exercise carried out in 2006 — a full six years before the dreaded amendment was introduced. The arbitration court in Netherlands has ordered the government to pay Cairn Energy PLC, the erstwhile parent of the oil and gas explorer, $1.2 billion in damages for wilful breach of the fair and equitable treatment clause in the UK-India bilateral investment treaty. The Cairn episode is a lot worse than the Vodafone case since the government confiscated the shares belonging to Cairn Energy and sold them in the market after appropriating unpaid dividends. When Mr Modi’s government came to power, it had promised that it would not use the retrospective tax proviso. The former finance minister, Arun Jaitley, had assured Parliament in his budget speech in 2014 that the government “would not ordinarily bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”. The Vodafone case was already in the courts by then and Jaitley had said that the government would abide by judicial pronouncements. The latest moves signal that the Centre is not prepared to relent in the two cases. This raises questions about the wisdom of the ruthless application of a bad legislation since it can scare away investors who look for legal certainty in any tax jurisdiction before committing funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Why isn't Rajnath at forefront of farmer talks?||The biggest hurdle in the path of breaking the deadlock between the agitating farmers and the government is the lack of a credible leader. The agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, has been given the lead but he lacks the stature needed to handle a situation like the present one. Leaders from his own party feel that Tomar’s influence, even in his home state, Madhya Pradesh, is limited to the Gwalior-Chambal region. The other minister tasked to talk to leaders from the farmers’ unions is the consumer affairs and food minister, Piyush Goyal. But he hardly has any mass recognition beyond the cities. One leader, who has both stature and a rural background and can genuinely claim to be from a farmer’s family is the defence minister, Rajnath Singh. The government’s top leadership, however, has not involved Singh in direct talks so far to break the deadlock. Insiders, however, claim that Singh has been asked to hold talks through backchannels. It was apparently his efforts that saw many farm unions from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh coming out to back the farm laws. People in the corridors of power, though, are wondering why Singh is not being directly fielded to break the deadlock. Many feel that he can resolve the crisis. The majority view is that Singh is being kept away only owing to the obstinacy of the current regime to not give much importance to the protesters. This approach could cost the regime dearly, many fear. Little did the actor, Kangana Ranaut, know of the trouble she was courting when she recently shared a photograph of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party leader and former Union minister, Upendra Kushwaha, on a social media platform. The post claimed that he belonged to the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang and captioned an election rally picture of Kushwaha’s as “Azad Kashmir”. She had shared similar photos of other Opposition leaders as well, but had not faced any adverse consequences. Kushwaha’s supporters, though, took her transgression seriously and started filing cases against her in different courts in Bihar. So far, RLSP supporters have filed cases in Patna, Gaya and Biharsharif, alleging that Ranaut has insulted their leader. More complaints and more harassment seem to be in the pipeline for this firebrand actress. “We are going to call the lady to Bihar courts and ask her to become civilized. If she doesn’t mend her ways, she will have to run so much from one court here to another that she will be run out,” an RLSP leader said. Meanwhile, Ranaut has been left worrying why people do not like her. She may not like the answer. Congress is the principal Opposition party in poll-bound Assam but its base is getting eroded at an alarming pace since it lost power to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance in 2016. The state of Congress could be gauged from the reaction of Badruddin Ajmal, the chief of the All India United Democratic Front, during an interview on a popular TV channel. The AIUDF is trying to tie up with the Congress for the 2021 assembly polls. When asked whether the proposed alliance with Congress could pose a serious challenge to the well-oiled BJP poll juggernaut going by the acute factionalism in the national party, Ajmal straightway appealed to the Congress leaders to put their differences aside and join hands to defeat the BJP first and then decide who will be chief minister after the elections. Such a frank assessment on a public platform was hard for the die-hard Congressmen to stomach, more so after back-to-back defeats in two autonomous council polls in December. They are hoping the high command takes note of the issues afflicting the state unit, at least after Ajmal’s sermon. Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the veteran politician and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, has taken on a new ‘avatar’. He is now sporting a yellow dhoti, carrying a rosary and chanting the mantras of Lord Krishna. Previously he used to dress as Krishna or Shiva. This time he visited his constituency, Hasanpur, from where he was recently elected to the legislative assembly and started making jalebis at a sweet shop. In no time, hundreds of people assembled to see him. “Our country has become full of bhakts of a particular person, but I am a true bhakt of the lord. Moreover, if a chaiwala can become a PM, I have become a jalebiwala. But we all know the truth [sic],” Tej Pratap said with an impish smile. Smaller parties in alliance with the BJP continue to face the heat, in states or at the Centre. This week, six of the seven Janata Dal (United) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh joined the BJP and so did the lone People’s Party of Arunachal legislator, shoring up the ranks of the BJP to 48 in the 60-member House. Exodus to the BJP is routine in the frontier state but, ironically, JD(U) is part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance. After being reduced to a junior party in Bihar, the fortunes of the Nitish Kumar-led party continues to dip and that of its ally BJP continues to soar. Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh are lessons for smaller parties: tie up with the BJP at your own risk. Politicians in Karnataka seldom hide their superstitions. The former PM, HD Deve Gowda, carries lemons to ward off the evil eye during crucial political moments. The state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, whose religiosity is well known, went the extra mile to offer a small silver helicopter to a temple in Ballari as atonement for flying over the shrine two years ago. He believes that flight started all the tax troubles, landing him in Tihar in 2019; he now expects an uptick in fortunes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Serving bias||Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to make it mandatory for restaurants and meat shops in its jurisdiction to prominently display whether the meat they are serving is halal or jhatka. The proposal goes on to state that consuming halal meat is forbidden and against religion in Hinduism and Sikhism. This is ridiculous and a clear effort to push one community further to the margins. Once this comes into effect, fewer restaurants will serve halal meat for fear of violence; meat can mean the difference between life and death in India. The BJP is trying to rid the public sphere of members of the largest minority community. Somnath Das, Calcutta Sir — On December 9, a young Indian bison wandered into a quiet housing complex in Pune, which is at the foothills of the Western Ghats, a primary inhabitation of the animal also known as the gaur. Some hours later, it was dead. A large crowd, which arrived owing to messages circulated on social media and curiosity, surrounded the rescue teams. This hampered the operation and stressed the gaur, reportedly leading to its death. The RESQ Charitable Trust, which helps in wildlife rescue missions in and around the city, alerted the forest department, and the police, Pune Municipal Corporation staff, and fire department officers also reached the location by 8 am. The plan was to tranquillize the gaur. But one of the area’s tranquillizer guns was in neighbouring Solapur for an operation to capture a man-eating leopard. Why are there inadequate tranquillizer guns? Will a wild animal wait for scant equipment to be transported from one city to another? This highlights that the forest department is not just short of manpower but also has a severe paucity of funds. What is worse, available forest staff and other authorities had no idea how to deal with the situation. First, there was a paucity of personnel — how can a handful of policemen control a crowd of hundreds, all trying to click pictures of the animal or attempting heroic stunts of their own? There was no coordination among them either. At a time when more animals are being driven into human inhabitation because of encroachment on forests and their natural habitats, forest departments and civic authorities must be trained in the drill to manage such situations. This is especially true of places where animal corridors or wildlife ranges exist nearby. The local population in such places must be sensitized as well. The media, instead of shedding light on the situation, made matters worse by sharing live locations of the gaur. While rescue operations are in progress, both the people and the media must be kept back. There are rules regarding this when it comes to rescue operations involving humans; why are laws not framed when it comes to animals? Crowds scare the animals which either attack or suffer and even die from anxiety. It is clear that urban spaces and authorities are not equipped to deal with the wild. Yet, the two are likely to increasingly cross paths. One hopes this unfortunate incident imparts a lesson. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — Hearteningly, this year, lots of people apparently chose to rent a Christmas tree rather than buy real or artificial trees. Trees are rented and taken home in pots and returned to sustainable farms in pots so that they can be replanted the next year. With the advent of social media and the resultant penchant to flaunt how one is celebrating to the world, the Christmas tree market has expanded. Christmas tree farms are taking up more space and encroaching on agricultural land as well as natural ecosystems. Those who buy plastic trees need to use the same tree for at least 10 years to leave a smaller carbon footprint than those cutting down real trees. People once planted the trees they used in their backyards. With space crunch and population explosion, more trees are now headed to the landfill after the festive season. People should also try using edible ornaments and avoiding packing paper. Christmas must be saved from becoming an environmental nightmare. Jharna Roy Chowdhury, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Twenty Twenty, Twenty Plenty||We came into it, or some of us did at any rate, with eyes open, not wide, not bright, but okay, blurry and bleary, with booze and winter’s dew, half open, hallucinating that something was gone and needed farewell and something was beginning that needed a welcome and an embrace, but in truth nothing was going and nothing was coming that was new because it is only a continuum, a flip that happens each day on the calendar, or on the clocks or, nowadays, on mobiles, just a flip, as quotidian as quotidian, but you know we make ceremonies of things because we need to kid ourselves, and we need to wipe slates we have dirtied so we can dirty them anew, with, what is that worthless thing called, whatchamacallit, resolutions, yeah right, resolutions about this shall cease to happen and that shall begin, this should be dropped and that should be picked up, that sort of utterly useless and repetitive thing, but that is what we do, don’t we, that is our core expertise, doing things and doing them repetitively, often without putting our minds to what we are putting our other body parts to, that is how we have come here, in such numbers, the most populous mammalian tribe on the planet possessed of a language, or many, we do such things, mindfully or mindlessly, and we are yet to be told whether that is a good thing or a bad thing, you know, this comfort in numbers, or very often, this discomfort in numbers, which is why very often we resolve that these numbers need to be reduced and we resort to HR consultancies or armament firms so we produce the reasons and the instruments to reduce our numbers, you know, pink slips or atom bombs, those sorts of things, we never tire of who we are or what we do, and when we intermittently feel a sense of weariness, we do drastic things, like resizing, or declarations of war, or war without even the need to declare a war — that happens — that may not be legit or allowed but we routinely permit ourselves things that are not legit or what’s not allowed, which is why we found the need for laws and norms, and courts and conventions, so we may be restricted our infringements and be punished for when we care no more and go out and commit them, that sort of thing, you know what I mean, don’t you, I very much hope you do, and are aware that we do things and we then proceed to undo them and then some of what we do and some of what we undo we call progress, like what happened in Hiroshima and Nagasaki we considered the consequence of spectacular human progress, and even though we hold lachrymose memorials and murmur our never agains, there is never enough evidence that we will never again resort to effecting the consequences of our progress on ourselves, I mean look around the planet and count the number of spots where we haven’t participated in the eruption of this sort and where we are not embattled putting down, or trying to, the consequences of what we call progress but experimenting with more progress, such as the the fast-tracking of an antidote to a contagion that came from our abuses and our arrogance and which came to so petrify us that we had to stop being what we were and stop whatever we were doing wherever we were and we had to go scurrying for remedies and repair, also known as R&R, but this one being a different sort of R&R, meaning not rest and recreation but rigour and research, but anyhow, that is what we needed to do and that is what some of us spent time doing in order that many multiple others could overcome, but the truth is the overcoming is still not clearly in sight and we are, towards the end, as blurry and bleary-eyed on what is to come as we were at the calendar beginnings of all of this... ...so we end as we often do Upon a clumsy rhyme Could’ve said bye but I say boo Wasn’t it such a bloomin’ time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Opinion||Urban renewal||Cities, you may have heard, are toast. The argument is straightforward and seemingly incontestable: the coronavirus thrives among close clusters of human beings, and nowhere are humans clustered closer than in big cities. The virus’s toll seems to make the connection plain. New York City, the most populous and most dense urban area in the United States of America, was also the first to be devastated by the virus. The pandemic will pass, but many fear that our response to Covid-19 may have ravaged urban economies for good. Lockdowns shuttered bars and turned restaurants into ‘ghost kitchens’ whose primary patrons are overworked DoorDashers. The overnight shift to remote work obviated the need for office buildings and the vast economy that supports their workers, from public transit to corner stores. Online commerce, which had been decimating physical retailers for more than a decade, accelerated its crushing inevitability. Even cultural institutions seem at risk: if Hamilton didn’t lose much in the translation from the Richard Rodgers Theatre to Disney+, perhaps the end is nigh for Broadway too. Now that technology can shower us with many of the benefits of urban life while we laze about in giant exurban McMansions, why would we ever return to living and working so close together? Here’s one answer: because neither the US nor the world can do without cities. They are indispensable as engines of economic growth, catalysts of technological and cultural innovation — and they are one of the most environmentally sustainable ways we know of for housing lots of people. Not only are cities worth saving, they are also ripe for rebirth. The virus presents an opportunity to remake urban life for the better, particularly by addressing its inequities. Already, the pandemic has prompted cities around the world to embrace once radical-seeming ideas. In car-free streets and permanent alfresco dining, a picture of a more livable city is emerging. But we can do a lot more than pedestrianize roads. In 2021 and beyond, we should make rebuilding our urban landscape a top priority. Contrary to conventional wisdom, urban population density does not seem to have been the primary factor in the virus’s spread — note how Asian megacities like Hong Kong and Seoul combated the virus successfully, while many American rural areas suffered major outbreaks. But in New York and other American cities, overcrowding within residences, caused by a lack of affordable housing, did exacerbate the contagion. So let’s fix that: in addition to loosening our antiquated zoning rules, perhaps vacant office buildings and retail space can be turned into apartments, lowering the cost of housing. This is also our chance to remake crumbling urban infrastructure — to create more engaging outdoor public spaces and to radically improve public transportation. Then there is climate change. Think of the coronavirus as a trailer for the horror flick of natural disasters to come. We have a chance to fortify urban space against future outbreaks of disease as well as the coming calamities caused by the changing weather — we can even do both at the same time. For instance, reducing automobile traffic in cities will not just cut emissions that warm the climate. It will also clean up the toxic air that hangs over our most populous areas and is thought to increase the risks of respiratory diseases, including susceptibility to Covid-19. More walkable and bikeable urban design is good for the environment and our health; a study of commuters in Britain showed that biking to work was associated with lower risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. What’s important here aren’t the specific ideas, but the larger push for civic revitalization. The coronavirus does not have to kill cities — just our old idea of what cities were, how they worked, and who they were for. Rethinking urban space in the aftermath of disease is hardly a new idea. If cities were going to be crushed by pestilence, they would have died millenniums ago. Disease has shaped the modern city, and the modern city has shaped disease. The practice of epidemiology was born in the city, when John Snow, a London anesthesiologist, tracked the spread of cholera to a contaminated water pump in 1854. And much of the civic infrastructure we now take for granted — public parks, garbage trucks, sewers — was put in place partly to curb disease. Cities have overcome disease before, and they can do so again. Yet, at the moment, a grand project to rebuild American cities feels terribly elusive. Despite their economic and cultural importance, cities in the US are often marginalized in politics and, more deeply, in our picture of how America should work. About 80 per cent of Americans live in urban areas, but most say they’d rather live somewhere else. Republicans use cities as a cudgel — supposedly crime-ridden ‘Democrat cities’ became a mantra for Donald Trump. Democrats depend on big cities and their surrounding suburbs for the bulk of their voters, but when was the last time you heard a national Democratic politician make a forceful case for the beauty, creativity and importance of cities — for all that we owe to them, and all we may yet gain from them? If we are to rebuild American cities after Covid-19, we must recognize their value and sing their praises. We must learn to love their bigness, their inherent chaos, and admit how bereft we would be without them. “Cities were once the most helpless and devastated victims of disease, but they became great disease conquerors,” wrote Jane Jacobs, the great urbanist, in The Death and Life of Great American Cities. Then she itemized their contributions: “All the apparatus of surgery, hygiene, microbiology, chemistry, telecommunications, public health measures, teaching and research hospitals, ambulances and the like, which people not only in cities but also outside them depend upon for the unending war against premature mortality, are fundamentally products of big cities and would be inconceivable without big cities.” Cities created the future. Now we must secure theirs. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-97
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gujarat ATS nets Dawood aide in Jamshedpur||Working in coordination with Mango police, Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) arrested Abdul Majid Kutti, a close aide of dreaded underworld don Dawood Ibrahim from an arms-checking point at Mango-Pardih Road, on Friday evening. The police remained tight-lipped about the arrest. They broke the news to the media at 3 pm today, only after the dreaded criminal was shifted to Ahmedabad. Kutti (58), a resident of Kerala, was wanted by the Gujarat ATS since 1998. He has been accused of supplying a huge number of pistols, ammunition, and explosives to the members of Dawood’s gang during that period. The fugitive, under an assumed name – Kamal, had been residing with his family at a rented duplex in Sahara City, a residential colony in Mango, for over one-and-a-half year. OC, Mango thana, Vinay Kumar confirmed the news of Dawood’s henchman Abdul Majid Kutti being arrested from Mango on Friday late evening. “A team of Gujarat ATS had the information about Kutti's whereabouts in Mango, the team in cooperation with Mango police had laid a trap in the guise of arms checking. Kutti was walking down the Mango-Pardih Road and was eventually arrested at the checking point near the Mango thana at about 8 pm on Friday. He was wanted by the Gujarat police for over two decades,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. He further added that Kutti after being arrested had been kept at the Mango thana till Saturday night. On Sunday, Gujarat ATS whisked him away on transit remand to Ahmedabad. A police official posted at Mango thana maintained that they had been tight-lipped about Kutti’s arrest because of security reasons. He said that they had disclosed the matter on Sunday afternoon only after Gujarat ATS reached Ahmedabad. The family members of Kutti were not aware of his arrest till Saturday evening. “We do not know why the police arrested Kutti. We came to know about it on Saturday evening only,” said a woman, (probably Kutti’s wife), while answering to newsmen from her duplex. Significantly, the neighbours of Kutti had a good opinion about him. “We did not know much about the man, but he appeared as a decent person. He would speak amicably with the neighbours. He had been living here for the past one-and-half year on rent,” said a neighbour requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant protecting the corrupt, says Marandi||Former Chief Minister Babulal Marandi, on a four day trip of the district, reached Dhanbad today and charged the Hemant Soren government of the state of abetting corruption in Jharkhand. “More than 100 trucks of sand are being illegally lifted from Mayurakshi river in Dumka daily. It is being smuggled to Bihar,” charged Marandi. He accused Jharkhand Mukti Morcha workers of engaging in illegal sand smuggling under the protection of the chief minister. “Who can be held responsible for the sand smuggling when all the departments concerned with checking the sand smuggling like the mining department, police, and land reforms department are lying with the Chief Minister himself ?,” questioned Marandi while talking to the media at Circuit house in Dhanbad. Citing examples of land scams that took place in Deoghar and Dhanbad, he alleged that corruption was on the rise under the present government. When asked about the delay in the local body election in Jharkhand, Marandi charged, “The government is trying to concentrate all powers in his hands by somehow delaying the local body elections.” “The state government is afraid of devolution after the local body election as it has illegally usurped the powers of the local people’s representatives,” accused Marandi. He added that the government had been given the mandate by the general public and hence it should be working for their welfare and not get afraid of conducting elections. “If the bypolls in the state can take place then why the local body election can’t be conducted?,” he further questioned Marandi, while citing examples of local body elections being held in other states like Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, etc. Speaking about his party’s stand he added, “We are raising awareness among the masses about the present state government’s attempt to usurping the powers of the local level people’s representative. We will be carrying out an agitation in this regard.” When asked about the Thali Bajao programme organized by various organizations in support of Congress he said that the grand old party is unnerved by the host of steps taken by the Central Government be it the abolition of article 370 or paving the way for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya or bringing in the Citizenship Amendment Act. When asked about the defeat of BJP in the recently concluded bypoll elections for two seats, he said, “We had almost won. They won by a narrow margin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||No water in Jharia, residents burn effigy of civic body||Over a hundred Jharia residents staged a protest against the prominent Bata More Chowk on Sunday afternoon against various water-related issues, including irregular and insufficient supply. The protesters, representing over five lakh dissatisfied citizens of Jharia, burned an effigy of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority(JMADA), and served an ultimatum of four days to JMADA Managing Director, Dilip Kumar. They threatened to siege the civic body’s office if their demands were met. Residents of Jharia, for more than two years, have been facing water supply problems, owing to reasons like leakage in old, British-era pipelines, and malfunctioning of motors and pumps of Jamadoba based-water treatment plant. Anup Sao, former councillor of the Ward Number 37 in Jharia, who led the protest, said, “The water supply in Jharia was best in the district and much better than the adjoining Dhanbad town. We used to get regular water supply twice in a day but things gradually started taking a downturn over the past five years. This happened due to the old water supply infrastructure of the JMADA developing issues due to lack of proper maintenance, and wear and tear effect.” He told The Telegraph Online that the supply further deteriorated in the last two years and despite requests, the JMADA did not take any steps to better the water supply infrastructure at Jamboda. “The lack of regular maintenance is the main reason for the problem. The JMADA is spending huge amounts of money to lay new pipelines but not concentrating on improving the existing infrastructure,” said Satyadeo Singh, a resident of the Hetli Bandh locality. In a related development, Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, taking cognisance of the problems, wrote a letter today to Dilip Kumar. He tried to draw his attention to the problems faced by residents of several localities, including Fatehpur Lane, Hanuman Gadhi, Niche Rajbari, Dumariyatand, and Hetli Bandh. He said water supply in these areas is being made once in two to three days. Singh demanded immediate steps to fix the problem by carrying out a thorough probe regarding the reason for the issue. Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division, JMADA, Pankaj Kumar Jha said, “We are working to fix the problem. Four out of eight filter plants of the JMADA at Jamadoba have already been overhauled. The overhauling of two plants each will be completed Sunday and Monday after which the water supply is likely to improve” He admitted the partial water supply to several of localities of Jharia and added that hyacinth lying on river bed also chokes the pump during the night leading to the disruption of water supply during the morning hours. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh liters of water from river Damodar through its Jamadoba based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras. Out of this, around 105 lakh liters of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity WTP while remaining around 71 lakh liters is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Thanks to Tata Steel, a dump yard is now a park on Marine Drive||Tata Steel, which converted a municipal dump yard on Marine Drive into a sprawling park ideal for hosting picnics, inaugurated its ode to sustainability on Sunday. Spread over five acres, Dalma View Point is adjacent to the XLRI campus and is testimony to the steel major’s efforts at improving green cover in and around Jamshedpur. The park was inaugurated by Chanakya Chaudhary, vice president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel, along with R Ravi Prasad, president Tata Workers` Union, amidst a small gathering. Chaudhary said Dalma View Point was yet another initiative to reiterate Tata Steel`s commitment to sustainability. “The clean and green environment is not only adding to the beauty of the area but is also helping conserve biodiversity and helping in sustainable development,” he said. Prasad congratulated the corporate services team for transforming the municipal solid waste dump into a lush green picnic area and said that it was a good site to spend time with family and friends amid nature. Earlier, the site was a solid waste landfill area with limited vegetative growth. It was converted to a green park by layering the dump with soil and plantation of a variety of trees to stabilise the slopes and prevent soil erosion. Air and water pollution from the contaminated dump site were affecting adjoining areas. Local and migratory birds stopped coming to that area. Planting of more than 1,000 plants, 28,000 creepers, 5,000 shrubs and 13,000 sq metre of grass have enhanced the green canopy in the area. The slopes of the dump have been stabilised by planting Wadelia Trilobata, a species known for its extensive root system. These species help in attracting various species of butterflies, mainly Zizeeria karandra and Eurema hecabe. A pond has been developed inside the picnic area to make use of the run-off water and also enhance aesthetics. The pond is equipped with a fountain to maintain the dissolved oxygen level and improve the quality of water. The area has a number of flowering and fruit bearing trees that not only enrich the aesthetics, but also help in attracting birds. The mound top, after beatification, is now a viewing point for the Subernarekha river and scenic Dalma hills. "The Dalma View Point will fulfil a long-felt demand of citizens who want more such spaces in Jamshedpur for family outings and gatherings," said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Stage ready for Tuesday's govt anniversary programme ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: steel city heaves sigh of relief as UK returnees test negative||Six residents of the east Singhbhum district on Saturday, who returned from the United Kingdom between December 11 and December 20, tested negative on Saturday, making health officials heave a sigh of relief. The office of the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) of the East Singhbhum district carried out both the rapid antigen test and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test on the England returnees' swab at Tata Main Hospital on Saturday evening. The move of conducting Covid-19 tests on the returnees comes amid the detection of a mutant coronavirus strain in the UK, which is said to be more infectious than the existing one. District civil surgeon Dr R.N. Jha said while reports of all the rapid antigen tests done came late on Saturday evening tested Covid-19 negative, not all the reports done under RT-PCR  test have not come yet. “Not all reports done under RT-PCR test have come yet, but hopefully the report of the remaining tests will also come negative as there were no symptoms of the Covid-19 in them,” Jha said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said beside the six persons which include a woman, the integrated disease surveillance programme officials had conducted both the rapid antigen test and RT PCR on 34 others who had come in contact with the England returnees during the period of December 11 to December 20 when they reached the steel city. Jha said though all the returnees who tested negative in both the tests tested negative, they have been asked to remain in home isolation for the next one week. “Along with the England returnees, those who had come in contact with them have also been instructed to remain under home quarantine strictly for the next one week.  We will be keeping a close watch on them on a regular basis,” the civil surgeon said. Of those who returned from England, one is from Bistupur, one from Mango, one from Rahargora in the Parsudih area, one from Agrico and two from Sonari. The woman returnee is a resident of Sonari. The district health department was worried about these residents as Jamshedpur does not have a facility to conduct strain tests for Covid-19. “We are now relieved of any anxiety as none of the six persons tested coronavirus positive.  Had any of them tested positive, then we would have to find out exactly how we could put the infected person for a test in the line of Covid-19 Strain in absence of any such facility here in the city,” Jha said. Sources in the  integrated disease surveillance programme revealed that they got to know about the six England returnees from the airport authority in Ranchi via the state health department on Saturday. The information about the England returnees in the steel city had sent the health department officials into a tizzy but finally the integrated disease surveillance programme succeeded in tracing all the six persons and also those who had come in contact with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs near 200 Covid cases, two new deaths||Jharkhand recorded close to 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, as Ranchi continued to register a double digit spike on a daily basis. As per the bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday night, 192 new cases were detected across the state in the last 24 hours out of 19,985 samples tested. Two fatalities, one each from Latehar and Ranchi districts, were reported during the period, while 179 people recuperated from the disease. East Singhbhum reported 45 cases of coronavirus, while Dhanbad and Palamau registered 15 and 13 cases respectively. As many as eight districts, including Pakur—believed to be free of the virus so far — reported zero cases. The state’s total covid count currently stands at 1,14,146 out of 47,26,287 samples that were tested since the outbreak of the virus in the state in March. Of these, 1,598 are still active, 1,018 died and 1,11,530 defeated the infection. In terms of age-wise casualties, 508 people in the age group of 51-70 years have succumbed to the virus so far. It was followed by 264 people above 70 years of age. The casualty figure of 31-50 year age group stands at 197, while 43 fatalities were reported between 11-30 years age group and four died below 10 years age bracket. The state’s seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.14% compared to 0.20 per cent nationally. Seven days doubling rate of the state is 491.62 days vis-à-vis 354.72 days nationally while the recovery rate is 97.70 per cent in regard to the country's average of 95.80 per cent. State’s mortality rate is 0.89 per cent  than that of the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF jawan kills himself in Jharkhand||A 35-year-old CRPF jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle in the rebel-hit Latehar district, around 110km from Ranchi, on Saturday morning. This is the second such incident within a span of eight days. The deceased jawan, who was in the 133 CRPF battalion close to the Manika block headquarters, has been identified as Praveen Mochari from Dubagaon in Assam’s Baksa district. He had come back from his native place on December 9. Latehar SP Prashant Anand confirmed the suicide. “The jawan had recently returned from his native place and seemed depressed. We can only speculate that it might be because of some domestic reason. However, we have not found any suicide note. The body has been sent for post-mortem to Latehar Sadar Hospital. He had killed himself using his service rifle. The number of bullets that had been fired can only be determined after the post-mortem,” Anand said. Sources in Manika thana revealed that the jawan was deputed in Latehar for nearly a year and had shot one bullet from his Insas rifle that pierced his head, leading to his instantaneous death near the guard’s room of the battalion. The administration has deputed Manika circle inspector Vimal Kumar Singh as the magistrate and a case of unnatural death has been registered at the local thana. CRPF officials have informed senior officials at Chaibasa and Delhi about the incident. On the evening of December 18, a CRPF jawan with the 214 battalion identified as Abhishek Kumar, a native of Nalanda district of Bihar, had also committed suicide by shooting himself from his service rifle under Latehar Sadar thana area in the same district inside the CRPF campus. The jawan had got married a year ago and had returned from home on December 12. Domestic disputes were attributed as reasons for the suicide. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot and a case of unnatural death was registered before the body was sent for post mortem at Latehar Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
