28-12-2020||Calcutta||Tourist dead in Sikkim hotel||A 54-year-old tourist from Calcutta died in his hotel room at Lachung in North Sikkim on Friday from natural causes according to preliminary investigation, though the police have filed a case of unnatural death. Biswajit Chakraborty of Jadavpur had reached Lachung, located at an altitude of 9,600 feet, along with family and friends on Thursday. On Christmas, he complained of breathlessness and decided to stay behind in his hotel room with his wife while his son and friends went out sight-seeing. Police sources, quoting his wife, said Chakraborty, a diabetic, could not cope with the high altitude of Lachung. “Since he said he was having difficulty in breathing, his wife decided to stay back in the hotel to take care of him. Unfortunately, he passed away before medical help could reach him,” said a source. Chakraborty’s body was sent to the STNM Hospital in Gangtok for post-mortem on Saturday and later handed over to his family. “We have registered a case of unnatural death though preliminary investigation suggests he died of natural causes. The actual cause of his death will be known once we get the autopsy report,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Father Francois Laborde passes away||Father Francois Laborde, a priest of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta who spent over five decades building schools for the poorest and working for the physically challenged in Bengal, passed away on December 25. He was 93. Father Laborde, who for the past year was staying at the residence of St Joseph’s Hospital in Midnapore, had come to India from France in January 1965 and got involved in projects to improve the living conditions of residents of slums in Howrah, according to a statement issued by the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta and Howrah South Point. He developed centres in Howrah and the association is now known as Howrah South Point. The statement said Father Laborde was a recipient of Legion d’ Honneur. People can pay their respects to the priest at Mata Maria Girja — at 192/2 Andul Road, Shalimar — from 8am to 10.30am and again from noon to 1pm on Monday. Two Holy Masses will be held the same day — one at 11 am at Mata Maria Girja and the other (funeral mass) at Saint John’s Church in Sealdah at 3pm. Both masses will be presided over by Archbishop Thomas D'Souza. “Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, and the whole family of Howrah South Point have the deep sorrow to inform you about the passing away of Father Francois Laborde. At the same time they are grateful for the life of this noble and energetic soul that has built an inspiring social enterprise in more than 50 years — rehabilitation homes, schools for the poorest, the handicapped or the marginalised children, medical facilities and health programmes for the most underprivileged people in Bengal...” the statement said. In Howrah, Asansol and Jalpaiguri, there are nine rehabilitation homes, four formal primary schools and five non-formal schools. The statement said Father Laborde would often say: “A great joy is to work together-Muslims, Hindus, Christians- for the service of the most deprived without any distinction of creed or caste or language. The only way for us, human beings, to become really human is by taking care of the marginalised. Because these broken persons are our brothers and sisters and we live in solidarity with them. For that, we have first to accept our own brokenness,otherwise we are not so fit to cure the brokenness of others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Eco Park glass hall being rebuilt||The New Town authorities have started rebuilding Utsari — a glass hall on Eco Island inside Eco Park — that was completely destroyed by Cyclone Amphan in May, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. The glass house has hosted several programmes featuring chief minister Mamata Banerjee, state government officials and guests from abroad. Dinner parties of several editions of the Bengal Global Business Summit were held at the glass hall. “The glass panes with which the walls of the hall were made shattered during the cyclone. Even portions of the concrete roof were damaged, prompting engineers to go back to the drawing board,” said an engineer of NKDA, the agency that looks after the civic amenities of New Town. “We had to make several design changes to make the glass walls more durable and the hall as storm-proof as possible.” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said work on rebuilding the glass hall started last week. “We have decided to use stronger glass sheets,” he said. The restoration is expected to take at least six months. An engineer said toughened glass panes were used to build the hall that was ravaged by the cyclone, which struck south Bengal on May 20. “This time toughened glass of a higher grade and more thickness will be used,” the engineer said. “The glass house is an iconic structure from where one can enjoy a stunning panoramic view of the park and the water body. We want to restore it to the best of our capabilities,” said the engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat canal to be restored||A stretch of a canal that had been blocked to build the Majerhat bridge will be restored by the middle of January, government and Calcutta Municipal Corporation engineers said. raising hopes that Kidderpore and Mominpur would face less waterlogging next monsoon. Known as the boat canal, it drains out rainwater from large parts of Kidderpore and Mominpore into the Hooghly. The PWD had blocked a 33-metre-long stretch of the 2km-long canal to facilitate the construction of the Majerhat bridge. The affected stretch is just below the bridge. The block was thought to be one of the reasons for recurrent waterlogging in the Kidderpore and Mominpur areas in the past two monsoons. “We will start restoring the canal in the first week of January. The restoration is part of the scope of the project of building the Majerhat bridge,” said a senior engineer of the PWD, which built the bridge. An engineer of the department said blocking the water flow in the canal was necessary to build platforms where engineers stood during the construction of the bridge. Sandbags were placed on two sides to block the water. A large diameter pipe was installed so water could flow bypassing the blocked section of the canal. But it still created problems for residents of Kidderpore and Mominpore, an engineer of the CMC said. “The pipe was a poor alternative. It failed to work as efficiently as the canal. The block was one of the reasons the Kidderpore area got frequently waterlogged during the monsoon in the past couple of years. But without blocking the water flow, the bridge could not have been built,” the CMC engineer. “The PWD has promised that it will complete the restoration by January 15. We are hoping there will not be any serious waterlogging problems in the area this monsoon. We will also finish desilting old sewer lines under Dent Mission Row and another drainage line under Bhukailash Road (by the monsoon). The combined impact of all these could be no or very little waterlogging this monsoon,” said the engineer. The canal was blocked when the construction of the 646-metre-long bridge began in December 2018, said the PWD engineer. The bridge replaced the one that had collapsed in September 2018. The sewage from wards 76, 77 and 78 — which cover areas like Kidderpore, Kabirirtha, Bhukailash Road, Fancy Market and Mominpore — flows through the boat canal, said the engineer. The sewage water from these places collect at a drainage pumping station, from where it is pumped into the canal. The CMC has also planned to dredge the remaining stretch of the boat canal. “We have plans to desilt the remaining stretch of the canal. The target is to complete the dredging before the next monsoon,” said one CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Lessons and laurels for Calcutta teens||Calcutta Business School Calcutta Business School, a part of Shikshayatan Foundation, has been reaching out to students through a series of webinars, virtual conferences and corporate talks, and acting as an interface to connect them to the corporate sector. The series of webinars and around 20 virtual conferences were organised with two main objectives — to give a sense of direction to the students during the pandemic and to build a bridge between academia and industry and create a clear visible roadmap for students to follow, who would be joining as a young workforce shortly. The industry connect programmes saw stalwarts and corporate heavyweights such as Exide Industries deputy MD Subir Chakraborty, Sudip Datta, PwC senior partner and Pepsico director D.N. Sarkar encouraging students to be objective and advising them how to shine in their careers. The students, who took part in the programmes, were enthralled and sat captivated throughout sessions. They asked questions to the corporate and industry stalwarts, who were happy to quench their thirst of  knowledge. “Since 2016, we have been thinking that we will have an online chapter to reach out to many students. The pandemic actually gave us the opportunity to start online classes and organise a number of webinars. The professors are taking note of a few things like how the students are responding, whether they are engaged in class or not and if required, they are trying out new methods. Hopefully, we will be able to be in a better position where we will also find out the gaps and move forward,” said the Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary general Bratati Bhattacharyya. Birla High School Vidya Mandir Society organised a virtual felicitation ceremony for the students of Birla High School who came out with flying colours in the All India Senior School Certificate Examination (AISSCE) 2019-20.The toppers from all the three streams — arts, commerce and science— were felicitated for their academic excellence and recognised for their participation in the co-curricular activities. “We felicitate the toppers every year and this year, given the prevailing situation, we recognised their efforts on a virtual platform. Such recognition boosts the confidence of the toppers to achieve more in life and is an inspiration for those yet to appear for the boards,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. Sushila Birla Girls’ School Toppers of the All India Senior School Certificate Examination (AISSCE) 2019-20 from all the three streams — arts, commerce and science — of Sushila Birla Girls’ School were felicitated recently on a virtual platform. The Vidya Mandir Society had organised the event, attended by many dignitaries associated with the society and the school. All the toppers received 30g of silver medallion as reward and the words of encouragement from the dignitaries. “Our students have made us proud. They should be congratulated not only for their hard work, but also for believing in themselves which enabled them to overcome all obstacles,” said principal Koeli Dey. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Fun-Learn Day Boarding School has made socio-environmental voluntary activities (Seva) a compulsory subject for all its students to create a positive and vibrant community around the school in the Garden Reach area. On the eve of Christmas, the school turned into a secret Santa for the underprivileged children in its neighbourhood. The school authority gifted new clothes to more than 100 children of the community. “By teaching our children the importance of caring for the weak, we will make them compassionate and confident human beings,” said school founder Udita Chakraborty. Tulipians Academy Tulipians Pre & Primary schools didn’t let Covid-19 hinder the growth of the children with special needs as they have been holding regular online classes for them. They have also started activity-based therapy classes called Winspiration for them. These classes include music and movement therapy, play therapy activities, speech therapy sessions and concentration building activities. They conduct these sessions five days a week. They introduced kids to zumba and sports with a difference over the weekends to add the fun factor. They are holding school sessions in the morning and then therapy-based lessons in the evening. So, the teachers are connected with their students throughout the week. “We started online learning on March 25. We knew this entire process would initially be alien to our students and the acceptance of virtual schooling would take time. It was a challenge to plan programmes on virtual platforms in such a way that the kids who are hyperactive or having autism or with cerebral palsy could actually focus on the screen, could concentrate and give their attention. The flow of these online classes was needed to be extremely well planned,” said Tulipians Pre and Primary schools’ founder director and chairman Nirmal Verma. Tulipians first started sending homeschooling assignments, guiding the parents with step by step implementation. “Gradually every month, they introduced a new activity, so that the interest and inquisitiveness of the kids would continue for a long time,” said principal Roopee Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Book Fair not in January, dates uncertain: Guild||The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair will not be held in January because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Publishers and Booksellers Guild that organises the annual event, said. The guild also said it was not in a position to say when the fair would be held next year. The book fair was scheduled to be held from January 27 to February 7. “We are not in a position to organise the book fair this time amid the pandemic. We are not even sure when it can be held. It would have made little or no sense holding the fair in January with just a limited number of book lovers visiting just a handful of stalls. That's not what the International Calcutta Book Fair is all about,” guild president Tridib Chattopadhayay said. “Publishers from several countries who were scheduled to participate in the fair have expressed their inability to turn up. Besides, international flights have been on hold.” With less than a month to go for the inauguration of the fair, guild members had met at a College Street address just ahead of Christmas to discuss what to do. It was unanimously decided that the fair would lose its international branding if it was organised on a small scale with just a handful of regional publishers. More than 700 stalls are set up at the book fair. Had the organisers gone ahead with the plan to hold the fair next month, there would have been less than half that many stalls. The 2019 edition of the fair, which was held at Central Park in Salt Lake, had recorded a footfall of around 2 million. The state government had organised buses for book lovers to visit the venue from different corners of the city and its suburbs and to return home. The International Calcutta Book Fair features on the calendar of the International Publishers Association (IPA) in Geneva. Guild officials said the final dates of the book fair would be decided in consultation with the IPA. This edition of Calcutta Book Fair would have had Bangladesh as the theme country. The neighbouring country is celebrating the centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman, the father of the  nation, and the golden jubilee of the country’s independence. Officials of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild said that initially there were plans to rescheduled the fair in March, but even that has been ruled out as of now. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and Assembly elections will be held next year. So it would not be wise to fix the dates of the fair right now,” said a guild official. “In 2007, the fair was held in end-February.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Cats and dogs ‘caged’ in Calcutta complex||A resident of a housing complex on EM Bypass has been charged with cruelty towards animals after a woman from a nearby complex accused him of caging cats and dogs in his apartment, police said. The complainant — a 45-year-old woman — had heard cries of dogs and cats from a nearby housing complex. On enquiring she found that some pets had been kept in cages inside an apartment in the neighbouring housing complex. “The woman had come to the police station to lodge a complaint related to cruelty towards animals. She gave a written complaint. We found the complaint cognisable and have started an FIR based on it,” said an officer of Survey Park police station. The police started an inquiry and learnt that a man who has an apartment in a complex near the one where the complainant lives kept cats and dogs in cages. The officer also apparently came to know that the owner of the apartment did not usually live there and the pets were looked after by a domestic help. “A case has been drawn up against the owner under Section 11(l)(e)(g)(i) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” said an officer. The sub-clauses under the section deals with the offences of confinement of animals in cages that are insufficient in terms of height and width for their free movement, negligence regarding proper exercise of pet dogs and keeping them chained and abandoning pets without valid reason causing starvation, pain or thirst. “The owner will be summoned to the police station and asked about the allegations against him,” the officer said. “We will examine the circumstances under which the dogs and cats were allegedly caged.” There have been multiple instances in the city of pets having suffered during the lockdown and forced to remain confined in the owners’ home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiger fitted with radio collar in Sunderbans||An adult male tiger was fitted with a radio collar before being released in the Harikhali forest of the Sunderbans to study it’s behaviour and track its whereabouts in the mangroves. The exercise was carried out by the wildlife wing of the state forest department in collaboration with the WWF. While earlier data from radio-collared big cats was used to decode home range and territory in the Sunderbans, foresters want to ascertain their movement pattern near human settlements. The male tiger was caught by foresters on Saturday for the purpose of fitting the radio collar and was released back into the wild on Sunday afternoon. Chief wildlife warden V.K. Yadav said the project was being jointly executed with WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter. “We have plans to put radio collars on a few more tigers in order to better understand their movement, habitat utilisation as well as to safeguard them by preventing man-animal conflicts,” said Yadav. A senior forester in the Sunderbans said monitoring the range of big cats was difficult because of the terrain and tide timings. Nowhere else in the world do tigers face such severe difficulties. “They have to negotiate the nettles of mangrove that stick out on the banks of creeks like needles, they have to frequently swim and along with negotiating the extremely harsh terrain, they have to hunt as well,” said the forester. The landscape coordinator of WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter, Ratul Saha, said the tiger could be tracked through satellite as well as portable Very High Frequency (VHF) range receivers. “The idea is to gauge the extent of negative interactions between tigers and humans that will help all stakeholders to develop strategies to reduce conflicts among humans and tigers,” said Saha. The collar weighs around 1kg and beams signals to a satellite at regular intervals. They have an automatic dropoff mechanism, which will enable field workers to take the gadget off the big cat through remote control. The field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, Tapas Das, said they had planned to radio tag at least two more tigers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta|| Amphan havoc worst in world this year: UK report||Cyclone Amphan, which had struck south Bengal on May 20, accounts for “the biggest displacement” in the world caused by a natural calamity this year, according to a report released in the UK on Sunday. Amphan, the report says, also qualifies as the costliest tropical cyclone of the year. The report, titled Counting the Cost 2020: A Year of Climate Breakdown, is prepared by Christian Aid, a London-headquartered relief and development agency. “Cyclone Amphan which affected countries in the Bay of Bengal, including India ... displaced 4.9 million people, accounting for the biggest displacement due to an extreme weather event anywhere in the world in 2020,” the report says. “Cyclone Amphan was one of the strongest storms on record in the Bay of Bengal, with sustained wind speeds of 270 km per hour. It was also the costliest tropical cyclone of the year, with losses amounting to more than US$13 billion. At least 128 people were killed by the cyclone, which caused great damage in cities in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan,” the report states. The references used in the report show Bengal had to bear the brunt of the economic loss inflicted by the storm. “We had calculated the Amphan cost to be Rs 1 lakh 3 thousand crore, which is quite close to the cost mentioned in the international report,” Bengal’s disaster management minister Javed Khan said on Sunday evening. “However, we have so far received only Rs 1,000 crore from the Centre.” Khan said about 2.7 million houses were partially or fully damaged by the storm. According to the report, the economic impact of Amphan ranks fourth on the global climate related disaster list of 2020,  after US and Caribbean hurricanes, floods in China and fires on the west coast of America. The report also states that India has suffered the highest damage caused by events triggered by climate change, with 2,067 lives claimed by floods. The floods in India also caused 4 million displacements, second to Amphan. “It is clear that the impacts of Amphan and the floods in India cumulatively endangered the maximum number of lives and livelihoods than anywhere else in the world and their economic impacts were equally high,” said Kat Kramer, the author of the report and Christian Aid’s climate policy lead. The report lists 15 of the most destructive climate disasters of 2019, which had cumulatively inflicted a loss of around $150 billion, calculated primarily on insured losses. Which means the actual costs are likely to be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta||People in Calcutta gather in support for Amartya Sen||A gathering in front of Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi on Sunday protested the treatment being meted out to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen by the Visva-Bharati authorities. Many of the protesters said the university authorities were trying to silence the author of  The Argumentative Indian  because he dared to argue against the policies being pursued by the Narendra Modi government. According to the Visva-Bharati estate office, it had recently prepared a list of “illegal occupants” that includes the name of Sen as his house, Pratichi, occupies around 138 decimals while the original lease was given on 125 decimals. Sen had last week old The Telegraph: “The Visva-Bharati land on which our house is situated is entirely on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul.” The protest by students, teachers, cultural activists, politicians and others started around 3.30pm. Poet Joy Goswami said it should have been a matter of pride for Visva-Bharati that a person like Amartya Sen stays in Pratichi. “Instead, the university authorities are defaming him,” Goswami said. “The objective of the attack (on Sen) the Visva-Bharati authorities have launched at the behest of the Centre is to attack the very essence of The Argumentative Indian. The BJP will not brook any voice of dissent. They will not tolerate any criticism,” said actor-director-playwright and state minister Bratya Basu. “The sole crime that Amartya Sen might have committed is that he dared to speak against the BJP.” The Argumentative Indian is a collection of essays that discuss India’s history and identity, focusing on the traditions of public debate and intellectual pluralism. Sen had last week said in response to a question from The Telegraph: “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal.” Many of the protesters were college and university students from the city as well districts. They carried posters that read “Amartya Sen-er apomaan, Bangalir apomaan” (insulting Amartya Sen amounts to insulting the people of Bengal). Rimona Das, a third-year student of Sarojini Naidu College for Women in Dum Dum, said she joined the protest because the attack on Sen had hurt her sentiments. “How can I, being a Bengali, tolerate the insult to Amartya Sen? I have taken a stand. Nobody has pushed me for this. The actions of the university have hurt my sentiments. I am not even aware whether any political party is organising the protest,” said Rimona. Standing next to her was Debanjana Banerjee, a first-year student of West Bengal State University, Barasat. “The BJP is saying it will build Sonar Bangla, at the same time it is humiliating Bengalis. Amartya Sen has an opinion of his own, which you may not like. But does that mean you will call him an illegal occupant?” asked Debanjana. Sayani Bhaumik, a student of Netaji Subhas Open University, saw signs of autocracy in the attack on the Nobel laureate. “It is like imposing your writ on whoever dares to argue. This is autocracy,” said Sayani. Poet Subodh Sarkar said Visva-Bharati was relentlessly trying to malign Amartya Sen in the hope that he would finally stop questioning its ideology and policies. “We have seen these attempts in Delhi. Now, the BJP is doing this in Bengal. They want to silence this argumentative quality of the country,” he said. Shankar Bose Thakur, a script writer attached to a theatre group, said the BJP government at the Centre was doing what the Pakistan government had done in the then East Pakistan in the 1960s “The Pakistan government had constantly hurt the Bengali sentiment and culture in East Pakistan. The BJP is doing the same,” he said. The hour-long protest ended with everybody singing Tagore’s song “Banglar maati, Banglar jawl”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Business||Stock markets scale new heights on positive global cues||Extending gains for the fourth straight session, benchmark gauges Sensex and Nifty raced to new peaks on Monday in line with broad-based rallies in global equities. The BSE benchmark Sensex settled up by 380.21 points or 0.81 per cent at its all-time closing high of 47,353.75. The index also scaled its fresh record intra-day peak of 47,406.72. The NSE Nifty ended 123.95 points or 0.90 per cent up at new closing high of 13,873.20. It also touched its all-time intra-day high of 13,885.30. On the Sensex chart, Titan, SBI, L&T, IndusInd Bank, Ultratech Cement, HDFC Bank and Asian Paints were top gainers. While, HUL, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy and Bajaj FinServ closed with losses. Of the Sensex constituents, 26 stocks settled with gains and 4 with losses. In the previous trading day on Thursday, the 30-share Sensex had surged 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent to close at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty had zoomed 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Markets were closed on Friday on account of Christmas. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Mainland China, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and other key markets ended with significant gains. Investor sentiment globally was upbeat after the US cleared a USD 2.3 trillion pandemic aid and the European Union and the UK struck a Brexit trade deal last week. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1.25 per cent to USD 51.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty race to new peaks in early deals||Benchmark gauges Sensex and Nifty soared to new heights in early deals on Monday, tracking broad-based rallies in global equities. The BSE benchmark Sensex rose 361.93 points or 0.77 per cent to touch an all-time high of 47,335.47 in morning trade, and the broader NSE Nifty climbed 110.55 points or 0.80 per cent to a new peak of 13,859.80. On the Sensex chart, barring HDFC and Asian Paints, all constituents were trading in the green. On the last trading day, Thursday, of the previous week, the 30-share Sensex had surged 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent to close at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty had zoomed 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Markets were closed on Friday on account of Christmas. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Mainland China, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and other key markets were trading on a positive note on Monday. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.31 per cent to USD 51.14 per barrel. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,225.69 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||The raging bull||Stock indices are at all-time highs. Last week, the Sensex touched 47000 for the first time during intra-day trading. The year had begun on a disastrous note because of the pandemic with the Sensex  falling below 26000 — a mighty crash of nearly 40 per cent from its peak of 42000 in January. From those depths, the markets have staged a sensational comeback of around 80 per cent in nine months. The euphoria over Covid vaccine as well as record infusions by foreign investors are fuelling this rally. The market’s performance will undoubtedly draw many first-time investors. Here’s a primer for them with lessons from a year of great volatility. First know why you want to start investing in the stock markets. This is another way of saying you must have a clear goal, defined in terms of what you want to invest, what your returns expectations are, how much risk you can take, which is the best way to achieve this goal, how long you wish to remain invested and what you would do during volatility. With a goal in place, you’re more likely to succeed. Without it, you could get into trouble. Goal-setting can seem complex. Don’t hesitate in reaching out to an investment planner. Know the difference. Trading would mean the purchase and sale of securities in the short term, where the holding period may range from a few days to a few months.Trading is aimed at maximising profits in the short run. It requires analysis and research of companies, industries, policy, trends, the economy at large — and often, sheer dumb luck. It’s not everyone’s cup of tea. If you are a layman, be wary of stock tips from well-meaning friends and relatives. If you don’t know where to start investing in the markets, you could consider mutual funds that align with your investment goals. For example, index funds could be a low-cost investment to accelerate your retirement fund creation. For investing, you must have a long-term outlook. That is where you’re most likely to get the best results. Let’s take the example of a large equity mutual fund which debuted in 1995 with a unit price of Rs 10. Today, its price is Rs 706. If you had invested Rs 1 lakh in this fund at its launch, it would be worth Rs  70.6 lakh today. However, in the first 10 years, it would have grown to only about Rs 6.6 lakh. In the next 10 years, it would grow to about Rs 46 lakh, and in the last five years, it would reach its current value — but not before falling to Rs 43 lakh around March 2020. In the last month alone, this investment would have grown from Rs 65 lakh to Rs 70.6 lakh — a five-fold growth of your initial investment in just 30 days. Such growth is unthinkable in the short term. The lesson here is simple: it pays to think long-term where you give yourself time to recover from market falls and where your profits compound rapidly, allowing you to achieve your financial goals easily. The stock market is volatile. Before you venture your money in equities, you must understand your own ability to digest the losses. Risk appetite and risk tolerance are both measures of your ability to manage risks. The higher the risks, the higher the possibility of losses, and, therefore, higher the rewards. Risk appetite is the general perception about the losses you may be able to suffer, whereas risk tolerance looks to define the losses you will tolerate. For example, you invested in a small-cap mutual fund because you seek higher rewards by taking higher risks and you will be able to tolerate losses. However, you draw the line at 30 per cent losses at which point you will exceed your ability to suffer losses. When you invest in the equity markets, you must define these parameters in line with your financial goals. The markets are ripe today which means they are due for a correction which would lead to a fall in prices once people start selling their securities. Last week, the markets fell 3 per cent when the UK announced the presence of a new, highly contagious strain of Covid-19. During such times, it would be advisable to invest in small quantities and not take large positions that could lead to heavy short-term losses. One of the smartest ways for small investors to invest in equity is through mutual fund SIPs. This averages your purchase costs and lowers losses. Whether you are picking stocks or mutual funds, find your own winners. This is another way of saying yesterday’s winners may not continue winning. Your picks will perform for you best when they align with your goals. For example, liquid mutual funds are suited for short-term cash holding but not for long-term wealth creation. While you are researching your options, you may be tempted to back winners from the year gone by. This may or may not yield results. Many equity funds today have six-month absolute returns exceeding 50 per cent. This in no way guarantees similar performance in the future. Do not mix up your investments with your essential financial obligations — having an emergency fund which you’ll need at short notice at any moment, or buying health and life insurance. Once met, you can move on to the goal of wealth creation. You must also diversify your investments by adding debt-based investments such as provident fund or buying gold to hedge against volatility. A well-diversified investment portfolio will keep you afloat in all economic weathers. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||CII suggests graded road map towards competitive import tariffs over three years||Industry association CII has suggested a graded road map towards competitive import tariffs over three years, with the lowest or nil slab between zero and 2.5 per cent for raw materials, highest of 5-7.5 per cent for finished goods and 2.5-5 per cent for intermediates, as part of its pre-budget recommendations to the government. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has proposed the road map to encourage domestic manufacturing in alignment with global trade trends that would boost India’s export competitiveness according to the shifting global value chains in the next three to five years. “This will help Indian industry integrate into the global value chain while becoming competitive with its goods and services in the world markets,” the industry body said. Making a case for the need to boost to employment at higher levels, the CII suggested raising the cap on emoluments to Rs 50,000 per month to encourage employment in higher skilled jobs. Section 80JJAA provides for the deduction of 30 per cent on emoluments paid to new employees, which can be claimed for three years. This is available up to Rs 25,000 per month. Besides, over the last few years, it is seen that to enhance the financial strength of banks and for the stability of the financial sector, the RBI has mandated that banks should augment their non-performing asset (NPA) provisioning. The CII has suggested that the limit prescribed under section 36(1)(viia)(a) for provision for bad and doubtful debts for Indian banks should be increased from the existing limit of 8.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Banks operating in India facilitate foreign investment by foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) by acting as custodians (cash and securities) for the FPIs investing in India. The industry body said specific clarification should be provided so that banking and broking service providers are not held as representative assessees of their clients.  Moreover, the RBI has lowered the limit for recognising an account as NPA from six months to 90 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Industry players seek parity with crude oil vis-a-vis import duty in the budget||As the country strives to ramp up the use of natural gas, industry players have sought parity with crude oil vis-a-vis import duty in the budget, due in little more than a month. Industry has argued parity with crude would boost the use of the clean fuel and increase its share in the energy mix. The customs duty on crude oil is nil, whereas natural gas attracts a duty of 5 per cent. However, it attracts  zero customs duty when used in electricity. They said this was an anomaly and dissuaded the use of clean energy at a time the government is keen to reduce the use of fossil fuel in the energy basket. Given the nature of the fuel, natural gas cannot be transported through pipelines from different countries. It is turned into liquefied natural gas (LNG) and supplied to other countries. Imported LNG is converted to regasified liquid natural gas (RLNG) at the import terminal and supplied through pipelines. Setting up an LNG terminal as well as regasification facilities require huge investments. Local production is also not sufficient to meet the requirement, and the country had to import Rs 73,887 crore in the last fiscal, according to commerce ministry data. Keeping in view the limited availability, the customs duty on natural gas and LNG needs to be reduced to zero without any end-use condition, the industry players said. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said the gas grid would be expanded 17,000km to 34,500km, while regasification capacity would be increased to 61 million tonnes per year from 42mt by 2022, which is expected to raise demand manifold from 160-170 million standard cubic metres per day. Besides, a gas trading platform was launched in June. Gas comprises about 6.2 per cent of India’s primary energy mix, far behind the global average of 24 per cent. The government plans to increase this share to 15 per cent by 2030.  “We have envisaged spending $60 billion in creating gas infrastructure till 2024, including for pipelines, LNG terminals and city gas distribution networks,” Pradhan said. The city gas network to retail CNG to automobiles and piped natural gas to households and kitchens has been extended to 407 districts. Besides CNG, the government is also promoting the transport of LNG on long-haul trucks and buses. Besides, the National Biofuel Policy (NBP) is targeting the blending of 20 per cent ethanol in petrol and 5 per cent of bio-diesel in diesel by 2030. At present, crude, motor spirit (petrol), high speed diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel is out of the GST. Input tax credit paid on procurements is not allowed against the output tax liability to the supplier and is an additional cost to the producers of oil and gas. Until the introduction of the GST, the industry wants the producers of petroleum and natural gas be allowed to claim credit for GST on all inputs, input services and capital goods against output excise duty and VAT. Discussions should be carried out with the GST Council on this along with amendments may be in the Cenvat and VAT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business|| Larsen & Toubro to hire 1100 engineers||Engineering and construction conglomerate Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is looking to recruit around 1,100 graduate and post graduate engineer trainees in 2021 and deploy them across various business verticals, a top company official has said. The company, through its ongoing virtual hiring process, has already made around 250 offers in the recent hiring season at premium education institutes such as IIT Madras, IIT Guwahati, IIT BHU, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Roorkee, IIT Kharagpur, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad, IIT Hyderabad and other IITs. “L&T not only offers graduate and post graduate engineer trainees (GETs & PGETs) continuous learning opportunities and a growth path but also gives them immense satisfaction to work on projects that are high on the top of national or global pecking order,” company’s chief executive and managing director S. N. Subrahmanyan said. In 2021, it is planning to hire 1,100 engineers and has already made offers to 250 IITians, he said. Every year, the company recruits 1,100 plus engineers, 90 per cent of which belongs to premier institutes such as IITs, NITs, and top government engineering colleges, the company said. The entire hiring process of L&T is digital and remote, including the testing process which is conducted with the help of remote proctoring tool which monitors the test based on 14 parameters. The platform used for hiring has been developed internally by the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Big auto showrooms are passé||Car showrooms sprawled across vast areas and often in prime real estate may be a thing of the past as the industry moves towards a hybrid digital and brick-and-mortar model that will lessen the need for  physical infrastructure and manpower. Both the leading manufacturers Maruti Suzuki India Ltd and Hyundai Motor India Limited have an end-to-end digital car buying platform with just test drive and delivery being a physical experience. “We have digitised 24 of the 26 touchpoints in a car buying experience,” said Shashank Srivastava, sales and marketing head of Maruti Suzuki, while launching its online car finance platform. “Since car buying is a very involved process with touch and feel playing an important part, the test drive and delivery of car remains a physical interaction for the car buyer,” said Srivastava The company has 1,000 digital showrooms and has been advising its dealers to digitise. “The dealers are at various stages of digitisation. Some parts of the websites are integrated with the company website,” said Srivastava. Cities such as Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad which have a strong IT culture have digital showrooms while the other parts of the country are slowly adopting to the model. Car purchase is the second largest value purchase for consumers after house buying and 94 per cent of the  buyers visit the showroom for the trust and comfort factors. “In rural areas and smaller cities sales people interact with customers,” said Srivastava who also agreed that showrooms will become smaller and there will be less requirement of manpower at the dealerships as the digital car buying processes get more traction. “About 90 per cent of the customers are doing their research online. This was happening even before the pandemic. After the pandemic, this has become the norm. People are no longer dropping in showrooms for enquiries,” said an industry source. The format for dealerships will change and so will the requirement of manpower. “The more the process becomes digital the productivity will go up,” said Srivastava. The need for salespersons at the showrooms will also lessen as processes become automated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Calcutta-based start-up sells refurbished ACs||Calcutta-based start-up 999services is witnessing robust growth as it looks to make air-conditioners an essential product and bring an element of reliability in its servicing. Its e-commerce platform provides doorstep air-conditioning services to more than 15 cities in the country. It also delivers refurbished ACs to 17,000 pincodes with plans to have a pan-India presence. Enthused by the growth seen so far, it is now looking to expand to countries such as Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, Myanmar and even the UAE. “The price of our refurbished ACs is one-third that of new ACs. Because of this, people in low-income groups can also purchase it. Soon, we are launching an instalment-based purchase for which we will be tying up with a bank. Thus, ACs will no longer be an aspirational product for some,” Vedang Khetawat, founder and CEO at 999services.com, told The Telegraph. While window ACs are available from Rs 13,999, the price of split ACs start at Rs 17,999. He said while the platform began operations in April during the lockdown, the journey so far has been rewarding, having sold more than 18,000 ACs. The growth is set to accelerate as customer spending resumes with the economy recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic. While the objective of the platform is to make refurbished ACs work like new ones, Khetawat disclosed that all their air-conditioners go through extensive inspection, restoration and quality control before reaching the customer. The air-conditioners that are sourced are not more than 365-days old and they may come with minimum defects. However, these are rectified before being offered to the customer. He pointed out that all refurbished ACs purchased on their website comes with a six-month or one-year free unlimited replacement programme which means that customers will get a new refurbished AC if they find any malfunction within one year. The platform also offers servicing of ACs. Here it is looking to differentiate by creating a transparent system that eliminates unreliable contractors. “Homeowners will know exactly who will be servicing their AC unit and when the AC technician will be arriving. We offer services such as deep cleaning and repair and have plans to suit the customer’s pocket,” Khetawat said. We have seen good growth in this segment as well’’, Khetawat said. According to the annual report of Blue Star for the year ended March 31, 2020, during the year the overall market size for air conditioning products was estimated at around Rs 17,500 crore of which the market for room air conditioners accounted for Rs 11,200 crore. At a conference call with analysts after its second quarter results, the company’s top management had said that while the demand recovery during the period exceeded expectations as more retail outlets were opened, by December, the market is expected to reach 100 per cent of last year’s level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Gold seen to soar to Rs 63000 in 2021||Gold, always considered a safe haven for investment in uncertain times, is likely to glitter more and even soar to Rs 63,000 per 10 grams next year amid expectations of fresh stimulus measures and weaker American dollar. In 2020, the economic and social uncertainties triggered by the coronavirus pandemic turned the spotlight on gold as a safe haven. The price of the yellow metal reached an all-time high of Rs 56,191 per 10 grams at MCX and $2,075 an ounce in the international market in August. A sharp turn in global monetary policies that led to a low interest rate scenario and unprecedented liquidity, which began in mid-2019, gave a boost to gold price in all major currencies, making the yellow metal attractive for investors. “The year began (with gold) at Rs 39,100 (per 10 grams) and $1,517 (an ounce). The knee-jerk reaction to the pandemic was short-lived as the domestic price hit a low of Rs 38,400 from where it steadily rose all the way to Rs 56,191. The stimulus provided subsequently triggered a sharp rise in investment buying in the domestic market,” Commtrendz Risk Management Services CEO Gnanasekar Thiagarajan said. He said the outlook for gold remains strong despite coronavirus vaccine prospects and economic revival post Covid-19, mainly because of fresh stimulus expectations. “The dollar could weaken on the back of more stimulus and that could help gold prices rise once again. Also, inflationary expectations due to the massive stimulus can be seen as a positive factor that could attract investment buying once again in 2021,” he said. The political risk in the US because of a weak majority in the Senate could make things difficult for the incoming Joe Biden-led administration to push reforms and that could aid in the bullion’s upward movement, Thiagarajan said. “The physical demand (for gold) from India and China will take centre stage in 2021, which has been weak for the past few years and could see a strong revival. We expect prices to test Rs 60,000 or $2,200 at least in 2021, provided the rupee remains stable too,” he opined. HDFC Securities senior analyst (commodities) Tapan Patel said the yellow metal is likely to remain bullish next year on concerns over global economic recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Transport ministry extends motor vehicle documents validity||The Union transport ministry on Sunday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents such as driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till March 31, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020 and August 24, 2020 in connection with the extension of the validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. “The Union ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of vehicular documents such as DLs, RCs, permits etc till March 31, 2021 in the light of the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The ministry has issued a directory to the states and Union Territory administrations in the regard,” a MoRTH statement said. Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till December 31, 2020. The latest advisory says, “Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it is further advised that the validity of all of the above referred documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021. This covers all documents whose validity has expired since 1st February, 2020 or would expire by March 31, 2021.” Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents as valid till March 31, 2021, the MoRTH said, adding that “this will help out citizens in availing transport related services, while maintaining social distancing”. “All the states and Union Territories have been requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, the transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficult time during the Covid-19 pandemic may not get harassed or face difficulties,” the statement said. Automakers in India are bracing for a parts shortage and possible production losses over the next three to four months because of a global shortage of available shipping containers, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) said. Shipping freight rates have surged since July and companies are now finding it “almost impossible to sustain normal trade operations”, said Rajesh Menon, director-general at Siam. A global surge in demand for certain goods during the pandemic has upended normal trade flows, stranding empty cargo containers and leading to bottlenecks. Denmark’s A.P. Moller-Maersk said exports from India have bounced back but imports have not, leading to an imbalance and causing the container shortage. PTI & Reuters That is a cause for concern as India’s auto industry has started showing signs of recovery after the coronavirus lockdowns eased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Amit Shah should apologise for running a 'disinformation campaign': Bengal FM||Bengal is faring better than the national rate in several parameters of industrial growth, state finance minister Amit Mitra claimed on Sunday, and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah should apologise to the people for running a “disinformation campaign” against the state. Mitra cited the data of the ministry of statistics and programme implementation showing that GDP, growth in industry, services and agriculture sectors have grown faster than the national rate in the state. The BJP often alleges that there has been no economic development in Bengal and Central welfare schemes such as Ayushman Bharat Yojana and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi are not being implemented as they do not involve “cut money”. “PM-HM’s shameful DISINFORMATION campaign on Bengal CAUGHT red-handed by their own Central Statistical Orgn! Chart EXPOSES how India growth rates hit bottom under duo, while growth under MamataB soared in Bengal: GDP, Industry,Services, Agri. So, Apologise to the people of Bengal,” Mitra tweeted. The data of the statistics and programme implementation ministry, estimated on August 31, 2020, showed that the gross domestic product (GDP) of the country was 4.18 per cent, while the gross state domestic product (GSDP) of Bengal was 7.26 per cent. The gross value added (GVA) of the country was recorded at 3.89 per cent, while that of Bengal was ahead at 7.39 per cent, the data showed. India’s industrial growth was 0.92 per cent, while it was 5.79 per cent in the eastern state. According to the data, Bengal was ahead of the national rate in services and agriculture sectors also, Mitra, a former secretary-general of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said. With the Assembly polls due in the state in April-May next year, the BJP recently said that the saffron party will win 200 seats in the 294-strong House, while TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor declared that he will quit his profession if the saffron party is able to cross double digits. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP emerged as the main rival of the Trinamool Congress winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election. In the last few years, the BJP’s strength has increased manifold in the state where it has never been in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||India||Telangana: one more UK returnee tests positive||One more United Kingdom (UK) returnee has tested positive for coronavirus infection, thereby taking the total number of people, who have tested positive, to 21 since December 9. Observing that the Telangana health department is alert in the wake of new strain of coronavirus surfacing, state Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said government is following a policy of tracing, testing and treating to prevent the spread of the virus, according to an official release on Monday. Meanwhile, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said people should take all precautions instead of panicking over the new strain of COVID-19 which was found to be spreading fast abroad. Soundararajan, a medical doctor, advised people to be extra cautious and follow all precautionary measures like maintaining physical distancing, washing hands and wearing a face mask to prevent the spread of new strain of the coronavirus, a Raj Bhavan press commmunique stated. The Governor was responding to a series of queries on twitter as part of an interaction ‑ #AskDrTamilisaiGuv ‑ held by her today. Responding to a query, she said reports on genome sequencing with regard to new strain of the virus from the UK-returnees (to Telangana) were awaited. “I salute the Indian government and our scientists for making the vaccine possible. Vaccine is only to prevent the spread. It will develop the antibodies. Even those who have got affected earlier need to take the vaccine. Vaccine trial dry runs have begun in as many as four states,” the release quoted her as saying. The interaction was undertaken to create awareness among people and to “prepare them fully to guard themselves from the new strain,” she said. The Governor said it is a matter of pride that Hyderabad was taking a lead in vaccine research. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to city-based Bharat Biotech in November has also motivated the scientists who are working for developing the vaccine, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
28-12-2020||India||Want to turn India into a superpower, says Rajnath Singh||India has the potential to become a superpower and it needs significant achievements in the fields of education, health and industry to make the cut, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday as he mentioned the country's glorious history including major discoveries by ancient scientists like Aryabhata ahead of their western counterparts. In an online address at the convocation of IIM Ranchi, Singh delved into India's rich contribution in the field of scientific research in the classical age of Indian mathematics and astronomy and noted that "Aryabhata confirmed the round shape of the Earth and its rotation on its axis about 1,000 years before famous German astronomer Copernicus did". "We want to make India a superpower. To make the country a superpower, we need even bigger achievements in the fields of education, health and industry, etc. The potential in these areas is within our country. It is not yet fully utilised," Singh said. "When we talk about making India a superpower, then we also have to take care of the development potential in all the states of the country," he added. The defence minister said the youth of the country has the ability to face any challenge and can turn them into opportunities with the help of "invention, innovation and ideas". Encouraging students to play a key role in making of a 'New India', Singh said modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country's glorious history, adding it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. "Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God," Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: "He said 'an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God'". Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister cited the contributions of renowned ancient Indian scientists and said: "no success is final and no failure is fatal". "India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.," said Singh. "Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason," Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the 'Pythagoras theorem' years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. "Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century," said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India's achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration. "Today, when we are all working for the creation of New India, it is important for all of us to understand our heritage," he said. Talking about the coronavirus pandemic, Singh said India effectively confronted the crisis despite having limited resources and that the country turned the disaster into an "opportunity" under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asking students to work hard to achieve their goals, Singh said, "We have to understand that the road to success often passes through the streets of failure. There will be no successful person in the world who has never faced failure."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
28-12-2020||India||AR Rahman's mother Kareema Begum passes away||Oscar-winning music composer AR Rahman's mother, Kareema Begum, died here on Monday, sources close to the family said. Rahman uploaded a picture of his mother on his official Twitter page, without a caption. Condoling her death, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami posted on Twitter, "Sad to know that Kareema Begum, mother of music great A R Rahman died of illness." DMK President M K Stalin also extended his condolences. "He said she played a "big role" in Rahman's musical journey from Tamil cinema to across the globe," he tweeted. Composer-singer Salim Merchant said, "Very sorry for your loss AR. We pray that Amma gets Jannat-Ul-Firdaus." Rahman's frequent collaborator, singer Shreya Ghoshal said Begum was one of the most affectionate people she came across. "Deeply saddened by this news Rahman sir. She was one of the most gentle affectionate person I have met. Praying for her departed soul." Filmmaker Shekhar Kapur tweeted, "Your heart is broken, I know. But your mother left you with inner strength, inner resilience and belief .. that I have seen and admired for long. Stay strong, my friend." Music composers Thaman, Devi Sri Prasad and many others also paid tributes to Begum. Rahman, who started his film music journey with Mani Ratnam's "Roja" (1992) and went on to become a globally acclaimed artiste in the coming decade with an Academy Award, Grammy, BAFTA and Golden Globe wins, has always credited his mother for being constant support as well as an inspiration throughout his musical journey. During the 81st Academy Awards ceremony Rahman, after winning the Oscar for his work on "Slumdog Millionaire", paid tribute to his mother. "There is a Hindi dialogue, mere paas ma hai, which means 'I have nothing but I have a mother'. So my mother is here, her blessings are there with me. I'm grateful for her to have come all the way," he had said. In an interview with PTI in September this year, the music maestro had said that it was his mother's faith in him that pushed him to become the person he is now. "My mother's faith in me...I think that built my character and where I am today, in a way," Rahman had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Govt invites farmers' unions for talks on Wednesday ||The government on Monday invited 40 protesting farmer unions for the next round of talks on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a "logical solution" to the current impasse over the three new farm laws. The government's invite followed a proposal made by unions last week to hold the talks on December 29. In a letter to the unions, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal has invited them for holding talks at 2 pm on December 30 at Vigyan Bhavan in the national capital. So far, five rounds of formal talks held between the Centre and 40 protesting farmer unions remained inconclusive. Taking note of the unions' offer to resume talks, Aggarwal said, "The government is also committed to finding a logical solution on all relevant issues with a clear intention and an open mind." It's been over a month now that thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping at Delhi borders seeking repeal of the three farm laws. They have threatened to intensify their stir in the coming days if their demands are not fulfilled. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said a "wall of lies" has been spread in a "planned manner" among farmers against the new farm laws, but it will not last long and protesting peasants will soon realise the truth. The minister reiterated he remains hopeful to find an early solution to end the impasse. "Soon, some way out will emerge and we will reach towards the solution. Everyone knows that the wall of lies is never strong. Truth is truth. There is going to be a time when people will start accepting the truth," Tomar said addressing a virtual event organised by Confederation of NGOs of Rural India (CNRI). Expressing regret that some have created "misconception in a planned manner" in the hearts of protesting farmers on these farm laws, the Minister said however the government is constantly engaging with such farmer unions. He said the benefits of the new farm laws have started reaching farmers. Many peasants are "thinking positive" of these legislations, but there is "confusion" in some sections of the farmers. "I am hopeful we will be successful in clearing their concerns," he noted. Further, Tomar said the government was and will always be ready for talks because, in a democratic setup, the government believes that dialogue is the only weapon for resolving the issues. "We are stressing on this," he said. Stating that discussions on reforming the farm sector were going on since long after economic liberation in 1990s, the minister said many committees were set up and consultations were held across the country. Even the previous governments had debated and reached a consensus but somehow could not implement them. But the Modi government took the initiative and enacted the three agri-laws, which were passed in Parliament after discussion for 4 hours in both the Houses, he said. "I am happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought revolutionary changes through farm laws keeping future in mind. I am confident that these laws will benefit poor, small and marginal farmers across the country," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan speaks out in support of protesting farmers ||Backing the farmers protesting against the contentious Central farm laws outside Delhi, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said any country that "does not respect agriculture will fall." Farmers were "annadaata", Haasan, who earlier deputed a party delegation to express solidarity with the agitating farmers near the national capital, told reporters here. "A country that does not respect agriculture will fall. I believe that should not happen to our country. They (farmers) are the annadata (providers of food)," Haasan said. He was responding to a question on the more than a month-long farmers' protest in Delhi, where ryots mainly from Punjab and Haryana have held ground demanding repealing of Centre's three farm laws. To a question on actor Rajinikanth, who was discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, Haasan wished him good health, saying that was more important. Asked if the superstar, who is slated to launch his political party next month, will come forward to join hands with him, Haasan only said "we have done so forty years ago," in an apparent reference to their working together in many movies. Haasan added "it is not necessary that friendship should go away" if they entered politics. Earlier, the two had hinted at working together in the field of politics. To a question, he indicated his party might lead a 'third front' in the state for the 2021 Assembly elections, likely to be held in April-May next year. Matters like chief ministerial candidate have to be discussed with other probable partners, he added. When asked about the actor highlighting late chief minister and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in his election speeches, ruffling the feathers of the ruling party, and if he will also recall others like the late DMK president M Karunanidhi, the actor-politician said he will "do so at the appropriate time." The MNM chief also released what he claimed was a "bribe list" to be paid for various government services in the state such as providing birth certificate and driving licence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Space for debate is shrinking, says Amartya Sen||Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has voiced anguish over the "shrinking space" for debate and dissent in the country where people are jailed without trial through the arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition. The BJP, which is often the butt of criticism by the economist, rubbished the accusation as baseless. In an e-mail interview with PTI, the 87-year-old Harvard University professor backed the farmers' protests against three agricultural laws, insisting there was a "strong case" for a substantial review of the legislation. "A person whom the government does not like may be declared by the government to be a terrorist and imprisoned. Many opportunities of public protest and free discussion have been curtailed or closed. "The space for dissent and debate is shrinking. People are jailed without trial through arbitrarily imposed charge of sedition," he alleged. The celebrated economist deplored that young activists like Kanhaiya Kumar, Shehla Rashid and Umar Khalid were often treated as enemies. "Rather than treating young and visionary leaders, committed to peaceful and non-violent ways like Kanhaiya or Khalid or Shehla Rashid as political assets who should be given the opportunity to pursue their pro-poor initiatives in a peaceful way they are often treated as enemies to be suppressed," he claimed. Reacting sharply to Sen's views on allegedly shrinking space for debate and dissent, BJP's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh said his contention was baseless. "The allegations are baseless. If he wants to see what intolerance is then he should visit West Bengal where none of the opposition parties has the democratic right to conduct their programmes," Ghosh said. When asked for his views about the BJP-led government that were often interpreted as pro-opposition, Sen said," When a government makes a mistake that harms people, it is not only permissible to speak up, it is actually necessary. Democracy demands that!" Sen said there is a strong case for a substantial review of the three contentious farm laws which have sparked protests by agriculturists. "There is certainly a strong case for revising the legislations substantially. But the first necessity is a proper discussion rather than making allegedly big concessions that actually make very little real concession," said Sen. Sen's comments come in the backdrop of thousands of farmers protesting at Delhi's borders for a month demanding repeal of three agricultural laws enacted in September and a legal guarantee on minimum support price. While the government insists these laws constitute major reforms to help farmers, protesting unions have maintained these will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening mandis and the MSP regime. Responding to Sen's position on farm protests, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the government has made all efforts to address the issues and concerns raised by the farmers' unions. Sen also said there are big gaps in the treatment of disadvantaged communities in India. "Perhaps the biggest lacuna is a combination of policies that have led to such a terrible expansion of child undernourishment. To reverse that, we need different policies in many distinct fronts." On the country's efforts in battling Covid-19, Sen said India was right to see the necessity of physical distancing but was wrong in imposing the lockdown with almost no notice. "It was also mistaken in ignoring the need for poor labourers to earn an income," he said, referring to the lockdown that rendered crores of people jobless and triggered a massive migration of labourers, arguably the biggest since Partition. Stressing on the need for "more intelligent reasoning and a humane touch" in implementing the COVID-19 strategy, Sen said India had got some ideas right, but "messed up" its response by overlooking the country's reality of extensive inequality. The presence of huge inequality should influence every aspect of India's policymaking, he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Arun Jaitley's statue at DDCA inaugurated by Amit Shah||A controversial build-up notwithstanding, the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) on Monday unveiled the statue of its former president Arun Jaitley at its premises in the memory of the late administrator and political figure. Union Home Minister Amit Shah unveiled Jaitley's life-size statue, prepared by 96-year-old renowned sculptor Ram Sutar, the man behind the making of the iconic Statue of Unity in Gujarat. Former India cricketer Bishen Singh Bedi had severely criticised the DDCA for choosing to install the statue of an administrator instead of an inspirational cricketer and even demanded that his name be removed from one the stands at the Feroze Shah Kotla ground. BCCI President and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, India opener Shikhar Dhawan, ex India opener Gautam Gambhir, who is also a BJP MP from Delhi, BCCI Vice President Rajeev Shukla and Union Minister Hardeep Puri attended the unveiling ceremony along with a number of DDCA officials. "Arun was like an elder brother to me. He was known for his sportsmanship spirit in political circle. He remained aggressive in his speeches but never lowered the dignity of the Parliament," Shah said in his tribute to Jaitley, who remained DDCA President for 13 years. "Arun always put his own interest at the back, never sought publicity and rose during the Emergency days when he spent 19 months in jail. His political journey started then. He was multi-talented and fulfilled a range of responsibilities." Ganguly said Jaitley's contribution was immense in the development of cricket in Delhi, though the DDCA has been in "turmoil" for some time. "When we play and get 100, it gets recognition but lot of people work behind the scene and help the cricketers. He was a cricketer's person. that is the role of an administrator," he said. "I remember a phone call (he) made during the 2003 World Cup in South Africa. We had lost the first game and the whole country went berserk but he (Jaitley) said that association supports you and you play well. These small things matter, he was a great human being," said Ganguly. "This is a remarkably talented state which has produced so many players, Virat Kohli, Ishant Sharma, Rishabh Pant now and many in the past. A settled DDCA is good thing for Indian cricket and hopefully they can do it." Gambhir said the installation of Jailtely's statue is a perfect tribute to him. "We won the Ranji trophy during his tenure and the stadium was also built. Honesty, (being) intellectual and absolute transparency are important for any administrator and he had that," said Gambhir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||11 UK returnees found Covid positive in Mumbai since Nov 25||A total of 11 out of about 2,200 passengers who returned to Mumbai from the United Kingdom since November 25 have been found coronavirus positive, the civic body officials said on Monday. Of these 11 passengers, five passengers had arrived last week, while the six others had returned before December 22, Dr Managala Gomare, executive health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), told PTI. Another official said samples of these 11 passengers have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing to find if they are infected with a new strain of the coronavirus. "Currently, 187 of the 590 passengers who returned from the UK last week are placed under institutional quarantine at various hotels," Dr Gomare said. She said the state government had handed over to the civic body two lists of more than 2,000 passengers, who arrived from England between November 25 and December 22. She said all of them are not yet contacted. "Our teams are trying to trace all of them. Meanwhile, six of them who reached Mumbai before December 22 have been found positive for coronavirus," said Dr Gomare. In view of the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the UK, the Mumbai civic body on Sunday issued revised guidelines to ensure the compulsory quarantine for 14 days for all passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, and the Middle East. As per the amended Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), travellers will be kept under institutional quarantine after arrival and RT-PCR test will be conducted on the seventh day from the arrival at the respective hotels, institutional facilities at their own coast. "If the report of the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after seven days with the advice of seven days mandatory home quarantine. A total of 14 days quarantine is to be ensured," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had said. As per the guidelines, home quarantine stamp will be put and undertaking will be taken from the travellers that they will abide to be in home quarantine. If the test result is found positive, the passenger will be shifted to designated Covid-19 hospital like Seven Hills for UK and GT hospital for travellers from other countries for further evaluation and treatment, the civic body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul skip Congress Foundation Day event||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday gave the party's 136th Foundation Day event a miss with senior party leader A K Antony unfurling the flag at the AICC headquarters here. A number of senior party functionaries were present at the meeting, including AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Others present included some of the "letter-writers" like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, who had sought an organisational overhaul in the party, besides Sachin Pilot who revolted against the Congress government in Rajasthan sometime ago. While Sonia Gandhi has been avoiding attending public events, Rahul Gandhi left on a short personal visit abroad only on Sunday. Later speaking to reporters, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government should listen to the voice of farmers and should not dub the agitation as a "political conspiracy". Thousands of farmers are camping on Delhi's borders to press for the repeal of three new central agriculture laws. "To say that this is a political conspiracy is wrong. I feel that the words being used for farmers are a sin. The government is answerable to the farmers and the government should talk to the farmers and take back the laws," she said. She said the jawans protecting the country's borders are the sons of farmers and the government should understand that the farmers are the 'annadatas' (food givers) of the country. She did not answer queries on Rahul Gandhi's absence. Rahul Gandhi left for abroad on Sunday afternoon on a short personal visit and would be away for a few days. The party has not disclosed the location where Gandhi is travelling, but according to sources he has left for Milan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Modi inaugurates India's first-ever driverless metro operations in Delhi||Inaugurating India's first-ever driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro's Magenta Line on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government unlike its predecessors has taken growing urbanisation as an opportunity and asserted that metro train services will be extended to 25 cities by 2025 from the current 18. In his address via video-conferencing, he said the launch of the driverless train and start of the National Common Mobility Card, also inaugurated by him on Monday, at the Airport Express Line of the Delhi Metro are an attempt to make urban development future-ready. He lamented that when urbanisation gathered pace a few decades ago, not much attention was given to the needs of the future with "half-hearted" efforts being made and confusion persisting while the gap between the existing infrastructure and needs grew. Noting that urbanisation should not be seen as a challenge but used as an opportunity to build better infrastructure and enhance people's ease of living, he highlighted his government's works towards this, saying the number of cities with metro rail has grown from five to 18 now. By 2025, this is going to be extended to more than 25 cities. "In 2014, only 248 km of metro lines were operational in the country and today it is about three times, more than 700 km. By the year 2025, we are working to expand it to 1,700 km," he said. The prime minister asserted these figures are proof of ease of living in the lives of crores of Indians and evidence of the fulfilment of the aspirations of the citizens. Metro Rail is a great way to reduce pollution and has taken thousands of vehicles off roads, he said, adding his government has formulated metro policy as per the needs of a city and its working population. The government formulated the metro policy for the first time and implemented it with an all-round strategy, he said. The Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) between Delhi and Meerut will reduce the distance between the two cities to less than an hour, he said, adding that for cities with fewer passenger numbers, work is being done on the MetroLite version. MetroLite version would cost 40 per cent less than the normal metro while Metro Neo is being developed in cities with less ridership. This would be built at the cost of 25 per cent of the normal metro, he said, adding that water metro would be an out of the box thinking for cities with large water bodies. This will provide last-mile connectivity to the people near the islands. Modi also emphasised on the importance of 'Make in India', a reference to domestic manufacturing, in laying out metro services, saying this reduces costs, saves foreign exchange and generates more employment to people. He said standardization of rolling stock has reduced the cost of every coach from Rs 12 crore to Rs eight crore now. Four big companies are now manufacturing metro coaches in the country and dozens of companies are engaged in the manufacture of metro components, he said, adding that this is helping the campaign for self-reliant India. With the launch of driverless metro train, India has now joined a select group of countries of the world where the facility is available, Modi said. Touching on the National Common Mobility Card, he said this will give integrated access to commuters wherever they travel and whichever public transport they take. His government has been working to offer integrated services to citizens in different fields so as to save their time and simplify complicated exercises, he said and referred to measures like FASTag cards, one nation one gas grid, seamless gas connectivity, GST and one nation one ration card. The driverless trains will be fully automated, which will eliminate the possibility of human error, the government has said, adding that after the start of driverless services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) of Delhi Metro is expected to have driverless operations by mid-2021. The Prime Minister's Office has said these innovations will herald a new era of travelling comfort and enhanced mobility. The National Common Mobility Card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will enable anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit Card issued from any part of the country to travel on the route using it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare threatens to go on a hunger strike for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Central government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his "last protest". Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said had been holding protests for cultivators since the last three years, but the government has done nothing to resolve the issues. "The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government)...Let's see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my hunger strike protest. This would be my last protest," the 83-year-old said. On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee's recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agri laws. Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Modi, Shah pay tributes to Jaitley on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to his former cabinet colleague and late BJP leader Arun Jaitley on his birth anniversary and said his warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. Other BJP leaders also remembered the former finance minister who for many years remained the most articulate party voice on a gamut of issues and was considered one of its sharpest political minds. Born in 1952, Jaitley died in August last year. "Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary. His warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. He worked tirelessly for India's progress," Modi tweeted. In his tributes, Home Minister Amit Shah said Jaitley was an outstanding parliamentarian whose knowledge and insights had very few parallels. "He made a lasting contribution to Indian polity and served the nation with great passion & devotion. My heartfelt tributes," he said. BJP president J P Nadda said Jaitley will be remembered as an articulate orator and capable strategist. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said remembering Jaitley's contribution to India's public life and his role in strengthening the party will always be remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-457
28-12-2020||India||Delhi braces for cold wave in run-up to New Year||A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather department officials said on Monday. The minimum temperature in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius as against 6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department said the mercury may drop to three degrees Celsius on New Year's Eve. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next four days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a Western Disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The wind system has withdrawn. Now, cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas will bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius, he said. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, UP and north Rajasthan. Ground frost and dense fog are likely in isolated pockets in the region," the IMD added. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. On Sunday last, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.2 crore mark with more than 20,000 fresh cases||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,02,07,871 with 20,021 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 97.82 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,47,901 with 279 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 97,82,669, pushing the national recovery rate to 95.83 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. There are 2,77,301 active coronavirus infections in the country, which comprise 2.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 16,88,18,054 samples have been tested up to December 27 with 7,15,397 samples being tested on Sunday. The 279 new fatalities include 66 from Maharashtra, 29 from West Bengal and 25 from Kerala. The 1,47,901 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,255 from Maharashtra followed by 12,069 from Tamil Nadu, 12,062 from Karnataka, 10,453 from Delhi, 9,598 from West Bengal, 8,306 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,094 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,299 from Punjab. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Corporate hand in Uttar Pradesh anganwadi upgrade||The Anil Agarwal Foundation, run by Vedanta, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have announced a project in partnership with the Centre to upgrade 500 anganwadi centres in Uttar Pradesh, stirring concerns about the fate of the key welfare programme. Anganwadis provide supplementary nutrition and several health services to children aged 3 to 6 and their mothers apart from informal pre-school education. The Anil Agarwal Foundation is the philanthropic arm of mining company Vedanta Ltd, which tried to allay the apprehensions that are being fuelled by a perceived lack of transparency. Compounding the perception challenge is the Narendra Modi government’s ham-handed approach towards privatisation in general, which has made it a controversial subject and source of mistrust. A stated reason for a corporate role is the government’s inability to provide adequate funds for the welfare programme but it is not clear yet how much money the foundations will invest in the upgrade programme. Vedanta told The Telegraph the upgraded anganwadi centres would continue to be managed by the staff engaged under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) of the ministry of women and child development (MoWCD). “In collaboration with MoWCD, both the foundations have taken up the mantle of modernisation of the anganwadis with state-of-the-art infrastructure and services to the last mile for women and children,” a Vedanta spokesperson said in an email. Vedanta added: “Both the foundations are jointly working towards building model anganwadis that can be piloted and replicated. The anganwadi centres are upgraded with infrastructure and amenities and continue to be run by the anganwadi staff of ICDS, MoWCD, for creating greater impact in lives of the women and child beneficiaries.” The spokesperson said the idea was to upgrade the anganwadis to the level of the Nand Ghars --- child care centres run by Vedanta as a corporate social responsibility. The Vedanta website says it has opened 1,700 Nand Ghars across the country since 2015. “These anganwadis are being developed as per the MoU between Nand Ghar and MoWCD. The idea behind Nand Ghars is to develop modernised anganwadis that be used as a model for replication across all anganwadis by the Govt,” the email said. “Global philanthropic institutions like BMGF (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) have also offered a helping hand to this initiative. Niti Aayog is doing a study on how the model can be replicated and integrated across the country.” The Left parties have described the initiative as a move towards privatisation of the anganwadi centres. “And now, Modi government pushed privatisation of anganwadis after handing over food grains procurement to his corporate friends,” the CPM tweeted on Tuesday. The CPI said the partnership was part of a government plan to reduce funds for public welfare schemes and gradually withdraw from them. “The ICDS scheme provides nutrition and early childhood education and care to crores of poor children. Its facilities may not be great but it is running,” A.R. Sindhu, general secretary of CPM labour arm Citu, said. “There is scope for improvement. But by involving the private companies, the government wants to wash off its role. Ultimately, the welfare scheme will suffer.” Amarjeet Kaur of CPI workers’ wing Aituc said the government was underfunding the ICDS. “The government is preparing the ground for privatisation. As of now, it’s unable to give adequate funding. So, many anganwadi centres have a dearth of facilities,” she said. “After sometime, the government will say the Nand Ghar model is doing well and all the government facilities are redundant. They will close the anganwadis.” Kaur referred to the recently approved National Education Policy (NEP), which recommends the creation of school complexes that would absorb the anganwadis. India’s 13.79 lakh anganwadi centres, mostly set up in the rural areas, now operate independently, away from primary schools. The NEP says that spending on teachers and resources for small, one-off schools has become economically unviable. It suggests “the establishment of a grouping structure called the school complex, consisting of one secondary school together with all other schools offering lower grades in its neighbourhood including anganwadis, in a radius of 5 to 10km”. Apart from such an arrangement increasing the distance between homes and the anganwadis (and primary schools), activists and Left parties fear the government will hand over the new anganwadis at the complexes to private parties. Ashok Rao, a social activist associated with the NGO Swami Sivananda Memorial Institute that supplies food to anganwadi centres in Delhi, opposed the closure or privatisation of anganwadi centres. He said the private sector can be brought in only to help train anganwadi staff or enhance the infrastructure at these centres. A parliamentary standing committee has highlighted the poor funding for women and children’s welfare. Its report on the women and child development ministry’s demand for grants for 2020-21 says the overall allocation for the ministry has remained unchanged at around one per cent of the budget for the past five years although women and children make up 67.7 per cent of the population. It calls this “a cause of serious concern and introspection”. In Uttar Pradesh, 1.88 lakh anganwadis out of a sanctioned 1.9 lakh are operating. Some sanctioned centres are inoperative in a few other states too. The parliamentary committee has recommended that the ministry take the matter up with the states and try and remove any bottlenecks. It has stressed the need to have more anganwadi centres in urban areas. An email sent to the woman and child development ministry on Wednesday has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Maharashtra cultivators travel 1440km to Delhi||The tent seemed more spacious and the winter didn’t bite as much. After spending four days on the road in a cramped tempo with 14 others, Chhagan Chaudhari, 60, extended his legs and wrapped himself with a thick blanket as he prepared to sleep on December 25 night in Shahjahanpur. “The journey was backbreaking,” Chaudhuri said. “The tempo is open from the rear end. There is no protection from the chilly winds. Even when we stopped at night to sleep at a maidan, I hardly had enough layers on me to feel warm.” An Adivasi farmer from the village of Pochada in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, Chaudhari had started his four-day road trip towards Delhi with a torn blanket, a worn-out sweater and an unshaken resolve. “We need a farmer-friendly government,” he said. Ever since the Narendra Modi government rammed through three farm bills in mid-September, farmers and farm leaders have staged sit-in protests at various locations in and around Delhi. One of the protest sites is at Shahjahanpur, on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, along the highway to Delhi. The farm bills have paved the way for privatisation, encouraging large corporations to enter the field of agriculture while overriding the state-regulated mandis or wholesale markets. Farmers demanding the withdrawal of the bills say the private sector, solely interested in its own profits, will end up exploiting farmers in the absence of any regulation. This could jeopardise the government-decided minimum support price, which is enforced extremely well in Punjab and Haryana, which explains why the protesters have largely consisted of farmers from Punjab and Haryana apart from Rajasthan. However, on December 21, farmers from Maharashtra decided to join them to show that the protests were a national issue. Mobilised by the CPM-affiliated All India Kisan Sabha, about 2,000 of them embarked on an ambitious, 1,400km vehicular march towards Delhi from Nashik district. Chaudhari was one of them. The farmers chanted slogans, played traditional instruments, sang and danced their way to Shahjahanpur. After they reached Shahjahanpur, more tents were put up along the national highway to accommodate them. Arrangements for better blankets had been made too. “We wanted to make a point,” Chaudhari said, wearing a monkey cap. “The protests are not limited to certain states. Farmers in Maharashtra are upset with the farm laws too.” One of the laws, which talks about contract farming, has particularly riled Shivanand Jhalke, 40, a farmer from Mandrup in Solapur district. “In our area, contract farming of bamboo, chandan (sandalwood) and safed musli (a herb) happens at a substantial level,” he said. “Almost every time, the large companies that enter into a contract with the farmers pledge certain returns and then go back on their word. They give reasons like ‘the quality is not good’ or ‘the market is not conducive’. The farmers have no option but to put up with it.” For the farmers, already caught in an exploitative trade, the bills introduced by the Modi government make it even more difficult for them to have any mechanism for redress. “Farmers in any case have little agency,” Jhalke said. “We do not have the resources to take on large companies. After being duped, farmers have to choose between fighting a legal battle and running their household. They mostly choose the latter.” A large segment of the protesters who travelled from Maharashtra to Shahjahanpur are Adivasis fighting for their land titles under the Forest Rights Act, 2006. Jijabai Gayakwad, 70, who has been tilling a patch of two acres in the village of Sindhwad in Nasik, said that contract farming could turn farmers into bonded labourers. “They would own the farmland on paper but, effectively, they will be slaves on their own land,” she said. “I have been fighting for my land rights. Even though I have been tilling my land for decades, it comes under the forest department. I know what it is like to have your land and still not have control over it.” In March 2018, Jijabai had participated in a weeklong farmers’ march that covered 180km on foot from Nashik to Mumbai demanding better enforcement of the Forest Rights Act. “I won’t be coming to Delhi,” she said. “The Nashik-Mumbai march broke my back. I will come up to the Madhya Pradesh border and head back home. But I wanted to mark my presence at a rally that condemns these bills.” The critics of the farm protests claim that the farmers do not know what they are protesting against. However, the farmers from Maharashtra know exactly how the bills would affect their lives. Narayan Gayakwad, 73, a sugarcane farmer from Jambhli village of Kolhapur, said the fourth bill, which is in the works, would hurt him the most. “That bill aims to privatise electricity,” he said. “I grow sugarcane, which requires a lot of water. I need power to apply the water pump. If I lose the subsidy that I get on electricity, I’m done. It would increase my production cost to the extent that I would never be able to make any profits.” Among those affected by the farmers’ declining purchasing power are the landless agricultural labourers. Chaudhari, who also works as a labourer, said that if the farmers don’t make profits, they will not employ labourers. “It’s simple,” he said. “The well-being of farmers is important to the well-being of the rural economy. The current farm bills do not consider the well-being of farmers.” Chaudhari earns Rs 200 as a day labourer. The time he is spending away from his village, protesting, is costing him the opportunity to earn his bread and butter. “I will be camping in Shahjahanpur for three days,” he said. “Then I will return home. I wanted to make a point, which I did by coming here. But I also have a family to feed.” Parth M.N. is a Mumbai-based journalist who accompanied the vehicular march from Maharashtra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Dance historian Sunil Kothari no more||Dance historian and critic Sunil Kothari passed away on Sunday morning at a Delhi hospital after he suffered a cardiac arrest a month after testing positive for the coronavirus. He was 87. “He had tested positive for Covid-19 almost a month back and was not in a good condition,” Vidha Lal, a family friend and herself a dancer, said. Born on December 20, 1933, in Mumbai, Kothari qualified as a chartered accountant before turning to the study of Indian dance forms. He authored more than 20 books on Indian dance forms, including Sattriya Dances of Assam and New Directions in Indian Dance, and also on Bharatanatayam, Odissi, Chhau, Kathak, Kuchipudi, and photo biographies of Uday Shankar and Rukmini Devi Arundale. The dance scholar held the Uday Shankar Chair at Rabindra Bharati University, and taught in the dance department of New York University as a Fulbright Professor. He had received the Padma Shri. Kothari was among the 27 artistes who were served a notice in November to leave their government-allotted homes by December 31. The dance historian had said he felt “humiliated” on being served the “get out” notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth discharged from hospital||Superstar Rajinikanth was on Sunday discharged from a hospital here, where he was treated for blood pressure fluctuation, authorities said. “His blood pressure has been stabilised and he is feeling much better. In view of his improved medical condition, he has been discharged from the hospital today,” a bulletin from Apollo Hospitals said. The 70-year-old actor was admitted to the hospital here on December 25 with severe hypertension and exhaustion, it said. He was kept under medical supervision and treated by a team of doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||CPM picks youngest Kerala panchayat president||The CPM has given Kerala its youngest village panchayat president, days after picking the state’s youngest mayor. Reshma Mariam Roy, who turned 21 just a day before she filed her nomination papers on November 19, will head the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district. On Friday, the party had chosen Arya Rajendran, a 21-year-old BSc mathematics student, as mayor of Thiruvananthapuram. Twenty-one is the minimum age to contest elections. Reshma, a graduate in business administration from V.N.S. College in Konni, Pathanamthitta, won from the Congress stronghold of Ward 11. The Left Democratic Front has won the panchayat after two decades, having lost to the Congress-led United Democratic Front by one seat in 2015. “I’d like to be known as the best panchayat president and not just the youngest,” Reshma told The Telegraph on Sunday, trying to shift the focus from her feat to the challenge ahead. She said she had never expected to be made panchayat president. “I have already said that I was surprised when my party asked me to contest the elections. Now I’m doubly surprised,” she said. “This is a massive recognition for the youth. The LDF has won this panchayat after 20 years. This places added responsibility on us — we have to meet the expectations of the people who elected us.” Reshma, who takes charge on Wednesday, has already done her homework on what she needs to do. “New road projects have to be taken up. We need new anganwadis (child care centres) and enhance all the basic amenities,” she said. She has plans for herself too: “I will continue my studies through distance education. I’m confident about taking it forward.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||JDU lesson to BJP on coalition dharma ||The JDU on Sunday intensified its criticism of partner BJP for the alleged poaching of its MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh and also lambasted the ploy to foster hatred in the name of “love jihad”, increasing the disquiet in the Bihar alliance. Chief minister Nitish Kumar abdicated the post of JDU national president in favour of party leader R.C.P. Singh, signalling that he would focus on national politics at a time the party finds itself hemmed in by the BJP. “Our party has expressed deep anguish over the developments in Arunachal Pradesh in which six of our (seven) MLAs have joined the BJP. It is not a good sign for coalition politics. We are deeply hurt. We express our sadness, pain, objection, opposition and anger,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said. Talking to journalists after the conclusion of the two-day national executive of the party, Tyagi said the JDU had requested Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda to include its Arunachal MLAs in the cabinet. The JDU and the BJP are not in an alliance in the northeastern state. “It is a sorry thing that instead of including (the JDU) in the cabinet, they (the BJP) included it in their party. This is against the basic spirit of coalition dharma. It should not have done this. Love, brotherhood and harmony are the basis of coalition politics,” Tyagi added. “The alliance was at its zenith during the tenure of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. His was the atal dharma (unwavering ethics) of coalition politics. Twenty-three parties were a part of it, but there was no contradiction among them,” Tyagi said. The JDU also attacked the BJP over the recent “love jihad” politics and framing of laws against it in BJP-ruled states. “An atmosphere of hatred is being created in the country on the issue of love jihad. Our Constitution allows two adults to choose their life partners irrespective of caste, creed, religion, or region,” Tyagi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Call to reclaim Gandhian institutions from socialists and Sanghis||The Indian National Congress, which celebrates its 136th foundation day on Monday, is struggling to preserve its legacy at a time it is getting battered every day even on the question of its patriotism despite being born out of the freedom movement. The Congress leadership’s indifference to the party’s legacy is best reflected in its failure to prevent the systemic infiltration of Gandhian institutions by the RSS over the decades. The crisis is so deep that the party was denied permission to hold the Congress Working Committee meeting at the Sevagram Ashram in Wardha, Maharashtra, on October 2, 2018 — the beginning of the Mahatma’s 150th year — despite the current leadership’s best efforts. Eventually, the meeting was held in Wardha but outside Sevagram. The party would not have suffered this humiliation but for its lack of clout in the Sarva Seva Sangh, the umbrella organisation that looked after the ashram and was dominated by socialists whose dislike of the Congress trumped their ideological aversion to the RSS. Now, after attaining power in Maharashtra last year, the Congress has — perhaps without the knowledge of its high command — played a role in a change of leadership at the Sarva Seva Sangh. The Sarva Seva Sangh, an allIndia organisation, was established in 1948 after the Mahatma’s assassination to guide the various Gandhian institutions involved in social work. Senior Congress leaders including then President Rajendra Prasad and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had attended the 1948 meeting where Vinoba Bhave was tasked with carrying on the work according to the philosophy of Sarvodaya. Nehru ensured that these institutions received government funds, and their Congress association continued in terms of both ideology and membership. The scene changed dramatically in the 1970s during the movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan against Indira Gandhi. The socialists captured the Sarva Seva Sangh, with many Congress members and Gandhians crossing over to the other side. The JP movement’s association with the RSS enabled the Rightwing outfit’s men to infiltrate the organisation and the Sarvodaya Samaj. The trend continued with successive Congress governments in Maharashtra and the Centre showing no interest in reclaiming the space. Anil Sinha, who is writing a book on the history of socialist movements and has observed the developments in the Sarva Seva Sangh closely as a journalist, said: “The success of the RSS in infiltrating and ultimately controlling some of the Gandhian institutions has historical roots. It has to do with ideology as well.” Sinha added: “It’s well known that during the Independence struggle many Congress leaders were soft on Hindu communalism. However, Gandhi’s murder by a Hindutva activist resulted in a complete break. But the JP movement helped the RSS gain respectability and his antiIndira alliance with the Hindutva brigade gave it the opportunity to associate with Gandhian institutions. “The silent supporters of Hindu communalism among the Sarvodaya workers were now free to join them. Some former Lohiaites too have joined them. The influence of the Sangh parivar is not limited to physically controlling institutions: many former socialists are involved in the ideological expansion of the Sangh parivar as well.” The control of RSS sympathisers was strengthened after the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014. “The Sarvodaya Samaj was supposed to be apolitical without any connection with State power, but political interference has increased in the last few years,” senior Sarva Seva Sangh committee member Avinash Kapre told The Telegraph from Wardha. “AntiCongressism has been so dominant that the concerns about democracy and communalism have got diluted. There has been a clear tilt towards the RSS.” Kapre added: “Mahadev Vidrohi, who was elected Sarva Seva Sangh president in 2014, wanted to continue even after completing two terms and began sacking opponents. Gandhians who had spent three or four decades with the organisation were removed. Elections were due in March 2020 but hurdles were created by Vidrohi who wanted to plant his own nominee. “But that was the critical stage when the guardian minister of Wardha, the Congress’s Sunil Kedar, helped. He got deeply engaged in the matter and helped us elect a working president, the Calcuttabased Chandan Pal. This would not have been possible without political help as Vidrohi had created a lot of trouble in the previous election.” Asked whether the Congress intervention was preplanned, as a revenge for the denial of space for the CWC meeting in 2018, Kedar, a minister in the Uddhav Thackeray government, said the matter “should not be seen as the Congress agenda”. “Both the Sarva Seva Sangh and the Sevagram Ashram are supposed to be apolitical. It’s true that socialists facilitated the entry of RSS sympathisers and they have controlled many institutions across the country. My intervention should not be seen as the Congress agenda,” he said. “My interest, as the guardian minister of this district, was only to help them conduct the election peacefully. I’m also involved in rejuvenation and reconstruction of the ashram. There is no such thing as Congress control.” Some Congress members, however, rue the absence of a robust response by Gandhian institutions, including the Sarva Seva Sangh, to the onslaught of communal forces on democracy and Gandhian values and want them to take a political line that is clearly antiRSS. “There is no question of political interference, or of RSS or Congress control,” Chandan Pal, the new Sarva Seva Sangh president, told this newspaper from Calcutta. “Our objective is to unite the Sarvodaya activists and work for the restoration of Gandhian values in the country.” Insiders, however, believe that the Congress leadership needs to work out a detailed plan to reclaim Gandhian institutions from socialists and Sanghis to ensure they work for secular and progressive ideals. They feel the Congress’s lack of interest in such organisations, at a time the RSS has countless apparent and hidden outfits working to propagate its ideology, has been a prime reason for its political decimation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: Modi hails Sikh gurus, portrays Mughals as 'tyrants'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the sacrifices of Guru Gobind Singh and Guru Tegh Bahadur had helped keep the country’s “culture” safe, as he hailed the Sikh gurus and portrayed the Mughals as “tyrants” in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. Modi had the previous Sunday visited the Gurdwara Rakab Ganj in Delhi to mark Guru Tegh Bahadur’s martyrdom, continuing his outreach to the Sikh community even as he ignores lakhs of Punjab’s farmers sitting outside Delhi in the severe cold for a month as they lead the protest against the new farm laws. “On this day, the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, were immured alive (inside a wall),” Modi said. Both Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh, as well as the Sahibzade, had died at the hands of the Mughals. Modi said the Sikh gurus’ sacrifice had helped protect the country’s “civilisation and culture” from “tyrants” and “tormentors”. “The tyrants wanted Sahibzade to renounce their faith, abandon the teachings of the great Guru tradition,” he said. “During the immurement, as the stones began piling up, gradually raising the height of the wall... (with) death staring them in the face... they did not budge even a bit.” Modi added that Sunday was also the anniversary of the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s mother, Mata Gujari. “During this month, inspired by Shri Guru Gobind Singhji, many people sleep on the floor.... This martyrdom served towards the great deed of protecting our civilisation... and keeping the present fabric of the country intact,” he said. “About a week ago, it was the Martyrdom Day of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadurji too. Here in Delhi, I was blessed with the opportunity to visit Gurdwara Rakab Ganj to pay my obeisance.” It had been Modi’s first visit to a gurdwara in Delhi since becoming Prime Minister in May 2014. Modi has been using religious symbolism to woo the protesting Sikh farmers, aware of the community’s reputation for grit and valour in battle. Modi had paid extensive homage to Guru Nanak on his birthday last month, and the government recently brought out a booklet to highlight his “special relationship” with the Sikh community. Critics have questioned Modi’s wooing of Sikhs at a time his government has been stonewalling the protesters’ demands to repeal the new farm laws and his party  colleagues have been maligning the protesters as “Khalistanis”. Kashmir outreach In his last radio address of 2020, Modi sought to connect with the people of Kashmir. He hailed the quality of “kesar” (saffron) grown in the Valley, urged Indians to buy only Kashmiri saffron, and flagged the GI (geographical indication) tag for the spice. He used the example to iterate his “vocal for local” and “Self-reliant India” slogans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-458
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s Nandigram meeting on Jan 7 deferred||Trinamool Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee said Monday that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's public meeting in Nandigram on January 7, 2021 has been deferred due to indisposition of party MLA Akhil Giri. Banerjee was scheduled to visit Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district, former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari's home turf, on January 7, 2021 to hold the public meeting. Mukherjee, also the state Rural Development minister, told reporters here, the meeting has not been cancelled. "Since the TMC MLA who represents Ramnagar in Purba Medinipur is in the hospital now, the meeting is being deferred. It will be held on a later date", he added. January 7 is observed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) as 'sahid divas' in the honour of those who lost their lives during the fierce anti-land acquisition movement in 2007. Reacting to the development, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that the meeting has been cancelled due to the proposed meeting of the saffron party there on January 8. After joining the BJP, Adhikari had announced that he would address a rally in Nandigram on January 8, a day after the chief minister's meeting. Suvendu Adhikari who was a part of the Nandigram agitation in 2007 protesting against the erstwhile Left Front government's move to acquire land for an SEZ, has recently severed ties with the TMC and joined the BJP. "From now on, all TMC meetings will be confined to Kalighat," Ghosh said. The chief minister's home is in south Calcutta's Kalighat area. Regarding 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) outreach campaign of the state government, Mukherjee said, it is a novel initiative which other states might be "tempted to imitate". So far, the government has released Rs 7,800 crore for the purpose, he said. The campaign was launched with an eye on the 2021 assembly elections to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes and also to hear out their grievances related to the programmes. Speaking on the state's performance in 100-days work, he said, West Bengal has ranked number one in the country in terms of cash payment and quality of work. The minister said, the state panchayat and rural development had allocated nearly Rs 21,000 crore for strengthening the rural economy. Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), which offers 100 days of work in a year to rural households who seek employment had helped those who had come to the state during the lockdown as a result of reverse migration, Mukherjee said. The TMC leader said the state has been able to increase man-days by 27 per cent in West Bengal. Replying to the criticism levelled by opposition parties about Mamata Banerjee's announcement to industrially develop Singur, he said, "the chief minister was not against industrialisation per se. She only said a part of the large tract of land taken by the acquirer (West Bengal government for the Tatas) be kept for small and marginal farmers. "If she was against industrialisation, she would not have gone overseas so many times and also held business meets here. The business proposals are being implemented in the state."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb to meet Mamata with new civic body plea||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Sunday said he would meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta on January 3 for her approval of a new civic body for Dabgram-Fulbari area in Jalpaiguri district. Deb is the MLA from Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat. “I will meet the chief minister at Calcutta on January 3 and appeal to her for administrative approval for a new civic body for Dabgram-Fulbari. I believe she will never refuse my sincere request,” said Deb. “Rapid urbanisation is taking place...there are a number of private institutions and hospitals here…on December 15, our chief minister declared Mainaguri (Jalpaiguri) would soon get a civic body and we are hopeful of a positive decision for our area too.” Deb said this at a Trinamul protest event against the recent farm laws. Rural areas of Dabgram-Fulbari are spread over Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district but 14 wards from this constituency come under Siliguri Municipal Corporation. Deb said a slew of development projects and steady urbanisation led to clamour for a new municipality. Uttarkanya, the state’s branch secretariat, and Bengal Safari Park come under this Assembly seat. The area’s infrastructure has improved with two fire stations and an electronic crematorium. Construction of a 100-bed ESI hospital is on. Many observers believe Deb is looking for a poll edge. Dabgram-Fulbari comes under Jalpaiguri Lok Sabha seat, where during the 2019 parliamentary election, BJP had a lead of 80,000 votes. “Deb wants something new before the 2021 state polls,” said an observer. Ranjan Sarkar, Trinamul Darjeeling district committee chief (plains), on Sunday visited the home of CPM’s Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya in ward 20 of the SMC to hand over the state government’s 10-year report card. Sarkar was handing out report cards as part of Duare Sarkar outreach. The MLA’s wife Ratna  received the card from Sarkar. Bhattacharya called it a “gimmick”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Protest against alleged attempt by Visva-Bharati authorities to defame Amartya Sen||Several academics, students and public figures came together in the city on Sunday to protest an alleged attempt by Visva-Bharati authorities to defame economist Amartya Sen by engineering a land controversy. Many felt that the real motive was to silence Sen because of his arguments against certain policies the Narendra Modi government. Some saw in the controversy an attempt at cultural hegemony over Bengal. “How can I, being a Bengali, tolerate the insult to Amartya Sen? I have taken a stand on my own. The actions of the university have hurt my sentiments,” said Rimona Das, a third-year student of the Sarojini Naidu College for Women in Dum Dum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
28-12-2020||West Bengal||6,000 farmers from Jhargram submit compensation claims||The ongoing yearly elephant scare in forested parts of West Midnapore, including Jhargram, has prompted over 6,000 farmers from the area to submit compensation claims to the forest department claiming damage by rampaging herds. Forest department officials confirmed the development on Friday, less than a week after the district superintendent of police issued job letters to 46 bereaved kin of victims of elephant attacks since 2011. Sources in Jhargram last week said that the development came amid sightings of a herd of 16 elephants who were trampling crop fields in the area as recently as last week, prompting villagers to demand action to safeguard their farmlands. “Roughly 3,500 hectares across West Midnapore and Jhargram have been destroyed by elephant rampages this year alone. These occurrences usually peak around winter,” said a forest department official, confirming they received the compensation claims and were reviewing them in detail. “We view these claims on a per decimal or per hectare basis, which is why verification can take time,” he added. The forest official explained that the compensation rates ranged between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000 a hectare depending on damage, and was usually calculated at Rs 60 per decimal. Asked, district additional divisional officer of forests Bijoy Chakrabarti admitted that herd rampages were a longstanding problem in the area without any permanent solution as of now. “Elephant herds roam around and destroy paddy fields in this area routinely," he said. “We have processed a third of the compensation claims and will verify rest very soon,” Chakrabarti added. Farmer Samar Kisku, 48, a resident of Salboni, said that he lost a bigha of produce to elephant trampling less than a week ago. “More than eating crops, elephants cause damage by ravaging the paths they take through fields,” Kisku said, adding that he had submitted his compensation claim and was “hopeful” of being remunerated. The elephant herd rampage problem reportedly posed greater damages this year as compared to last, when 2,000 hectares had been reported damaged. Forest department officials had back then issued Rs 1.35 crore in compensation to farmers and Rs 18 lakh in compensation to 342 homeowners. This year, more than 350 homes have been reported damaged. “When they don’t find food in fields, they storm residential areas,” said one villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Bimal changes tack, wants Mamata’s win||Bimal Gurung on Sunday said he had changed his politics and in the new scheme of things his priority was to help Mamata Banerjee win the Bengal Assembly elections and then work out a permanent political solution for the region. “I have changed my politics as we have to defeat the BJP,” Gurung said at a public meeting at Selphu in Kurseong. “My priority now is to ensure Mamata Banerjee’s win after which we will work out a permanent political solution for the place.” He added that “he would not put his feet on two boats” as the BJP had betrayed him despite him supporting the saffron camp for 12 years. Gurung’s assertion comes a day after Anit Thapa of the GJM’s rival Binay Tamang faction, said he would not seek votes based on the Gorkhaland issue. The Tamang faction is allied to Trinamul, which has been opposed to Gorkhaland. This October, Gurung parted ways with the BJP over “unfulfilled promises” and decided to back Mamata and Trinamul for Bengal elections, though his and Tamang's factions continue to be bitter rivals. Against this background, Gurung’s statement of changed politics assumes significance. Gurung had been supporting the BJP in Lok Sabha elections since 2009 when his party helped elect BJP’s Jaswant Singh as Darjeeling MP. Since then, Gurung supported BJP candidates at the parliamentary elections thrice. Gurung’s relationship with Mamata could best be described as blow hot, blow cold for the past seven years, hill observers said. Gurung’s faction of the GJM had vouched its support to Trinamul during the 2011 Bengal elections though the party had not actively campaigned for Trinamul then. Since Mamata came to power in 2011, Gurung launched two phases of the Gorkhaland agitation, the latest being in 2017. Even last Sunday, in his Darjeeling public rally, Gurung was loud and clear on Gorkhaland, an emotive issue on the hills. But on Monday evening, a delegation of smaller hill parties, all BJP allies, who went to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, reported that Shah would confer the Scheduled Tribe tag to 11 hill communities soon but settle the permanent political solution after state elections. On Saturday, Thapa said he wasn’t making Gorkhaland a poll plank for the state elections. Gurung’s changed poll priorities seems to reflect the fast-changing scenario of hill politics. What was unchanged was the animosity between the Morcha factions. On Sunday, Gurung launched a vitriolic attack at the Tamang-Thapa camp. “I have defeated you people (Tamang-Thapa) despite staying in Delhi. You could not win elections despite the state government spending Rs 1,700 crore in GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, which the Tamang-Thapa camp heads). You people don’t matter and one day you will have to come to my feet,” said Gurung. Gurung in alliance with BJP and other hill parties had defeated Trinamul-Tamang alliance both in Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly bypolls last year. “These people (Tamang-Thapa) might be telling the state government that they might switch to BJP if not kept in power in the GTA. Let them go, I will ensure Mamata Banerjee’s victory alone. I will not keep my feet in two boats,” said Gurung. Thapa on Saturday had said that he was and would always stay with the state government. On Sunday, Gurung also pointedly indicated Mamata when he said: “You have to choose the one that can win you (Assembly) seats. We will win all the three hill seats and help win 17 seats in north Bengal. They (Tamang camp) will win nothing."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Low turnout at poet anniversary upsets Thapa||The birth celebration of Agam Singh Giri, considered as one of the tallest poets among Indian Gorkhas, failed to attract enough people in Darjeeling on Sunday, prompting GTA chief Anit Thapa to wonder why “thousands” thronged his public meetings but few attended such important programmes. Giri, who died at a relatively young age of 43 in 1971, was a prolific poet and lyricist whose writings many believe are in tune with the current topics of political debates like identity, self-determination and homeland and best reflect the tribulations of Indian Gorkhas. His birth anniversary is marked as Giri Jayanti. A statue of the leader had been erected before Lewis Jubilee Complex — an administrative wing of the GTA in Darjeeling — and Giri Puraskar is also awarded, earlier by the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council and now by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, on Giri Jayanti. “Agam Singh Giri united our community, evoked community feeling amongst us. We take pride in saying that he is an icon of our community, an asset but today, even this small hall is not filled to its capacity,” Thapa said at the programme organised by the GTA at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan here. Thapa heads the GTA. The hall has a seating capacity of 700 but less than 100 people were present at the event. The GTA chairman, who is also the general secretary of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, made a reference of the gathering at his political rally in Darjeeling on Saturday. “Yesterday, when I held a public meeting, there were thousands. We have not done anything great for our community. However, at the programme to remember an icon, why is there such a thin presence?” asked Thapa. GTA officials said they had sent out 500-odd invitation cards for the event. “The common excuse by invitees not turning up is that it is very cold,” said an organiser who said there was a proposal to organise the event at Sukna near Siliguri but had to be shifted to Darjeeling at the last moment. In his speech, Thapa, however, said: “Darjeeling is our capital, we all have grown up at this place, grown with the cold. From next year, the event must be organised as a festival spreading over three days.” On Sunday, the GTA conferred Giri Puraskars on Matilda Rai (literature) and Madhusudhan Lama (music), which carry a cash award of Rs 1 lakh each. Thapa also announced that Basant Kumar Rai had been selected for the Shiv Kumar Rai Smriti Puraskar (literature) and T.B. Joshi for Aruna Lama Smriti Puraskar (music) which would be conferred on them on April 14, 2021. “From next year, we will also institute the Gorkha Ratna award to be conferred on Indian Gorkhas who have excelled in their profession,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek, Suvendu fire barbs||Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee and party defector Suvendu Adhikari indulged in slanging matches on Sunday without naming each other. Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, at a rally in Diamond Harbour, indicated that Adhikari, who defected to the BJP recently, was  an “asymptomatic Covid-19 patient” who tried to sabotage Trinamul from within. Adhikari in Danton deplored his former party’s alleged south Calcutta centrism. “Just like the novel coronavirus is the hidden enemy, he (Adhikari) too lay hidden in Trinamul for so many years, sabotaging it from within,” Abhishek said, referring to the former minister’s admission that he had been in touch with Amit Shah since 2014. “If he is ashamed of having been associated with the Trinamul for 21 years (Adhikari has been saying since his desertion), then why is he still living in the same household as his father and brother?” asked Abhishek, referring to Adhikari’s father Sisir, who remains Trinamul’s Contai MP, the East Midnapore party chief and a party vice-president; brother Dibyendu who is Trinamul’s Tamluk MP; and brother Soumyendu who was until recently Trinamul’s Contai civic chairman. “The man who can’t ensure the lotus (the BJP symbol) blooms in his own home is going about thumping his chest and claiming he will make the lotus bloom across Bengal,” mocked Abhishek. “If they have the courage, let them set up their own parties like Mamata Banerjee did. Let us see where they stand then…. He has sold his spine to the BJP.” Lashing out at Adhikari’s repeated allegations of extortion, Abhishek said it was not his name that cropped up in the list of those accused in alleged scams. “I am not involved in either the Narada sting operation or the Saradha scam (indicating Adhikari). Your political somersault was to save yourself from central agencies,” thundered Abhishek. “If any of you can prove that I have ever been involved in any activity related to extortion, I am willing to be hanged,” he added. At a Danton rally, Adhikari took the dais hours later to fire a counter-offensive. “Someone (Abhishek) who cropped up in the party after it came to power in 2011 has said in Diamond Harbour that I have been in touch with the BJP since 2014. In parliamentary culture, people from various parties interact freely. The culture of not interacting with anybody else was the CPM’s. This attack comes from a party (Trinamul) that ran the state wearing the slippers left behind by the CPM,” he said. The East Midnapore stalwart tried playing the victim card and accusing Trinamul of favoring people from Calcutta over those from the districts. “This is a fight to the finish, between the districts and the hegemony of Calcutta, which they have tried to establish. This fight is the fight for the villages, for districts,” said Adhikari, referring to the south Calcutta centrism that Trinamul has been known for. “Have the rest of us come floating in the floodwaters?” Adhikari again stressed the “need” for handing Bengal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and rooted for a single party rule in both the Centre and the state for the sake of development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Verbal land lease a hurdle to Bengal govt goal||The Banerjee government may find it difficult to reach out to all 72 lakh farmers in Bengal with one of its flagship schemes — Krishak Bandhu — as it has received a lukewarm response in terms of enrolment despite the chief minister’s announcement on relaxing eligibility criteria for potential beneficiaries. Sources dealing with the issue said the practice of leasing out farmland on verbal agreement by nearly 30 per cent landowners was one of the reasons behind the farmers’ reluctance to enrol in the scheme. The state government received only about 1.9 lakh applications seeking inclusion in the scheme till December 21 through the camps set up under Duare Sarkar programme. Before the Duare Sarkar programme was launched, 47 lakh farmers had signed up for the scheme, under which farmers get annual financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for an acre. “If less than 2 lakh out of 25 lakh left out farmers apply for the scheme in the first two phases of Duare Sarkar, it can be said that the response from the farmers is lukewarm,” said a senior state government official. The sources said initially it was felt that lack of land-related documents could be the sole reason behind the poor response from the farmers. The chief minister then asked the officials to ease the norms and made it clear that only an undertaking from the farmers — who don’t have land-related documents to claim themselves as farmers — would make them eligible for the scheme. “But it now appears that the problem is something else because the response from the farmers is still poor despite the norms being relaxed,” said an official. The field officials of agriculture and land and land reforms departments recently found that nearly 30 per cent of the landowners — majority of whom own a relatively larger size of farmland — had given “verbal lease” to some landless farmers who cultivate the land and enjoy the majority share of the produce. “As they are not registered as sharecroppers they cannot apply for the financial assistance under the scheme even though the scheme has provisions for providing assistance to the registered sharecroppers. The original landowners are no more interested in farming,” said a senior state government official. The official also said that the original land owners perhaps didn’t want to come forward to apply for the scheme as they apprehended that they would get exposed as leasing out farmland verbally was not allowed in Bengal. The sources have said the oral lease system has become a practice in large parts of the state over the past few years after either the landowners moved out of the villages or the next generation of the landowners settled outside the village after losing interest in cultivating the farmland. “They want to retain the land and at the same time they don’t want that sharecroppers are registered on the land. That’s why they settle on a verbal agreement that those who cultivate their plots would enjoy a majority share of the produce. The landless farmers who cultivate such land don’t show interest in getting their names registered as they enjoy the majority share of the produce, sometimes up to 90 percent,” said a source. In case of a registered sharecropper, the owner gets 25 percent of the produce. In case, the landowner gives the input cost, the produce is shared on a 50:50 basis. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said that the ruling establishment was eager to reach out to all the farmers with the scheme ahead of the Assembly polls as the BJP was continuously campaigning that the state government had prevented farmers from getting benefits under the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme that secures a maximum of Rs 6,000 to a farmer annually. “The chief minister is eager to establish that Bengal has given assistance to all its farmers and it is a better scheme than the central scheme. The government is trying to reach out to all 72 lakh farmers and we will find out after January 25, when the Duare Sarkar programme will conclude, how many farmers did not come forward,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Lowest  24-hour Covid toll  in months||Bengal on Sunday reported 1,740 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,435 new infections and 29 deaths, the lowest 24-hour toll in months, but 13 of those were reported from Calcutta. The state also saw a drop in total active cases for the 62nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 62 days, total active cases fell from 37,190 to 13,774, improving by nearly 63 per cent. Bengal has, in this spell of turnaround, reported nearly 2.14 lakh recoveries and 1.93 lakh new cases. The state’s Covid-19 caseload is over 5.47 lakh but includes 5.24 lakh recoveries and 9,598 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 66 consecutive days, from 87.44 per cent of October 22 to 95.73 now, behind the national rate by 0.08 per cent. “We will get past the national rate on Monday and stretch the lead over the next few days of the year,” said a minister. “This 62-day spell has given us everything we could possibly have asked for in our fight against the pandemic, given the stage of the outbreak,” he added, calling the state’s Covid-19 management “exemplary”. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.86 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 of November 20. “A declining positive confirmation rate is another key indicator of reducing spread,” said the minister. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of the total deaths, 8,044 or 83.8 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. With 38,118 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count rose to 69.65 lakh, at 77,397 tests per million people. Bengal reported 13.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid in 102 dedicated hospitals. Over 5.5 lakh telemedicine consultations have been done so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to walk two 'extra' kilometres in culture gesture||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will walk two “extra” kilometres beyond her planned road show route on Tuesday to pay her “tribute” to a statue of Rabindranath Tagore here, sources close to the ruling party said. Despite her original plan to march on the stretch covered by Union home minister Amit Shah last Sunday — from Dak Bungalow ground to Chowrasta crossing in Bolpur town —  Mamata reportedly made a change in the eleventh hour to include a “traditional Bengali flourish”, sources said. “She was to cover around 1.4km initially but after this rescheduling, it will be around 3.4 km,” said a police source. Now, Mamata will start her march from Tourist Lodge crossing some 500 metres off Dak Bungalow grounds and end at Tagore’s statue at Jambuni via Chowrasta. The Trinamul chief will also address a gathering from a dais behind the statue of Tagore at Jambuni. “The route was changed after a meeting with top Trinamul leaders on Saturday evening. The chief minister wanted to garland a Tagore statue after finishing her march. As there is no statue of Tagore at Chowrasta, she would walk 2km more for her tribute,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata will reach Bolpur on Monday afternoon and attend a news meet followed by an administrative review meeting. The mega march starts on Tuesday afternoon. The BJP claimed Shah’s road show was a “big success”. Shah visited sites associated with some of Bengal’s foremost icons including Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Khudiram Bose during his two-day visit to the state last weekend to try and establish the saffron camp’s connect with Bengali culture and counter the Trinamul’s bohiragawto (outsider) allegations. Abhijit Sinha, a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum, said “There is no need (for Trinamul) to learn how to respect Tagore from the BJP.” Mamata in her speech is  also likely to address the “attack” by Visva-Bharati and its vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, who allegedly has saffron leanings, on Nobel laureate Amartya Sen over a land controversy. “She is very angry with the varsity’s attack on Sen,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-258
28-12-2020||Opinion||Rising spots: India's leopard population||Signs of progress warrant celebration as well as reflection. The findings of the government report, Status of Leopard in India 2018, are heartening. India now has an estimated 12,852 leopards, a population increase of more than 60 per cent over the previous recorded estimate in 2014. Credit must be extended to the architects of conservation and — not to forget — its foot soldiers. But there could be other reasons that explain why the leopard is doing better than, say, the tiger. Among the members of the big cat family, the leopard is the most gifted when it comes to adapting to seemingly challenging milieu. At a time when natural habitats are being encroached upon on account of a predatory development model, leopards have been the quickest to learn to survive within semi-urban and urban habitats. Moreover, they have done so without posing a significant threat to human life — for instance, leopards and people have coexisted in and around Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park for years without worsening the prospect of man-animal conflict. This, however, does not undermine the importance of such surveys. This is because the tiger and the elephant — the Big Two of Indian conservation — have occupied a disproportionate share of conservation resources as well as of public consciousness. The alarming depletion in their numbers may have something to do with the skewed nature of this collective concern. But this does not mean that other species, including leopards, deserve any less attention because the ecological balance can only be sustained by understanding the interdependence among species and their habitats. The success of conserving animal species is thus premised on addressing a gamut of inter-related challenges: the watering down of protective legislations; governmental apathy — in 2018, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for “sitting” on funds worth Rs 77,000 crore meant for environmental protection; a poorly equipped forest protection apparatus; thinning forests — India’s ‘very dense forest’ cover is now down to 3 per cent — that are no longer capable of supporting a healthy population of wildlife; the resultant displacement of animals which, in turn, is intensifying the man-animal conflict and, as always, poaching. Last year, the Union environment ministry informed Parliament that at least 260 leopards had been poached in India between 2015 and 2018. Wildlife organizations believe that the numbers are far higher. There is no reason for progress, as is evident from the leopard survey, to give way to complacency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion||Famous five: DU's new Covid quota||The Covid-19 virus has had unexpected effects. In the sphere of education, there was much agony about online lessons, newly modelled examinations, admission processes and, overall, unfamiliar futures. But none of this could be considered unexpected during the spread of the virus. What has come as a surprise is the decision of Delhi University to introduce five reserved seats for each college affiliated to it independent of the accepted quota laws. Candidates who are five per cent or at most 10 per cent short of the cutoff mark of the college for that particular subject would be chosen for these ‘discretionary’ seats. Three names from the college and two from the university — that is, from the college principals and the vice-chancellor respectively — would go to a committee of Delhi University in what is expected to stand in for a show of transparency. The rationale is that the pandemic may have caused undeserved slips from the required standard, and a few seats should be reserved for such candidates. There has been an outburst of objections from teachers and principals as well as from Right and Left students associations. The decision is being seen not only as arbitrary but also illogical: there is no defined procedure by which to select just those candidates affected negatively by the pandemic. How can an incontrovertible connection be established? ‘Discretion’ is subjective and opaque. There appears to be no educationally attuned reasoning behind the university’s decision, which has led many to suspect that a ‘management quota’ is being created. The university has denied this but the grounds for objection in principle are plentiful, and these are being voiced by different segments invested in fair selection and high standards. The choice of five would be dependent on personal decisions of people powerful in the administration, thus undermining the system of lawful reservations. Such arbitrariness threatens excellence. More, this is a route to corruption — sweeteners or nepotism or promises of quid pro quo could determine who gets in. This is apart from the fact that DU colleges have made 25 per cent expansions for economically weaker section reservations with no increase in infrastructure. But in this case, practical problems are secondary to the ones in principle. The university has not addressed those questions yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion|| Unique problem with Arab World||Ten years ago this month, Mohamed Bouazizi, a street vendor in Tunisia, set himself alight in front of a government building in rage at the corrupt dictatorship that had ruined his young life. His sacrifice wakened hope in millions of others — but then half a million of them also died, although not at their own hands, and the rest went quiet. It was called the Arab Spring. It should have worked. Non-violent democratic revolutions had overthrown around two dozen other tyrannies in the previous 20 years. So when people in half a dozen Arab dictatorships, galvanized by Bouazizi’s action, went out in the streets to demand democracy in late 2010 and 2011, most onlookers expected them to win. In reality, they all lost, except in Tunisia. In Egypt the protesters forced the old dictator to quit, but the army was back in power in less than two years. In Syria, Yemen and Libya, the protests morphed into savage civil wars that continue even today. Smaller protests in Lebanon and Bahrain were shut down by force. This is not because the whole non-violent technique is falling out of favour. There are non-violent attempts to remove dictators underway right now in Thailand and Belarus, both with a reasonable chance of success. So what’s wrong with the Arab world, where only four out of 22 countries are classed as ‘free’ or ‘partly free’ by Freedom House? Here’s one possible answer. Everywhere else, the political choice is binary: tyranny or democracy. In most of the Arab countries there are three choices: the dreadful status quo or democracy — or Islam. In every Arab country there is an Islamist opposition promising that ‘Islam is the answer’. The right answer depends on what the question is. As a non-Arab and non-Muslim I am not setting the questions, just observing that in the Arab world, unlike elsewhere, two alternative escape routes are on offer to the public. Both have considerable popular appeal, but they are mutually exclusive. Equality and its political expression, democracy, are human values, but for historical reasons it is easy for Islamists to portray political democracy as an alien, ‘Western’ value. This is the fault line that the dictators exploit. That’s why the first thing the Syrian dictator, Bashar al-Assad, did when the pro-democracy protests began was to free several thousand Islamist activists from his prisons. Rival sets of enemies out in the streets are far better than a united opposition. It led to a 10-year civil war that has driven half the population into exile, but Assad is still in power today. The Egyptian army was subtler. It let its old, discredited leader go under, knowing that a free election would bring the Islamists to power because most voters were rural and socially conservative. The military calculated that the urban young who made the revolution would be dismayed and seek the army’s help when the Islamists began forcing their values on the country. That’s exactly what happened, and the new dictator, General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, then massacred about four thousand Islamists on the streets of Cairo. Variants of this scenario played out in other Arab countries with more or less violence, and only Tunisia managed to create a lasting (so far) democracy. This is not uniquely an Arab problem, of course. Iran has been an Islamist theocracy for 40 years, and Turkey’s once lively democracy has been slowly strangled in Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s 17 years in power. But as the distance from the Arab heartland grows, so do the prospects for democracy. Pakistan manages to be a (quite corrupt) democracy about half the time, Bangladesh and Malaysia are quasi-democratic all the time, and Indonesia is a full-fledged, full-service democracy. These four countries account for almost half the world’s Muslims; African Muslims don’t seem to have particular problems with democracy either. The problem resides in the Arab world, where the political climate has only two seasons: brief springs and very long winters. It may not be an insoluble problem, but there’s certainly no solution in sight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Opinion||New divisions||The definitive conditions of privacy are available only to the privileged. Ever since the European Enlightenment deepened the importance of the individual and sharpened claims of private property and artistic creativity, crucial forms of privacy have been globalized through the force of colonial ideology. Today, such societies are stratified by the violent luxury of privacy. Affluent households distribute superhero-themed rooms to growing children while families of seven or ten, battling it out in a crammed shanty, learn much more about one another’s bodies, habits, and desires than they should. One of the key determinants of privacy in the 21st-century is access to virtual interiority. It is potent opium for the people. With your ears and eyes plugged into a YouTube video on your phone, you can shut out all worries, sensory and otherwise, of a life that is in every other way nasty, brutish and short. But only as long as you have data. Just the way central heating in cold countries and air-conditioning in hot ones mark the critical divide between the rich and the poor, today it is volume of data that draws a sharp line. It ranges from the just-about-enough-to-make-a-call (WhatsApp on a better day) in the shanty to unlimited data in the Spiderman-themed room for the tween to download the latest versions of Fortnite and Minecraft. Virtual interiority and the subsequent construction of the speculative and the alt-real are now among the starkest markers of privilege among tweens and teens across this stratified nation. Sure, there is always the more demotic appeal of Candy Crush and (the now-banned) PUBG, with heads hunched over tired bodies in crowded buses. But the scale and grandeur of reality-cancelling virtual lives are, in the end, directly proportionate to the power of your bandwidth and the price of your gadget. By hurtling us into a dystopian techno-future, this prolonged pandemic has sharpened the divide in virtual interiority like never before. For the high-data class, this has meant Zoom luncheon parties and binging on Netflix. Phalanxes of laptops, iPads, phones, smart TVs, LED displays and gaming stations have come alive in multiple layers of privacy to create varieties of work, pleasure, and society in the very lap of home. On the other end is the family that has to breathe all the data it can muster into the single device it possesses — usually a phone — all morning so that at least one child can attend classes online. The stories have poured in — stories that are not stories, just sound like them. The boy in Kashmir who walks a mile to get to a place with just about enough connectivity to access his classes on the phone; the girl in rural Tamil Nadu who has to climb on the rooftop of her hut to get enough bandwidth to participate in Zoom lessons; the textile worker in Uttar Pradesh who cannot take any calls in the morning when his son uses his phone for his classes. Modernity has taught us to privilege the mind over the body. The process of disembodiment has been consistently intensified by technology, which has made the direct and the physical less and less important in our lives. Connecting with the world has often meant disconnecting from our neighbours, the family member in the next room, across the bed and, eventually, our very own bodies. This narrative of growing abstraction has been a concern for teachers. In Democracy and Education, John Dewey pointed out that as societies become more complex in structure and resource, the need for formal or intentional teaching and learning increases. But as formal teaching and training expand, there is the danger of creating an undesirable split between direct experience and what is acquired in school. Abstraction is a necessary means to understand larger, more complex, realities — which modern societies have increasingly become — but abstraction as an educational measure also leads to real losses. The educationist, Howard Gardner, is well aware of the process through which education becomes progressively decontextualized and disembodied. As one moves from ‘direct’ forms of knowledge practised in informal schooling to traditional religious schools, and from traditional schools to modern schools, Gardner writes, “there has been a steady minimisation of bodily, spatial, and interpersonal forms of knowledge — first in favour of linguistic forms, and then, increasingly, in favour of logical-mathematical and intrapersonal forms of thinking.” Gardner is vigilant about the celebration of the progressive modernization of schooling. Certainly, from a Western perspective, he says, the transition from the direct to the traditional to the modern school feels like progress, but one can also see this ‘progress’ as the systemic devaluation of certain kinds of intelligences, primarily those that are interpersonal, bodily, and spatial. It also erodes important linguistic capacities such as reciting and committing things to memory. This is a timeless problem for educational ‘progress’. He cites Socrates, who warned that the advent of writing would cause people to neglect their memory. Many of us know this first-hand, having experienced through the course of our own education, a generational shift in attitudes about the importance of handwriting, and then of spellings, the word-processor having threatened the value of both; the calculator, now allowed inside many examination halls, has done the same to basic quantitative skills. Important correctives have sought to restore the physical, the natural, and the experiential in educational methods. Waldorf schools run on the philosophy of Rudolf Steiner is an example. Gardner’s theory of multiple intelligences, countering the abstract nature of IQ, is another. Rabindranath’s vision of Santiniketan and Jiddu Krishnamurti’s philosophy behind the Rishi Valley schools have also sought to make education a full human experience as opposed to the poverty of the merely mental. It would be an old romantic flaw to binarize the abstract and the bodily across class lines. Sure, that is the most obvious difference between white and blue collar labour. But as Gardner would remind us, the surgeon’s work depends on deeply sophisticated bodily intelligence, and the architect’s work is an inevitable blend of spatial and mathematical intelligence. Conversely, the desire to discard the sweat and the crowd of the bus and enter virtual interiority also belongs to the ordinary, phone-struck commuter who is not a regular user of the Apple Pencil. Everybody wants it. But not everybody gets it. Just like modernity and privacy, virtual interiority belongs far more easily to those who can purchase it. Last month, when the lack of this purchasing power led Aishwarya Reddy, a student at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College, to commit suicide, the tweet by the poet, Ranjit Hoskote, cut to the bone: “It fills me with rage and grief to think that, in a country where children of privilege cut online classes to catch up on their gaming, a young woman from an economically vulnerable background has killed herself because her family couldn’t afford a laptop.” The pandemic has suddenly accelerated forms of abstraction and interiority. Some of these forms will stay with us even after we get our lives back. That is an irreversible reality. Who is coming along? Who will be left behind? Whether we go or falter, these are always the questions that will haunt this country. The author is professor of English and creative writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation conducts statue cleanliness drive||In a bid to maintain the beauty of the town, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is on a special cleanliness drive for all the statues and busts of eminent personalities situated at prime locations of Dhanbad. The statues installed at Randhir Verma Chowk, City Centre Chowk, JP Chowk, Birsa Munda Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Rangatand Chowk, Gold Building Chowk, Hirapur Hatia Chowk and other chowks are cleant thrice in a week using the dust sweeping machines. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, sanitary inspector of Dhanbad circle, DMC, Arjun Ram said, “Though we are cleaning the chowks in general as part of our cleanliness activity, the special cleaning of the statues and busts of the eminent personalities was launched last week, following which the statues are washed with dust sweeping machines.” Elaborating on the issue, director of Pay and Clean Service, Huban Mallik, which operates five dust sweeping machines on behalf of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation said, “Besides sweeping the roads we have started to clean the statues since last week as an additional job.” “The pavements surrounding the statues on the chowks are also being cleant in addition. The small gardens enveloping the chowks are also being watered regularly through our machines,” said Mallik and added that their machines are quite efficient in such kind of cleaning work. “The mechanized work is time and energy saving as the work which can be carried out manually in several hours can be done in minutes through our machines,” said Mallik and added that they are also carrying out cleaning of all concrete recliners lying around the major roads of Dhanbad. Notably, the operation of five mechanized dust sweeper purchased during the last year which was lying suspended during the lockdown period has been resumed during the last week of October this year. Besides the road sweeping work, the additional work of statue cleaning has been given to the agency Pay and Clean since last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to get stricter on tenant verification ||The recent arrest of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s henchman Abdul Majid Kutti by the Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) from Steel City’s Mango area has made the district police spring into action. The first step taken by the police to put a check on fugitives like Kutti seeking refuge in the city, is to ensure that the tenant verification rule is followed stringently by landlords leasing out their property on rent. The move comes as preventive measure to stop any locality, especially Mango from becoming a safe haven for criminals and terrorists. According to sources, the police will make it mandatory for house owners to inform them before letting out their property on rent to anyone. Senior SP, M Tamil Vanan maintained that there already exists a rule that makes it compulsory for the owners to inform the police station concerned before letting one’s house on rent, but it barely followed in reality. “The arrest of a close associate of Dawood Ibrahim from a rented house in Mango is a wakeup call for us. We will have to take major decisions in this regard to put a stop to people like Abdul Majid Kutti, the alleged associate of Dawood from using this city as a shelter,” said Vanan while talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday. He maintained that the police for sure will take steps to ensure that anyone wishing to let one’s house on rent informs the local police about the tenant beforehand. “Such a rule does exist, but hardly any house owner follows it. We will get the rule implemented strictly,” said the senior police officer. Gujarat ATS had been in search of Kutti for the past 22 years in connection with a case of supplying firearms and RDX. The accused had been staying at a duplex on rent at Sahara City in Mango for the past one-and-half years on a fake name - Kamaal Khan. Post arrest, house owner Rajesh Sharma has been questioned by the local police with regard to him not informing the authority while renting out the duplex. Significantly, over a half-a-dozen terrorists belonging to outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Al-Qaida and local militant organizations have been arrested from Mango either by Delhi police or Calcutta police or Madhya Pradesh police in the past one decade. The recent arrest has highlighted the fact that militants off late are finding easy refuge in the city, thereby making the police spring into action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four from a family killed in Ichagarh road mishap||Four members of a family were killed and two seriously injured when the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck parked near Daruda village on NH – 33 on Monday afternoon. The area where the accident took place falls under the Ichagarh thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, which is about 45 km away from Jamshedpur. The two injured individuals have been admitted to the Tata Main Hospital. Their condition has been described as serious. According to the police, family members of Prabhat Prasad were on their way to Dassam falls in Ranchi for a picnic. They were travelling in two cars. “From the scene of the mishap, it seems that the car that rammed into the stationary truck was moving at a break-neck speed. It appears as the other car had moved faster than the ill-fated car, which was moving at a break-neck speed to catch up. However, it rammed into the stationary truck,” said Vinod Singh, OC, Ichagarh thana while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the police, the impact of the collision was so intense that the car got completely damaged, thereby causing the four of the occupants to die on the spot He said two teenagers, including a girl seated in the rear seat, fortunately, survived the mishap, but have sustained grievous injuries. The police officer said the mishap took place at about 1.30 pm and by 2.00 pm the police reached the spot, rescued the survivors, and rushed them to Tata Main Hospital. Singh maintained that by the time they managed to inform Prabhat Prasad, who was in another car, which was pretty far from the spot of the mishap. He pointed out that only after Prasad reached the spot, that they recovered the bodies and sent them all to the Seraikela divisional hospital for autopsy. Those killed include two women, one of them was 55-year-old and the other was 27-year-old. The former was identified as Mamta Devi, while the latter as Madhu Devi. The other two deceased were identified as Abhay Prasad (30) and Aman Kumar (24), all were residents of Majhitola in Adityapur. According to police, names of those admitted at the Tata Main Hospital are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Think local, act global, Rajnath tells IIM-Ranchi||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday appealed to the youth to help promote and strengthen local entrepreneurship with the help of technology so that India’s growth story can benefit the grassroots. Addressing the 9th convocation of IIM-Ranchi virtually, the Union minister asked the future business leaders to focus on problem solving methods to help the country become a superpower. The future of any country was dependent on its youth, he explained, and mentioned eminent personalities such as Nelson Mandela, Steve Jobs, Swami Vivekananda, Aryabhata, among others. “Youth is the source of innovation, invention and ideas and India being a country with the maximum young population has the potential to become a very powerful country in future. Young talents from IIM-Ranchi should help in promoting and strengthening local entrepreneurship with a ‘think local, act global’ approach. Apart from education we should also focus on developing research and problem-solving methods,” he said, according to a media release issued by IIM-Ranchi. Stressing on the responsibilities of future leaders, he said, “Businesses should contribute voluntarily to the development of society. And as business leaders, you should work towards ensuring that the benefits of India’s growth story reach villages. “Today, Covid 19 has confined our physical connection, and technology has helped us stay connected, thanks to innovation. Take inspiration and use your imagination. IIM-Ranchi has followed its core values of humility, hard work, and honesty for 11 years now. The students here have been achieving outstanding excellence, which shows the institutional excellence of IIM-Ranchi. Always remember that no success is final, and no failure is fatal.” Singh also asked students to maintain a balance between their personal and professional lives. “In times of confusion one should go through the golden pages of history. It has answers to all questions and it is full of knowledge,” he said. During the convocation, degrees were conferred virtually on 272 students _ 3 PhDs, 182 from MBA and 66 from HRM disciplines. The ICSI Signature Award – Gold Medal was awarded to Jasmeet Singh Bindra in the MBA Programme. The Prof. Ashish Hajela Memorial Award was awarded to Alok Raj for securing the highest GPA in the Strategic Management Area in the MBA Programme.  Prof. Shailendra Singh, Director, IIM-Ranchi, presented a progress report of the institute in his welcome speech. “The institute has performed outstanding and the students have brought many laurels to the institute. We have signed 9 MOU's for the exchange program, including the institutes from Greece, USA, Canada, China, and many more.” Singh, PTI reported from Delhi, told his audience at IIM-Ranchi that modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country's glorious history as it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. "Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God," Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: "He said 'an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God'". Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister said, “India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.," said Singh. "Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason," Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the “Pythagoras theorem” years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. "Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century," said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India's achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal India chairman meets BCCL officials, discusses production target||Chairman of Coal India Limited, Pramod Agarwal held a meeting with chairman cum managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Gopal Singh and others at the BCCL guest house in Koylanagar, Dhanbad on Monday. Talking to the media, Agarwal said, “With the increase in production and sale, the BCCL is expected to overcome the current phase of a downturn.” He further added, "If BCCL achieves the target of coal production of 30 million tonnes per annum, it will solve all the current issues.” Pramod Agarwal said the meeting also discussed ways of coal production, sale, etc. through sustained efforts with the senior officials of BCCL. When asked about the lack of required production and sale, he said, “We are here to discuss all sorts of issues and devise strategies to increase both production and sale, and for the increase in the sale we have to increase auction.” Over the issue of search of non-power consumer and also increasing sale for steel industries, he said, “The search for non-power consumers is very crucial for an increase in the sale of coal and as soon as BCCL finds the non-power consumers, its sale will increase leading to improvement of its financial health.” “We will also have to concentrate on the supply of washed coal to the steel industries for which a concrete strategy is being formulated,” informed Agarwal. Over the huge pending dues lying with power companies including around Rs 3,800 crore with Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), he said, “Power companies are themselves passing through a difficult phase but talks are on with the DVC with regards to the payment of dues and everything is likely to be settled very soon.” He denied that high prices of coal are working as a deterrent for the increase in sell and said that the increase in the basic price of coal of BCCL is not high and rather some premium has to be adjusted. When asked by reporters whether BCCL is looking to work in the production of other minerals like aluminium, etc. Agarwal said, “As coal has a limited future of 20-30 years we need to look ahead and explore the other verticals where we can spend and long strategy has to be formalized to diversify in other areas which could be either aluminium or solar power or lot more other things.” About the long pending projects of BCCL including the coal bed methane project, he said that efforts are on to bring these projects on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum paddlers shine in state trials||Paddlers from East Singhbhum put up an impressive show at the three-day state table tennis selection trials which concluded at JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi on Sunday. East Singhbhum’s Archita Dey topped the cadet girls’ (under-12) and sub-junior (under-15) categories by edging out district-mate Aadya Chouhan and Dhanbad’s Anjali Kumari. Soumil Mahato proved his mettle in the cadet boys’ section by tripping Jamshedpur-mate Arunabh Saha. Pratik Agarwal of Hazaribagh claimed the top slot in the sub-junior boys category by prevailing over Nitin Kumar Mehta of Garhwa. East Singhbhum players continued with their dominance in the trials for junior girls and boys (under-18) section thanks to Saniya Bannerjee and Karan Raj who beat Suhani Sharma (Ranchi) and Dinesh Selvam (also from Ranchi), respectively. Suhani, however, compensated her loss in the junior section by topping the youth category with a fluent win against Hemlata Sinku of Dhanbad. East Singhbhum’s Mrinmaya Pradhan excelled in the competition for boys by outsmarting his Hazaribagh rival Kumar Shresth. Monisha Mukherjee outclassed East Singhbhum’s Chandni Kumar to top the senior women’s category, while Shivaji Roy of West Singhbhum won the honours in the men’s section by putting it across Ranchi paddler Somir Chakraborty. Expressing happiness, East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association secretary U.K. Chatterjee said they were confident about the performance of the paddlers. “Keeping their performance in mind, our players are all set to find berths in the national championship for different age groups. Though they (players) were out of action for a long time due to the pandemic, they excelled during the trials in Ranchi,” Chatterjee added. According to him, Jharkhand squads for different age categories would be announced in due course of time. “A training camp may also be conducted,” he said. The selection trials were organised by Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association by following strict Covid protocols. Keeping the social distancing aspect in mind, trials were held in the singles category.  Plastic bottles (including water bottles) were banned. Only players with valid ID cards were allowed to take part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt ensured ‘roti’, ‘kapda’, ‘rojgar’ during pandemic ||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said that the Hemant Soren government was poised to speed up development in 2021 after efficiently tackling the Covid-19 pandemic soon after assuming charge, his assertion on Tuesday setting the stage for Wednesday’s commemoration of the first anniversary of the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition. The landmark Morabadi ground is being decked up for the mega bash where Hemant is scheduled to lay foundations of, and inaugurate, projects worth Rs 2,500 crore. As many as 15 new schemes are to be launched. Also, job letters are to be distributed to sportspersons. The function will begin at12.30pm. Talking to reporters during the 136th foundation day celebrations of the Indian National Congress, Oraon, the state party president, said despite myriad challenges before it, including resource gaps, the government’s focus was on “roti (food), kapda (clothing) and rojgaar (livelihood)”. “We may not have done miracles in one year, but we ensured people weren’t denied basic resources. During the lockdown and all through the pandemic, the government ensured rations to about 67 lakh poor. From January, 15 lakh more people will be provided green ration cards from the state budget,” he said. Oraon said to create jobs the government had generated seven lakh man-days of work under rural development department schemes. “The lockdown and pandemic management of our state was hailed by everyone. Jharkhand not only ensured that migrants who were stranded in various places were brought back during the lockdown, but we also fed them and explored livelihood options. A state with severe financial crunch reworked its strategies to devise new modes of earning to continue welfare schemes,” he said. Next year, the minister added, the government would focus on speeding up developmental work which had come to a halt this year. There are four Congress ministers in-charge of health, rural development, agriculture and finance in the 11-member cabinet. Oraon hailed the performances of all the four departments. “In health, from zero Covid testing labs in March, we have now ensured testing facilities at all districts and block levels. In agriculture, despite the pandemic, we ensured that our poll promise of farm loan waiver was fulfilled. Rural development department came up with three new job schemes to boost employment while in finance, we kept the wheels of the state’s progress going,” he said. To mark the party’s foundation day, a Tiranga Yatra was taken out from the Congress office in Ranchi till Raj Bhavan, covering a distance of about 3km. Party workers, including MPs and MLAs, posted selfies on their social media handles. Party spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “Selfie with Tiranga was a symbolic stance against the divisive forces in the country. It also to show solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths adopt Gandhigiri against auto fare hike ||Perturbed over the realization of escalated fares including the minimum fare of Rs 10 a group of youth under the banner of social organization, Udhav Ek Nai Soch on Monday carried out a Gandhigiri stance by offering roses to auto-rickshaw drivers requesting them not to charge high fares. The protestors led by Sashi Pandey, who congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad near the district headquarters at around 1 pm, carried out the campaign till 90 minutes during which they also appealed the auto drivers to consider the impact of lockdown on the income of common people and adopt a rationale attitude towards the fare fixation. Talking to the media, Sashi Pandey said, “At a time when the educational institutions like schools and colleges are gradually opening as per the government orders, the realization of high fares by auto-rickshaw will adversely affect the students as many government school going children’s parents have lost their jobs and the income of others have been badly affected.” “The auto drivers are charging escalated fares on their own as the final decision during their meeting with the district administration held on December 24 has not been taken and will be decided after several rounds of meeting before February 14, 2021,” said Pandey. “The minimum fare of Rs 10 is too high from any standard and we would complain the district administration by meeting sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad, if the auto-rickshaw operators continue to charge escalated fares which were fixed by the district administration only for lockdown period,” said Pandey. More than 18,000 auto-rickshaw drivers and auto drivers carried out a three-day strike in Dhanbad from December 22 to December 24 in support of their different demands including fixing of minimum fare as Rs 10 and allocation of routes for auto rickshaw and fixation of auto stoppages. The strike, however, came to an end on December 24 after the talks held between the protestors and district administration held under the mediation of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha during which the administration assured to take a decision on all their demands after holding rounds of meetings before February 14, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Cold nights will lead to a bright and sunny New Year’s Day||The weather god won’t play party pooper on the first day of 2021 with Met officials predicting bright and sunny weather over Jharkhand on New Year’s Day. “The weather will be pleasant in the next four to five days. The sun will shine brightly amid a clear sky in most parts of the state. The crisp north-westerly wind which is dominating over the state would continue resulting in night temperatures remaining two to four notches below normal," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He also ruled out dense fog or any adverse weather condition on December 31 and January 1. As per Met office statistics, several places in Jharkhand had witnessed light showers on the New Year’s Day in 2016. In 2015, the weather was gloomy and the sun played hide-and-seek. In 2017, January 1 started with dense early morning fog causing poor visibility. The fog cleared as the day progressed. In 2018 and last year, January 1 started on a brighter note with clear sky and dry weather in most districts. Predicting favourable conditions on December 31 and January 1 this time, a weather analyst at IMD's Patna centre said, "The weather on both days will be bright, sunny and dry. We did not find any adverse conditions in today's (Monday’s) chart analysis and satellite reading." IMD Patna forecast spoke of a haze at isolated pockets in northern Jharkhand on January 1. Monday's forecast suggests that sub-10 chill would continue to prevail in most parts of the state during the next three to four days. On Monday, Ranchi recorded a minimum reading of 8.3°C, one notch below normal. Jamshedpur recorded 9.4°C, two degrees below normal. Daltonganj, which is known for extreme temperatures, recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9°C, two points below normal. Several places including Bokaro, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Khunti and Ramgarh recorded around 7 °C.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police solve missing woman case in Chatra||Sadar police in Chatra on Monday claimed to solve the missing case of a woman by arresting her husband Deepak Kumar who confessed to killing the woman and burning the dead body in the forest area. Sadar police station officer-in-charge Luv Kumar stated that they had collected evidence from the spot including wooden blocks to burn the body and a bike. The case was solved as the woman's mother didn't accept the story presented by Deepak and knocked on the door of Sadar police. Sources said Deepak Kumar, a resident of Kisunpur mohalla new police line area in Chatra town but originally from Bandu village under Lawalong police station, got married to Moni Kumari (28) a resident of Kani Bazar in Hazaribagh town. Kumar said both were in love and got married in 2017. They also have a boy named Ansh Kumar. In April this year, Moni went missing and Deepak blamed her of eloping with someone with whom she was having extramarital affairs. But Lalita Devi, mother of Moni didn't believe this story and after waiting for a few months she finally filed a complaint to Sadar police on December 27 charging Deepak responsible in this case. She said despite a love marriage, Deepak was torturing her daughter for dowry. Seeing the seriousness of this case, Sadar police came into action and brought Deepak to the police station. He was interrogated after which Deepak admitted that he strangulated Moni and used his bike to take her body to a forest area behind Hia mohalla to burn the body. The officer-in-charge said they collected evidence against Deepak right from wooden logs used to burn the dead body and his bike. He said it was a blind case which was solved as the complaint came to them yesterday. He said Deepak has been sent to Chatra jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Protests against Mann Ki Baat in Ranchi||Ranchi witnessed two back-to-back protests of different kind at the local Albert Ekka Chowk on Sunday. In the first, a group of people responded to the call given by All India Kisan Sabha and different trade unions and beat plates and canisters to protest against Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat programme and to urge people not to listen to him. In the other, a group of writers and artists gathered there to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers and demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. A similar programme was also organised at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad to protest against Mann Ki Baat. “Bahut hua mann ki baat, ab koro kam ki baat (enough of mann ki baat, talk about work),” was one of the slogans raised by the protesters at the first programme. In the other, some drew sketches and did paintings at the programme organised by Progressive Writers Association, Janvadi Lekhak Sangh, Indian Peoples Theatre Association (IPTA), Jan Sanskriti Manch and some other like-minded organisations. “We organised this programme to express our solidarity with the protesting farmers who are demanding scrapping of the farm laws,” said Lalit Aditya of IPTA. “We wrote slogans and did paintings to support the agitating farmers and protest against the farm laws,” said M.Z. Khan of Janvadi Lekhak Sangh, adding that was how they could do it best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
