29-12-2020||Calcutta||Increase frequency, demand tram users||A group of tram users and enthusiasts has demanded that more tram routes be restored and the frequency of tram services regularised so that a growing number of passengers can avail of one of the cleanest forms of mass transportation in Calcutta. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association (CUTA) said despite trams being the most environment friendly mode of transportation, the number of routes has shrunk over the years and the state government has done little to ensure that passengers can board and get off tramcars safely in the middle of thoroughfares. "Tram tracks have been dereserved but not enough platforms have been built for passengers to safely board trams. Several popular routes have been either done away with or truncated," asked Debasish Bhattacharyya of the CUTA. "The transport department is keen on converting tram compartments into air conditioned chambers by burning diesel. Why do we need all this ?" Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Khidderpore. As more and more tram tracks got laid across the city, the number of tramcars grew. Over the last few years, service of trams has taken a beating. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, only six routes covering about 20km were left operational till Amphan happened. Now, five routes have been restored. On Saturday, several tram-lovers and conservationists gathered outside the Esplanade tram depot to protest against the transport department's apathy in increasing frequency of tram services. Supporters held placards and posters demanding that the frequency of tram services be increased to an interval of 10 minutes. "This will increase patronage as well as income of West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC)," read one of the posters. The West Bengal Transport Corporation, which runs the trams of Calcutta, has been off late trying to popularise trams as an alternative mode of transportation. Apart from converting trams on some routes like Esplanade-Shyambazar into ACs, the transport department has recently introduced the concept of an art gallery on trams and library on the wheels. A tram museum has also been inaugurated at Gariahat tram depot to commemorate 140 years of the tram operations by the Calcutta Tram-ways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. "At the tram museum inside Gariahat depot, they have painted some trams in red, green and blue. Can you do this? Have you seen old prototypes of vehicles painted in such bold colours, say, at the London Transport Museum?" asked one of the protestors who had gathered near "Smaranika", a tram museum that was set up inside a renovated tram at the Esplanade depot in 2014. Senior WBTC officials said the state government has always been keen on restoring some of the routes but construction of the East-West Metro has come in the way. "All our efforts so far have been how to attract more passengers to trams and not the other way round," said a senior official. "There are challenges and even police are not keen on starting some routes where the trams move against the flow of the traffic. But we are at it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Teachers visit Calcutta slums to help kids with writing skills||Teachers working with a city NGO have started visiting children in slums who in the past seven or eight months have picked up several things from online classes, but not writing skills. Many among them are first-generation learners and hence, cannot turn to their parents for help with their assignments. Their parents are contractual labourers, rickshaw-pullers and domestic help. Most of them cannot read or write and these children, in the age group of four to six, are solely dependent on the teachers. As the centres of Calcutta Rescue had to be shut down because of the Covid pandemic, the children were stuck at home with no guidance till May, when the NGO started online classes. “Over seven months they have learnt rhymes or songs during these classes. But when it came to writing, many were unable to pick up,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at Calcutta Rescue. In December, the teachers started going to the slums on a bus. And classes are being held for an hour, four days a week, on the bus. The teachers are visiting around 12 slums in areas like Girish Park, Mechua, Nimtala, Tallah Park and Bagbazar. To maintain physical distance, each seat in the bus doubles as a study desk for one child.  “We have been teaching them online for so many months, but we need to see whether they are recognising numbers, letters and absorbing what we are teaching,” said Chatterjee. For writing skill, children have to be told how to trace and how to hold a pencil, and for this proper guidance through in-person sessions is needed. “Most of their parents don’t know how to write,” said a teacher. In fact, in some of the worksheets that were being sent back, the teachers realised that the children were asking someone in the neighbourhood to write it for them. Some have older cousins in the locality who could be doing the assignments for them. “We could understand it was not done by them. So, we started going to their neighbourhoods in December and teaching them in their locality after taking their parents' consent,” said Chatterjee. For some of these children there are elder siblings at home who help them but that is not a regular affair and these pre-primary children are missing out . The next step for these children is to go to a formal school, which is usually a government school and Calcutta Rescue has realised that for them to be in such a school they have to know and evaluate their level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Four held in Delhi for Rs 82-lakh fraud at directorate general of foreign trade||Four men have been arrested from Delhi for their alleged involvement in cheating and online forgery of digital signature of a senior official of the directorate general of foreign trade, resulting in unauthorised transfer of Rs 82 lakh to various accounts. Based on a complaint lodged by officials of the Calcutta wing of the directorate — an office attached to the Union ministry of commerce and industry — Calcutta police had started investigating the fraud on December 11. According to the complaint, the fraudsters had forged the digital signature of the authorised person and accessed the website of the directorate and enabled an unauthorised transaction of Rs 82 lakh. Officers of the cyber cell of the Calcutta police, who investigated the case, located the accounts where the money was transferred. While tracking the account details, the police zeroed in on the gang that was operating from Delhi. The accused — Chandan Bhatia, 43, Subham, 24, Suraj Sharma, 28, and Amarjeet Singh, 28, all residents of Delhi — were arrested by a team of the city police and brought to Calcutta on transit remand. They were produced in a court in Calcutta on Monday and remanded in police custody till January 7. The police said the four were picked up from a flat on the 19th floor of Capital Green, DLF, a plush highrise complex in Motinagar, on Christmas evening. A large number of mobile phones, bank passbooks, digital signature certificates, unauthorised stamps of banks and several companies and Wi-Fi dongles were seized from their possession. The accused have been charged with cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy and also under the information technology act. The police suspect the gang was part of a larger racket that is operating in various parts of the country. “It appears that there are more people in the gang who could be hiding across the country,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Reluctance to get tested worries Calcutta doctors ||The number of people turning up for Covid-19 tests has gone down significantly over the last few weeks leaving doctors worried about the fallout both in treating those who develop complications after self-medication and those who turn up with post-Covid symptoms without any test results. Health department officials said the number of people turning up for Covid-19 tests daily across Bengal has dropped from 47,000 a month-and-a-half back to just about 32,000 on an average across 99 laboratories. The officials are attributing the slide to a growing sense of apathy towards visiting clinics for tests. The rate of hospitalisation has dropped, too, officials at Sasthya Bhavan said. Occupancy of Covid beds fell from 38 per cent in October to 13.5 per cent on December 27. Calcutta, which recorded around 900 cases daily in the last week of October, tested 315 samples on Sunday. Doctors and other health experts said the tendency to skip tests, possibly because of the social stigma attached to positive cases, is a dangerous trend and could have several far-reaching effects. “A patient may turn up with joint pain. If he is a Covid survivor, I will know this a post-Covid reactive arthritis and it might last for three months and give him medicines accordingly,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care expert at Peerless Hospital. “But if he has not undergone the test and is not even aware of the coronavirus infection and subsequent recovery, we will have to wonder about the different types of arthritis. It will baffle us and delay the treatment.” Health experts said that while fewer Covid beds are occupied in general wards, the ICUs and HDUs across hospitals are still full. This is mostly because patients have been turning up in a critical state and on being tested they are found Covid positive. “This is a warning sign,” Sarkar said. Health experts said there had been an increasing tendency among families to go for presumptive treatment for the rest of the members after someone has tested positive. This could have serious implications, said experts. “Someone in the family has mild Covid does not necessarily mean others will not develop a more severe form of the disease,” said an expert. Doctors have identified three possible fallouts of self-medication without getting tested. ⦿ The patient could develop sudden breathlessness. This could be because of “happy hypoxia”, a condition in which the patient is not even aware that his oxygen saturation level has gone down drastically because he didn’t bother to check the saturation level under the false impression of being mildly positive. ⦿ Palpitation. This could be because of inflammation of the heart muscle or myocarditis. ⦿ Sudden fall because of low blood pressure. “Many critical patients have told us that they didn't feel it necessary initially to get tested because the fever didn’t persist. Nowhere it is written that Covid fever has to persist. There can be several other complications,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a senior physician who is leading a team of doctors across different state-run Covid hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “Patients with mild symptoms who do not undergo tests often turn out to super-spreaders of the virus. That is the biggest threat.” Several doctors said they had come across numerous instances of patients arriving at hospitals with a critical heart condition and a test revealed that many of them were Covid positive. A large number of such patients had comorbidities and some died of pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease that occurs when lung tissues get damaged. “On Sunday we lost a senior doctor to pulmonary fibrosis. He had battled for life for 27 days. The coronavirus aggravates a problem or a disease that can have a telling effect,” said a senior health department official. The health department has asked doctors across Covid-19 hospitals attending to new patients to convey clearly to the relatives accompanying them the need to get tested for Covid-19. “If a 28-year-old turns up at a clinic with frequent palpitations, we might tend to pass it off as a case of anxiety. But if he is a Covid survivor, we will immediately ask him to get an echocardiography and an ECG done,” said the official. “That will be the level of difference in assessing patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to ‘accept moral responsibility’ funds||Jadavpur University has decided to “accept moral responsibility” for the loss of scholarships that students may have suffered owing to a delay in the publication of semester results and will raise funds “to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/fellowships”. The decision was taken at a meeting between the university authorities and the students’ union of the engineering and technology faculty on Saturday night, following unrest on the campus over flaws in results and delay in their publication. The resolution of the meeting says: “Jadavpur University accepts moral responsibility for the loss of scholarship/ fellowship which may have been suffered by the students as a result of delay in the publication of results. JU will seek financial support from the extended members of JU community... to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/ fellowship”. A JU official said underprivileged students were offered a number of scholarships by the state government. “To renew a scholarship a student has to upload marksheets of the two previous semesters and parents’ income certificates on a portal by the end of a year. Since the results of the odd semester exams that ended on December 22, 2019, were published this November and the grade cards were full of errors, students missed out on scholarships,” the official said. “Two results with separate scores have been issued to one student. There are instances of one student having been issued another’s result. Marks have been erroneously entered. Delayed publication of flawed results led to a situation wherein students could not upload the results to be able to renew scholarships,” said Aritra Majumder, the chairperson of the students’ union in the engineering faculty.  “JU has many students who depend on scholarships to pay tuition fees, hostel fees and exam-related charges.” Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said he appealed to the state government on Monday to keep the portals for receiving scholarship applications active beyond December 31. The government, he said, accepted his request. The revised results will be published by January 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta residents, NGOs rescue birds||Over a dozen birds, including kingfishers, black cormorants and owls, that got injured after flying into nylon nets spread over water bodies to prevent them from catching fish have been rescued by residents from the city, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas in December. The Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre in Salt Lake has been receiving a steady stream of calls from all over the city to rescue the birds for a few months. Most of the birds being brought to the rescue centre in Salt Lake have sliced-off wing feathers or leg injuries. Nylon nets spread over ponds in the city and on the fringes to keep birds away are maiming and killing them, foresters, NGOs and residents who rescue them said. Metro had reported in November how a water body in North 24-Parganas had turned into a killing ground for birds. People had been setting up nets to trap fish-eating birds and then selling the bird meat. In mid-December, a medical representative who stays in Behala spotted a cormorant dangling from a net over a waterbody in Silpara. “The bird was struggling… I got some boys to help me cut the net and rescue the bird,” said Partha Sarathi Layak. He used scissors to get the bird out of the net. “The bird could not move its wing.” Layak and his daughter Tushani, a Class I student, tried to feed the bird small fish before calling the forest department who sent a team. The same week, a resident of Sarsuna, Behala, spotted a bird struggling in a net over a pond. The residents called Bonyo, an NGO that works for the welfare of birds and animals, who sent a rescue team. “We saw the Asian openbill stork trapped in the net. We got into the pond and rescued it. It had injured its wings and couldn’t fly,” said Soumyodip Mukherjee, one of the rescuers. The wildlife rescue teams of the forest department have also rescued many birds. Most birds cannot spot the nets because they are almost invisible, an official of the Salt Lake rescue centre said. So, while diving to chase their prey, they fly straight into the nets that are often made of very fine nylon string and are quite sharp. “Once a bird gets caught in these nets that are spread like a web over ponds, they struggle to fly away and get more entangled in them. Birds often die because of this,” the official said. These nets can be spotted on water bodies used for commercial pisciculture. They are common on waterbodies behind Sector V and at East Kolkata Wetlands, said Mukherjee, who has rescued many trapped birds. Those who rear fish said they didn’t have a choice. “We are forced to use such nets because we need to protect the fish and the fingerlings from birds,” said Sukhen Pal, a fisherman part of a cooperative that practises pisciculture in a water body behind Sector V. “Those who run commercial fishing projects must refrain from this practice. Birds don’t kill fishes on a mass scale. It is natural for some birds to hunt for fish and this is an inhuman practice,” said Subhankar Patra of SundayWatch, a nature lovers’ forum whose members go on bird watching trips every weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||New Year's Eve soiree with a heart in Calcutta||A stage for a musical soiree will come up near New Market on New Year’s Eve. But it will be different from hordes of such stages on the last day of  the year. The stage near Hogg Market will aim to make revellers aware of the “perils” of the new citizenship regime and farm laws. The organisers are used to giving speeches to dissect the controversial laws. But on Thursday, they will use songs, poems and short plays to convey their message. The bulk of the revellers who descend on Esplanade on December 31 are young people. The organisers want to draw their attention. “Lakhs of people in Assam, who celebrated the New Year’s Eve in 2018, could not do the same in 2019. Similarly, we are celebrating New Year’s Eve now. But there is no guarantee all of us will be able to do the same next year. We want to serve a reminder that it is a tightrope walk,” said Kamal Sur, a member of the Anti-NRC People’s Movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations behind the December 31 campaign. In Assam, close to 20 lakh people were excluded from the final NRC list that came out in August 2019. The CAA rules were yet to be framed because of the pandemic and that the process would start once vaccinations for Covid-19 began, Union home minister Amit Shah said in Bengal earlier this month. Thursday’s programme will start around 6pm. The organisers want to continue till midnight. The schedule will include a series of performances, from groups and individuals. Many of the performers will be students, organisers said. “There might be short speeches but the main mode of communication would be songs, poems and plays. The area surrounding the stage will be decorated with posters. Some of our volunteers will be on ron-paa (stilts) to stand out in the crowd,” said Palash, a member of the joint platform. Protests against the National Register of Citizens, National Population Register and the Citizenship Amendment Act were at their peak last winter. Songs of amity and communal harmony were an integral part of the protests in Calcutta. This year, thousands of farmers are on a long vigil against the farm laws at the Singhu border near Delhi, weathering severe cold like thousands of Shaheen Bagh protesters did last year. The protests that started in December 2019 gained countrywide traction but were halted abruptly by the pandemic. A rally and demonstration against the citizenship troika took place in central Calcutta on December 11, breaking a long lull. It was organised by the Anti-NRC People’s Movement. Spunky posters and songs of protest were an integral part of the rally. At least two other sizable demonstrations against the NRC-NPR-CAA have already taken place in the city since December 11. “The farmers’ protest has become the focus of not only India but the whole world. But unless we are citizens, we cannot be farmers, soldiers, doctors or anything else. So, citizenship, or the threat to it, is the most critical issue,” said Sur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea to IIEST alumni to help students||The IIEST director has appealed to the institution’s former students for a “generous contribution” to help students who are in no position to pay tuition fees because of the Covid pandemic. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Shibpur institute, made the appeal on the occasion of a virtual global alumni meet on Sunday. “I have appealed to the alumni spread across the globe for a generous contribution so that we could come to the aid of the students who are struggling to pay their tuition fees because of the pandemic. I have requested them to change their usual mode of contribution, which is directed towards creating facilities or providing scholarships, considering the financial constraints many students are facing,” Chakrabarti told Metro. The annual tuition fee at the IIEST is Rs 1,25,000 and this excludes the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. An office bearer of the students’ senate, which had written to the institute seeking a fee waiver, said the students whose parents ran small businesses were among the worst-hit. “Many salaried employees are no better because their salaries have been cut and many have been retrenched,” he said. The director decided to approach the alumni — on the occasion of the meeting of Global Alumni Association of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, — after the education ministry had last month struck down Chakrabarti’s prayer for a fee waiver, said an official of the institute. The Shibpur institute was known as the Bengal Engineering and Science University before it became IIEST in 2014. “We have approached the alumni to create some kind of a benevolent fund to come to the aid of students who are in distress,” said Chakrabarti. Since the Union education ministry fixes the tuition fees of the institutes under the NIT council — the IIEST is part of the council — the institute decided to approach the ministry for a fee waiver for the needy. An official of the institute said the scale of financial constraints was such that the director was knocking on as many doors as possible to help out students. The institute follows a practice that allows full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. “During the pandemic-induced shutdown of the economy, the institute has received waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose parents’ annual family income is more than Rs 5 lakh are seeking a waiver,” he said. When asked about the appeal by the IIEST director, Anjana Ganguly Roy, the president of the alumni association said: “We have to hold discussions among the association to take a decision on the appeal by the director”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals unhappy with Swasthya Sathi rates||Private hospitals on Monday expressed reservations about the rates of a Bengal government insurance scheme that has recently been extended to all residents of the state. At a meeting on Monday, representatives of private hospitals told state health department officials that they wanted the government to set up a committee which would review the rates offered for treatment under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The scheme offers coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The state government pays the premium. The hospitals also want the government to send only those patients who need superspeciality care, which would keep the number of people claiming benefits under the scheme under check. Government representatives told the hospitals that it would take some time to decide on the formation of a committee. In the meantime, the government said, the healthcare facilities should not refuse patients under the scheme because of low yield. “We shared some of our concerns with the government, the first of which is that the rates under Swasthya Saathi are somewhat unrealistic vis-a-vis private healthcare providers and even smaller nursing homes will not be able to sustain by providing services at those rates. We have to constantly upgrade our infrastructure and we have high overhead expenses in terms of equipment and manpower,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “We also suggested that a committee be set up to review the rates. The committee does not necessarily have to be formed with our members. The (state) government can even get it done by a credible third party that has expertise in such analysis. It needs to be done in a scientific manner,” he said. Officials of other private hospitals, however, said they wanted their representatives in the committee. Also, when the rates for a particular type of treatment is being fixed, a specialist in the field from the private sector must attend the proceedings. “While fixing the rate for coronary bypass surgery, a cardiac surgeon attached to a private hospital must be present and the committee must take his or her opinion,” said an official of a private hospital who attended Monday’s meeting. “Since all private healthcare service providers are superspeciality facilities, with high-end equipment, these facilities should be used for advanced, tertiary care treatments, not just for primary and secondary care treatments. Only patients needing high-end therapies and procedures should be referred to private hospitals. Otherwise there will be unnecessary occupancy of beds,” Barua said. State health department officials said it would take time to set up such a committee and revise the rates. They asked the hospitals not to refuse people turning up for treatment under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “Lot of discussions and approvals are needed before such a committee can be set up. For now we have told the hospitals not to refuse patients under the scheme,” said a senior official in the health department. “We are planning to cover 9 crore people under the Swasthya Sathi scheme by January.” The scheme’s beneficiary count now stands at 2 crore. Sources aware of the deliberations at the meeting said the private hospitals requested the health department that they be allowed to only admit patients for planned surgeries under the scheme. “Sound decisions can only be made based on data. Until that data is available, we have requested the authorities to refer patients needing elective surgeries or procedures. We have asked the authorities to allow us to refer the observation cases to government hospitals,” said the CEO of a private hospital. “The Swasthya Sathi rates for treating patients in the general ward or the critical care unit are far lower than what the hospitals need to charge to stay viable,” the CEO said. “In cases where referrals are not possible, the medical management cost should be charged on actuals, based on the cost of drugs, consumables and utilisation of services.” Some hospitals, however, said it would be difficult to refer such patients to government facilities. “Rather, we would want the government to allow us to allocate a percentage of beds for treating patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. This will help avoid complications and misunderstandings,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. At the meeting, the hospitals also requested the government to release dues under the scheme within 15 days of the discharge of a patient. Now, they said, it takes about one-and-a-half months to get the money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale new peaks, log gains for 5th day||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty scaled fresh record highs on Tuesday, extending their bull run for the fifth straight session on the back of gains in banking and IT stocks. The BSE gauge Sensex settled with gains of 259.33 points or 0.55 per cent at a new closing high of 47,613.08. Starting off on a bullish note, the 30-share index went on to hit its all-time intraday high of 47,714.55 before paring some gains. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty ended higher by 59.40 points or 0.43 per cent at a fresh closing high of 13,932.60. Intraday, the 50-share Nifty marked its all-time record at 13,967.60. "Financials helped key Indices to close the day well into positive territory with the broader markets seeing demand for gas stocks. The day also witnessed up moves in names that are not usually seen frequently amongst gainers as savvy investors were seen scouting for value in a Bull Market," S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities said. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, HDFC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, SBI and ITC were prominent gainers. On the other hand, Nestle, NTPC, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy, Reliance Industries, ONGC and Mahindra & Mahindra were among the losers. Sectorally, banking index rallied 1.41 per cent, followed by finance (1.06 per cent) and IT (0.65 per cent). Of the 19 sectoral indices, 12 ended in the red and seven in the green. Among the top losers, BSE metal, power and energy slid up to 1.32 per cent. In the broader market, all midcap, smallcap and largecap indices underperformed the benchmark Sensex. "It was a volatile day, started well but edged lower losing all the gains, in the end, the markets recovered much of the losses and closed with a small upside," Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial services said. Finance stocks were the major contributors in the upside but broader market underperformed the main benchmark. Selling was seen in auto, pharma and metal sectors among others too. "A major part of the global developments like stimulus and Brexit deal are priced in the market. In the absence of major domestic or global events expected in the near-term, the market will focus on the upcoming Q3 earnings and stock-specific updates," Nair said. Continued buying by FPIs remains a dominant factor for market rally, Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities said. According to exchange data, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,588.93 crore on Monday. "Given soft monetary policy of global bankers, weak dollar, improved prospects of corporate earnings recovery and consistent improvement in COVID-19 recovery rate will continue to remain as key tailwinds for strong FPIs participation in domestic markets in the near to medium term," Modi said. The daily new coronavirus infections in India dipped below 20,000 for the third time this month taking the COVID-19 caseload to 1,02,24,303, while the recoveries crossed 98 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The ministry also stated that six persons who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus. It, however, said that vaccines will work against new COVID variants and there was no evidence so far that new variant found in the UK increases severity of disease. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses closed with gains following positive global trends after hopes that the US Senate will clear the much-awaited coronavirus relief bill. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.88 per cent to USD 51.40 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee settled 7 paise higher at 73.42 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty continue record run in opening session||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty continued their record-setting spree on Tuesday morning as investor sentiment remained upbeat amid positive domestic as well as global cues. The BSE gauge Sensex was trading 228.73 points or 0.48 per cent higher at a fresh record of 47,582.48 in early deals. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty jumped 66.50 points or 0.48 per cent to a new high of 13,939.70 in the opening session. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and Bajaj Auto were top gainers. Barring Nestle, Asian Paints and PowerGrid, all shares were trading in the green on the Sensex. On Monday, the Sensex had settled up by 380.21 points or 0.81 per cent at its all-time closing high of 47,353.75; and the Nifty too had risen by 123.95 points or 0.90 per cent to a new closing high of 13,873.20. Asian shares were trading mostly higher following positive global trends after the US cleared the much-awaited coronavirus relief bill. US President Donald Trump signed into law a massive USD 2.3 trillion spending bill that includes a USD 900 billion coronavirus relief package, averting a government shutdown and extending coronavirus aid to millions suffering from the economic impact of the pandemic. The advancement of the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in India too uplifted domestic sentiments, leading to a positive momentum across all sectors, analysts said. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.22 per cent to USD 51.06 per barrel. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,588.93 crore on Monday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Centre policy to diversify surplus agricultural produce as fuel||The Centre is mulling a policy that can help diversify surplus agricultural produce towards the energy and power sector. Union MSME minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said the government is exploring means to substitute Rs 8 lakh crore worth of petroleum imports with ethanol made from surplus sugar, rice and corn. But production of ethanol on such a large scale would need specialised industrial units and this has prompted the Centre to explore the scope of policy intervention. “India may substitute the import of Rs 8 lakh crore of petroleum with ethanol made from sugarcane, rice and corn which is surplus in the country,” said Gadkari at the annual general meeting of the Bharat Chamber of Commerce. He added that to meet the need of ethanol on this scale, there is a need to directly make ethanol instead of sourcing it from the sugar mills. “As an MSME ministry we are trying to make a policy because we are sugar surplus, corn surplus, rice surplus,” he said. The minister said there is a significant gap between the international price and MSP of sugar. “Our sugar rate is Rs 34 per kg. International price is Rs 22 per kg. Actually MSP is higher than international price and market price. Here we need to diversify agriculture towards the energy and the power sector,” said Gadkari. Crisil in a note on the sector said that in a bid to encourage the supplies of ethanol for blending with fuel, the prices of ethanol procured by oil marketing companies were hiked recently by 4.4-6.2 per cent. “Better ethanol prices, applicable from December 1, 2020, will lead to higher cane diversion towards ethanol production, thereby reducing sugar production by 2 million tonnes in sugar season 2021, against 0.8 million tonne in sugar season 2020,” said Crisil in its report. Tesla plans for India Gadkari on Monday told PTI that American electric car major Tesla is set to start its operations in India next year and would also look at setting up of a manufacturing unit based on demand. The road, transport and highways minister has been pushing for green fuel and electric vehicles to cut India’s huge Rs 8 lakh crore crude imports. Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk had in October said the company will enter the Indian market in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Coal India to construct 21 additional greenfield and brownfield railway sidings||Coal India (CIL) on Monday said that it is planning to construct 21 additional greenfield and brownfield railway sidings at an estimated investment of Rs 3,370 crore. The 21 sidings, aimed at increasing the share of coal movement through railway network and bringing down coal movement through road, will be set up across four subsidiaries of the public sector miner and will be commissioned by 2023-24. CIL has 152 rail sidings which will go up to 173 by 2024. “The dovetailing of existing and new rail sidings with rapid loading system silos of first mile connectivity projects will help improve loading quantity in future when production expands,” said a senior official of the company. CIL hopes to move 555mt of coal per year through mechanised means by 2023-24. South Eastern Coalfields will have the major share with 10 of the 21 proposed sidings at an investment of Rs 1,640 crore. Central Coalfields, Eastern Coalfields and Bharat Coking Coalfields will have the remaining sidings. CIL's share of coal movement through the rail network has been on the rise. Ending November of the ongoing fiscal, 202 million tonnes of coal was moved exclusively through the rail network, a year on year growth of 16 per cent. In contrast, coal movement through the road network fell by 33 per cent. Rail mode transportation accounted for 56 per cent of the total coal off-take of Coal India in April-November 2020. Apart from investing in new sidings, CIL is refurbishing old sidings, strengthening rail connectivity between the sidings and the main rail lines. The miner is also investing in construction of new broad gauge rail lines in greenfield areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Voting process for acquisition of DHFL begins||The voting process for the acquisition of troubled mortgage lender DHFL commenced on Monday with Oaktree Capital and the Piramal group engaged in a close race. The window will remain open till January 14. Apart from these two players, the Adani group is in the race. The winning bid will need to have the support of at least 66 per cent of creditors by value. Last week, both Oaktree and Piramal had raised their offers. The US-based asset management firm has offered Rs 38,400 crore, up from its earlier bid of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company. The Piramal group has offered more than Rs 37,200 crore, which included an upfront cash payment of Rs 12,700 crore. Ahead of the crucial vote, Oaktree Capital said in a letter to the Committee of Creditors (CoC) that its offer for the DHFL is being consistently misrepresented and that the evaluation of its financial proposals is based on incorrect information. Hinting at legal action, it said that this may be subject to judicial, administrative and investigative review. “In terms of total recovery being offered to financial creditors as well as net present value, Oaktree’s financial proposal is clearly superior to all other PRAs,” said the company in the letter. It further alleged that information is not only being presented in an incomplete and inaccurate manner but also in order to discredit its bid and favour the second highest bidder. However, the spokesperson of Piramal group had said that the “Oaktree bid is short on upfront cash, short on NPV, short on the overall score, un-implementable due to insurance-related complications, and leaves lenders with weak debt paper’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Reliance Capital object to proposed 33.12 per cent stake sale of Prime Focus Ltd||Debt-ridden firm Reliance Capital on Monday raised an objection to the proposed 33.12 per cent stake sale of Prime Focus Ltd (PFL) by Credit Suisse to PFL’s promoter group at Rs 44.15 per share. Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group company Reliance Capital termed the proposed transaction a blatant abuse of the purported rights by Credit Suisse under certain lending agreements with Rel Cap Group, the company said in a statement. However, Reliance Capital did not share the details of the “blatant abuse of the purported rights”. Reliance Mediaworks Financial Services Private Limited, an Rel Cap  Group company, is one of the investors in PFL — promoted by Naresh Malhotra and Namit Malhotra. Reliance Mediaworks holds a 10.57 per cent stake in the PFL. The company’s statement further alleged that the proposed sale is being attempted privately and clandestinely between two foreign entities, without any open, fair and transparent process being conducted to realise the true value of the shares and disregarding basic norms of conflict of interest. “The proposed sale price is at a substantial altogether unwarranted discount to the intrinsic value of Prime Focus Ltd’s shares. “The proposed transaction violates several laws, rules and regulations, including inter alia Sebi (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, and the extant RBI guidelines,” it said. As legally advised, Rel Cap Group will seek all appropriate judicial and regulatory intervention to protect the interests of lenders and shareholders of PFL and Reliance Capital Ltd, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Oil subsidy bill can be slashed by half in next fiscal||The oil subsidy bill could be slashed by half in the next fiscal from Rs 40,915 crore if crude remains within $45-55 per barrel. Sources said North Block is considering many factors in its subsidy calculations, including the crude price. The petroleum ministry is considering to limit the subsidy to BPL families by excluding those with an annual taxable income of over Rs 7 lakh per annum. However, the signs of a pick-up in global growth and an increase in oil demand could lead to a price flare-up and upset the subsidy calculations. US Energy Information Administration (EIA) expects Brent prices to average $49 per barrel in 2021 up from an expected average of $43 in the fourth quarter of 2020. Goldman Sachs in its bullish forecasts says it could touch $65 per barrel in 2021. Industry chambers have pitched for a rationalisation of subsidy at a time tax revenues have shown a steep decline and non-tax revenues not comfortable. The government should free up fiscal space by cutting back on India’s “non-merit" subsidies which, according to studies, amount to around 2 per cent of the gross domestic product at the Central level. Non-merit subsidies are the additional subsidies which are provided beyond “merit subsidies” for food, education and health. The space so created by reducing the non-merit subsidies could be used to fund infrastructure. The chambers have pitched for a policy of giving subsidised kerosene and LPG through direct benefit transfer only to BPL families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||India should maintain medium-term inflation target at 4 per cent: RBI report||India should maintain its medium-term inflation target at 4 per cent when it carries out a five-year review of the goal in March, two senior central bank officials recommended in a paper released on the bank’s website on Monday. Retail inflation has stayed around 7 per cent over the last three months as the government pumped money into the system to revive Asia’s third biggest economy from the impact of the coronavirus crisis. High food prices have also contributed to the rise, limiting the space for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to further ease its monetary policy. RBI researcher Harendra Kumar Behera and deputy governor Michael Patra said the country’s trend inflation — the long-term rate looking beyond temporary economic factors — had steadily declined to 4.1-4.3 per cent since 2014 until the pandemic hit. “A target set below the trend imparts a deflationary bias to monetary policy because it will go into overkill relative to what the economy can intrinsically bear in order to achieve the target,” they wrote in the paper seeking comments from the public. “Analogously, a target that is fixed above trend renders monetary policy too expansionary and prone to inflationary shocks and unanchored expectations.” They said there was a case to stick to the inflation target of 4 per cent because “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”. Maintaining its key interest rates early this month, the RBI said that “inflation targeting is uppermost in our agenda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||SMEs largely stayed away from the capital market in 2020||Small and medium enterprises have largely stayed away from the capital market in 2020 with public offers on a declining trend during the year. The number of initial public offers from SMEs were only 27 in 2020 with a total amount raised worth Rs 159 crore. This is in contrast to 2019 where there were 51 IPOs which collected Rs 624 crore. The largest SME maiden offer in the year, according to primedatabase.com, was from Secmark Consultancy which raised Rs 14 crore. “In the debt market, the government has already announced so many packages as relief measures for the MSME sector. Interest rates have come down from around 10 per cent to the range of 7.5-8 per cent. So there is an uptick in debt,” Ajay Thakur, head — BSE SME and Startups, told The Telegraph. “The relationship between the bank and the MSME is usually longer and the banks have all the data. This is unlike the stock market where the MSME has to work on a prospectus and reach out to first time investors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Key indices settle at all-time highs, boosted by Brexit deal and US stimulus package||Stocks began the first day of the last week of 2020 on a record note with key indices settling at all-time highs, boosted by the Brexit deal and a $2.3 trillion US stimulus package. The 30-share Sensex ended with gains of 380.21 points, or 0.81 per cent, to close at a record 47353.75 after touching an intra-day peak of 47406.72. Similarly, the NSE Nifty ended 123.95 points, or 0.90 per cent, higher at 13873.20, also a record, with an all-time intra-day high of 13885.30. Market circles expect stocks to maintain their current momentum, amid optimism of a global economic recovery as the Covid-19 vaccine gets rolled out and central banks continue with their accommodative stance. The sentiment further improved as US President Donald Trump signed into law a massive $2.3 trillion spending bill that includes a $900 billion coronavirus relief package, thus averting a US government shutdown, apart from restoring unemployment benefits to several citizens. Besides, the historic post-Brexit trade deal struck between the UK and the EU removed a major overhang in companies such as Tata Motors. Its shares gained almost 6 per cent to close at Rs 186.30. “Liquidity rush caused by low or zero interest rates abroad is boosting stock markets across the globe. Absence of negative triggers is resulting in the current upward momentum being continued. The Nifty is now in close range of the psychological 14000 mark,’’ Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said. Business confidence up India could benefit from the likely shift in global supply chains from China to other economies in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a Ficci-Dhruva Advisors survey covering 150 companies. “Nearly 70 per cent of the survey participants have said India could benefit from this move and they expect a fair share of manufacturing to shift from China to India in the near future,” said Ficci on the findings of the survey. Moreover, the prospect of introduction of a vaccine against Covid-19 early next year has improved sentiment, with almost 74 per cent of the participants foreseeing a significant positive impact on their business. With inputs from Delhi Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||India||Gehlot writes to PM demanding waiver of outstanding farm loans||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday demanding a waiver of the outstanding loans taken by farmers from nationalised and Bhoomi Vikas banks. According to an RTI reply, the Modi government, in its first tenure, had waived loans amounting to Rs 7.95 lakh crore of industrialists, but had not done anything for farmers, Gehlot said in a statement. After the formation of the Congress government in Rajasthan in 2018, the loans of 20.56 lakh people worth Rs 8,000 crore were waived in the state, he added. “I had to write a letter again to the prime minister to remind him about waiving the loans of farmers as the PM, during a rally in Madhya Pradesh on December 18, said the farmers of Rajasthan were waiting for a loan waiver. It is not a reality. No farmer, who had taken a loan from a cooperative bank, is waiting for a waiver,” Gehlot said. He said only those farmers, who had taken loans from nationalised and commercial banks that are under the Centre’s purview, are waiting for a waiver. The chief minister said the previous Congress-led UPA government at the Centre had waived loans worth Rs 72,000 crore of farmers taken from nationalised banks. He alleged that BJP leaders are provoking farmers by misleading them while farmers are protesting against laws passed by the Centre for the last one month. Gehlot said such a situation would not have arrived if the Centre had established a dialogue with the protesting farmers’ organisations. The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had promised to double the income of farmers, but it seems to be a distant reality, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj, two other accused seek access to books in jail||Three accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case have moved a court here seeking access to books and newspapers in prison. Activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha and Delhi University professor Hany Babu have filed separate pleas through their lawyer Chandni Chawla in the special NIA court. Chawla told the court on Tuesday that when lawyers tried to deliver books to their clients, it was not allowed, and the books sent by post were also not given to the applicants. Prison authorities sought a court order for handing over books, she claimed. Special judge D E Kothalikar noted that Rule 13 of the Maharashtra Prison Manual allows prison superintendents to decide such matters. Before passing an order, the court, however, asked advocate Chawla to file an affidavit stating that she had approached the prison authorities but they refused to accept books. The hearing was adjourned to January 12. Babu and Navlakha are lodged in Taloja Jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, while Bharadwaj is in Byculla Women’s Jail in the city. Earlier, co-accused Stan Swamy, 83, had moved the court to get a straw and sipper in prison, saying his hands shake while drinking water because of Parkinson’s disease. Jail authorities later agreed to provide him these items. The NIA court, meanwhile, on Tuesday allowed Bharadwaj’s application seeking untruncated copy of witnesses’ statement. The statement should be provided to her without disclosing the identities or addresses of witnesses, the judge said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Copies of farm laws burnt as BKU’s Bhanu, Lok Shakti factions stay put in Noida||Farmers burnt copies of the three new agri-marketing laws at the Delhi-Noida border on Tuesday, even as they remained resolved in their demand for withdrawal of the contentious legislations for the 29th day. At the Chilla border, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) supporters, hailing from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh, also practised march-past, saying they are preparing to hold a parade on the Republic Day if their protest extends till January 26. The Delhi-Noida Link Road via Chilla remained partially closed due to the farmers’ agitation, according to a police official. The Delhi to Noida carriageway is open but the other side on the road is closed, the official said. After burning a copy of the new laws, Yogesh Pratap Singh, the UP unit chief of the farmers’ union, said, BKU Bhanu members are resolved to stay put in protest until the legislations are repealed by the Centre. At nearby Dalit Prerna Sthal, scores of BKU (Lok Shakti) supporters too demonstrated against the government's anti-farmer policies. BKU (Lok Shakti) chief Sheoraj Singh is camping at the spot along with supporters since December 2, the faction's spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. BKU (Bhanu) and BKU (Lok Shakti) are not part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers unions, which are leading the charge at Delhi’s border points in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, but have extended their support to the protest. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Ordinances against religious conversions in BJP ruled states violate Constitution: Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday hit out at BJP governments for bringing ordinances against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, claiming these violated the fundamental rights under the Constitution. He also described the Centre’s agri-marketing acts as ‘draconian’ and dared the Narendra Modi government to come out with laws on providing minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers, employment and unemployment dole. Owaisi said that an adult can marry anyone they want and alleged the intention of the BJP in bringing such laws against religious conversions was to make a mockery of the Constitution. He was referring to recent promulgation of an ordinance by the Uttar Pradesh government against forcible or ‘dishonest’ religious conversions and the Madhya Pradesh cabinet giving its nod for a similar measure on Tuesday. “These laws and ordinances issued and given nod by some BJP ruled states are against the Constitution and the BJP is creating an atmosphere of hate for the Muslim community,” the Hyderabad MP told reporters here. He claimed that such laws were a blatant violation of Article 14,21and 25 of the Constitution related to right to equality, right to life and personal liberty and right to freedom of religion respectively. “I challenge the BJP that why don’t you make a law on providing MSP to the farmers that is the need of the hour. For so many weeks thousands of farmers are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the draconian laws passed by the Modi government,” he said. Instead of doing it, they (the BJP) were bringing these ordinances against religious conversions, he claimed. Owaisi welcomed the Allahabad High Court order quashing an FIR against a Muslim man over a marriage with a Hindu woman and ruling that she had a right to live her life on her own terms. The court has clearly reiterated that no government has any role to play in the personal life of an Indian citizen, he said, adding the Supreme Court had also given a similar ruling. Replying to a question, Owaisi said his party will fight elections be it local body polls in Madhya Pradesh or in Gujarat or other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Covaxin can work against mutated coronavirus: Bharat Biotech||Covaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by Bharat Biotech for COVID-19, can offer protection against mutations of coronavirus, Chairman and Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker Krishna Ella said on Tuesday. Ella said the company has approached regulatory authorities seeking approval for an emergency license to use the vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology and now undergoing phase 3 trials. “It (coronavirus) is expected to have a lot of mutation and you can be rest assured this vaccine will also protect against that (mutated) virus because of two hypotheses... “So you have these two components in the inactivated vaccine. It will also take care of those mutations,” Ella said during a virtual programme organised by CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology. He said while replying to a query posed on the new strain of coronavirus that was detected in the United Kingdom recently. Ella said mutation was not unexpected and the virus mutates on its own to reach more number of people as it is a non-living organism. The executive said Covaxin, now undergoing Phase 3 trials involving about 20,000 volunteers, balances both safety and efficacy. The news raises hope, especially when reports of newer strain of virus being detected is making it to the headlines. Six people who returned to India from the UK have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The presence of the new UK variant of the coronavirus has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Free WiFi hotspots for protesting farmers at Singhu border||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said free WiFi hotspots will be set up at Singhu border for the farmers who have been camping there for over a month protesting the three Central farm laws. Addressing a press conference, he said the decision has been taken by "farmers' 'sevadar Arvind Kejriwal". "We want the farmers to stay in touch with their family. We have identified a few spots to install the WiFi hotspots. This is an initiative of (Chief Minister) Arvind Kejriwal and the party," Chadha said. He said the first hotspot will be installed within a day or two and more such facilities will be set up depending on the demand. "Each WiFi hotspot will cover a radius of 100 metre. The initiative has been taken after the farmers complained of limited availability of Internet in the area," the AAP leader said. "We are starting with the Singhu border. But as and when demand arises we will expand it to other border points too (where farmers are protesting) and install more such hotspots," Chadha added. Farmers from various parts of the country have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now to demand repeal of the three agri laws which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of protesting farmers. Earlier this month, he had visited Singhu border sites, and reviewed arrangements made for farmers by the AAP-led city government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Days after Shah’s rally, Mamata hits out at BJP in Bolpur||Referring to the BJP as a “party of outsiders” yet again, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that the land of Rabindranath Tagore will never allow hate politics to gain victory over secularism. In a rally at Bolpur, Mamata branded Viswa-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty as a “BJP man”, saying that he is planning to wreck the revered institution by “importing divisive and communal politics inside its campus”. The Chief Minister’s own roadshow comes days after Union Minister Amit Shah visited Bolpur, often referred to as Tagore’s land, ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls scheduled for the coming year. “Those who don't respect Mahatma Gandhi and other icons of the country are talking of building ‘Sonar Bangla’ (Golden Bengal). Rabindranath Tagore has already created ‘'Sonar Bangla’ several decades ago, all we need to do is to protect the place from the communal onslaught of the BJP,” the Chief Minister said in her address to a few thousands at Jambuni, after a four-kilometre road show in the town. Lashing out at the Viswa-Bharati vice-chancellor, the feisty Trinamul Congress supremo said, “Attempts to destroy Tagore's cultural abode have to be resisted with all might.” “I feel bad when I see efforts are on to pursue communal politics at Visva-Bharati. The VC there is a BJP man, he is trying to tarnish the heritage of this institution by practising communal politics,” Mamata claimed. Talking about the recent defections in the TMC, she said, “You can buy a few MLAs, but you can't buy TMC. Few MLAs leaving the party would not matter, people are with us.” During Shah’s visit to the state, several TMC leaders, including party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, switched to the saffron party. The Chief Minister also invited folk singer Basudeb Das Baul to sing on the stage for the crowd gathered at her rally. Earlier this month, Shah had visited his residence, ‘Manohardham Kuti’', in Ratanpally area of Santiniketan in Birbhum district, to have his lunch. “The Bengal elections are coming up and every week there is a five-star feast happening. They are trying to show they are eating at some Adivasi bhai's place. No one can insult our Adivasi brothers,” the TMC supremo was quoted as saying by NDTV. On Monday, Mamata had said she will walk two “extra” kilometres beyond her planned road show route on Tuesday to pay her “tribute” to a statue of Rabindranath Tagore in Bolpur. Her Tuesday rally was earlier meant to cover 1.4 kilometers, but ultimately covered nearly four kilometers. The Chief Minister marched from Tourist Lodge crossing some 500 metres off Dak Bungalow grounds and ended at Tagore’s statue at Jambuni via Chowrasta, where she addressed the public. Bengal, which is headed for the Assembly polls in April-May next year, has been witnessing a rise in the feud between the ruling and the saffron parties, with the latter hoping to bring down the Mamata Banerjee government from its position. Heavyweight ministers including Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda, have visited the state during the past month. However, the TMC has claimed that no ‘outsider’ can harm the party in any way, or unseat them from their chair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers defer proposed tractor march ahead of talks||Protesting farmer unions have deferred to Thursday their proposed tractor march against the contentious agriculture laws, so that the rally does not clash with their talks with the government on Wednesday. The unions have agreed to hold the next round of talks with the Central government on Wednesday, but insist the agenda of the meeting should include discussing modalities for repealing the three legislations. Earlier this week, Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of 40 unions leading protests at Delhi border points --- had announced a tractor march from the Singhu and the Tikri borders to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Highway on December 30. "In view of our talks with the government (on December 30), we have decided to defer our tractor march. The farmers will hold a march with their tractors on December 31," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Morcha, told PTI. He said that as farmer leaders would have a meeting with Central ministers on Wednesday, the protesting unions have decided to defer their proposed tractor march. Thousands of protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri --- for the last 31 days, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for minimum support price. On Monday, farmer leaders agreed to a government proposal for holding the next round of talks on the new agricultural laws on December 30, but remained firm on their agenda of scrapping the laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Puri: slight extension in suspension of UK flights possible||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said there might be a slight extension of temporary suspension of passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom, where a mutated variant of the coronavirus has been detected. Last week, the Civil Aviation Ministry had suspended all flights between the UK and India from December 23 to December 31 over the new variant of the virus. “I foresee a slight extension of temporary suspension of India-UK flights,” the minister said at a press conference. “In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” he added. Meanwhile, six persons who had returned from the country to India have tested positive for the mutated variant of the coronavirus the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. “All these persons have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine,” the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon, Pakistan and Singapore, so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Farm law protesters lathi-charged in Patna||Several people were injured here on Tuesday in a lathi charge at a busy crossing in the heart of the city when police personnel tried to stop a procession, taken out in protest against the farm laws from heading towards the Raj Bhavan. Traffic was thrown out of gear as thousands of protestors, comprising members of various farmers organizations and pro-Left outfits, marched through Frazer Road before they were thwarted at the Dak Bungalow crossing. According to police, the crackdown at Dak Bungalow crossing was preceded by skirmishes between the demonstrators and police and administrative officials at the Gandhi Maidan, the starting point of the rally, where agitators took exception to their entry being allowed inside the sprawling public ground only through one of the many gates. Police sources said the restriction was put in place to avoid a stampede-like situation while the demonstrators alleged that it was an attempt to suppress their voice. Later, when they reached the Dak Bungalow crossing, about a kilometre and a half away, officials deployed there told the demonstrators that their march could not be allowed beyond that point. As the demonstrators insisted on walking right up to the Raj Bhavan, some three km away, the police used force to prevent their march towards the restricted VIP area. An unspecified number of injured protestors were taken to hospitals for treatment while a few were rounded up, the police said. There was heavy deployment of force at Dak Bungalow crossing, where some of the demonstrators sought to stand their ground raising slogans, the police added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-454
29-12-2020||India||Former Union minister Mansukh Vasava quits BJP||Gujarat BJP MP and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava, who has been vocal on tribal issues, on Tuesday quit the party and said he would resign from Lok Sabha in the budget session of Parliament. Vasava had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week seeking withdrawal of a Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notification declaring 121 villages of Narmada district as eco-sensitive zone. A six-term MP from Bharuch, Vasava in his letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil said, "I am resigning so that the image of the party is not damaged because of my mistakes. I have been a loyal worker of the party, so please forgive me." In the letter to Paatil dated December 28, Vasava said he will resign as Bharuch MP after meeting the Lok Sabha Speaker during the budget session of Parliament. Vasava said he tried his best to be loyal to the party and assimilate the party's values in his life, adding he is human and prone to mistakes. "I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I resign from the party, whose forgiveness I seek," the tribal leader said in the letter to Paatil. BJP state spokesperson Bharat Pandya said the party has received the resignation letter through social media. "Paatil has spoken to him and assured him that any issue he has will be resolved. Vasava is a senior MP from Gujarat and we will resolve all his issues," Pandya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Modi attacks previous govts for delaying freight corridor project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday attacked the previous governments for delaying and not implementing the Dedicated Freight Corridor project of the Railways, saying his administration held talks with stakeholders to speed up the work. “The project was given permission in 2006 but it was only on paper as the then government lacked the seriousness and urgency with which it had to take it up with the states,” Modi said as he inaugurated the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor through video conferencing. “Till 2014 not a single kilometre track of the project was laid and the funds sanctioned could not be spent properly. After 2014 ,it was restarted and officials asked to take it forward and by then the budget had gone up by 11 times,” he said. The prime minister also inaugurated the EDFC’s operation centre at Prayagraj and flagged off the first 1.5 kilometre-long goods trains. The prime minister said that on coming to power, he personally monitored the project and held a dialogue with the stakeholders and got new technology as a result of which about 1100 km work will be completed in next few months. “Imagine, not a single kilometre in eight years and 1,100 kilometres in six years," he said in an attack on the Congress-led UPA government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth does U-turn, says no to launch of political party||Days after his discharge from the hospital, superstar Rajinikanth announced he will not take the political plunge and start a party, citing health reasons. Discharged from a Hyderabad hospital on Sunday after being treated for blood pressure fluctuations, the top actor expressed fears over those accompanying him in his possible political journey facing “mental and economic” problems in the due course. Rajinikanth had earlier this month announced that he is going to launch his own political party in January, details on which were to be disclosed on December 31. However, on Friday, he indicated he did not want to sound chivalrous by saying he will join politics despite his severe health concerns and that he did not want to “make a victim” of his supporters now. “Therefore, I inform with great regret that I am unable to come to politics by floating a political party. Only I know the pain behind making this announcement,” the 70-year-old said in a statement, days after he said he will float his own outfit in January and face the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. He, however, said he will serve people in whatever ways he can without entering electoral politics. “Without entering electoral politics, I will serve the people. This decision of mine will disappoint my fans and people but please forgive me,” he said. Rajinikanth’s announcement of launching the party had ended years of speculations among fans regarding the matter. The superstar, reassuring his brand of spiritual politics, had said categorically that his party will fight the Assembly elections in 2021 and “emerge victorious”. Rajinikanth's elder brother on Tuesday backed the Tamil superstar's move to withdraw his decision to launch a political party. The 77-year-old R Sathyanarayana Rao said it's his brother's wish and one can't force him to change his mind. When pointed to "a lot of expectations" that people had on Rajinikanth's planned political debut, Rao said: "We too believed that (he would launch the party)". "He (Rajinikanth) has cited health reasons. So, we can't force him. It's his wish (not to launch party). Whatever decision he has taken, that's definitely right", Rao told news agency PTI. He said he spoke to Rajinikanth on Monday inquiring about his health. Earlier this month, Rajinikanth paid a visit to his brother in Bengaluru, where he grew up. The 70-year-old had sought the blessings of his brother, who wished him good health and long life. "He (Rajinikanth) is a man of his word. He definitely does what he says. He always keeps his word," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Six UK returnees test positive for new mutated strain of Covid||Six persons who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said the UK variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in three samples in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru, two in the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and one in the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation at designated health care facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said. "Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far. The ministry said that from November 25 to December 23 midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states and UTs to RT-PCR tests. So far 114 have been found positive for COVID-19. These positive samples have been sent to 10 INSACOG labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, CCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi, NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing. "A total of 6 samples of 6 UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome," the ministry said. The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of the virus reported from UK and put in place a pro-active and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant. This strategy included the temporary suspension of all flights coming from UK with effect from the midnight of 23rd December 2020 till 31st December 2020 and mandatory testing of all UK returnee air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test to be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs. Also, a meeting of the National Task Force (NTF) on COVID-19 was held on December 26 to consider and recommend testing, treatment, surveillance and containment strategy. Besides, a standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22. The entire issue was examined at length by the NTF on December 26 and the NTF concluded that there is no need to change either the existing National Treatment Protocol or existing testing protocols in view of the mutant variant. The NTF also recommended that in addition to the existing surveillance strategy, it is critical to conduct enhanced genomic surveillance, the ministry said. Over the last few weeks, the United Kingdom has faced a rapid increase in COVID-19 cases in South East England, leading to enhanced epidemiological and virological investigations, the ministry had said. Analysis of viral genome sequence data identified that a large proportion of cases belonged to a new single phylogenetic cluster. The new variant is defined by multiple spike protein mutations present as well as mutations in the other genomic regions. While it is known and expected that viruses constantly change through mutations leading to the emergence of new variants, preliminary analysis (based on epidemiological and mathematical model) in the UK suggests that this variant is significantly more transmissible than previously circulating variants, with an estimated potential to increase the reproductive number (R) by 0.4 or greater with estimated increased transmissibility of up to 70 per cent. "However, there is no experimental evidence or indication at this point of increased infection severity associated with the aforementioned new variant," the ministry has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Kanpur post office issues stamps featuring gangsters Chhota Rajan, Munna Bajrangi||The Kanpur postal department has ordered an inquiry after stamps featuring underworld don Chhota Rajan and slain gangster Munna Bajrangi were issued by the main post office in the city, officials said on Tuesday. Twelve stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed under the 'My Stamp' scheme, which was launched by the department a few years back, an official added. Calling it was a lapse by the person manning the 'My Stamp' desk, Postmaster General V K Varma said, "A probe has been launched." It has been found that the request for these stamps having face value of Rs 5 was made anonymously by a person who paid Rs 600 for them, he added. Without asking for identification papers, which is essential, the person manning the 'My Stamp' desk released 12 stamps each with the pictures, Varma said. Philately department in-charge Rajneesh Kumar, who was prima facie found guilty, has been placed under suspension, he said. "We have also issued show-cause notices to some other employees in this regard," the postmaster general said. "Efforts are on to zero in on the person who got the photographs of the criminals printed under the 'My stamp' scheme," he added. It has been decided to take strict measures in the future to ensure such errors are not repeated, Varma said. Under the 'My Stamp' scheme, anyone paying Rs 300 can get stamps with their photos or that of their family members printed and released. Rajan is currently in a Mumbai prison, and Bajrangi was murdered in UP's Baghpat prison in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Fresh Covid cases below 20,000 for third time this month||The daily new coronavirus infections in India dipped below 20,000 for the third time this month taking the COVID-19 caseload to 1,02,24,303, while the recoveries crossed 98 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 16,432 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in little over six months, while the death toll increased to 1,48,153 with 252 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,07,569 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.92 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 2,68,581 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.63 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 16,98,01,749 samples have been tested up to December 28 with 9,83,695 samples being tested on Monday. The 252 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra,27 from West Bengal, 26 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Delhi. A total of 1,48,153 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,305 from Maharashtra followed by 12,080 from Tamil Nadu, 12,070 from Karnataka, 10,474 from Delhi, 9,625 from West Bengal, 8,322 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,098 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,312 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Delhi shivers under cold wave||Delhi reeled under a cold wave on Tuesday as icy winds sweeping through the city brought the minimum temperature down to 3.6 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a low of 3.6 degrees Celsius as against 5.6 degrees Celsius on Monday. The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius and 2.7 degrees Celsius respectively, it added. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The IDM said the mercury may drop further by New Year's Eve. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next three days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a western disturbance led to "scattered to fairly widespread" snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, he said. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Tuesday morning. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 237 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 253 on Monday, 396 on Sunday, 337 on Saturday, 357 on Friday, 423 on Thursday and 433 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at IMD said favourable wind speed, up to 15 kmph, aided in the dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Centre invites protesters for meeting on Wednesday||The Centre, which offered talks on a day and time of the farmers’ choosing, has invited them to a meeting on Wednesday instead of Tuesday as mooted by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha last week. As for the agenda, all that the letter from the Centre states is that issues relating to the three farm laws, procurement under minimum support price, the ordinance on stubble burning and the electricity bill will be discussed. The letter was attributed to the secretary in the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare in the Union agriculture ministry, Sanjay Agarwal. Reacting to the invitation, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the ongoing agitation is being conducted — said: “The letter of the Government of India indicates that it is being clever with words and not willing to discuss the agenda proposed by farmers’ organisations; this exposes the double-speak of the government.” The farmers, while suggesting a meeting on Tuesday at 11am, had drawn up the following agenda: modalities for repeal of the three laws; mechanisms to be adopted to make the remunerative MSP recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission) into a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers for all agriculture commodities; amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the air quality management ordinance; and changes to the electricity bill to protect their interests. As of now, the farmers plan to go to the meeting. But the government’s decision to ignore the schedule suggested by the farmers is for them added proof of the insincerity with which the administration has dealt with the demands of the farming community. “Not once but twice the government asked us to suggest a day and time of our choosing for a meeting. But, when we sent our proposal, they shot it down and suggested a time of their own. That too, on a day we called for a tractor rally between Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border and Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border,” a union leader said. Keeping its end of the bargain, the core group of the Kisan Morcha believes that the tractor rally should be deferred to December 31 “since we had said that we would do this if the next round of talks made no progress”, said Hannan Mollah. This will be put up for further discussion before the 40 main organisations collectively decide on the course of action. These 40 organisations are also the ones participating in the negotiations with the government. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) – the umbrella organisation of 500 farmer unions and collectives that gave the “Dilli Chalo” call for November 26 and 27 — has rejected defence minister Rajnath Singh’s suggestion that they try out the new farm laws for two years with the assurance that changes can be made after that if necessary. “His appeal to allow the farm laws to play out for two years is an unfortunate statement from a senior politician. If these laws are allowed to be implemented, there will be nothing to discuss after two years — agriculture, agri-produce marketing and food chain of the nation will by then be firmly in the clutches of crony capitalists and monopolists,” the committee said. With the farmers convinced that they are being sacrificed for the benefit of corporate groups, the campaign against Jio has taken on a life of its own. According to a PTI report, more than 1,500 cell towers — some of them common ones used by other service providers too — in Punjab have become non-functional because of the campaign despite appeals by chief minister Amarinder Singh to people not to disrupt the state’s telecom services by targeting the company’s infrastructure. Member organisations of the Kisan Morcha are issuing appeals to the people to stop forcibly shutting down operations in cell towers, fearing the vandalism could come in handy for the government to discredit and malign the movement. “Our call was only to boycott Jio products; not force anyone to give up any service. Look how peacefully the farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for a month now. We do not approve of the vandalism,” Mollah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Malayalam film on students’ protest blocked||The Kerala regional office of the Central Board of Film Certification has withheld clearance to a Malayalam film on a students’ protest, apparently after at least one pro-BJP board member linked the movie to JNU and dubbed it “anti-national”. V. Sandeep Kumar, board member and state vice-president of the BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha, later posted a tweet attributing his objections also to Varthamanam (The Present) being produced and written by Aryadan Shoukath, a Congress politician and filmmaker. Kumar later deleted the tweet. Shoukath said the CBFC had in a notice conveyed that the film, directed by Siddarth Siva, had been referred to its reviewing committee but not stated any reason or any date. “As a member of the censor board (CBFC) I watched the film Varthamanam today,” Kumar’s now-deleted Malayalam tweet, posted on Thursday, said. “The topic is the attack on Muslims and Dalits in JNU. I objected to it because the scriptwriter and producer is Aryadan Shoukath. The film’s content is definitely anti-national.” The film portrays a Delhi institution but does not name JNU. Shoukath expressed shock at the board’s decision and at his film on communal harmony being labelled “anti-national”. He suggested the objections were linked to his religion. Shoukath is a Muslim. “Is a film certified based on the scriptwriter’s race and lineage? How can a students’ agitation on a Delhi campus and democratic struggles become anti-national?” Shoukath wrote on Facebook. “He (Kumar) is openly declaring that the film relates to attacks on Dalits and Muslims at JNU and that he objected because its scriptwriter and producer is Aryadan Shoukath. We are still living in democratic, secular, socialist India.” Varthamanam revolves round a Muslim student from north Kerala, played by Parvathy Thiruvothu, who goes to a Delhi college to research freedom fighter Mohammed Abdurahiman Sahib who served as president of the Congress’s Malabar unit in 1939. The film does not name JNU. Roshan Mathew and Dain Davis play pivotal roles in the film, shot in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Kerala. “I can’t imagine this film about communal harmony being portrayed as anti-national. I have information that two of the four members raised objections while the other two backed the film,” Shoukath told The Telegraph on Monday. “It’s based on the theme of communal harmony and decries both Hindu and Muslim fundamentalism. It focuses on the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore and Subhas Chandra Bose.” Shoukath added: “Abdurrahiman Sahib was a true nationalist who dissuaded those Muslims who wanted to go to Pakistan. The film is about the values upheld by a man like him, based on the secular-democratic principles of the founding fathers.” This newspaper could not contact Kumar for his comments since the state BJP office in Thiruvananthapuram said it didn’t have his phone number. Actor and filmmaker Murali Gopi condemned the CBFC decision and called for an end to the board’s being used to further the ruling party’s agenda. “Censorship is the crutch of dictatorship. If that has become the practice in a democracy, it can only mean that democracy has failed,” Murali, son of the legendary Malayalam actor Gopi, said in a Facebook post on Monday. “Patriotism and nationalism are not words that should be limited to the vocabulary of a particular group. Since this is the reality, every artiste has the responsibility to raise their voice against such a tendency.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Delhi riots: outcry after raid on case lawyer office ||Several Bar associations on Monday condemned Delhi police’s raid on the office of advocate Mahmood Pracha, who is representing victims of the February riots, and seizure of confidential client-attorney data. Such “unheard of” police action is “worse than crime(s) committed by any hardened criminal” and will have a “chilling effect” on clients, said advocates’ bodies such as the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the Bar Association of India (BAI) and the regulatory Bar Council of India (BCI). They cautioned that incidents like the December 24 raid erode the relationship of trust and confidentiality between lawyers and clients and undermine the justice delivery system. BCI chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra announced the council would convene a virtual meeting with all the state Bar councils within three to four days to decide a course of action. “Similarly, incidents were witnessed in West Bengal, Bihar and almost all states,” the statement said, without citing details. “Such actions of the police (are) rather worse than crime(s) committed by any hardened criminal/s.” The BAI said: “The issuing of a search warrant in respect of a lawyer’s communication and correspondence is a grave violation of client-attorney privilege, and can cause a chilling effect in clients providing true and complete disclosures to their lawyers, and would impede the administration of justice.” The police defended the raid –- which allegedly lasted nearly 15 hours and led to the seizure of computers and other digital devices --- citing the search warrant issued by a judicial magistrate. But they did not say why they had sought the warrant or what they were looking for. An SCBA statement on behalf of its president and senior advocate Dushyant Dave expressed “shock, deep concern and dismay” at the “arbitrary, illegal and brazen exercise of brute power by the police and action taken against advocates”. It mentioned the raid on Pracha as well as the “brutal assault of a lawyer in the district of Etah in Uttar Pradesh by the local police”. It said the Etah police “entered the house of the lawyer, mercilessly and brutally assaulted him and then lodged him and his entire family in jail”. According to the Etah police, the lawyer fired at them, injuring a passer-by, when cops arrived at his home on December 21 to investigate a property dispute involving him. The lawyer and three other male members of the family remain in custody while three women members have been granted bail. “Such actions are intimidatory and designed to abuse the due process by coercing an advocate to succumb to police threats and methods unheard of in legal annals. Such a search/ seizure is in the teeth of specific provisions of law which recognise the client-lawyer relationship and protects all correspondence between the advocate and his client,” the SCBA said. “This encroachment on the rights of an advocate by the police violates the rights of the accused to a fair trial guaranteed under Article 21 and the protection against self-incrimination guaranteed under Article 20(3) of the Constitution....” The statement frowned on the grant of a warrant to search a lawyer’s office in a routine manner, and urged punishment of the police personnel involved in the raid. The BAI said “the warrant appears to have been issued without a reference to the importance of protecting the attorney-client privilege”. It expressed concern “that the Delhi police appears to have gone beyond the permission to conduct the ‘search’ authorised by the warrant, by seeking to seize and copy data off concerned advocate’s personal computer and other personal digital devices”. The BAI referred to Articles 16, 17 and 22 of the United Nations that urge governments to ensure that lawyers can perform all their professional functions without intimidation, hindrance, harassment or interference. It flagged the protections offered to privileged communication between attorneys and their clients under the Indian Evidence Act and the Bar Council of India Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-455
29-12-2020||India||Two Dalit youths lynched allegedly over love affair||A violent mob killed two Dalit youths in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district on Monday after they were caught by villagers while allegedly roaming in suspicious conditions. Police officials said that the lynching could be an outcome of a love affair. At least six persons have been lynched in the state since the new NDA government came to power last month after the Assembly elections. The Monday’s incident occurred at Chakki Mayurwa village under Sonbarsa police station and the youths have been identified as Sonu Kumar and Suraj Kumar hailing from two different villages under the same police station. Police officials said that both were of around 24 to 25 years of age. Sonbarsa station house officer Gaurishankar Baitha said that the investigations so far indicated the killings to be “related to an affair with some girl of the village”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Union health ministry proposes regular surveillance for leprosy||The Union health ministry has proposed regular surveillance for leprosy, concerned that more than 100,000 new patients are detected annually despite India having statistically “eliminated” the disease 15 years ago. The ministry on Monday released operational guidelines that propose yearly or twice-a-year screening in select areas depending on the leprosy prevalence rates there. The guidelines also propose financial incentives for public health workers to detect cases. The ministry had in 2005 declared leprosy “eliminated”, defining the threshold as when the country’s prevalence rate fell below one per 10,000 population. Public health experts have often underlined since then that tens of thousands of new patients emerge every year. The new guidelines seek to widen the effort for case detection through regular household screening, citing high prevalence in certain pockets in several states and the challenge of diagnosing leprosy among the urban poor. Screening has been proposed once a year in areas with prevalence rates lower than one per 10,000, and twice a year in areas with prevalence rates higher than one per 10,000. Any area with even a single child patient will be subject to two screenings a year. Public health workers tasked with case detection will receive an incentive of Rs 1,000 for the screening rounds. Villages that have not recorded any leprosy cases for three years or longer will not be included in the screening. But the health workers there will receive incentives of up to Rs 250 for the detection of a leprosy case and up to Rs 600 to ensure the patient completes the treatment. “I think this is a well-intentioned move and hope it’ll help further reduce incidence,” said Jai Prakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and one of the experts critical of the government’s declaration of “elimination”. “But active case detection will hinge on the capacity of the health system to pick up cases early — it will require expertise for diagnosis. It’s not difficult, but needs special training,” Muliyil said. The health ministry has over the past decade reported between 133,000 and 120,000 new leprosy cases every year. Health experts say that in many states, the infection has been disproportionately high among specific segments of disadvantaged populations such as tribal and Dalit communities. Oommen Kurian, head of health initiatives at the non-government Observer Research Foundation, had in a report last year noted that India’s challenges in battling leprosy include “low detection, high level of concentration of the disease in already marginalised population groups, and patchy implementation of detection and treatment programmes”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Karnataka BJP govt takes ordinance route for cattle bill||Karnataka’s BJP government on Monday decided on the ordinance route to enforce a contentious bill against cattle slaughter after twice being thwarted from tabling it in the legislative council by its Congress chairman. The ordinance, which widens the slaughter ban to cover bulls and oxen and stiffens the punishment, is expected to be sent for the governor’s assent in a couple of days. While the government had passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020 with hardly any discussion in the Assembly on December 9, Council chairman Pratapchandra Shetty had adjourned his House before it could be tabled. After the government convened a one-day session of the Council on December 15, BJP members first tried to pass a no-confidence motion against Shetty, triggering mayhem. Amid the chaos, Shetty adjourned the House again, denying the government a chance to table the bill. The government lacks the numbers in the Council, anyway. The new law will replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964, which prohibits the slaughter of cows, female buffalo and calves of both species and sexes as well as import and sale of their meat. The new law prohibits the slaughter of cows, oxen, bulls and all calves and bans import and sale of their meat. It, however, allows the slaughter of both male and female buffalo if certified to be older than 13 — a point law minister J.C. Madhuswamy flagged to claim there would not be a total “ban on beef”. The definition of “beef” in standard dictionaries covers the meat of cows, bulls and oxen but not that of buffalo. However, buffalo meat is “beef” in common parlance in Karnataka and many other parts of the country. Meat traders have already cited the shortage of buffalo in the southern states, unlike the north where they are rampant. The new law provides for jail terms of three to seven years, a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh, or both for the first offence. Subsequent offences can bring jail for up to seven years, a fine between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, or both. The existing law prescribes a jail term of up to six months, a fine of up to Rs 1,000, or both. Animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan cited a 2019 cattle census to argue the new law had become necessary. He said 662 heads of cattle were being slaughtered every day in Karnataka “and a day won’t be far away when we’ll read about cows only in books”. Before tabling the bill in the Assembly, Chauhan had travelled to Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, two BJP-ruled states where similar laws are in force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Veteran of three wars fights his fourth ||Just like the times he had fought with China and Pakistan half a century ago, Amarjeet Singh is again standing at his post, determined never to abandon it. Except that the retired army subedar and veteran of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars is 85 years old now. And if he’s facing no bullets this time, sleeping in a tractor-trolley in the biting winter is doing the old bones no good. But the winner of four army medals, who left his village in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district on December 14, says he will not return home until the government repeals the three new farm laws. “If the laws are not repealed, it will finish the farmers and farming. What will you eat in Delhi?” Amarjeet, who retired from the army in 1974, told The Telegraph on Saturday. His village of Nainokot, which has 1,200 votes, had sent 15 people to fight the “just cause”. Apart from Amarjeet, the rest would go back on December 28, the old soldier said. But another batch of 15 would arrive to pick up the baton, helping sustain the movement and their village’s honour. If resolve such as Amarjeet’s is the fuel that ignited the month-old protest by a diverse group of farmers, their tactic of relay participation is the oxygen that is keeping the flame burning. Kulwant Singh, sarpanch of the Balyali gram panchayat in Mohali district of Punjab and a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), explained the pass-the-baton system. About 1,000 people from seven Mohali villages — Karala, Jangpura, Barri, Shyaau, Matran, Shekhar Mazra and Khanpur Bangar — are at the protest site, he said. They came in tractor-trolleys loaded with food, mattresses, blankets, medicines and clothes. “Every week, a new group of volunteers will arrive with food and other materials. Those among the earlier arrivals who want to return home will do so,” Kulwant said. “This rotational participation is unique for a protest and can help sustain it for months.” Some have come alone, like Balveer Kaur of Ghagha village near Patiala whose family owns four acres of farmland. When she found her husband dilly-dallying about joining the protest, the 64-year-old packed her bag and came over by bus to stand with her “brothers”. “I told my husband, who has four acres of farmland, to come but he was delaying matters. So I decided to come by myself,” she said. “I didn’t want to miss the opportunity to be part of this historic protest.” Women make up about 10 per cent of the estimated 10,000 to 15,000 protesters at the Singhu border between Punjab and Haryana, an agitator said. Protesters are also massed at Delhi’s Tikri and Ghazipur borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, and at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, 118km from Delhi. Most of the farmers are from Punjab and Haryana. They present a motley group. There’s MA (economics) student Satnam Singh from Karnal in Haryana and Mumbai-based businessman Gurjan Singh, who have arrived in solidarity. Then there’s marginal farmer Sukhjeet Singh from Chamkor Sahib village in Ropar, Punjab, and “medium-size” farmer Gurupratap Singh from Barri village in Mohali. Bills of fear Lakhminder Singh, who grows paddy, wheat and potato on his eight acres at Karala village in Mohali and supports a family of 10, explained his fears. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act allows farmers to sell their produce outside the government mandis (wholesale markets), run by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees, where they are assured a government-decided minimum support price (MSP). The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act creates avenues for contract farming, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act removes the limit on the stockpiling of several commodities. “The government says the private mandis are for the benefit of the farmers. I have seen what happened to government schools and government hospitals after the expansion of private schools and private hospitals,” he said. “Are you sending your children to government schools? The way the government schools deteriorated after the expansion of private schools, the same thing will happen to the government mandis.” Once government procurement of farm produce stops, the private mandis will no longer pay the MSP, Lakhminder believes. “When the MSP is not paid, farming will be destroyed. Every category of famer will face the problem,” he said. Punjab’s farmers tend to have larger landholdings than their peers elsewhere. While the average landholding in India is 1.08 hectares (2.67 acres) among farmers, according to the Agriculture Census 2015-16, the figure is 3.62 hectares (8.94 acres) in Punjab, second only to Nagaland’s 5.06 hectares (12.5 acres). A farmer with an operational holding of less than one hectare is a marginal farmer while one who has between one and two hectares is a small farmer. Bill of fare In the cold nights, the farmers sleep under makeshift polythene roofs in the thousands of tractor trolleys parked on both sides of the highway, where the protest stretches for kilometres towards Karnal on the Haryana side. They spend the days chanting slogans or playing loud Punjabi songs from their tractors, which they drive up and down the protest venue so everybody feels entertained. For those with somewhat different musical tastes, a rough-and-ready wooden stage has been erected at one end — right beside the barricades on the Delhi border. Here, troupe after troupe from Punjab belts out kirtans all day long as hundreds sit enthralled on the patch of ground around the dais. Like the food in the langars (community kitchens) and the RO water they supply, the music is free. Not everyone sleeps in tractors. Some of the richer farmers come in SUVs like Cretas, Innovas and Fortuners. They stay on for two or three days, spending the nights in the climbers’ sleeping bags handed out from a big tent that has a board saying “Tent City”. In between the tractors have mushroomed hundreds of temporary langars, even medical camps and a blood-donation camp. Some of the langars are within 20 metres of each other, run by either a farmers’ group or a gurdwara. They serve whoever comes. Around 11.30am on Saturday, a group of women were busy making rotis at a langar run by a farmers’ body. The sabzi, rice and sweets had already been prepared. A queue of about 20 people waited to be served. A short distance away, on the opposite side of the road, a langar run by the Delhi Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee extended an open invitation to all. The chef, Balveer Singh, said the kitchen stayed open from 10am to 4am. Satnam, the MA student from Panjab University, Chandigarh, said the Nirmal Kutia Gurdwara’s langar served quality food. The menu is missi roti, saag, puri and a dish of assorted vegetables for lunch. In the evening, the kitchen serves milk mixed with honey and ghee. “My father’s a farmer. We have land at Rawal village in Karnal district. My family survives on farming. So I’ve come to help. When I go back, my cousin will come,” Satnam said. Behind the kirtan stage is a blood donation camp organised by the Bhai Ghaniya Ji Mission Seva Society of Punjab. One of the organisers said that every day, about 200 people donated blood, which was sent to local hospitals. The medical camps also do blood tests for various diseases, and the leftover blood in the syringes is used to write letters of protest to dignitaries such as the President and Prime Minister. Gurjan, the young businessman from Mumbai, donated blood on Saturday. “I have my business in Mumbai. We are originally from Patiala. I came here to support the protest,” he said. Some among the young find time to play cards. Jaspreet Singh, a small farmer from Beherampur Zimmidari in Ropar district, said 35 people had come from his village. “All my friends are sloganeering or helping out people. We have some time, so we are playing the card game Bhabhi,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||British era protests were successful with political support: Historian||An eminent historian on Monday suggested it was “legitimate” for political parties to participate in farmer movements and that past agitations similar to the current one had achieved success through association with political activists and organisations. Mridula Mukherjee’s comments come at a time the central government has tried to discredit the ongoing agitation against the three new farm laws by saying it is backed by political parties and is therefore not a genuine movement of farmers. Mukherjee was delivering the S.C. Mishra Memorial Lecture on “Punjab Kisan Protests: A Legacy of Heroic Non-Violent Resistance” at a webinar organised by the Indian History Congress. She said that farmers of Punjab, who are leading the current protest, had a century ago staged a series of agitations against the British in association with political parties of the time, and on a similar issue as the present one. “The current protest resonates with the past,” Mukherjee said. In 1907, Punjab had witnessed the “Pagdi Sambhal Jatta” (Preserve your self-respect, farmer) movement against three measures by the British government, including the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill introduced in 1906. All three measures had sought to reduce farmers to contract workers on their own land — which the farmers now agitating near the Delhi border fear the new farm laws will do. The British government had earlier dug canals to take water from the River Chenab to Lyallpur, which is now in Pakistan, and persuaded peasants from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur to settle there by offering them free land. After the peasants began settling in Lyallpur and its neighbourhood and turned the land cultivable, the Raj enacted these three laws to declare itself master of the land and deny ownership to the farmers. This led to the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta, which intensified with the involvement of then Congress leader Lala Lajpat Rai and Ajit Singh, the uncle of Bhagat Singh, Mukherjee said. “The meetings were marked by a sharp tone against the government. The government also realised the movement was being organised by urban nationalists to overthrow it,” she said. Eventually, the British withdrew the three laws. “The success of a movement depends on what kind of support you can garner from others, including political parties,” Mukherjee said. “The government is keen to say political parties are involved in the current movement. Somehow, the peasants are wary of this. But in the entire history of peasant movements, political parties have been in the thick of the struggle. This is a legitimate field for political parties.” Punjab also witnessed the Akali movement between 1920 and 1925, when peasants demanded that gurdwaras be managed by popularly elected representatives and not by feudal lords and government-appointed managers. The Akali Party supported the agitation, which was successful. “Political demand has been part of peasants’ movements. Political parties have also been part of the movements,” Mukherjee said. She cited how the protesting farmers had surprised their critics by coming over to Delhi’s borders with their tractor trolleys in tens of thousands, setting up numerous roadside langars and continuing their agitation in the bitter cold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi's ‘short personal visits’ raise commitment questions ||Rahul Gandhi’s vacationing whim is no longer news; the nonchalance with which he embraces the habit may yet be. His outings appear to take scant notice of either the Congress’ dwindled fortunes or to widened sense of commitment deficits to party and to public life. The former and will-be-will-be-not president of the Congress departed for Italy just ahead of the party’s 136th foundation day, underlining yet again that the political is still struggling to get precedence over what is personal to Rahul. He was vacationing while Delhi burned at the beginning of the year and wasn’t around to attend a key CWC meeting on the issue. He went vacationing in the middle of the battle for Bihar, and was slammed by RJD allies for making light of the contest, leaving his party to punch above its weight. He was abroad for his mother’s treatment while the contentious farm bills were being hurried through Parliament. Official word from the Congress on the face of the party has come differently worded as “out on a short personal visit” or “gone to see his grandmother”. Neither version is quite able to erase the perception, or allegation, that Rahul has flown to take the year-end off while, of all concerns that should keep him in harness, an extraordinary farmer tumult, endorsed by him, rages on the doorsteps of Delhi. The farmers’ stir is merely the tip of what many in the Congress believe should have prompted Rahul to forsake his prized break and stay the course. “Everybody is entitled to personal time,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, “But Rahul Gandhi is not everybody. No matter what spin you keep putting on personal time, these breaks serve to mar his image and the future of our party. He should know better than most that we are grappling with ourselves when we should have been battle-ready for a government that has performed abjectly. That we cannot build momentum around it may be our collective failure, but that we are not led is an issue burning at Rahul’s doorstep.” Now more than ever, many in the Congress would add, with Ahmed Patel gone, and nothing demonstrable having come off confabulations to close ranks between the old guard and the new crop, between those who bait Rahul and those who bat for him. Often, the explanation put by loyalists on Rahul’s routine furloughs is that he is merely one of several party MPs, that he has no organisational position or role, that to hold him to responsibilities not defined by the party is to be unfair to him. That explanation is shot through with subterfuge, rigged to allow Rahul the privileges he feels entitled to. The truth may be closer to this: Rahul Gandhi is the Congress MP from Wayanad in Kerala but he is not only the Congress MP from Wayanad. Rahul Gandhi may not be anybody in the hierarchy of the Congress party, but he cannot be nobody in the hierarchy of the Congress party. He stands at the core of the Congress, its crisis and its resolution, one way or another. He is, for all purposes, the leader of the party, its chief spokesman and campaigner, and, for the better part, its chief arbiter. If the critical issue of the formal leadership of the party — to be decided at an election whose dates remain undecided but cannot be forever put off — lies unresolved, it is also because Rahul Gandhi has chosen not to resolve it. He will not categorically say he is prepared to lead the party, he will not categorically say he will not. The question many in the Congress have been asking, with growing urgency and unease, is whether Rahul has time for the party. “We have been in deep and consistent decline for nearly a decade now, we need leadership and direction, and for that we need a leader who is seen to be leading every day, every hour. That’s what Narendra Modi is able to do. But that never was the case with Rahul Gandhi, even when he was Congress president,” lamented a senior partyman. A former aide who worked closely with him post 2015, said this of Rahul: “He is impatient, he is inconsistent, he is excited by an idea one day and he has forgotten about it the next. He was right to feel frustrated by the so-called old guard, but he was party president for two years, enough time to have restructured. He either did not have the will, or failed at it, or merely let things drift because he did not want the responsibilities of taking full grip. Rahul Gandhi, he never completes the circle…” In flying off to Italy, he may have delayed the rounding off yet again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Arnab Goswami’s ‘lakhs’ in TRP manipulation||Mumbai police on Monday told a local court that Partho Dasgupta, the arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc), in connivance with a colleague and Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami, had manipulated the television rating points (TRP) of Republic TV. “Dasgupta misused his official position and manipulated TRP of specific news channels broadcast by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd such as Republic Bharat Hindi and Republic TV English,” the police said in its remand note submitted in a magistrate’s court. The note said Goswami had given “payment in lakhs” to Dasgupta from time to time. The magistrate extended the police custody of Dasgupta till December 30. Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||India||Congress vows to protect citizens’ rights from 'dictatorial forces'||The Congress on Monday took a pledge to protect the rights of all citizens as well as democratic institutions from “dictatorial forces” as it celebrated its 136th foundation day, stressing that nationalism cannot be delinked from the freedom and welfare of the people. Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a video message to party workers argued that the situation today was comparable to the difficult days of pre-Independence period, saying, “Citizens’ rights are being trampled. Democratic and constitutional institutions are being demolished. Unemployment rate is at its peak. Agriculture is under unprecedented attack. Charo ore tanashahi ka aalam hai (Dictatorial tendencies are visible everywhere).” She added: “The history of Congress is of patriotism, fearlessness and commitment to unity and social harmony. We suffered British oppression and bullets. It is our responsibility to protect the country from authoritarian forces. We will have to unite to preserve the glory and dignity of the Tricolour, under which we fought to achieve our Independence. We take a vow to protect our Constitution, democracy and rights of every citizen.” Congress leaders, who took out a Tiranga Yatra across the country on Monday besides conducting a social media campaign — selfie with Tricolor — highlighted two issues in their messages. While the emphasis was clearly on rights and equality of all citizens, irrespective of identity markers such as religion, caste, region or language, all of them tried to project the gravity of the crisis by dwelling on the Narendra Modi government’s treatment of farmers who are protesting against the three new laws. They all portrayed the government’s attitude as dictatorial. After the ceremony to hoist the party flag on the foundation day, Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The parent organisation (RSS) of the current rulers were sitting in the lap of the British when the Congress was fighting them. The present government behaves like Company Sarkar, much like the British East India Company behaved with Indians. Lakhs of farmers are sitting on the road for over a month to seek justice. Forty-five farmers are already dead. How can an elected government be so  insensitive?” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also said: “We have been saying that the government should listen to the farmers. It is a sin to malign the farmers, to say that it is a political conspiracy. Our soldiers defending the borders are sons of farmers. The government should pay heed to the farmers’ demand and withdraw the three laws.” She walked away when questions about Rahul Gandhi’s absence from today’s function started raining on her. Apart from a section of the media and BJP leaders who taunted Rahul for going abroad and skipping the party’s foundation day, many Congress leaders privately expressed dismay over his absence. But Surjewala said: “One of his family members is seriously ill and Rahulji had to go to Italy to meet him. I don’t think people of India will have any problem in him attending a family crisis. He hasn’t gone on vacation. He is not the party president and he dutifully undertakes whatever responsibility is assigned to him by the party.” Surjewala added, “The question today is not who has gone where. The question is the miseries lakhs of farmers are facing and who is standing with them. Why has no central minister visited the farmers sitting at Delhi border in this chill? Why has the Prime Minister been so intoxicated with power? He should directly talk to the anguished farmers with an open mind and clear heart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-456
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu dares TMC to hold a big rally in Nandigram||In his first public meeting at Nandigram since joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday dared the ruling TMC, to which he formerly belonged, to organise a big public meeting in Purbo Medinipur area. He said BJP will hold a public meeting at Nandigram on January 8 which will see the gathering of one lakh people and dared Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee to hold a rally as big as it. "We don't back out after announcing a programme like some others," he said at an apolitical meeting after a road show at Nandigram, the epicentre of the anti-farmland acquisition movement in West Bengal in 2007. Adhikari was alluding to the proposed January 7 meeting in the area by Banerjee which got postponed on Monday as a top district TMC leader tested coronavirus positive. "They (TMC) are saying it (meeting) will take place later on. If they organise the meeting later, we will again hold another meeting in the same area afterwards," he said. Slamming TMC, he said "The office of the bhaipo (nephew) is prodding some people to tear posters and attack our men here. He will get a befitting reply." Adhikari, who did not take any name, was apparently referring to TMC youth wing president and party MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is a nephew of Mamata Banerjee. He alleged that some people who were coming to his road show were attacked on the way by a party. "We will not take such attacks silently though we believe in the philosophy of peace", he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Rejecting communalism should be priority for people of Bengal, says Amartya ||Political parties sure have good reasons to pursue individual goals, but rejection of communalism ought to be a shared value without which "we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji", Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has said. He said the Left and other secular parties in West Bengal have no less commitment than the ruling TMC to ensuring that communalism does not rear its ugly head in the state. "Secular parties can differ in their detailed programmes, but the importance of rejecting communalism must surely be a strong shared value. The Left parties should have no less a commitment to that than the TMC (in keeping the state secular)," Sen told news agency PTI in an email interview. The BJP, which has often been subjected to strong criticism by the celebrated economist over its policies, meanwhile, claimed the TMC's communal side has long been exposed. Exuding confidence that the people of the state will reject non-secular forces, the 87-year-old Harvard professor said, "Bengal had in the past greatly suffered due to communalism." "Each party may have a good reason to pursue its own goals without harming the overarching objective of keeping Bengal secular and non-communal. First things should surely come first. Otherwise, we shall not be worthy heirs of Tagore and Netaji," he said. With Bengal's icons occupying centre stage in political discourse in the run-up to the assembly elections, Sen said one must remember that all luminaries "have wanted and argued" for unity. "Rabindranath Tagore, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Swami Vivekananda, all wanted and argued for a united Bengali culture, and there is no room in their social objective for trying to excite one community against another. "That is the Bengali culture that we have come to admire and support. Kazi Nazrul Islam is as big a Bengali leader as the others. Bengal has greatly suffered from communalism in the past and has learned to reject it firmly," the Nobel winner, a known critic of the BJP, said. Asked about the recent row over his family allegedly being in "illegal" possession of land at Visva Bharati, the noted economist rejected the charge and said the vice chancellor of the hallowed institution has issued "false statements" to the media. "I am baffled by the way the Visva-Bharati VC is doing these very odd things, such as making false statements to the media about me allegedly occupying their land but never writing to me about returning any land to them. I am not sure if the VC is what can I say? - (is) intellectually well- coordinated," he said. Asked if he feels that it was an attempt to malign him, the professor said, "Maybe, as you say, he (VC) is trying to malign me, but it would be hard to be sure given the lack of cogency in his actions." Sen, however, declined to hold the BJP responsible for the row, as was suggested by many quarters. "Certainly I am critical of any political party that inflames communal and divisive sentiments, particularly between Hindus and Muslims. Certainly, Bidyut Chakravarty, the Visva- Bharati VC, gives evidence of following the commands of the BJP. But it is a big jump from there to conclude firmly that the BJP is responsible for these false accusations," he said. A controversy erupted last week when media reported that the central university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the name of private parties, including Sen. The Nobel laureate had said that the university land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had offered an apology to Sen on behalf of the state and also wrote to him, asking him to consider her a "sister and friend" in his war against "intolerance and totalitarianism". Reacting sharply to Sen's assertions apparently targeting the saffron camp, BJP's national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said his claims were bereft of truth as the "the communal side of the TMC government was exposed when immersion of Durga idols was stopped due to Muharram". "People in Bengal have already voted in favour of the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls. They will vote for us again in the upcoming assembly polls," he asserted. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly are due in April-May next year. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Amartya Sen thanks Mamata Banerjee for support||Economist Amartya Sen has thanked Mamata Banerjee for her support in the controversy over his ancestral property on the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan, the communication coming as a shot in the arm for the chief minister at a time she has trained her guns on the Narendra Modi government for attacking its critics. “I am not only most touched, but also very reassured that despite the busy life you have to lead, you can find time for reassuring people under attack. Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is, for me, a tremendous source of strength,” the Nobel laureate wrote in his letter to Mamata that she received on Monday. Some Visva-Bharati officials have suggested that Sen is among the “illegal occupants” on the campus. Asked, Sen had told this newspaper that the family home, Pratichi, stood on land given on a long-term lease that was nowhere near expiry. “Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records…,” he had said. Sen had also suggested that there was a gulf between the culture of Santiniketan and that of the vice-chancellor, whom he described as “empowered” by the central government in Delhi. Mamata echoed Sen by saying the authorities of the central university were trying to end some of the old traditions of Santiniketan by stopping festivals like the Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela. The chief minister, who had written to Sen expressing surprise at the “baseless allegations” by “nouveau invaders” and urging him to count her as a “sister”, reached Bolpur on Monday afternoon to attend administrative and political programmes. “Amartya Sen is being attacked for his views against the Union government. This is completely unacceptable. Just like I am being attacked for my political views,” Mamata told reporters, asked why the varsity authorities had targeted Sen. The Nobel laureate had been openly critical of economic measures like the demonetisation and the growing intolerance in the country under Modi’s rule. “You all know what’s happening…. Even people like Amartya Sen are not spared,” Mamata said. “Amartya Sen is the pride of Bengal…. The entire world knows him. He is free to have his views and freedom of choice.” Mamata added that the BJP-led central government had launched a systematic effort to attack the culture of Bengal by trying to take control of Visva-Bharati, a university set up by Rabindranath Tagore. “There are so many such examples across the country…. Look at what happened to JNU or Nalanda University or Pondicherry University,” she said. Her support for Sen, undoubtedly one of the most celebrated contemporary icons of Bengal, has drawn huge applause in Santiniketan, where discontent with the varsity authorities has been brewing for the past year and a half. At an administrative meeting that she chaired in Bolpur, Mamata gave Santiniketan residents another reason to cheer. She announced she had signed an order to take back control of a road on the campus that the state government had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. Mamata said she had received a letter from some ashramites on Monday morning which requested her to take control of the road as the Visva-Bharati authorities were restricting vehicle movement by putting up barricades. “I read the letter while I was on the chopper to Bolpur…. Just before that I had signed on the PWD file to take back control of the road,” she said. Old-timers welcomed the move and said it would at least stop the harassment of residents by the varsity. “It’s really very good news. We welcome the chief minister’s step,” said Supriya Tagore, a member of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavana principal. After the meeting, Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh reached out to the residents and informed them of the chief minister’s decision. “I came here at the direction of the chief minister to inform them of her decision and to order the road’s return. It was a longstanding demand from the old-timers,” Singh said. The Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social organisation, had lodged at least 15 complaints with various police stations in Birbhum after an ABVP worker posted derogatory comments on Sen on social media. “After Visva-Bharati, the saffron camp now attacks and insults our pride of Bengal, economist Amartya Sen,” said Samirul Islam, the president of the outfit. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Diamond Harbour cop on ‘central deputation’ shifted||Diamond Harbour SP, Bholanath Pandey, who was one of the three IPS officers roped in by the Union government for central deputation after BJP president J.P. Nadda’s convoy had been attacked during his recent Bengal visit, was on Monday posted as SP Homeguard — a post considered to be of relatively lesser importance. Sources in the state home department said although the state government had ruled out the possibility of giving concurrence to the three IPS officers’ central deputation, the transfer of was an indication of admitting the security lapse during Nadda’s visit. The two other IPS officers, Rajeev Mishra and Praveen Tripathi — who were also asked to serve on central deputation — have, however, been spared the rod. On the contrary, inspector general, south Bengal, Rajeev Mishra — a 1996 batch officer — was elevated to the rank of additional director general of police, along with the rest of his batchmates on Monday as a part of the annual promotion protocol. There was no change in the post of Tripathi, DIG, Presidency range. “This is a clear indication that only the SP has been found to have been at fault. This also means the state is still holding its ground of not allowing any of the three officers to serve on central deputation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Traditionally and ethically, IPS officers are called on central deputation by the Centre only after consulting the state. That’s the ground on which the Bengal government objected to the Centre’s unilateral attachment of the IPS trio. Pandey, a 2011-batch officer, has been posted as senior staff officer, Homeguard organisation — a post equivalent to SP homeguard. Avijit Banerjee, who was posted as SP of the Barasat police district, has replaced Pandey in Diamond Harbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Accidental firing in Ranaghat SDO office||Two persons were injured in an accidental firing at the Ranaghat sub-divisional office on Monday when the owner of a revolver inadvertently pulled the trigger as he was unloading the cartridges before its submission for renewal of arms licence. While the bullet injured the index finger of revolver owner Anil Halder, a resident of Phulia in Nadia, it hit Harinarayan Halder, 73, a retired headmaster of Dhantala-Aranghata who had come to renew the licence of his double-barrel gun, in the buttock and came out through the thigh. Both were rushed to Ranaghat sub-divisional hospital in the town. While Anil was released after primary treatment, the elderly victim was admitted to the hospital. A doctor attending to Harinarayan said he was out of danger. “Since the bullet went out through a point over the thigh after entering through the buttock, it can be said that the elderly patient is out of danger.” Sources said the incident occurred about 10.15am when the renewal process of arms licence had begun at the SDO office in Ranaghat. Anil, who had accidentally fired his revolver, said: “It was an unintended mistake on my part. I forgot to unload the cartridges. While unloading the revolver, I had inadvertently pulled the trigger and it led to the accident.” Lying on the bed at the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital Harinarayan said: “I was standing near the counter for renewal of my double-barrel gun when I heard a sound. Within a few seconds, I felt pain in the buttock and someone pointed out that I was bleeding. They then took me to the hospital.” SDO, Ranaghat, Rana Karmakar, said: “It appears to be a case of accidental firing. The police have begun an inquiry. However, no complaint has been lodged in connection with the incident. If required, we will take action accordingly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Bankura picnickers die in trailer truck collision||Four persons, including three of a family, were killed and five injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a trailer truck on Bankura-Purulia road in Bankura’s Chhatna around 10pm on Sunday. Police said all those killed and injured were residents of Belia village on the outskirts of Bankura town. They were returning from Purulia’s Ayodhya Hills, where they had gone for a picnic on Sunday morning. The police said severe fog had covered the area on Sunday night and they suspected the vehicles were coming from opposite directions and collided because of low visibility. “There was a dense fog cover on the stretch and drivers of both the vehicles must have missed seeing each other because of poor visibility, which led to the crash,” said a police officer in Chhatna. All the injured were rushed to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared the four brought-dead. The injured persons had initially been taken to the Bankura hospital nut were later transferred to a private hospital in Durgapur. The deceased were identified as Santosh Kumar Mukherjee, 70, his wife Belarani Mukherjee, 64, and their daughter Uma Mukherjee, 42. The driver of the Maruti Omni Sumanta Baske, 22, was also killed. Sources said the Omni fell into a roadside ditch at Bhagwanpur village in Chhatna police station limit after the collision. Local people called the police and joined hands in rescuing the injured. The truck driver, however, managed to escape. The police have seized both the vehicles. Residents of Belia said the two families had hired the Omni to go on a picnic to Ayodhya Hills on Sunday. “We never thought that such a tragedy would strike them at the end of the trip. They were returning home when the accident took place,” said an elderly villager. The police said the bodies were handed over to the kin of those killed after post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Plea to change father’s name in TET exam form ||Former Bangladeshi citizens, whose enclaves were incorporated in India in 2015 and who became Indians, have written to the Bengal government to allow them to change the name of their father in the teacher eligibility test (TET) application forms. These citizens maintain that the residents of former Bangladeshi enclaves were forced to adopt “academic fathers” because of geographic hindrances and now want to enlist their “natural” father in the application forms. Rahman Ali was born and brought up at Poaturkuthi village, which was a Bangladesh enclave till five years ago. Since the place was surrounded by Indian territory, Ali claimed that he had no options but to attend a primary school in India. “There were no schools within walking distance (in Bangladesh then) and hence, I had to enrol myself at a nearby school at Khatmari (in India). For this, I had registered the name of my maternal uncle, Sabar Ali, as my father,” said Rahman. Sabar is a resident of Khatmari village in India. Rahman has had his uncle registered as his father in all academic documents right up to his post-graduate certificates instead of his natural father Naskar Ali. “This is the harsh reality of all residents of former Bangladesh enclaves that have been incorporated in India. We have two fathers, one an academic father and the other our natural father,” said Rahman. Following the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) 1974 and Protocol of 2011, 51 erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves in India and 111 erstwhile Indian enclaves in Bangladesh were transferred to the other country with effect from the midnight of July 31, 2015. All 14,863 residents of the Bangladesh enclaves in India opted for Indian nationality. Over the years, the former Bangladesh citizens have corrected anomalies in various government documents, including education certificates. The problem with Rahman and 10 other TET applications — they are all applying for a government examination for the first time — stems from the fact that the TET exam applications were filled up in 2017. “All my educational credentials right from secondary to post-graduation were corrected by May 5, 2018, but the problem is that I had applied for the primary TET examination on November 25, 2017, and hence, the name of the father registered in TET application form is wrong,” explained Rahman. The Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) for primary school is scheduled for January 31, 2021. Rahman and other youths from the erstwhile Bangladesh enclaves are worried that such a mismatch would pose problems for them in future. On Monday, Rahman wrote to the secretary, West Bengal Board of Primary Education, seeking to change his father’s name in the TET application form and also the name of his village from Khatmari to his original village Poaturkuthi. Rahman has also apprised Kanailal Dey, the district inspector of schools (secondary), Cooch Behar, of the matter. “I have received an application. I will check the details of the document after which it will be sent to higher authorities for their decision,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Sign of Congress revival bid in Malda celebration||The Congress in Malda observed the party’s foundation day with much spectacle after more than a decade, which many believe is an attempt to enthuse its workers in a region which was once considered the party’s bastion in Bengal. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury a.k.a Dalu, the South Malda MP and the district president of the party who had skipped public meetings in the past three months after being infected with the novel coronavirus, led the 136th foundation day celebrations at Hayat Bhavan, the district headquarters of the Congress. Few recollect Congress leaders celebrating the foundation day with such fervour this decade. “We wanted to mark the foundation day in a more organised way as we wanted to convey a message to our workers that we should not give up our fight against the ruling parties in the state and at the Centre,” said Isha Khan Choudhury, a Congress MLA. Members of the Congress’s different wings attended the celebration where sweets were distributed. There was a huge gathering at the event. The Congress has six MLAs and an MP in the district. In the past elections, the Congress used to sweep Malda which accounts for 12 MLAs and two MPs. During the time of A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, a seven-time MP from Malda and former railway minister, the Congress had a strong grip in the region. However, over the last couple of years, even family members of Ghani Khan, including his brother Abu Naser and nieces Mausam Noor and Shehnaz Quadery, left the Congress for Trinamul. Political observers believe with the rise of the BJP in Malda and the inroads being made by Trinamul into the district, the Congress is facing the heat from two ends. “They are trying all means to connect with the people and hold on to their constituency. Today’s event is a pointer,” said an observer. “We have voters and supporters. The only factor is they have to be organised again. The Congress has been doing that relentlessly,” said Kalisadhan Roy, district working president of the party. In the first week of December, the Congress had organised a mega rally as well in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Matuas up the ante on citizenship rights||Former MP and president of the Trinamul-backed Sarbabharatiya Matua Mahasangha, Mamatabala Thakur, on Monday launched a movement at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, demanding unconditional citizenship rights for the Matuas, categorically rejecting the Citizenship Amendment Act that they felt would rob them of the rights to stay in India. Mamatabala’s movement comes in the backdrop of BJP MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha, Santanu Thakur, voicing discontent over the Centre’s delay in implementing the CAA and his claim that rules under the new act did not go down well with the Matuas. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh met Santanu here on Monday and ruled out the latter leaving the party. Matuas are a group of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal drive to fix gaps in infrastructure and services||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a 45-day initiative called Paray Paray Samadhan (Solution at neighbourhood) to address problems in infrastructure and services at local levels. The new initiative is a follow up to the Duare Sarkar programme, which was launched to reach out to people left out of government schemes. “We have taken a new initiative Paray Paray Samadhan — to address local issues and to keep it at par with the Duare Sarkar programme — in a mission mode. The initiative would meet the local demands which don’t require large scale infrastructure projects,” the chief minister said during an administrative review meeting in Bolpur’s Gitanjali auditorium on Monday. Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the drive would start on January 2 and continue till February 15. “The state has already received 10,000 requests from various corners of the state to address local problems. The requests include a small infrastructure gap, lack of personnel at important institutes like health centres or some service gap in the locality like lack of pipe-line based drinking water supply. The new initiative would address the issues,” said Bandyopadhyay. Sources at Nabanna said the programme had been planned after it was found that community-based problems were not being addressed through Duare Sarkar camps as people were visiting the camps to get to know about schemes that benefit individuals like pension schemes or Swasthya Sathi scheme. The sources also said majority of the requests already submitted to the government were related to missing road links, lack of drinking water facilities, lack of paramedical staff or doctors at the local health centres. The missing road links could be completed by erecting a culvert or by laying 2 to 3 km of rural roads, said an officer. Similarly, installation of a deep tubewell would solve the drinking water problems of a community, said an official. “So, these are not costly for the government, but it needs an organised effort to solve the problems. The new programme would be initiated to address the issues in a coordinated manner,” the official added. Officials said during the tenure of the Trinamul-led government in the past 10 years, major large scale infrastructure-related issues like development highways, setting up of Krishak Bazars  and Karmatirthas were taken up. “It is the time to look into the small infrastructure gaps,” said a source. A section of the officials, however, pointed out that during the Left Front, departments like Western Region Development and Sunderban development used to look after the infrastructure gaps at the grass roots level. “Now, it seems that the departments have done nothing in the past 10 years and that’s why the state government was forced to launch a new scheme centrally ahead of the polls to address the local infrastructure gaps even after spending 10 years in power,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Daily Covid toll below 30 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 63rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, improving by nearly 65 per cent, from 37,190 to 13,161. The state on Monday logged 1,614 recoveries, 1,028 new infections — on a day tests were 28,095, considerably less than the 42,000-45,000 conducted usually — and 27 deaths. For the first time in months, the state recorded less than 30 deaths for two days on the trot. “We expect the total of active cases to fall below 13,000 on Tuesday. If we can end the year with less than 12,000 active cases, that would be a splendid achievement. More so, considering even 23,000 would have been a decent show, given the stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was on July 15, 166 days ago. In this spell of turnaround, Bengal recorded over 2.15 lakh recoveries, compared to 1.94 lakh new cases detected. The state now has a total of over 5.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.25 lakh recoveries and 9,625 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 67 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.85, short of the national rate by just 0.04 per cent now. “We are confident of ending the year with over 96 in our recovery rate. That is better than our target of 93, revised to 95,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.84 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count is now 69.93 lakh, at 77,709 tests per million people. The 27 deaths reported included four from the city. Of the total deaths, 8,064, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal reported 12.87 per cent occupancy in the 13,588 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 5.51 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata cancels Nandigram visit on January 7||Chief minister and Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee has cancelled her scheduled visit to Nandigram in East Midnapore on January 7 after a senior district leader tested positive for Covid19 and was rushed to a hospital in Calcutta on Monday. “Didi will not visit Nandigram on January 7,” Trinamul leader Seikh Sufian and deputy chief of the East Midnapore zilla parishad said. “Our Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri has tested positive for coronavirus and hence, the programme, which would have led to a large gathering, has been cancelled,” Sufian said and added that Mamata would visit Nandigram as soon as Giri recovered from the illness. Although Mamata’s rally will not be held, a meeting of Trinamul workers will be organised. The party’s state president Subrata Bakshi will attend the meeting. Trinamul observes Saheed Divas or Martyrs’ Day on January 7 in Nandigram every year in memory of the three villagers killed in a shootout during the antiland acquisition agitation on the same date in 2007. The change in Mamata’s plan has dashed the hopes of the family members of the martyrs who had hoped to meet the chief minister on January 7. Pabitra Maiti, 50, a resident of Sonachura and father of Biswajit Maiti, one of those killed on January 7, 2007, said though Mamata had visited Nandigram several times in the past 13 years, the now cancelled tour would’ve been her first on Saheed Divas. “I was overjoyed when I heard that Didi would address us on Saheed Divas. But now I’m told that the programme has been cancelled. I’m disappointed,” Maiti said. Local Trinamul leader Abu Taher, who had been a part of the Nandigram movement, said the change of plans had upset local people. “Saheed Divas is an emotion for the people here. Didi had said she would come and now that the plan has been cancelled, people are upset,” Taher, who is the vicepresident of Nandigram panchayat samiti, said. The change in plans has also hit the BJP as former Trinamul minister and turncoat Suvendu Adhikari had announced that he would hold a rally to counter Mamata on January 8. With Mamata not coming to Nandigram on January 7, the BJP is unsure about its January 8 plans. “Since Mamata Banerjee has cancelled the programme, Suvendu doesn’t need to hold a counterrally,” said Kanishka Panda, a leader close to Adhikari. “She has never come to Nandigram on this day. Suvendu’s popularity has scared her and she decided to be here,” Panda said. “Mamata’s programme has been cancelled because Trinamul is afraid of the counterrally Suvendu had announced to hold on January 8,” he added and almost echoed what BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said in Calcutta when asked for his reaction to the chief minister’s change in plan. Panda asked why Trinamul could not hold a programme in Nandigram if Akhil Giri was unwell. “Giri is not the legislator from Nandigram, nor is he the party’s district chief,” Panda said. The district Trinamul committee will meet over the cancellation of CM’s programme on Tuesday morning. However, the party’s chief for the district and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari and Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, the father and brother of Suvendu Adhikari, respectively, were not invited to the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-257
29-12-2020||North East||JDU spoils BJP party in Arunachal polls||Debutant Janata Dal (United) has prevented the ruling BJP from making a clean sweep of the local body polls in Arunachal Pradesh, days after six of its seven MLAs officially joined the BJP in the frontier state. The BJP has won maximum seats in the panchayat polls and even won the Pasighat Municipal Council polls convincingly but the hung verdict in the Itanagar Municipal Corporation (IMC), which covers the state capital area, has taken the sheen off its overall victory. Of the 20 seats that make the IMC, the BJP won 10 seats, JD(U) nine and National People’s Party (NPP) one seat. Of the ten seats that the BJP won, five were uncontested. Therefore, effectively election was held for 15 seats. The Congress drew a blank, its downslide in the state continues. The BJP watchers said despite the overall emphatic showing by the ruling party, the IMC result was a sort of setback because  the seat of administration falls under the IMC. “The BJP is well placed to  form the corporation but it would have been a different feeling had it won a majority on its own. JD(U) played spoilsport,” one of them said. State JD(U) president Ruhi Tagung said he was happy with the overall outcome.“ Effectively we are the winners. We won nine of the 14 seats we contested, that too where voters are more informed. We are happy with the outcome even if we are short by two seats to form the corporation because it came against the ruling party, amid possible departure of our six MLAs. “The voters  believed in us, what we said, Nitish  ji’s leadership and the performance of our MLA (Techi Kaso),” Tagung said. Kaso is the lone remaining MLA with the JD(U). The other six MLAs joined the BJP on December 23, a day after the polls, but buzz about their impending departure started growing since November. The JD(U) and NPP,  part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, are, however, not allies of the ruling party in the state. The defection of the six MLAs to the BJP has not gone down well with the Central leadership. Asked whether they will join the BJP in forming the council or remain in the Opposition, Tagung said that will be clear within a few days. “ We will go by what our leadership decides,” Tagung said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s close aide R.C.P. Singh was on Sunday appointed the new JD(U) president. The state BJP president B. Wahge said they are happy with the overall outcome and will  form the corporation with the help of the NPP when asked whether they will approach the JD(U) for support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
29-12-2020||Opinion||Grey areas: negative GDP growth||The Reserve Bank of India recently revised its projection for the growth rate of the gross domestic product for 2021 to a negative 7.5 per cent from the earlier negative 9.5 per cent. This represents an improvement in the forecast, since the RBI perceives India’s economic recovery to be gathering greater momentum since the festive season. According to the RBI, although consumer and business confidence levels are still very low, expectations about the future are significantly brighter. The bank’s optimism rests on a prediction made from a baseline scenario, which assumes that in the near future there is no uptick in inflation rates and that the pandemic is under control without any deterioration through the advent of a second wave. These assumptions might not turn out to be robust: the current consumer price index inflation has already breached the RBI’s tolerance limit of 4 per cent. Headline inflation is well above 7 per cent, and food and beverages inflation is above 11 per cent as recorded in October 2020. The index of industrial production grew by 0.2 per cent in September this year. This is hardly anything to be pleased about. The economy is far from a stable path to recovery, with supply chains still disrupted and unemployment and disguised unemployment at alarming levels. Education and other major sectors like hospitality and travel remain in the doldrums. On the coronavirus front, there is already a wave of new infections based on a mutant strain that is threatening Europe. There is no reason yet to believe that the nation is immune to this new menace. The availability of the vaccine in India is not quite certain either. To be fair, the RBI has nothing more to do at the moment. It has placed a large menu of enabling credit lines on the table. It is for producers and consumers to feel the urgency to avail of these enablers to boost demand and production. So far, that confidence is just not showing. The commercial banks are wary of opening the credit taps too fast, fearing it will open a floodgate of bad debts. Beyond these enabling facilities, the RBI had to pause in its efforts to make credit cheaper since the rate of inflation moved beyond its stated upper limit of tolerance pegged at 6 per cent. If inflation gets worse, the central bank might even have to raise policy rates. There is still a large zone of uncertainty, and the near future remains unpredictable. Hopefully, the RBI’s latest projections are not too wide off the mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||Out of breath: air pollution in India||Breathing polluted air is far deadlier than inhaling the coronavirus. A study published in The Lancet Planetary Health showed that foul air caused 1.67 million premature deaths during 2019 in India — this is more than 10 times the country’s coronavirus death toll so far. The figure is also 30 per cent higher than earlier estimates of mortality attributed to foul air. Strikingly, the economic burden of air pollution owing to the lost output from premature deaths and morbidity is considerable: the losses have been pegged at Rs 2,60,000 crore or 1.4 per cent of the nation’s GDP. These data sets indicate that India’s fight against air pollution is failing on a number of fronts. The principal concerns — unchecked industrial emissions, vehicular pollution and construction activity — remain unaddressed. But this is only a part of the problem. Air pollution is a layered phenomenon and its causes reveal regional variations. Consider northern India that registered the highest number of deaths. The air there is seasonally poisoned by stubble burning in spite of an order by the Supreme Court to make seeders available at subsidized prices. The availability of technology is not enough; it must also be made accessible. Debt-ridden farmers — 52.5 per cent of India’s agricultural households are in debt says a study by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development — cannot afford to either rent or buy seeders. There are other anomalies. There is a disproportionate focus on the National Capital Region as far as the public discourse and policy initiatives are concerned even though there is research — a study conducted by IIT-Delhi and the Central Pollution Control Board is an example — to show that rural areas are witnessing degradation in air quality as well. The need for urgent intervention is brought out by the connection between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality; a Harvard University study showed that an increase of only one microgramme per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. Tackling air pollution in the Indian context is also tied to social justice and poverty alleviation. A significant percentile of mortality has been sourced to household air pollution. This goes to underscore the importance of schemes such as Unnat Chulha Abhiyan, 2014 and the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, 2016; both have much ground to cover. India’s transportation apparatus needs to be modernized too, with green energy given due priority. Last but not the least is the public inertia concerning pollution. Education and awareness can make a difference but there is a dearth in investment and targeted approach in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||The boot’s on the secular face||Insightful commentators on our politics have tried to make sense of the unyielding vishwas that people repose in the country’s leadership despite economic devastation, a humiliating military setback, the mauling of the institutions of governance, and policies that have impoverished and diminished us as a nation. The reason ascribed to this devotion is an undiminished belief in a charismatic leader who has sacrificed everything for the nation; who embodies a virile Hindu nationalism and seeks common good; a visionary who stirs the imagination and inspires trust even when the vision is flawed. This undying vishwas is shored up by an unrelenting propaganda helmed by a servile media and is further abetted by fanatical social media admirers. His invincibility has been reinforced by a clueless Opposition and by the dissipation of class, caste and regional affiliations. This melange of explanations for the infinite faith in our supreme leader obfuscates the core determinant of this amaurotic vishwas. The cardinal inspiration for this unswerving devotion to the leadership stems from what George Orwell calls “an admiration for power and successful cruelty” against the perceived enemy. Those occupying the command posts of the institutions of governance have shown that they know how to deal with the ‘Muslim threat’. Devout bhakts cheer them on, in much the same way the Roman mobs in the Colosseum did when people were ripped to shreds by lions. The last few years have seen a sustained, wanton offensive against a community that has been stigmatized like never before. The social terrorism manifested in lynchings, cow vigilantism, ghar wapsi and love jihad campaigns is the new normal and designed to consign Muslims to a ghettoized, pariah status. The abrogation of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, apart from striking at the heart of our secular Constitution, deliver an unambiguous message that Muslims are second-class citizens who do not ‘belong’ to the idea of India crafted by the ruling dispensation. The anti-CAA protests from December 2019 to February 2020 were a truly democratic upsurge spearheaded by women and students who stepped forward to reclaim the country’s egalitarian essence. The Preamble, the national flag and the national anthem were the overarching symbols of this mass movement. The unexpected solidarity across class and community rattled the government, which attacked anti-CAA protesters as anti-national, tukde tukde gangs fanning anarchy and endangering the rule of law. The anti-CAA protests filled Muslims with fleeting optimism of a more just tomorrow but, tragically, this fight for equal citizenship rights was snuffed out by the communal riots in Northeast Delhi that coincided with the deadly pandemic that ended all protests. The restraints imposed by the pandemic have been used by the government to tiptoe around its constitutional commitment to the democratic values of freedom, equality and justice. Using the pandemic as an excuse, the governing elite has done everything possible to discredit, delegitimize, even silence the voices speaking for the dispossessed. Draconian laws like the NSA and the UAPA have been used with devastating effect to stifle dissent.  The transformation of the peaceful anti-CAA protests into a ‘secessionist’ movement propagating ‘armed rebellion’, as portrayed in the police charge sheets on the Delhi riots, is Kafkaesque in its distortion. The first reports and reactions to a conflagration are often the most telling pointers to what really happened. The graphic videos and reports of those nightmarish days in February clearly suggest that the Muslims suffered far greater losses to life and property than their Hindu neighbours. Three former Supreme Court judges who visited the riot-hit areas for a personal assessment came away with the impression that “Muslims seem to have been targeted in the riots.” Official figures bear this out: around 75 per cent of those killed were Muslim and 85 per cent of properties damaged belonged to Muslims. Fourteen mosques and a dargah were gutted. The home minister’s initial observation noted “that the professional assessment is that the violence in the capital has been spontaneous.” This statement was seen by many as a defensive feint against allegations that the riots were the upshot of an insidious right-wing plot. However, after the spin doctors had conjured up an alternative narrative, the home minister informed Parliament that the riots were “pre-planned”. The bloodletting had by then mutated into an anti-Hindu riot that was the handiwork of an ‘Urban Naxal-jihadi’ network. Muslims are subjected to everyday harassment, denigration and discrimination. They are stigmatized as purveyors of corona jihad; they are stopped from selling their goods in non-Muslim localities; the chief justice of the Telangana High Court asks in exasperation why only Muslims are pulled up for violating lockdown rules — the list of woes is endless. Worryingly, the justice system has often failed to respond to these depredations. In a truly egalitarian society, Muslims would fight for justice. But in the face of institutional bias and a pathological social hostility, this is easier said than done. Some optimists hope for our own ‘George Floyd moment’, but seeing the ground realities today, I keep visualizing Orwell’s grim prognosis: “If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face — forever.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Opinion||For a better future||We have all heard of Russia’s disinformation campaigns in recent years, thanks to the previous election in the United States of America that made Donald Trump the president of the US for one term. The authors of a report produced with support from the State Department’s Global Engagement Center say that disinformation can include authentic material used deliberately in a wrong context to make a false connection, such as an authentic picture displayed with a fake caption. It can take the form of fake news sites or the ones that are intentionally designed to resemble well-known sites. The report concludes that the use of disinformation as a tool for influence and obfuscation will never cease. Similarly, the underlying psychological factors that make humans vulnerable to disinformation are enduring. “What will change, however, are the technologies by which disinformation is created and spread.” Earlier this month, the Brussels-based EU DisinfoLab uncovered an allegedly Indian disinformation network that has been operating since 2005 to discredit Pakistan, in particular, among other countries (like China) that are in conflict with India. The investigative report titled, Indian Chronicles, shows that the disinformation campaign was designed primarily to “discredit Pakistan internationally” and influence decision-making at the European Parliament and the UNHRC. The EU DisinfoLab termed this as the “largest network” of disinformation it has exposed so far. According to the BBC, “[a] dead professor and numerous defunct organisations were resurrected and used alongside at least 750 fake media outlets in a vast 15-year global disinformation campaign to serve Indian interests”. India, obviously, denied this report. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, Anurag Srivastava, said: “As a responsible democracy, India does not practice disinformation campaigns. If you are looking at disinformation, the best example is the country next door which is circulating fictional and fabricated dossiers and purveys a regular stream of fake news.” Pakistan’s foreign office dismissed India’s so-called denial. A foreign office spokesman said: “The MEA’s tall claims have no legs to stand on. The latest developments and international exposés have clearly shown that India is neither ‘responsible’ nor a ‘democracy’.” The foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, called on the United Nations “to create processes that ensure that the international system is not manipulated through such influence operations”. There are countries around the world that work in different ways to protect their own interests by targeting their rival countries. Such smooth operations, although uncommon, are not unheard of. The EU DisinfoLab report said that it uncovered an entire network of coordinated UN-accredited NGOs promoting Indian interests and criticizing Pakistan repeatedly. These “UN-accredited NGOs work in coordination with non-accredited think-tanks and minority-rights NGOs in Brussels and Geneva. Several of them... were directly but opaquely created by the Srivastava group. In Geneva, these think-tanks and NGOs are in charge of lobbying, of organising demonstrations, speaking during press conferences and UN side-events, and they were often given the floor at the UN on behalf of the accredited organisations.” The report suggests that the alleged Indian network continued to operate for 15 years. It means that this network began working during the Pervez Musharraf era when there were relatively peaceful relations between the two countries. During the Musharraf era, a four-point formula was also pushed to resolve the Kashmir issue. However, it did not materialize. We know that India and Pakistan have a history of mistrust and have fought traditional wars as well as proxy battles. Both countries have come to the brink of war a few times as well. In recent years, especially under the Narendra Modi regime, the ties between the two neighbours have soured to such an extent that there seems to be no way forward. It is quite unfortunate that we have come to such a pass. We cannot change our geography, neighbours or history but we can at least try and build bridges. In October, Moeed Yusuf, special assistant to Prime Minister Imran Khan, had said that the two countries “need to sit down like adults” and talk about the two fundamental issues affecting their ties — Kashmir and terrorism. “There has to be an enabling environment to talk. Create that and you will find us willing the next day. Take that one step [and] you will see my prime minister take two,” Yusuf told Karan Thapar in an exclusive interview. That is the crux of the matter. Pakistan has been extending an olive branch to the Indian leadership for many years now. In July 2018, right after his party claimed victory in the general elections, Imran Khan said that he believes that trade between India and Pakistan is important to improve economics in the subcontinent. This will be beneficial for both the countries. Even at the height of the post-Pulwama crisis, Khan made several peace overtures to India. However, the Indian side was not willing to listen. And is still not willing to move forward. The year, 2020, is ending. The global coronavirus pandemic is still at large but in the next few months, it will hopefully be under control once the vaccination drive is completed across the world. The year, 2021, will be a new beginning for all of us in many ways as we have just come out of a year that led to chaos around the world. It should be a lesson for all of us not to take anything for granted and also to make changes in our thinking in the larger interest of our communities. It would thus be a good time for India and Pakistan to rethink their relationship. Countries do not prosper easily if there is conflict in the neighbourhood. The bitter past shared by India and Pakistan has led to the failure of Saarc, a regional organization that could have brought prosperity to the South Asian region. The people of the region continue to suffer as a result of this traditional rivalry. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught us, it is that the healthcare sector is ill-equipped to deal with a pandemic, especially in South Asia. Pakistan has done well in combating the virus compared to most countries in the world but the second wave is upon us. Instead of fighting wars that have cost us billions, the two neighbours should be fighting the real war — the war against poverty. We should be investing in our people by improving our health sector, by improving our education system, by improving the living standards of our nations. It is time for new beginnings. India and Pakistan should take a step forward and start talking to each other. The year, 2021, must see some positivity after a year in which the world saw only darkness. We must change our priorities. Here is to peace and prosperity in the new year. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chatra police recovers dead body of CPI (Maoist)'s zonal commander||The police recovered the dead body of Paramjeet alias Sonu Das, zonal commander of Communist Party of India (CPI) (Maoist) from Tikda village which falls under the Lawalong police station. According to police officials, Das had been murdered but they are yet to understand whether extremists or criminals were involved in this killing. He had a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head. Significantly, Das had recently formed another outfit called the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), which was functional in Chatra. Police sources maintained that they had rushed to the spot immediately after being informed about the murder on Tuesday afternoon. As an active Maoist zonal commander, Das had soured his relationship with many in the area. The police, after a primary investigation had concluded that Das had been murdered in some other place following which his body had been dumped in Tikda village. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha confirmed the news of the murder and recovery of his dead body. He said, “We will do a thorough investigation to solve the murder case and understand the motive behind the murdered and who is behind this killing.” The dead body has been sent to Chatra Sadar Hospital for postmortem. His killing has once again highlighted the issue of gun battles between the rival outfits. However, the officials refuted this claim and said regular operations are on in a bid to contain all extremist activities in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Patna Festive Express to run for one more month||The Indian Railway on Tuesday extended the operations of the Dhanbad-Patna-Dhanbad Festival Express for another month, till January 31, thereby providing a much needed relief to the passengers travelling between the two towns. The train, having one First AC coach, Two 2- tier AC coaches, four 3- tier AC coaches, 9 Sleeper coaches, six general coaches, and two break vans, was initially meant for operating till November 30. Later, the services got extended for one month between December 1 to December 30, before the new announcement was made. Senior Divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad Akhilesh Kumar Pandey told The Telegraph Online that the extended train will have the same time schedule. It will leave from Dhanabd at  around 11.20 pm and reach Patna at around 5.15 am. During its return, the train will leave Patna Junction at around 11.30 pm and will reach Dhanbad at around 5.20 am. “The extension of the train will help the thousands of people travelling between Dhanbad and Bokaro,” Pintu Kumar Singh, member of the Zonal Railway User Consultative Committee of East Central Railway, said. “We would also request the Railway administration to relaunch the Dhanbad-Patna Intercity Express, which runs during the day hours. It will help avoid the rush in the Ganga-Damodar Express,” Singh added. In another development, the Railway administration said that the Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express will be relaunched from January 8, instead of January 1, from Dhanbad. The decision has been made keeping in mind the ongoing route relay interlocking work going at Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh. The return journey of Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express however will begin from Alappuzzha on  September 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Software Technology Park inaugurated during govt function||Dhanbad on Tuesday saw the inauguration of the Software Technology Park at Sindri as the JMM-Congress-RJD government at the state celebrated one year of its completion by launching 15 different projects in Jharkhand, among others. The park, whose construction began in 2016, was built at a cost of Rs 18 crore on three acres of land near BIT-Sindri. It is expected to be useful for the students of IIT (ISM) and BIT-Sindri, researchers of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), and executives of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Maithon Power Limited (MPL) and Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). Detailing about its advantages to the students, BIT-Sindri Director Dr D.K. Singh said, “The software technology park situated in our vicinity will provide opportunities for engineering students to work on live projects. It will also help provide internship opportunities for them.” Umesh Prasad Sah, general manager of Ranchi Business Area of BSNL, and a BIT alumnus, said the project was identified in 2015 itself, when he was in Ranchi as Director IT. Sah, who earlier visited Sindri several times to carry out supervision of the establishment of the park, further said that it will spur technological advancements in the area and would be more useful at a time when the government is concentrating on promoting startups. Meanwhile a host of other schemes were also inaugurated during the district level programme held on the occasion of the government’s anniversary at Golf Ground. Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, and senior officials of district administration led by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh were also present at the function. The schemes inaugurated during the occasion included construction of a town hall for Chirkunda Nagar Parshad worth Rs 3.46 crores, construction of marriage halls of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation worth Rs 2.99 crores each in ward Numbers 23 and 26, and the broadening of a 13.32 kilometre road between Palma and Rajganj worth Rs 65.03 crores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||State BJP rates Hemant govt ‘zero’ on scale of 10||MPs and MLAs of the Opposition BJP and its allies boycotted the government’s official function in Ranchi, and those that were held in the districts, to mark its first year in office on Tuesday, releasing a report to list the alleged “failures” of the Hemant Soren-led coalition. In a 28-page report card on the Hemant Soren government’s one year in office, the BJP gave it “zero out of 10” even as chief minister Hemant Soren presided over a mammoth gathering at Morabadi Ground and announced a series of new projects to mark the day. Talking to reporters at its party office, state BJP president Deepak Prakash and BJP leader of the legislature party Babulal Marandi said: “On the scale of 10, we give a big zero to this government on the basis of its work in one year.” The saffron camp accused the government of duping farmers in the name of paddy procurement and blocking the Centre’s coal block auctions which caused losses to the state exchequer. It also criticised the government for failing to provide jobs or employment allowances as promised during last year’s Assembly elections. Marandi reiterated how Naxalite activities and crimes were taking place unabated ever since the Hemant government took charge. "Crime against women is the biggest achievement of this government. Over 1,500 females including minors were subjected to different forms of crime. Development works came to a standstill while corruption at the ground level has peaked,” he alleged. Prakash said, “While the government is always crying about a funds crunch, it feels no shame in splurging on lavish celebrations. This exposes the government’s lies. The money should have been spent on the welfare of the poor, many of whom are out of jobs due to the pandemic related crisis.” AJSU-P, a constituent of the NDA in Jharkhand, also attacked the Hemant government and accused it of non-performance, It observed the day as “vishwasghat diwas” across the state. In a statement, AJSU-P chief and Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto said, “the government betrayed youths, farmers and women. All that it did in one year was to blame others and Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Real estate agent shot dead in steel city||A 42-year-old real estate agent was shot dead by two unidentified bike-borne criminals near Azadnagar thana in Mango on Tuesday afternoon. The murdered victim, identified as Mohammad Danish was returning on a scooter from a local mosque at about 1 pm when the assailants attacked him. They fired five shots at the victim, but it was the one that hit his head that proved to be lethal for Danish. A few local residents rushed him to Tata Main Hospital, which is about a 20 minutes drive from the spot but only to be declared dead by the doctors on emergency duty. Azadnagar OC, Vishnu Raut reached the spot immediately. Soon City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat arrived at the scene of crime to begin their investigation. “The murder victim was a land dealer. He too had a criminal record. Primary investigation suggests that he was murdered due to enmity that arose over some monetary transaction related to some land or property sale-purchase,” said the Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. He mentioned that CCTV footage from the scene of crime would be used to recognize and trace the assailants. According to Raut, the victim would often sell unauthorised government land and had developed enmity with several rivals in the real estate business. He said, “Danish had been arrested under the Arms Act twice.” According to eyewitnesses, the victim, a resident of Mango’s Noor Colony was sitting on his stationary scooter near a turning that led to his colony. “At the sight of two bike-borne criminals, Danish started the scooter and tried to escape. But the assailants were quick in firing. One of the shots hit Danish on his shoulder, following which he fell. This made the killers come closer and fire on his head from a close range,” said one of the eyewitnesses to this website requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||New projects, new schemes mark Hemant govt’s anniversary bash||Project launches, announcements of welfare schemes and a stirring speech by chief minister Hemant Soren wherein he promised fast-paced development so that Jharkhand would not have to beg for funds after he completed his five-year term marked the JMM-led coalition government’s mega bash to celebrate its first year in office on Tuesday. “I promise that this state will not have to beg before anyone after five years if everyone cooperates and works towards a common goal. Be it World Bank or Government of India, we won’t have to beg before anyone for anything, if I get enough cooperation from everyone,” Hemant said, promising to speed up development so that Jharkhand is self-sustainable in the next five years. At a gala function held at the sprawling Morabadi ground here with over 1,500 people in attendance _ mostly seated at an arm’s length from each other _ Hemant showcased his government’s success stories, reflecting on how despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic and a severe financial crunch, the government was able to fulfil some of the poll promises in its first year in office. Hitting out at the previous BJP government, he said, “We were given an empty treasury when we formed the government. We were left with a crumbling health infrastructure to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. But we didn’t panic. Today, with zero testing facilities, we managed to ensure all districts and block levels have testing and treatment facilities. We also didn’t panic when our MLAs and ministers got infected, one of them (Haji Hussain) even died. Today, Jharkhand’s Covid management is being hailed by everyone… we are among the top states with low morality and high recovery.” Hemant noted how Jharkhand was the first state to bring back migrants during the lockdown and fed lakhs of people for months. “We had to rework our strategies for resources, reform taxation to generate our own funds. We also ensured that we keep our promise of allowing farm loan waivers,” he said, reiterating that the focus in the coming years would be on becoming self-sufficient in all respects. “Beyond mines, we have enough resources to develop—like tourism, sports, animal husbandry and so on. There are many states who are developed without mining. We can also do so,” he said. Addressing the challenges of employment, he said, “Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) will begin recruitment from January. Focus for the coming year will be on education, tribal upliftment, jobs and fulfilling other necessities, besides working towards exploring our areas of strength like tourism and providing the right market linkages to minor mineral forest produce.” State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon hailed the passing of the Assembly resolution for a separate Sarna code as one of the biggest achievements of the government towards tribal welfare. The sound of nagadas and traditional trumpets welcomed the gathering at Morabadi ground where security was tight to ensure compliance of basic Covid safety guidelines. As the crowd, including beneficiaries of schemes, sat under the giant hangers set up at the venue and waited for the chief minister, folk artist Nandlal Nayak’s troupe put up a dance performance. The function was scheduled to begin at 12.30pm, but Hemant arrived about half an hour late as he had gone to Raj Bhavan to call on governor Droupadi Murmu to greet her on the occasion. Among the VIPs who were present on the dais were former JMM supremo Shibu Soren, Hemant’s wife Kalpana, ministers Rameshwar Oraon, Badal Patralekh, Satyanand Bhokta and Congress Jharkhand affairs in-charge R.P.N. Singh. The Jharkhand State Agricultural Debt Waiver Scheme has been introduced to ensure security and sustenance of about 38 lakh farmers who cultivate approximately 38 hectares of land. The scheme will help farmers whose livelihood often comes under threat due to weather conditions or unforeseen circumstances like COVID-19. Its wide ambit includes both raiyat and non-raiyat farmers who hail from Jharkhand and are linked to a certain banks through Kisan Credit Card (KCC). Under this scheme, loans disbursed until March 31, 2020 will be waived for arrears of up to Rs 50,000. To ensure transparency, the chosen mode of implementation of the scheme is direct benefit transfer (DBT). One member per family can avail benefits of the scheme for which he/she needs to put in an application at Re 1 and submit a ration card as identity proof. Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Transnational Scholarship Scheme will provide an opportunity every year to 10 young students from scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, minorities and backward classes of the state to pursue their education in selected institutions of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Jharkhand Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR)-2020 will focus on all-round development of backward areas of health, education, nutrition, employment and promotion of sports. Jharkhand Fasal Rahat Yojana/Scheme (JFRY) will enable farmers to avail of financial assistance in case of crop damage caused due to natural disasters or accidents. JharSewa Campaign was launched to ensure timely execution of 331 services under the Public Service Guarantee Act. It also serves as an interface for citizens to avail various citizen-centric services from respective government departments. The goal is to reach a state of “zero pendency” in terms of request for services. A helpline number (Dial *181) was started to provide any kind of assistance requested by women across the state at any given point of time. It will be able to provide immediate assistance, or guidance, to women who find themselves trapped in an uncomfortable situation. The number will also provide information on various government schemes and programmes. As many as 27 schools of excellence will be set up in the state. The total cost for this project is over Rs 120.70 crore. In a bid to ensure accessible education to everyone in the state, at least one intermediate-level school has been assigned to every district of the state. Jharkhand State Food Security Scheme will cover 15 lakh people not covered by the National Food Security Act. They will receive 5kg rice at Re 1 per kg. A separate ration card will be issued in the name of the female head of every family. The preference will be ascribed to primitive tribal families, widows, the abandoned, those suffering from incurable diseases and the elderly who are living with them. Chief Minister Livestock Development Scheme will focus on increasing production of animal husbandry products like milk, meat and eggs to augment household incomes. Universal Welfare for the Elderly Scheme caters to all senior citizens of the state who will receive Rs 1,000 per month as pension. Among the new projects that were initiated are the phase-II of Ranchi urban drinking water scheme (Rs 752.38 crore), Ranchi zone-1 sewerage drainage project (Rs 209.05 crore), Eco-tourism circuit in Dalma, Chandil, Getalsud, Betla, Mirchai and Netarhat (Rs 52 crore), 27 schools of excellence (Rs 120 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Better facilities at Begarhia for new settlers from fire zone ||The Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) is set to deploy labour for day to day operation of water and power supply for the quarters of rehabilitated people of underground fire zones at their new place of settlement in Belgarhia to ensure betterment of basic facilities. A tender worth Rs 7.67 lakhs was issued on Tuesday deployment of labour for the operation and maintenance of water and electricity supply at 4,000 quarters of Belgarhia, which were built during the Phase II and Phase III of the construction. The move comes after Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner and former managing director of the JRDA Uma Shankar during his December 23 inspection at the site expressed discontent over  poor maintenance of electricity and water supply in certain pockets of the colony. He had instructed the JRDA authorities to constitute committees of local residents of Belgarhia to look after the issue. Executive Engineer of the JRDA, antosh Mishra said, “As the project is related to units that were constructed during the initial phases deployment of labour is being made by us. For the new quarters, operation and maintenance of the water supply system will be made by the committees.” At present, construction of 6,352 quarters in the locality has been completed in three phases, in which 5,000 families from different fire affected areas have been rehabilitated. Around 12,000 more quarters are still under construction. In a related development, the JRDA has decided to discontinue the old arrangement of  payment of electricity bills of the rehabilitated people from its own funds. Instead, it has decided to make the allottees of the quarters (newly settled families) to make payments of their electricity bill on  their own. At present, the monthly electricity bill of around 5,000 families rehabilitated from the different underground fire affected areas is being made by the JRDA itself. A total of  1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire affected areas of Jharia coal field region, including around 28,000 legal title holder families and around 76,000 illegal encroachers, are supposed to be rehabilitated to the safer place. However, only 5,000 families have so far been rehabilitated since March 25, 2020, when the process began.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ishan to lead Jharkhand in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy||Dashing  southpaw Ishan Kishan will captain the Jharkhand squad  in the  Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament beginning at various on January 10 next year. Jharkhand launch their campaign against Tamil Nadu in an Elite B tie in Calcutta on January 10. The 18-member squad comprises Ranji Trophy regulars of the likes of Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron and Shahbaz Nadeem, to name a few. Young Jamshedpur-based left-hander Virat Singh will be Ishan’s deputy. He was in the Hyderabad Sunrisers team for the Indian Premier League (IPL) but did not play a single match. The team looks balanced and is expected to perform well in the tournament. “We have tried to pick a balanced team which has a blend of youth and experience. Ishan is in good form and was the natural choice to lead the side,” a Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) official said on condition of anonymity. Ishan, who originally hails from Bihar but represents Jharkhand in BCCI domestic tournaments, was the skipper of the Indian under-19 team in the 2016 World Cup, and played for Mumbai Indians in the recently concluded IPL in Dubai. He impressed with his solid batting and also contributed to Mumbai retaining the trophy. Tiwary and left-arm spinner Anukul Roy were also in the Mumbai squad. Experienced spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, who turned out for Sunrisers Hyderabad, is expected to play a handy role in the tournament. The selectors have not picked Jharkhand mainstay Ishank Jaggi, a technically sound batsman who is suitable for the longer format of the game. Team: Ishan Kishan (captain), Pankaj Kumar, Kumar Deobrat, Saurabh Tiwary, Utkarsh Singh, Anand Singh, Virat Singh (vice-captain), Vikash Vishal, Anukul Roy, Shahbaz Nadeem, Sonu Kumar Singh, Varun Aaron, Rahul Shukla, Monu Kumar Singh, Vivekanand Tiwary, Bala Krishna, Aashish Kumar and Satya Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government celebrates grand anniversary in Ranchi||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 152 fresh cases, one casualty in a day||The Covid-19 infection continues to remain a concern in Jharkhand even as its rural areas are witnessing a declining trend. On Monday, Jharkhand reported 152 fresh cases with Ranchi, Bokaro and East Singbhum all logging double-digit figures with one death occurring in Dumka. With 71 new cases, Ranchi comprised nearly half of the state’s cumulative caseload in the last 24 hours, Covid bulletin issued by the state health department has suggested. East Singhbhum clocked 30 cases while Bokaro logged 10 cases. Five districts remained free of any new cases during the same period and the rest reported infection in single digits. In the last 24 hours, a total of 154 were declared cured taking the total count of people defeating Covid-19 to 1,11,818 out of 1,14,420 total positive cases which came to fore in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. The state currently has 1582 active cases and as many as 1020 have died so far. District wise, capital Ranchi has as many as 759 active cases out of 30,254 total positive cases wherein 29283 got cured and 212 succumbed. East Singhbhum, with 355 fatalities—highest among all the district, now has 205 active cases out of 17,789 people who have tested positive by far. The seven days growth rate of Jharkhand now stands at 0.13% vis-à-vis 0.15% in the country. Its seven-day doubling rate is 545.61 days compared to the national average of 450.26 days. Recovery rate in the state is 97.72% compared to that 95.80% nationally while mortality is 0.89%, well below 1.40% nationwide. Pakur district in Santhal Parganas along the Bengal borders, which became free of covid-19 cases last week, continues to maintain its status with no new cases coming to fore so far, while it had reported a total of 900 cases and two deaths since March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
