30-12-2020||Calcutta||TMC leader shot dead near Indian Botanic Garden gate||A 40-year-old real estate businessman and local Trinamul Congress leader was shot dead near gate number 3 of the Indian Botanic Garden on Tuesday, triggering violence. Police deployed Rapid Action Force personnel to bring the situation under control. At least four private buses and two motorcycles were damaged and around 10 shops were destroyed in the violence that left the area in Howrah’s Shibpur on the edge till late in the evening. Dharmendra Singh, who was the president of the Trinamul Youth Congress of Howrah’s 39 Ward, was returning home on a two-wheeler with a youth riding pillion when three men opened fire near gate number 3 of the botanical garden around 4pm, eyewitnesses have told cops. “We have learnt that six rounds were fired. One of the bullets pierced the victim’s head. The pillion rider, too, suffered a bullet injury,” said a senior police officer of the Howrah police commissionerate. “The victim was rushed to a private hospital on Andul Road, where he died.” The police have registered a murder case with the Botanic Garden police station and started a probe. Cops are scanning CCTV footage. As news of Singh’s death spread, several youths gathered outside the hospital armed with bamboo sticks and demanded immediate arrest of the murderers. Some in the crowd damaged parked buses and motorcycles and several shops in the area. Later, two motorcycles were set on fire, eyewitnesses said. A contingent of RAF was sent from the Howrah police headquarters. “Primarily, it appears that the assassins knew when Singh would head home and had planned the murder accordingly. We will scan his mobile phones for more details and check his call records,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Three held for  Rs 8-lakh Internet bank fraud||Three men were arrested on Monday night for allegedly siphoning off Rs 8 lakh from the bank account of a Salt Lake resident, police said. The men accessed the bank account details of Sandeep Goyal, an HA Block resident, and transferred the money to an account from which they were making regular withdrawals, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. All the men used to work for Goyal. “The men got hold of Goyal’s Internet banking details and one of his identity cards. They used an authorisation letter to get a duplicate SIM card from a mobile phone store,” the officer said. They allegedly downloaded the bank’s app on their cell phone and used Internet banking to transfer the amount. “They did the transfers minutes after getting the new SIM card,” the officer said. The three have been charged under sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). They were produced in a Salt Lake court, which sent them to six days’ police remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro e-pass window to be curtailed further||The e-pass window for Metro passengers is likely to be further narrowed from next week, officials in the carrier said. Under the current system, an e-pass is mandatory for male passengers between 16 and 59 years to enter the station during the morning and evening rush — 8.30am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm. “The plan is to further shorten the window from 9am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm,” a Metro official said. A fleet of 216 trains run from Monday to Saturday. The first and last trains now leave the terminal stations at 7am and 9.30pm, respectively. The e-pass system was introduced along with the resumption of Metro services on September 14 for crowd control. Downloading an e-pass was mandatory for all to enter a Metro station. A smart card is a must to board a train. In a phased manner, the carrier has relaxed the e-pass norms. As of now, women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an e-pass throughout the day. Till December 14, men between 16 and 59 years needed e-pass throughout the day, except between 7am and 8.30am and post 8pm. From December 14, the window was shortened to 8.30am-11am and 5pm-8pm. “But even after that we have been noticing a lot of vacant slots between 8am and 9am and from 7pm to 8pm. So, we decided to narrow the window further,” said the Metro official. The carrier wants to do away with the system of e-passes in phases. Officials said they did not see the number of passengers going up alarmingly in the coming days even without the e-pass system. “The token system will remain suspended for now. But we want to do away with the e-pass system in phases and make Metro services accessible for all throughout the day,” said Manoj Joshi, the Metro general manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||600 softshell turtles rescued in Naihati||More than 600 Indian softshell turtles, some of them dead, were seized from the courtyard of a fish trader’s house in Naihati, North 24-Parganas, on Tuesday morning. The trader’s son has been arrested. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the forest department are trying to track down the other members of the racket. A team of officials of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the North 24-Parganas forest division raided the house after they received a tip off. On searching the house, the team found the turtles crammed inside plastic crates that were stacked up and covered in plastic sheets, a forest department official said. “The rescued turtles were Indian softshell turtles that are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act,” Agni Mitra, deputy regional director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, an agency under the ministry of environment and forests, said. “The killing, hunting or selling turtles is illegal.” Mitra was monitoring the raid. The turtles are of various sizes. Several had died because of improper transportation, a forest department official said. The arrested man has told forest officials that the turtles were headed to markets in Barasat and Bongaon, the official claimed. “The Indian softshell turtle is in high demand for its meat,” another official said. Mitra said the turtles had been smuggled in from Uttar Pradesh. “The turtles were put on a mini-van which drove to Naihati.” The turtles that have survived have been kept in the forest department’s Barasat office. “We will monitor their health for a few days before releasing them,” the forest official said. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists Indian softshell turtle as “vulnerable” in its Red List of threatened species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Training and list compilation start ahead of vaccine rollout||Nearly 20,000 vaccinators under the state health department are being trained in imparting Covid-19 vaccines and a software is being developed where details of nearly six lakh health workers are being uploaded as part of the preparation for vaccination programme. Vaccinators, who have so long been administering traditional vaccines including polio and BCG, are being told how to handle Covid-19 vaccine from the cold chain, what volume of the dose would have to be preserved for future checks and details of infection control practices at vaccination sites, health department officials said. A trained vaccinator will be solely responsible for injecting a shot into a person. There will be four others in the team. One of them will receive the candidate at the specified vaccination centre and check the person’s identity before ushering him or her into a waiting room. The third will escort the candidate from the waiting room to the vaccination room after ensuring he or she has taken all precautions. Two others will be with the candidate in the waiting room after the shot is given. “At every vaccination site the vaccinator will be the key person and sole representative of the health department, among a group of five staff, who will be administering the jab,” a senior official of the health department said. “The training is aimed at enabling end-to-end mobilisation and testing of the Covid-19 vaccination process.” There will be around 6,000 vaccination sites across the state. Similar training programmes have also begun for cold-chain handlers, who will be responsible for Covid-19 vaccines from storage and preservation to the final delivery at the vaccination centre. The vaccines will have to be stored at a specified temperature and then transported to the nearest centre with all precautions in place. A session on training the trainers for the ground-level cold-chain handlers was completed in Siliguri last week. Apart from training the vaccinators, separate sessions are being held for the volunteers who will be present in the waiting room at each vaccination site. Every vaccine recipient will have to wait for at least 30 minutes after being given the jab. The volunteers will be trained in handling Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI). There will be separate AEFI kits both in the waiting rooms of the vaccination sites and also at the nearest hospitals where recipients may have to be admitted in case they develop complications. As part of backend preparations, the health department has engaged software professionals to draw up a detailed list of six lakh frontline health workers who will get the first shots after the Covid vaccination starts. These professionals will monitor the vaccination process for each of the candidates, who will have to register with the Co-Win app that is being developed by the Union health ministry. The compilation of the data on health workers is almost nearing completion and the state health department has started sending out congratulatory messages to some of them for being in the frontline in the battle against the pandemic. The congratulatory message says: “The government of West Bengal will send you Covid-19 vaccine in due time in recognition of your efforts in standing by the side of the Covid patients as a true Covid warrior. We with your family stay healthy and sound all the time.” “I received the message on Tuesday and was pleasantly surprised. The government always looks after its own doctors. Including private sector doctors like us is a welcome move,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “Each vaccination centre will have a detailed list of those who are scheduled to turn up at a particular date and at a specified time. From the time a candidate turns up and till he leaves, everything will have to be recorded on a software and the data will later be uploaded and shared with Co-Win,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, who is overseeing the preparedness of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out. “A whole team is working on this process.” At all medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas, the health department has decided that deputy superintendents of the hospitals (non-medical) will act as “nodal officers” for the vaccination of healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University dean of engineering quits over pressure||A Jadavpur University teacher has resigned as dean of engineering, the post that he took over on December 7, following what sources close to him said was pressure from students and at least four instances of being gheraoed. Amitava Datta, the third teacher to quit as a JU dean in as many months, sent his resignation to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das on Tuesday morning. “I have requested the dean to reconsider the resignation,” Das told Metro. Contacted, Datta declined comment. Late on Monday, students’ union representatives had repeatedly called him demanding a copy of the resolution the executive council adopted on Sunday. “Due to some personal reasons and health issues, it is becoming difficult for me to continue working in this position effectively. I am therefore tendering my resignation…” Datta wrote to the VC. According to the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, Datta and the two pro-vice-chancellors had been confined for several hours on December 9, the day the students’ union in the engineering faculty launched an agitation to protest alleged errors in results and delay in their publication. On December 11, during a meeting of the Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS) Restructuring Committee, some students prevented other members from leaving the venue even after the discussions had ended. Datta and others were detained till 1.30am. Last week, Datta and other officials were detained till midnight by students over errors in results. VC Das had told teachers on Wednesday night after a round of confinement of teachers by students: “In such circumstances, myself and my two pro-VCs feel that we should not continue to remain in the office.” The issue regarding results was resolved on Saturday with the university accepting moral responsibility for the delayed publication. The executive council on Sunday adopted a resolution related to restructuring the management system. Students called Datta repeatedly on Monday night demanding a copy of the resolution. “He tried to explain to them that a copy of the resolution had to be collected from the registrar’s office. But they insisted he hand it over to them and used derogatory words. This was the final trigger for the resignation,’’ an official said. Aritra Majumder, the chairperson of the student’s union of the engineering faculty, said: “The problem regarding our results existed even before the dean joined.... The scale of mess is so huge that even if he tried to solve it positively, the task was not that easy. May be Dean came under pressure, leading to his decision to resign. We don’t think he could accuse us...’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Head of Chowringhee High School passes away||A school head who inspired hundreds of students over the years to work for the community around the campus and beyond died on Tuesday morning. Perminder Dasani, the administrator of Chowringhee High School, was 54. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Dasani, who had tested positive for Covid, was admitted to hospital on December 27. His hard work and stellar role played by his students led to Chowringhee High School being often described as “a small school with a big heart”. Dasani took charge of the school in Chowringhee Lane, off Sudder Street, in 1990. He encouraged his students to step outside their comfort zones and establish a connect with society. Inspired by him, students of Chowringhee High School have been feeding the poor  in the neighbourhood every Saturday for the past 20 years. Former students of the school raised more than Rs 5 lakh to provide ration to 1,200 families during the lockdown, in the neighbourhood and beyond. Current students of the school helped Dasani pack the dry ration and accompanied him to various neighbourhoods in and around the city. Dasani’s social work did not start with the pandemic. He had arranged for cervical cancer vaccination for girls, most of whom live in the New Market slum. In August last year, he had started self-defence classes for girls in the locality. In September, amid a blood crisis in the city, Dasani organised a blood donation camp at the school. A part of the blood that was donated was for children with thalassaemia. The other projects which he started and involved students include building a public toilet on Sudder Street and adopting a village in South 24-Parganas. Under his leadership, Chowringhee High School has won the award for social service at The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence six times. This year the school was the joint winner in the same category. “Perminder Dasani’s death is a huge loss for the city with a heart. Calcutta is a city with a soul; it is because of people like him that the city has acquired this reputation. He did his social work in a quiet and meaningful way, touching the lives of the marginalised, irrespective of caste, creed or religion,” said Barry O’Brien, educationist and Dasani’s friend. “He was truly secular and whether it was Durga Puja, Id, Diwali or Christmas, he would celebrate every festival by reaching out in a special way to various sections of society.” Even a few days before his death, Dasani had initiated blanket distribution for street dwellers on Christmas Eve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court issues order for year-end celebrations||Police have concluded that Park Street saw an unexpected surge in crowd on Christmas evening because people who had been to the Victoria Memorial and Alipore zoo earlier in the day came over to see the festive lights once those venues closed. The police brass are worried that there could be a repeat of the Christmas chaos and Covid dare on the night of December 31 and January 1. A Calcutta High Court division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee on Tuesday passed an order instructing the state chief secretary and the home secretary to prevent crowding during the year-end celebrations. Like during Durga Puja and other festivals, when a similar order of the high court was in force to prevent a spike in the number of Covid cases, the onus of implementing the order would be on the police. Cops who were posted on Park Street on Christmas said the people who visited the road were not the usual Christmas crowd. “They were not there to celebrate the festival. They were general revellers who wanted to spend more time outdoors,” said an officer. That was the reason, the police on the ground reported, the crowd thinned in about two hours, because their destinations were not the pubs and eateries in the party zone. New Year’s Eve poses a greater challenge to the police as officers apprehend that even before this crowd thins, there would be another surge of people who would be keen to join the traditional year-end festivities that continue past midnight. Police officers have calculated that the sudden surge of visitors on Park Street started on Christmas evening within half an hour the Alipore zoo and the Victoria Memorial closed for the day. Both close at 5pm. Park Street had started crowding from 5.30pm. “So many people walked to Park Street all of a sudden that we had no option but to close the road to vehicles. Else there would have been accidents,” said an officer who was on duty on Park Street on Christmas evening. This time, apprehending an even larger turnout, there is instruction from Lalbazar not to close Park Street to vehicles during the year-end festivities, unless there is an emergency, police sources said. There will be walking channels on either side of the road to ensure pedestrians do not spill on the thoroughfare. The biggest challenge will be to manage pedestrians and vehicles simultaneously. On Christmas evening, the closure of Park Street to vehicles caused huge snarls on AJC Bose Road, Red Road, Chowringhee Road, Central Avenue, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, Park Circus seven-point crossing and APC Road. “We will have a larger deployment on Park Street on New Year Eve to ensure that people keep moving. We have no plans to close Park Street to vehicles unless there is an emergency,” said an officer of the traffic department. “On New Year Eve, usually there is a continuous stream of different types of visitors to Park Street. There are people who reach early in the evening and leave early. Another section that comes to dine usually leaves before Park Street starts crowding with late-night revellers. The third kind are those who enjoy their evenings at private parties elsewhere and head to Park Street only after 11pm,” said an officer in the south division. Park Street, between Chowringhee Road crossing and the Wood Street intersection, will be divided into multiple zones and each will be under the supervision of an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner on the 31st night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal panel to look into Swasthya Sathi rates||The state government on Tuesday formed a committee to look into, among other things, whether the rates under the Swasthya Sathi insurance scheme could be increased as demanded by private hospitals. The hospitals had at a meeting on Monday told the health department that the rates for treatment offered under Swasthya Sathi, a state government insurance scheme, were very low and would make them unviable. The scheme, for which the state government pays the premium, offers health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The committee is led by the state’s director of medical education, Debasish Bhattacharya, and has government officials and doctors from government hospitals as other members. It does not have any representative from the private healthcare sector. At Monday’s meeting, the private hospitals had requested the government that their representatives be included in the committee. Officials said they would start working immediately and hold talks with private hospitals on the necessary changes to the scheme, under which the state government plans to bring nine crore people by January. “The committee has officials from the finance and other government departments. It will look into many issues raised by the private hospitals regarding the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Among those are the treatment rates,” a senior state government official said after a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The official said there was no plan to hire an agency to revise the rates, as suggested by private hospitals. Asked why representatives of private hospitals were not included in the committee, the official said the panel would talk to the private healthcare sector. “At every level, the committee will hold discussions with private hospitals. There is no need at this point to hire a private agency to fix the rates,” said the official. The committee, he said, will also decide which patient to be sent to which hospital for treatment under the scheme. “Till the time these issues are addressed, the private hospitals have been asked not to refuse patients under Swasthya Sathi,” he said. The private hospitals had suggested that only patients in need of high-end treatment be sent to superspeciality units under the scheme and those needing less complicated surgeries or procedures be sent to smaller hospitals or nursing homes. Health department sources said they were planning to have a system that would categorise hospitals, based on which it would be decided which patient would be sent where. “If a patient needs surgery for removal of gallbladder stones, then he or she would be sent to a secondary-level hospital or nursing home under Swasthya Sathi,” an official said. “For a more complicated procedure, like joint replacement or cardiac bypass surgery, a superspeciality hospital will be recommended. The list will be prepared soon,” the health department official said. Private hospitals offering superspeciality services had expressed the fear that they would not be able to cope with the rush if they were to treat patients in need of less complicated procedures. “We welcome the state government’s quick response to our request to set up a committee. We expect that the committee will take our opinions while fixing rates and addressing other issues,” said Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “This way, the Swasthya Sathi scheme could become a success. Once there is clarity, there will be fewer allegations of hospitals refusing patients under the scheme.” Representatives of several private hospitals had told the health department at Monday’s meeting that they would have to shut down their units if the government forced them to take patients under a scheme that offered very low rates. A state government official said the suggestion from private hospitals to fix the number of beds to be allocated for patients under Swasthya Sathi was unacceptable. “Then the purpose of the scheme, to provide quality healthcare to everyone, will be defeated,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Uncertainty hits nursery admissions in Calcutta||Several schools have recorded low admission in nursery or kindergarten this year. By this time of the year, the berths are either full or schools usually meet their “target number”. At St Augustine’s Day School Calcutta, only 165 seats have been taken as against 300 in nursery and lower kindergarten. At Julien Day School Ganganagar, it is 25 per cent less than previous years, while at another CBSE school, it is about 30 per cent less than other years. Several heads have felt that since there is no guarantee when schools for the pre-primary children will reopen, parents are willing to keep them at home instead of admitting them to school at the age of three or four years. But with low intake, at least two heads said, it would impact the revenue of the school, especially in a year when their fee collection had already suffered. “By now we fill up more than 200 seats in the pre-primary. This year, parents have taken the final admission form but many of them have not come back,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School. Many schools charge in the range of Rs 40,000 to Rs 1 lakh at the time of admission, which also includes the fees for the first quarter. There are parents who would rather use the money in their businesses that was impacted because of the Covid pandemic instead of giving it as admission fee, said a head. “There are parents whose businesses have suffered the entire year and only now they are picking up,” said a principal. Some of the parents have also asked the school for instalments and the schools are agreeing to it. “By December we are through, but this year we will have to extend it to January or February. Since the situation is different we are also allowing instalments this year,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar. Schools are also apprehensive that the low intake will impact the school’s earnings. “The pre-primary admission is a source of income for the school. We also plan the school’s development on the basis of that. This year, we are having to waive off fees but there are overhead costs and also salaries of employees that the school has to arrange for,” said Gasper. “Pre-primary admission is important for every school, and if seats lie vacant, schools’ revenue will take a hit. The students of Class XII will move out and the flow of funds has to be there to make up for the deficit,” said Baxter. An official of the CBSE school said usually the mailbox was full at this time even though the seats are filled. “Also, there are hard copies of applications which we would be able to respond to only if seats get vacant. But this year, there are hardly any mails for applications.” Loreto Convent Entally is yet to start the admission process but the number of applications have gone down. “The applications for nursery (four plus) has gone down by 10 to 15 per cent this year,” said principal Jessica Gomes Surana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Bidhannagar fair cancelled because of Covid||The Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) will not be held this winter, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. The fair is organised every winter by the civic body at Central Park in Salt Lake. The organisers have decided to cancel it because of the Covid situation, the official said. Vendors from countries such as Turkey, Bangladesh, Nigeria and Pakistan are among the fair regulars. The decision to postpone the fair was taken during a meeting of the organising committee members, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty extend record run ||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty raced to fresh record highs on Wednesday as gains in financials, auto and IT shares helped markets extend their winning run for the sixth straight session. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE Sensex closed up by 133.14 points or 0.28 per cent at a record high of 47,746.22. The barometer scaled its all-time intra-day high of 47,807.85. The broad-based NSE Nifty rose by 49.35 points or 0.35 per cent to finish at its lifetime high of 13,981.95. It touched an all-time peak of 13,997 in intra-day trade. Among major Sensex movers, Ultratech Cement rose over 4 per cent, Bajaj Finance by 2.63 per cent and Maruti by 2 per cent. Mahindra and Mahindra, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Asian Paints also finished in the green. After opening strong, the stock indices gave up gains due to profit-booking by investors. However, positive trends in the European stocks helped the indices rebound and end at record levels. European stocks advanced on Wednesday as the UK approved the COVID-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. Britain has authorized use of a second COVID-19 vaccine, becoming the first country to greenlight an easy-to-handle shot that its developers hope will become the "vaccine for the world". Asian shares were mixed after a lacklustre day on Wall Street. Benchmarks fell in Tokyo and Sydney but rallied in Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.5 per cent, a day after it surged more than 2 per cent to its highest level in more than 30 years. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.3 per cent. On the other hand, Hong Kong's Hang Seng surged 1.6 per cent, the Shanghai Composite index advanced 1 per cent while South Korea's Kospi jumped 1.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty retreat on profit booking after record rally||Key benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty declined in early trade on Wednesday as profit booking emerged in banking and financial stocks after a stellar five-day rally. The 30-share BSE Sensex had opened higher by 0.10 per cent but failed to hold onto gains in early trade and declined by 102.99 points or 0.22 per cent to 47,510.09. The broad-based Nifty was down by 27.45 points or 0.2 per cent at 13,905.15 with 31 of its constituents trading in the red. The 50-share index had opened higher by 10.75 points at 13,943.35. Banking stocks like State Bank of India, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank were among major losers among Sensex stocks. Besides, HDFC, Reliance, Bharti Airtel, Larsen & Toubro and Sun Pharma also dropped due to profit booking. Sensex and Nifty had scaled fresh record highs on Tuesday, extending their bull run for the fifth straight session on the back of gains in banking and IT stocks. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,349.53 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Asian shares were mixed after a lacklustre day on Wall Street. The S&P 500 lost 0.2 per cent on Tuesday, a day after President Donald Trump signed the USD 900 billion economic relief package. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.6 per cent a day after it surged more than 2 per cent to its highest level in more than 30 years. Hong Kong rose by 1.2 per cent while the Shanghai Composite index advanced 0.7 per cent and South Korea's Kospi added 0.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Government plans to make dual airbags compulsory from April||The government plans to make it compulsory for new cars to provide airbags on the passenger side of the front seats from April. This could hike prices by Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000 for the entry level standard variants. “Most of the car variants sold in India (88 per cent) are already equipped with dual airbags. Only 61 variants of 905 cars in India are not sold with dual airbags. Since these are lower variants it would not be difficult for OEMs to implement this,” Ravi Bhatia, president of JATO Dynamics, an auto analytics firm, told The Telegraph. The Centre plans to implement this norm for all  models of cars which are manufactured from April 1, 2021, onwards. For already existing units, the date to complying with the new rule is proposed to be June 1, 2021. Analysts clarified that those models which are being manufactured would have to comply from June and new models to be launched would have to comply from April. The government has invited stakeholders to comment on its proposed new rule in the next one month. Previously, the government had made having an airbag mandatory on the driver’s seat in all cars. This had come into effect on July 1, 2019. Maruti’s Alto, S-Presso, Celerio or Wagon R have only a driver airbag as standard. Similarly, the lower variants of the Renault Kwid and Hyndai Santro only come with a driver-side airbag and same is the case with the Hyundai Santro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Amazon and Future Group write to Sebi with contrasting requests||Amazon and Future Group have written to Sebi with contrasting requests over a Rs 24,713 crore buyout of assets of India’s second-largest retailer. Future Group has requested Sebi to expedite the review of the proposed deal and issue a no-objection certificate, while Amazon has urged that the review of the “impugned transaction” be suspended. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) after an indebted Kishore Biyani group firm signed a pact to sell retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance in August this year. Future Group firm Future Retail (FRL) approached the Delhi high court, which earlier this month upheld Amazon’s right to make representations to statutory authorities against the Future Group-Reliance Retail deal. However, the court also made several observations indicating that Amazon’s attempt to control FRL through a conflation of agreements it has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be violative of the FEMA FDI rules. Large orders Future group firms have started getting large orders from Reliance Industries, CEO Kishore Biyani said in an email to his employees on Tuesday. “We have received a large order from Reliance in Future Consumer and in Future Enterprises,” Biyani said. On the future course, he said the group is conceptualising two new brands that will offer products in multiple categories in fashion and FMCG. “There is a lot of work that has been going on with these brands and you will see them come alive in stores by March,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Taxpayers plead for extension of ITR filing deadline on Twitter||Taxpayers took to Twitter to plead for the extension of the deadline to file income tax returns for fiscal 2019-20 (assessment year 2020-21) from December 31 by three months citing Covid-19 and system issues. However, the income tax department countered with an hourly update on the number of tax returns being filed. “Here is the statistics of income tax returns filed on Tuesday. 12,16,631 ITRs have been filed up to 1900 hours today and 1,52,547 ITRs filed in the last one hour,” the tax department tweeted. With just two days left for the deadline for individuals to end, the department asked taxpayers not to wait and file returns early. Around 4.37 crore returns were filed till December 28. During the same period last year, 4.51 crore ITRs were filed. The due date for taxpayers whose accounts require to be audited is January 31, 2021. But there was no word from the finance ministry on the plea to extend that deadline too. The clamour from tax assessees and tax professionals for a push back of the deadline has reached a crescendo in the last few weeks but the govt shows no signs of relenting -- at least for now. The Covid-19 argument and the pressures on tax professionals to complete audits with depleted staff, does not appear to have cut much ice with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. For individuals having income from salary, house property, or capital gains, and those whose accounts are not required to be audited, 31 December is the last date for filing ITR for FY19-20. Normally, the due date for filing ITRs for all assessees whose accounts are not required to be audited is July 31. This year the government extended the deadline for filing an income tax return, the deadline is December 31, to provide relief to taxpayers in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic. Delay in filing results in penalty and penal interest, which is causing the cyber-commotion around income tax. A lot of Twitter users took to the site to say that the Income Tax Department site has crashed. It is likely due to the overload of requests from taxpayers. Chartered accountants pointed out that they are overburdened by requests to file IT-R, and requested for an extension of the December 31 deadline. Narayan Jain, Chairman, DTPA  Representation Committee  said “due to Corona pandemic normalcy in operations is yet to set in. Even many professionals as well as their staff have suffered infection from Covid -19. Therefore, there is need for extension of dates for furnishing tax audit report and ITRs….the Centre has asked the states to extended the validity of driving licenses to March 31 due to covid, cannot this also be extended.” Jain also urged for extension of date for filing declaration under Vivad Se Vishwas (VSV) Scheme from 31st December, 2020 to 28th February, 2021, pointing out that in many cases the assessing officers have not been able to give effect to rectification petitions and appeal effects. Many pointed out that filing returns on time would be a challenge due to the pandemic and multiple associations, trade unions, and professionals have asked for staggered extensions in deadlines. They have requested the deadline to be extended to March 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Boeing’s 737 Max resumes passenger flights in the United States||Boeing’s 737 Max resumed passenger flights in the United States for the first time on Tuesday after a 20-month safety ban was lifted last month. American Airlines Flight 718 departed Miami around 10:40 a.m., bound for New York's LaGuardia and is scheduled to land soon after 1 p.m. American and planemaker Boeing have sought to reassure the public over the plane’s safety after it was cleared by US regulators in November to resume flights. The flight was observed by two media helicopters to the airport’s north. It headed north into broken clouds. “This aircraft is ready to go,” American president Robert Isom said at a media briefing in Miami before the flight. The airline is confident in the safety of the 737 Max, he added. The Max was grounded in March 2019 for 20 months after two fatal crashes in five months killed 346 people. The grounding was lifted by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) last month after Boeing agreed to software upgrades and new safeguards on a key flight control system linked to both fatal crashes. American’s first flight between Miami and LaGuardia follows flight control updates, maintenance work, fresh pilot training and town hall meetings with flight crews to walk them through Boeing’s changes and address concerns. American is the third carrier globally to resume flights following Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes and Grupo Aeromexico earlier this month. Between those two airlines, the updated 737 Max has flown about 250 commercial flights, according to Cirium, the aviation data firm. American Airlines currently has 31 737 Max aircraft after taking delivery of seven more jets since the FAA lifted its safety ban, including one on Monday and plans to gradually reintroduce the plane to its fleet. A Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released Monday found that Americans are less familiar with the two fatal 737 Max crashes, but if made aware of those disasters, more than half say they would probably avoid the aircraft. The Max’s return comes at a time Covid-19 has thrust the industry into its worst crisis, with airlines parking hundreds of jets as demand hovers around 30 per cent of 2019 levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Ex  economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty to become HDFC Bank chairman||Atanu Chakraborty, the former economic affairs secretary, is likely to be the next part-time chairman of HDFC Bank. The board of the country’s largest bank is understood to have cleared his name and his appointment is subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This comes as the tenure of the lender’s current chairperson Shyamala Gopinath will end on January 1, 2021. Chakraborty’s name was sent to the RBI for its approval on December 28. In a regulatory filing to the bourses on Monday, HDFC Bank said its board has recommended the appointment of the new part-time chairperson. “Pursuant to the recommendations of the nomination & remuneration committee, the board of directors of HDFC Bank at its meeting held today has recommended the appointment of the part-time chairperson of the bank and has submitted its recommendation to the RBI for approval under Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Further disclosure in this regard will be made after receipt of communication from the Reserve Bank of India,’’ HDFC Bank said in its filing. The bank added that the tenure of Shyamala Gopinath shall end at the close of business hours of January 1, 2021, pursuant to the tenure approved by the RBI. It further disclosed that the board can under Section 104 of the Companies Act, 2013, elect amongst themselves an independent director to chair the meetings of the board or relevant committees till such time the new part time chairperson is inducted on the board. A 1985 batch IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, he was also earlier the secretary of the Department of Investment and Public Management and before that the Director General of Hydrocarbons (DGH). His entry to HDFC Bank comes just two months after its long time MD & CEO Aditya Puri retired in October and Sashidhar Jagdishan replaced him. Shares of HDFC Bank today ended with gains of over one per cent at Rs 1427.10 in the BSE. At close it had a market cap of Rs 7,85,997.72 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Breather for Reliance Home Finance||Lenders to troubled mortgage firm Reliance Home Finance (RHF) have extended the inter-creditor agreement (ICA) for another three months. Reliance Home Finance, part of Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group, recently got bids from six suitors as part of a debt resolution process. “The lenders of the company forming part of the Inter creditor Agreement (ICA), executed pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) circular dated June 7, 2019 on Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets, have extended the ICA period till March 31, 2021,” the company said in a regulatory filing. According to the June 7 circular of the RBI, lenders can extend the time period of the pact if an account has not been resolved within 180 days of signing ICA. Of the six bidders, only two submitted compliant and binding bids, while four bids are non-binding and not compliant with bid conditions, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||RBI raises red flag on bad loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cautioned the asset quality of the banking system may deteriorate sharply even as the actual amount  of bad loans remains unknown on account of a Supreme Court directive that bars the recognition of bad assets till further orders. Besides, housing finance companies (HFCs) may need to brace for large slippages of loan assets and higher provisioning. In its Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India 2019-20, the RBI indicated the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is yet to be fully felt, though the domestic economy has shown signs of recovery. “In 2020-21, as policy support is rolled back, the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic may dent the health of the banks and non-banks. It said  the deadline for restructuring proposals is fast approaching and with the possible lifting of the asset quality standstill, banks’ financials are likely to be impacted in terms of asset quality and future income. The RBI had announced a loan moratorium that ended on August 31 and a one-time loan restructuring scheme to help borrowers adversely affected by the pandemic. The Supreme Court had on September 4 directed all accounts which were not non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year should not be declared as bad loans till further orders. Around 40 per cent of outstanding loans of banks and NBFCs till August opted for moratorium, according to the RBI. The report provided data across three categories: 41 per cent of the retail loans till August availed moratorium; 69.29 per cent of MSME loans took the relief as did 34.28 per cent of the corporate loans. The  gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of banks declined from 9.1 per cent of total assets at end-March 2019 to 8.2 per cent at end-March 2020 and further to 7.5 per cent at end-September. The improvement was driven by lower slippages which declined to 0.74 per cent in September -and resolution of a few large accounts through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). However, the modest GNPA ratio of 7.5 per cent hides the strong undercurrent of slippage. “The accretion to NPAs as per the Reserve Bank’s Income Recognition and Asset Classification (IRAC) norms would have been higher in the absence of the asset quality standstill provided as a Covid-19 relief measure,” the report observed. Here it said  an analysis of published quarterly results of a sample of banks indicates that their GNPA ratios would have been higher in the range of 0.10 per cent to 0.66 per cent at end-September 2020. Further, the share of special mention accounts, SMA-0 or loans in default for less than 30 days, witnessed a sharp rise in September 2020. This, the report said, may be an initial sign of stress. "Looking ahead, the banking and non-banking sectors face both challenging times and new opportunities as the Indian economy returns to full vitality...Although stretched asset valuations are in apparent disconnect with the real economy, life support in the form of adequate credit flows to some of the productive and COVID-19 stressed sectors has been deficient. Going forward, restoration of health of the banking and non-banking sectors depends on how quickly the animal spirits return and the revival of the real economy," the RBI said. There was also some good news in the report. It said that the number of frauds reported by banks in April-September 2020 period declined to Rs 64,681 crore from Rs 1,13,374 crore reported in the same period of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Steel producers justify price increase||A steel producers' body has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi explaining that the metal price hike was because of surging raw material costs and demanded a ban on iron ore export for six months, an official said on Tuesday. The Indian Steel Association informed the PMO about the price increase of the metal after Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on the impact of rising steel prices on infrastructure projects. “We would like to highlight some of the very serious and compelling reasons which have left the steel industry with no recourse but to raise prices of steel from time to time,” the ISA said in its letter to the PMO. Hot-rolled coil prices have increased by 46 per cent to Rs 52,000 per tonne in November  compared with Rs 37,400 per tonne in July this year. Rebar TMT, which is used in the housing and construction sectors, had touched Rs 50,000 a tonne, industry sources said. The ISA mentioned about the issues related to iron ore, price rise of raw materials, shortage in global steel supply and lower capacity utilisation due to Covid-induced disruptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||SAIL seeks allies for auto grade steel||Steel Authority of India is exploring options to tie up with a Japanese or Korean steelmaker to make auto grade steel in India. The move follows the collapse of tentative discussions with Laxmi Mittal’s ArcelorMittal for a joint venture. Mittal chose to acquire Essar Steel and that effectively scuppered any deal, outgoing SAIL chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary said in an interview with PTI. In December 2019, ArcelorMittal announced that it had completed the acquisition of Essar Steel and formed a 60:40 joint venture with Nippon Steel (AM/NS India) to own and operate the debt-ridden firm. The deck for acquisition of Essar Steel for Rs 42,000 crore by L N Mittal-led company was cleared by the Supreme Court. Chaudhary said  two separate delegations of Indian Steel PSUs led by the ministry of steel visited Japan and South Korea for deliberations with the steel firms in these countries for further expansion and probable areas of technological collaboration towards the manufacturing of high grade steel including steel for auto-body sheets. The SAIL chairman, who retires on December 31, said he expects the state-owned steelmaker to trim its debt to Rs 40,000 crore by the end of this fiscal from Rs 50,638 crore at the end of Sept 2020. The government has included speciality steel as part of the productivity linked incentive scheme to boost its production in the country and reduce import. The finance ministry has allocated Rs 6,322 crore for this segment of the steel industry. Auto industry sources said  the multinational players  prefer to source speciality steel from companies of their own countries. The industry continues to rely on imports as local steel companies do not manufacture the steel grade they needed. Another risk involved is that if the import of steel (raw material) is restricted into the country, the industry may go for import of the components itself which may affect the government initiative of “Make in India”. When asked for his comments on the rising prices, the SAIL chief said  ”domestic steel prices are guided by international steel prices. In the past, the steel prices had really touched the low and it was indeed a tough time for the domestic steel industry. Any industry follows its own dynamics confirming to the market situations and it operates accordingly".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Tatas up AirAsia India stake to 84%||The Tatas have raised their stake in AirAsia India to 83.67 per cent amid the salt-to-software conglomerate submitting an expression of interest (EoI) for national carrier Air India. Tata Sons is buying an additional 32.67 per cent held by AirAsia Berhad of Malaysia in its domestic joint venture-AirAsia India for $37.7 million. In January this year, the Centre had invited bids to sell 100 per cent of its holding in Air India and its international arm Air India Express and 50 per cent in ground handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services. The government will announce the names of the qualified bidders on January 5, 2021, amid speculation the Tatas may use AirAsia India as the vehicle for investing in Air India. In a regulatory filing to the Malaysian stock exchange, the AirAsia group said its wholly owned subsidiary Air Asia Investment Limited (AAIL) has executed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons Private Limited to sell AAIL’s equity interest of 32.67 per cent in AirAsia India, comprising 490,000,000 shares to Tata Sons for a consideration of $37.6 million. It further disclosed that as part of the transaction, there will be a call option in respect of AAIL’s remaining 16.33 per cent stake in Air Asia India. This will be exercisable by Tata Sons at any time after the transaction is completed. Tata Sons will have to pay $18.83 million for the 16.33 per cent stake. Explaining the rationale for the transaction, AirAsia Group said that since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, the aviation industry has been one of the hardest hit industries. Airlines globally have cancelled flights and grounded planes and Air Asia India has not been any exception. “Due to this, the directors expect further capital requirements for AirAsia India. As India is a non-core market for AirAsia (being a non-Asean country), the company will continue to regularly re-assess its business strategies and dispose of non-core investments to augment its liquidity,” AirAsia Group said. “This transaction will reduce cash burn of the company in the short term and allow AirAsia to concentrate on recovery of its key Asean markets in Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines in the long run.’’ The Malaysian company further disclosed that the proposed disposal will result in a gain of $37.66 million in the fourth quarter of 2020 at both the AAIL and consolidated-group levels. In six years in the country, AirAsia India has built a fleet of 32 aircraft, including two A320 neos that were inducted recently. In November, AirAsia Berhad had said it was reviewing its investment in AirAsia India. “Our businesses in Japan and India have been draining cash, causing the group much financial stress. Cost containment and reducing cash burns remain key priorities evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India,” president (airlines) of AirAsia Group, Bo Lingam, had said in a statement. The group said it has also agreed to waive unpaid brand license fees payable by AirAsia India to subsidiary AirAsia Berhad. The airline reported its fifth consecutive quarterly loss in the July-September period as the pandemic took its toll on travel. Group chief executive officer Tony Fernandes had said the group intended to consolidate and strengthen its foothold in Southeast Asia, which could mean exiting both Japan and India. Fernandes has said the company had disposed of spare engines to raise cash and was open to other potential monetisation opportunities. AirAsia India started operations on domestic routes in June 2014 following the then UPA government allowing foreign airlines to invest up to 49 per cent in the Indian carriers. “The share of losses over the years has resulted in the carrying value of the investment at the date of transaction to be Nil,” AAIL said in its filing in Malaysia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh shooter inducted to BJP, thrown out hours later||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday admitted into its fold Kapil Gujjar -- the man who had allegedly opened fire in the air during the anti-CAA protests at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh, during the early months of this year. However, hours later, the party cancelled his membership, as soon as the senior leaders came to know of his induction into the party, UP BJP's general secretary J P S Rathore told PTI. “Local leaders had processed the induction. However, as soon as the state leadership got information about it, his membership was cancelled,” Rathore said on being asked about Gujjar’s entry into the saffron party. “Today (on Wednesday), some youths from the BSP joined the BJP. Kapil Gujjar was also there among them. We did not have information about his (Kapil Gujjar's) controversial past about Shaheen Bagh,” said BJP’s Ghaziabad Mahanagar unit president Sanjeev Sharma earlier in a statement. “As soon as we got information about the entire incident, the party's state unit leadership cancelled his membership with immediate effect,” he added. A man had allegedly fired two shots in the air on February 1 at Shaheen Bagh area in Delhi's Jamia Nagar, where an anti-CAA protest was on. He was taken into custody soon after he opened fire in the air, eyewitnesses had said. No one was injured in the incident which occurred at around 5 pm. According to eyewitnesses, the man, who identified himself as Kapil Gujjar, opened fire close to the police barricades, nearly 250 metres behind the stage. He was overpowered by police personnel and taken into custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Some agreements, but talks deadlocked on farm law repeal, MSP||The government and farm unions reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. After nearly five hours of the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4 at 2 PM. He also hoped that the new year will herald new solutions and asserted that the Modi government has always been sensitive to farmers’ issues. “Discussions on the three farm laws and MSP are not complete and will continue in the next round of talks... We are hopeful that consensus would be reached for resolving the two remaining issues also,” Tomar told reporters after the meeting, which saw the two sides breaking the bread but not much ice. While the three ministers joined the farmer leaders to share their langar (community kitchen) food during the lunch break, the union representatives accepted the beverage offered by the government during the evening tea break. For the last few meetings, farmer leaders have been arranging their own food and beverages but had so far refused to accept even water offered by the government. Farmer leaders said the government agreed to their demands for dropping the penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law. However, there was no concrete movement on their main demands for repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP, union leaders said. The unions, however, have decided to postpone their proposed tractor rally, earlier scheduled for Thursday, till the next round of talks on January 4. Tomar said talks were held in a cordial atmosphere and the two sides reached an agreement on two issues -- one relating to the proposed electricity law and the other about an ordinance on penal provisions for stubble burning. He hailed the unions for maintaining peace and discipline during their protest but urged them to send the elderly, women and children back to their homes due to the extreme cold weather. Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain to them the benefits of the Acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers. On farmers’ demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP), the minister said the government has already said that it is ready to give a written assurance. “Talks will continue on these two issues,” said Tomar, who was accompanied by Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash at the meeting. Later, an official statement said the government offered to set up two committees -- one to ensure parity between the MSP and the market price and the other on finding alternatives to the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three laws while upholding the constitutional values. After the meeting, union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu said Wednesday’s talks mostly focussed on electricity and stubble burning, while the next meeting on January 4 would focus on the MSP guarantee and the three farm laws. Another union leader Prem Singh Bhangu said the tractor rally has been postponed and the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere. “They had langar food with us and we also had tea with them,” he said. All India Kisan Sabha leader and CPI(M) polit bureau member Hannan Mollah said, “The discussion has not broken, it is on. Out of four issues on the agenda, two have been addressed and the remaining two -- MSP legalisation and repeal of three laws -- are to be resolved.” The government during the discussion offered to set up a committee to discuss ways to legalise the MSP and amendments to the three new laws, but we rejected that, he said. “The government's attitude was soft (sarkar ka ravaiya naram tha). The government said it has agreed to two demands and there are complexities in the rest two. They asked us to send a fresh proposal based on today’s discussion,” he said. Asked what would be farmer unions’ next proposal, Mollah said, “There is no individual proposal. We will together decide at Singhu border on January 2.” “The tractor march has been postponed till January 4. If the next meeting fails, then we will plan the next course of action,” he added. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh's national spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar said, "The discussion happened in a positive atmosphere. The third and fourth demands have been accepted. But nothing concrete happened on the major two demands, although discussion happened on those issues." The government asked us to give alternative options but farmers demanded the repeal of the three laws, he said. "On the MSP issue, Agriculture Minister said it is financially not feasible to make MSP guaranteed legally. However, we told that in 2018 in Madhya Pradesh government versus Anndata Samithi Case, the High Court had ordered that the first auction price placed should be above the MSP. "We told the government that there has been a loss of Rs 45,000 crore in the last 17 years. There was a long discussion but no consensus could be reached," Kohar said. During the meeting, the government is believed to have offered to set up a committee for better implementation of the MSP procurement system, but the proposal did not find any favour with the union leaders. The government had hoped it would be a decisive meeting and the protesting farmers would return from Delhi borders to their respective homes to celebrate the New Year, but farmer leaders insisted they are prepared to continue their agitation till the government agrees to their demands, including repeal of the laws. Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa said the government was not agreeing to give legal backing for the MSP procurement and has rather offered to set up a committee on options for proper implementation of MSP, but the proposal was rejected. He further said the government has offered to withdraw the electricity amendment bill and to amend the ordinance to remove the penal provision on farmers in stubble burning cases. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait also said the government has agreed not to implement the proposed electricity amendment bill and also the ordinance relating to air pollution due to stubble burning. Farmer leaders also offered 'ardaas' (prayers) at the meeting venue after the tea break, before resuming the talks. Before the meeting, Parkash, himself an MP from Punjab, had said he was hopeful that it would be a decisive meeting and the government wanted the protesting farmers to return to their respective homes to celebrate the new year. Previously, Tomar had also said he was hopeful that a solution would emerge before the year 2020 ends. Some union leaders, however, said that farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops including paddy below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands. The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The government had, however, followed up Shah's meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Former Indian captain Azharuddin escapes unhurt in car accident in Rajasthan ||Former Indian cricket team skipper Mohammad Azharuddin escaped unhurt on Wednesday when an SUV in which he was travelling along with three other people overturned in Sawai Madhopur district, said police. “Three other passengers travelling with him in the same vehicle also escaped unhurt. However, an employee of an eatery near which the SUV overturned received minor injuries,”said SHO Chandrabhan Singh of Soorwal police station. According to Singh the vehicle overturned into the adjoining field when the driver, while navigating near the roadside eatery got too close to the edge of the road and got disbalanced. The accident occurred barely six kilometers away from Ranthambore, the SHO added. He said, “After the accident Azharuddin and his co-passengers along with the eatery staffer were taken to a hospital from where the former cricketer-cum-Lok Sabha MP and his three companions were discharged.” The eatery staffer was also released after receiving first aid, the SHO said, adding that Azharuddin later resumed his journey in another vehicle and reached his destination safely. Later in the evening the former skipper took on to Twitter to thank his well-wishers and state that he was safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||Sivasankar's bail plea dismissed in gold smuggling case||A court here on Wednesday dismissed the bail plea of suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar, an accused in the case pertaining to gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel in Kerala. The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, dismissed his bail plea, considering the argument of the Special Prosecutor of Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate that the petitioner was likely to tamper with evidence, influence witnesses in the event of granting bail. "Considering the unprecedented nature of offence having international ramifications, he is likely to make use of the help of 'big shots' with whom he has close nexus, to shatter the investigation", Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (EO) said in the order. Sivasankar was arrested by the Customs on November 24 in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Customs has arrested around 15 people, including Swapna Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair, over the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Enforcement Directorate and Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate, surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
30-12-2020||India||SAD, Congress say farmers should talk to PM to solve impasse||The Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday urged the farmers protesting against the three agri laws to hold talks with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi directly, saying that dialogues will not yield results otherwise. Reacting to the farmers’ unions’ meeting with the three central ministers on Wednesday, former Union minister and SAD MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal said they shouldn't fall into the trap of extended meetings, which yield nothing. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also spoke in favour of holding direct talks with the PM, asserting that the involvement of the prime minister or Union home minister is a must for a successful dialogue. “Our farmers are on the cusp of victory. I appeal to them to hold direct talks with the PM to get these agri laws repealed,” Badal tweeted. “They shouldn't fall into the trap of extended meetings which yield nothing,” she added. She appealed to the PM not to prolong the woes of the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. “People's will is supreme in a democracy,” the Bathinda MP said in another tweet, tagging Narendra Modi's Twitter handle. Badal, whose party had quit the BJP-led NDA due to differences over the issue earlier this year, said had the Centre paid attention to her warnings about repercussions of the laws, things could not have come to such an impasse. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said for talks to be successful, involvement of PM Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah is a must. “After Amit Shah's intervention failing to resolve the issue, the next level of talks should have been with the PM. Strangely these have been downgraded to previous levels. For talks to be successful, involvement of the PM or HM is a must. Otherwise it's a futile exercise,” Jakhar said in a tweet. The protesting farmers and three central ministers began their sixth round of talks on Wednesday afternoon to solve the over one-month impasse regarding the three new agri-marketing laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Sixth round of talks between farmers and Centre underway||The protesting farmers and three central ministers began their sixth round of talks on Wednesday afternoon to solve the over one-month impasse regarding the three new agri-marketing laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. The sixth round of talks are being held after a long gap, with the last one being held 25 days ago on December 5. Following an informal meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, the sixth round of talks stood cancelled earlier on December 9. The protesting farmer unions are sticking to their hardline position that the discussions will only be on the modalities of repealing the three new agri laws and giving a legal guarantee on the MSP among other issues. On Monday, the Centre invited the unions for the meeting on December 30 on all relevant issues to find a “logical solution” with “open mind”, to the prolonged deadlock over the three new agri laws that were enacted in September. But in its letter on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation which represents the farmer unions, said the modalities for repealing the three contentious laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) must be part of the agenda. The Centre, following the cancellation of the December 9 talks, had sent a draft proposal to the farmer unions in which it had suggested seven to eight amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. Thousands of farmers agitating against the three new central agriculture laws stayed put at their agitation venues near Delhi, which is going through a harsh spell of winter, unrelenting in their demand of withdrawal of the legislations. On Wednesday, a cold wave swept Delhi as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, the India Meteorological Department predicted, as dry and icy winds barrelled through the plains. Three union ministers joined farm leaders on Wednesday to share 'langar' food arranged by protesting farmers during their sixth round of talks to resolve the deadlock over new farm laws. The 'langar' (community kitchen) food arrived in a van at the meeting venue, Vigyan Bhawan, after around two hours of discussions had taken place and the two sides took a break for tea and snacks. Sources present at the venue said that Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash joined the farmer leaders to share their langar food during the break. Farmer leaders said that the talks were continuing and they were going 'agenda wise'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Health ministry asks all states to keep vigil on New Year festivities||The Union Health Ministry has asked all states to keep a strict vigil on New Year celebrations that could be potential Covid-19 super-spreader events and also to curb crowding as a precautionary measure during the winter season. In a letter to states and Union Territories, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated that the number of active COVID-19 cases has been declining steadily in the country for the last three-and-half months. Keeping in view the fresh surge of coronavirus cases in Europe and the Americas, there was still a need for maintaining comprehensive precaution and strict surveillance within India, he underlined. "You will appreciate that in the wake of New Year and various celebratory events associated with it as well as ongoing winter season, strict vigil is required to be maintained to curb all potential 'super spreader' events and places where crowds may gather," Bhushan said in the letter. The recent advice and guidance to the states by the Home Ministry has also been reiterated by the Health Secretary. The Ministry of Home Affairs has mandated that states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, with a view to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Home Ministry has also stipulated that there shall be no restriction on interstate and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Drawing attention to this, the Union health secretary has urged the states to "promptly assess the local situation and consider the imposition of appropriate restrictions on December 30 and 31, as well as on January 1, 2021."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Mansukh Vasava not quitting BJP||A day after tendering his resignation from the BJP, Lok Sabha member and former Union minister Mansukh Vasava on Wednesday said he has dropped the idea of quitting the party following talks with its senior leaders. Vasava, a six-time MP from tribal-dominated Bharuch in Gujarat, had on Tuesday said he was quitting the BJP only due to health problems and had no issues with the government or the party. Talking to reporters after meeting Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani in Gandhinagar on Wednesday morning, he said, "Senior party leaders told me that I will get free treatment for my back pain and neck pain only if I continue to be an MP. This is not possible if I resign as an MP. Party leaders asked me to take rest and assured that a system will be put in place wherein local party workers will do work on my behalf." "The only reason why I had decided to resign from the party and as an MP was my health issues. I also discussed the same with the CM today. Now, after getting assurance from the senior BJP leaders, I have decided to withdraw my resignation. I will continue to serve my people as an MP," Vasava said. The tribal leader claimed that it was a misconception that he was upset with the government or the ruling BJP over some issues pertaining to tribals of Narmada district, particularly about the inclusion of 121 villages in the Eco Sensitive Zone. "The governments in the state and at the Centre are putting all their efforts into resolving the issues related to the Eco Sensitive Zone. I have no issues with the party or the government. On the contrary, I firmly believe that tribals benefited more under the BJP rule than under any previous governments," he said. On Tuesday, Vasava had resigned from the party and also claimed that he will resign as MP after meeting Lok Sabha Speaker during the upcoming Budget Session of the Parliament. Vasava had tendered his resignation in the form of a letter to Gujarat BJP President C R Paatil. In the letter, Vasava, an outspoken and straightforward tribal leader, said although he had tried his best to be loyal to the party and also tried to assimilate the party's values in his life, he is ultimately a human and prone to commit "mistakes". "I am ultimately a human and humans tend to commit mistakes. To ensure that the party does not suffer due to my mistakes, I hereby resign from the party, and I seek forgiveness from the party for it," he had said in the letter. Paatil had told reporters on Tuesday that Vasava was particularly unhappy about the declaration of the Eco-Sensitive Zone in his constituency. "The main issue is the declaration of an Eco-Sensitive Zone by the Centre in his constituency. Now, it appears that some people are misguiding locals over the issue after the Collector had made some entries about the land parcels. We are trying to convince Vasava and I am confident that a solution will arrive soon," the state BJP chief had said. Vasava was inducted into the Cabinet as the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2014. However, he was abruptly dropped in July 2016. On December 20, he had dashed off a letter to the PM demanding the withdrawal of the Eco Sensitive Zone from 121 villages of Narmada district. He claimed that local tribals were angry because of the "unnecessary interference" by the officials after those 121 tribal-dominated villages were included in the Eco-Sensitive Zone. Later in the afternoon, Vasava claimed that it was his health, not Eco Sensitive Zone, which forced him to take the decision. "I am having no issues at all with the BJP or the government. The only thing is that I remain unwell most of the time and the doctors have advised me to take rest now, Though I am an MP, I could not travel much and be with my people due to this back pain, which has now started affecting the functioning of my brain," Vasava had told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Flights to and from UK suspended till January 7||Passenger flights between the UK and India would remain suspended till January 7 and they will resume in a "strictly regulated" manner thereafter, Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The Civil Aviation Ministry had last week suspended all flights between the European country and India from December 23 to December 31 as a mutated variant of the coronavirus was detected there. Puri said on Twitter: "Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to & from the UK till 7 January 2021." "Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly." he said. Puri on Tuesday hinted that there might be a slight extension of temporary suspension of passenger flights between India and the United Kingdom, where a mutated variant of the coronavirus has been detected. “I foresee a slight extension of temporary suspension of India-UK flights,” the minister had said at a press conference. “In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current temporary suspension,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh completes 20 years of formation||The Congress-led government in Chhattisgarh coped with coronavirus and naxal menace during the year, consolidating rural economy with a slew of financial relief and employment-oriented measures in a bid to buck the post-pandemic trend in the country. Chhattisgarh, carved out of Madhya Pradesh, completed 20 years of its formation, while the Bhupesh Baghel-led regime completed two years in office during the year. Two schemes, Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna and Godhan Nyay Yojna, along with mass job creation in the rural pockets through MGNREGA and minor forest produce procurement were identified as leading factors in driving the state's economy during the pandemic. "The first thing we did when the nationwide lockdown was announced was to provide free ration to the poor for three months," the chief minister said. Over 2.77 lakh people in the state have tested Covid- 19 positive and 3,336 lost their lives due to the coronavirus so far and the numbers are continuing to climb. Chhattisgarh also remained in news this year due to the killing of 17 security personnel by naxals, Income Tax departments raids on the premises linked to state government officials and others, deaths of elephants and killings of civilians by Maoists in south Bastar. The death of political stalwart Ajit Jogi also shocked the state. After the state reported its first case of coronavirus on March 18, the state government immediately imposed section 144 of CrPC in all urban areas, banning assembly of people and sealed its borders to check the spread of infection. The state initially witnessed few cases but later saw a sharp rise in numbers with massive influx of migrants. Over seven lakh migrant workers returned to the state during the lockdown, for which 21,000 quarantine centres were set up by the state government. In September and October, the state saw a peak and reported over 1.50 lakh cases in the two months. After lockdown curbs were relaxed, industries in the state resumed operations and the job creation started through MGNREGA and minor forest produce collection, an official said. Around 51 lakh labourers from 27 lakh families have been provided works under MGNREGA so far this year and Rs 2305 crore were paid to them. In May, the state government launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, aimed at ensuring a better return to farmers for their produce and encouraging crop production. Under the scheme, farmers have so far been given Rs 4500 crore in three instalments as input support for the cultivation in the Kharif season 2019-20. Another major scheme was Gordhan Nyay Yojna under which the state government has been procuring cow dung at Rs 2 per kg from cattle rearers for production of vermicompost at gauthans, a dedicated area in villages where cattle are housed. Since the inception of the scheme in July, around 1.40 lakh dung sellers have been paid Rs 64.20 crore. There was a surge in automobile sales and purchase of jewellery and land registration during the year, which the Baghel government claimed were indicators of the states economic growth during the pandemic. The year saw the Congress government engaged in warding off the opposition BJP's attack over farmers issues, handling of the pandemic and law and order situation. The BJP claimed that around 255 cultivators committed suicide during the year. It also alleged mismanagement at quarantine centres after 26 people died in such facilities. In February, the Income Tax department raided premises linked to some Chhattisgarh government officials and others. Baghel then accused the Centre of weakening the federal structure and trying to destabilise the Congress government. The chief minister and his cabinet colleagues met Governor Anusuiya Uikey seeking her intervention. In October, Uikey's refusal to allow a special session of the Assembly triggered another confrontation with the Congress government. Accusing the BJP of backdoor politics, Baghel had said the Raj Bhawan should not be turned into a political arena. The state government had sent a proposal to her to hold the session to introduce a farm Bill that would circumvent the three agriculture Bills passed in Parliament. Uikey questioned the need for a special session, saying the monsoon session had concluded 58 days earlier. In September she had expressed her displeasure over the government's decision to redesignate Marwahi in the new district of Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi from a gram panchayat to a nagar panchayat. She had also written a letter to Baghel over the transfer of IAS officers attached to the Raj Bhavan. Ajit Jogi, the first chief minister of the state and president of Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) party floated by him, died in May after health complications. His death necessitated a bypoll to Marwahi assembly seat, which was being represented by him. The Jogi family suffered a jolt after nomination papers of Amit Jogi, Ajit Jogis son, and his wife Richa Jogi were cancelled by election authority stating that their caste certificates were invalid. Amit Jogi alleged that he was ousted from the fray at the behest of Baghel and extended support to BJPs nominee in the bypoll held in November. The ruling Congress defeated the BJP in Marwahi, taking its tally to 70 in the 90-member Assembly. The Congress also put up a good show in panchayat elections held earlier. In March, Naxals dealt a heavy blow to security forces in Chhattisgarh killing 17 police personnel during an ambush in the Bastar region of the state. The attack, in Sukma district of the Naxal-hit state, was one of the deadliest in the region against the security forces. It came almost two years after another deadly attack by the Naxals in the same area in July 2018 led to the death of 24 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel. The March attack came as a setback for the government which had claimed to have 'controlled' the naxal menace with development-oriented initiatives. During the year, 38 naxals were killed in as many as 104 encounters with security forces, while 386 were arrested and 331 surrendered till December 22 in the insurgency-hit Bastar division comprising seven districts. Security forces also recovered 78 firearms, 268 IEDs and 576 detonators during anti-naxal operations in the region. In October, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) claimed responsibility for killing 25 people, including some of its members, for allegedly acting as police informers, in separate incidents in the insurgency-hit Bijapur district. The state government announced the development of Ram Van Gaman Path as a tourist destination. Some believe that Lord Ram traversed through 75 places in Chhattisgarh during his exile from Ayodhya, and may have stayed at 51 locations for some time. Eight spots on this forested route mentioned in mythology will be developed into tourist destinations in the first phase. Congress stalwart and former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh Motilal Vora died at 92 on December 21. He was cremated with full state honours on the banks of the Shivnath river in his hometown Durg in Chhattisgarh. Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar shared a video of a differently-abled boy from Chhattisgarh's naxal-hit Dantewada district on social media in January, showing 12-year-old Madda Ram Kawasi hitting the ball and crawling to complete a run using his right hand while holding the bat with the left. A Raipur couple naming their newborn twins as Corona and Covid, Naxals hit as lockdown disrupted their supply chain of essentials and a cop providing ration and other essentials to kin of security personnel killed in naxal violence kept the state in the news during the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||India records more than 20,000 cases, 286 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,02,44,852 with 20,549 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.34 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,48,439 with 286 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,34,141 pushing the national recovery rate to 95.99 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 2,62,272 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,09,22,030 samples have been tested up to December 29 with 11,20,281 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 286 new fatalities include 68 from Maharashtra, 30 from West Bengal, 28 from Delhi and 24 from Kerala. A total of 1,48,43 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,373 from Maharashtra followed by 12,092 from Tamil Nadu, 12,074 from Karnataka, 10,502 from Delhi, 9,655 from West Bengal, 8,340 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,100 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,322 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Biting cold grips Delhi, no respite for next two days||A cold wave swept Delhi on Wednesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. It is likely to get even colder on New Year's Eve, it predicted, as dry and icy winds barrelled though the plains. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.5 degrees Celsius as against 3.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The weather stations at Jafarpur and Lodhi Road recorded a low of 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, it said. During nighttime, "dense" fog reduced visibility to 50 metres in the Palam area. However, it improved to 400 metres by 9 am. The visibility at Safdarjung was 500 metres. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of the city over the next two days, it said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down. According to the IMD, a cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. On December 20, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year so far is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Sceptical protesters to take part in govt talks||Protesting farmers are not optimistic about Wednesday’s meeting with the government but have decided to participate nonetheless, spelling out again the agenda for the discussions in a letter to the agriculture ministry: the modalities for the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of MSP. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmers are resisting the three “black laws” — wrote to the ministry on Tuesday to make it clear that they are coming to talk about the issues on the agenda they had sent to the government over the weekend. The letter, addressed to secretary in the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers welfare, Sanjay Agarwal, lists the agenda again: ⚫ Modalities for repeal of the three laws ⚫ Mechanisms to make remunerative MSP, recommended by the National Farmers’ Commission (Swaminathan Commission), a legally guaranteed entitlement for all farmers and all agricultural commodities; ⚫ Amendments to exclude farmers from the penal provisions of the Commission for the Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020; and ⚫ Withdrawal of the Electricity Bill. The Kisan Morcha had spelt out the agenda and even the sequence of discussion in the letter it wrote on Saturday to the ministry accepting its offer to resume talks, but the government made no mention of it while fixing the date and time for the meeting. In Tuesday’s letter, the Morcha wrote: “It is necessary to follow our agenda to arrive at a ‘logical solution’.” The phrase “logical solution” is borrowed from a December 24 letter from the same department to the Kisan Morcha that said the government is ready to find a “logical solution”. With the agitation gathering steam not just at Delhi’s borders but elsewhere in the country – Patna on Tuesday saw a sizeable protest under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the original call for “Dilli Chalo” – the farmers are in no mood to relent. Going back is not an option as the three new laws would disrupt the farming sector and reduce them all to labourers, the farmers say. In an interview to PTI, former agriculture minister and NCP leader Sharad Pawar said the Opposition parties would take a call on the future course of action on the farm bills if the government fails to resolve the issue at Wednesday’s meeting. The Opposition has extended solidarity to the protests and supported the Bharat Bandh called by the Kisan Morcha earlier this month but kept a distance in deference to the wishes of the farmers, who have refused to allow any political party to use their platform. The NCP leader also sought to address the criticism of the government and the BJP that the Opposition was being hypocritical in supporting the agitation when many of the parties had in the past wanted similar reforms. “I and Manmohan Singh also wanted to bring some reforms in the agriculture sector but not in the same way as the current dispensation did. That time the agriculture ministry held long deliberations on the proposed reforms with agriculture ministers of all states and experts of the sector,’’ Pawar said, criticising the government for forcing the laws on the country without even consulting the state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Six UK coronavirus variant cases detected in India||Health authorities in India have detected the fast-spreading variant of the novel coronavirus disease in six people who have returned from the UK amid concerns whether its emergence might alter or even reverse the course of India’s steadily shrinking epidemic. The Union health ministry on Tuesday said six people who had returned from the UK were found infected with the UK variant marked by an unusual set of mutations that appear to make the virus more transmissible than earlier circulating variants. The ministry said three cases were detected by a lab in Bangalore, two by a lab in Hyderabad and one by a lab in Pune. The ministry did not disclose the actual locations of any of the six cases. All six persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health facilities. Their close contacts have also been placed under quarantine, and disease surveillance staff have launched “comprehensive contact tracing” to identify their co-travellers, family contacts and others who could have been potentially exposed to the variant, the ministry said. Genome sequencing on dozens of other viral samples from people who have returned from the UK since November 25 and were found infected with the coronavirus are underway. Health authorities also plan to sequence five per cent of positive samples across the country. “We have to be very, very careful — we still have a large pool of susceptible population. This virus may have its own run,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national task force on Covid-19 and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Health authorities fear that the variant, mainly reported in the UK, but also in smaller numbers from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, South Africa, Japan and some other countries, has genetic mutations that allow it to spread easier from person to person and could trigger fresh spurts in cases. “When a new type of virus enters, it is easier to suppress it in the beginning when there are few cases and few chains of transmission,” Paul said. Health officials and experts are concerned that any spurt in cases might increase the number of people requiring intensive care, and deaths. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk steadily since its peak of over 90,000 new cases daily in mid-September to less than 17,000 cases on Tuesday. There is uncertainty about how the epidemic might change if the UK variant begins to spread in India. “One good sign is that there is no evidence that this strain is contributing to more severe disease or to more deaths,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, one of the labs assigned to sequence the coronavirus genomes. Some clinical virologists also believe that India’s steadily falling numbers could be the result of large proportions of people already infected and thus no longer susceptible. “The virus seems to be running out of people to infect,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Under such a scenario, this variant could trigger local spurts but is unlikely to significantly change the course of the nationwide epidemic,” John said. However, others underline concerns that even local spurts could pose severe challenges. “If the numbers of infections increase dramatically, given the infection patterns we’ve seen thus far, the demand for intensive care too could increase,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-452
30-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: At Singhu, ‘Godi media’ is enemy||At the farmers’ protest, the media is an antagonistic force, like the Modi government and corporate houses. The slogans are loud here: “Desh ki ekta (unity) zindabad, kisan ekta zindabad, Modi sarkar murdabad, boycott Ambani-Adani, Godi media murdabad…” “Godi media” is a term used by critics to refer to a brand of pliant journalism that has taken shape over the past few years, unquestioningly toeing the line of the government and running vitriolic campaigns against those who speak up against the administration. The farmers’ anger at the coverage by sections of the media of their protest is palpable. When a journalist reaches out to the farmers, many of them prefer either not to speak or to question why they are being portrayed as Khalistanis, terrorists and Maoists. The farmers’ lack of trust in the media can be gauged from the experience this correspondent and photojournalist Prem Singh had on Saturday. Several groups of farmers at different places at the dharna site not only grill us about the negative coverage in sections of the media, but some of them also snatch our camera and accreditation cards. When a protester sees “Government of India” written on my accreditation card, he snatches my notes and tears them. For many of the agitating farmers, media means a single entity. Some of them lose patience when this correspondent asks them about their mode of protest and their objections to the farm laws. Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Chamkor Sahib village in Rupnagar district of Punjab, is seen holding a poster on which is written: ‘#Godi media: We are farmers, stop showing us as terrorists.” “We have sacrificed our lives for the country. Now our family members are fighting on the country’s borders. Whenever there is a flood or any other calamity, they help civilians. Your media is calling us terrorists,” Sukhjeet says. He refers to the holy teachings of Sikh Gurus on sacrifice and fighting for truth and justice. He explains that “sacha sauda (true business)” means helping the needy, which can be learnt from Guru Nanak’s life. Manveer Singh, who has come from Machwada Sahib village in Ludhiana district of Punjab, says the media is acting on behalf of the government. “There is no difference between the media, the government and the corporates. We had to face water cannons and tear gas while coming here. The media did not show our difficulties but is interested in showing the SUVs (in which some farmers have come), in showing somebody having a pizza. You do not show the lack of sanitation facilities here and the difficulties faced by women supporters. You do not show the difficulties of life inside a trolley,” Manveer says. Most of the farmers here sleep inside tractor-trollies and tents. Inside a blood-donation camp, three youngsters have just donated blood. Gurjan Singh, a donor, asks that the media show the “good activities” carried out at the protest site. “At least do not show us as Khalistanis,” he says. The farmers are sitting on the road for several kilometres. But most journalists are gathered at the entry points of the dharna where police personnel are deployed. For the farmers, Modi is entirely responsible for the three new farm laws. The slogans mainly target him among politicians. “Only one person is rigid about these laws. He is the Prime Minister. But we are also not going back until the laws are repealed,” says Gurban Singh, a 67-year-old protester. Some of the protesters are wearing T-shirts in which is written: “Boycott Adani products.” For them, Adani and Ambani represent the corporate face and the beneficiaries of the three farm laws. “The corporates will make us tenants on our own land. Contract farming will remove us from our own land,” one of them says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Panel to suggest vaccination terms for people below 50 years||The Centre has asked a 12-member medical panel to set clinical criteria to determine who among people with comorbidities, or underlying chronic health disorders, would be eligible to receive vaccines against the coronavirus disease on priority. The National Expert Group on Covid-19 vaccination strategies that has recommended vaccines on priority for four categories of people will rely on the panel’s suggestions to assign vaccines to people with underlying health disorders aged below 50 years. The expert group had earlier this month recommended that around 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, and an estimated 270 million people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with comorbidities should be prioritised for the vaccines. The medical panel that includes specialists in cancer, cardiovascular, kidney disease and other chronic disorders has been tasked with formulating clinical criteria and guidelines that would allow people with comorbidities to register for the vaccination campaigns. “We’re expecting their report within the next few days,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination, said on Tuesday. The panel has been asked to take into account the severity of the underlying illness and its likely impact on the course of the Covid-19 infection. “Mild hypertension (high blood pressure) which is prevalent in about 30 per cent of adults may or may not be a case for (vaccine) entitlement, but severe hypertension would be,” Paul said. The criteria would seek to ensure those at high risk of severe Covid-19 or death are prioritised for early vaccination. A senior epidemiologist guiding the Centre’s vaccination strategy told The Telegraph that the four priority groups have been chosen on the basis of either their occupational risk of exposure to Covid-19 or their risk of developing severe disease or dying from Covid-19. Studies worldwide have found Covid-19 patients with comorbidities at high risk of severe disease. “I think all people with combinations of certain comorbidities such as a combination of high blood pressure, obesity and diabetes would need to be included in the priority group,” said Ambrish Mithal, a senior endocrinologist in New Delhi, who is not part of the medical panel. Mithal and his colleagues who analysed the clinical outcomes of 401 hospitalised Covid-19 patients in Delhi found that high blood pressure was the most common shared comorbidity in patients with diabetes and 12 out of 15 patients who died had diabetes. India’s drug regulatory authority is currently evaluating applications for the emergency use authorisation of three Covid-19 vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech and Pfizer’s vaccine. Some health experts have predicted that at least one of these vaccines is likely to be approved within days and the immunisation campaign would be launched in January. The Union health ministry has already conducted mock vaccination drills in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat as part of efforts to prepare local health staff for the immunisation campaign. Operational guidelines for the vaccination campaign list multiple sub-categories of healthcare workers and frontline workers. Healthcare workers would include nurses, doctors, paramedical, support and sanitary staff, students and researchers in healthcare institutions, while frontline workers would include defence, central and state police, and all sub-categories of municipal workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Sonia's meeting with senior Cong leaders makes little headway||Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with senior leaders earlier this month to resolve the internal crisis of the Congress appears to have made little headway and there are no signs of reconciliation so far. Although no leader from either side — the so-called group of dissenters or the staunch loyalists — is willing to talk on record, sources indicate there is a growing sense of dissatisfaction with the arbitration process. General secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal and veteran Ambika Soni were assigned by Sonia to negotiate with Ghulam Nabi Azad, perceived to be the leader of the dissenters, but the talks are leading nowhere. The choice of Ambika Soni and Venugopal itself failed to inspire confidence in the other side, which sees this arbitration as a futile exercise. The two leaders have held meetings with Azad, but the distrust and the questions about the party’s functioning have not abated. Some leaders believe Sonia should directly discuss the contentious issues with them or depute “well-meaning” negotiators at the earliest. The uncertainties mean a delay in the AICC session for the election of a new party president and the working committee, which was earlier supposed to have been held in January. The dates cannot be finalised unless there is a broad agreement on the leadership structure and most leaders admit there is no clarity on “any issue” so far, as Rahul Gandhi has given no hint of his readiness to return anytime soon. If he finally refuses to return, the complexities will multiply because the dissenters will not accept a “puppet” as the next president. Leaders from both sides meanwhile continue to trade charges in private conversations, even questioning the choice of spokespersons on the farmers’ movement. After the eruption of the letter controversy, those from the Group of 23 who signed the missive to Sonia have not been assigned to brief the media. Former Union ministers Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, who were the most prominent faces of the party in the media, had signed the letter. One leader said: “Sonia’s role is critical at this juncture if the dangerous drift in the party has to be checked. What is needed is honest advice, not blind sycophancy, because the party’s plight is truly miserable. After Bihar elections, we are in for a pathetic performance in Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Nobody is confident about Assam either. We have wasted more than 18 months after the parliamentary election, which could have been used to set the house in order.” While 2020 has been a wasted year for the Congress, which failed to cash in on the government’s failures on the economy, the pandemic and the Chinese intrusion, the next year may be far more tumultuous for the party that is expected to play the pivotal role in building a robust Opposition. As the year ends, the majority of Congress leaders are clueless about the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth cites God, calls off political plunge ||Superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced his decision not to join politics, two days before he was to float a political party, citing his frail health and his vulnerability to Covid-19 and seeing in them a “warning from God”. Rajinikanth, 70, who underwent a renal transplant a few years ago and was last week admitted to hospital following a health scare, issued a three-page statement saying: “Forgive me; I know my decision will disappoint thousands of my fans, members of the (fan club) Rajini Makkal Mandram and the people at large.” The actor was expected to launch a political party on December 31 and contest all 234 seats in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections next year. After the kidney transplant a few years ago, health issues continued to dog Rajinikanth. His resolve to set the political ball rolling from December 31 had pushed him to try to complete his film assignment — the big-budget Annathai — at the earliest. But four members of the 120-strong crew, shooting at Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad, tested positive for Covid-19 on December 23 despite a bio-bubble. Rajinikanth immediately isolated himself and later got admitted to Apollo Hospitals for tests. Though he tested negative for Covid-19, the actor was kept under close examination for three days as his blood pressure fluctuated. He was discharged on Sunday after his health improved. Doctors advised him “complete bed rest” and to avoid stress that could aggravate his post-renal transplant complications. Rajinikanth in his statement recalled these issues, stating that his doctors had told him that his blood pressure should not be allowed to fluctuate under any circumstances. “Kalanidhi Maran (of Sun Pictures, producing Annathai), considering my health condition, had earlier postponed the remaining shoot of ‘Annathai’, but it entailed job losses to the crew and financial losses to the tune of several crore of rupees.” Underscoring that all this was “due to my health”, Rajinikanth said he read the latest episode as a “warning from God”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Modi wades into church property dispute in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has intervened to mediate in a century-old dispute between two Kerala Christian denominations, strengthening suspicion that the BJP is reviving its plan to lure the crucial minority vote bank in the state that has consistently rejected the party. A property dispute between two powerful churches has been dragged to the Prime Minister’s Office, that too by a governor who is supposed to be apolitical. Mizoram governor P. Sreedharan Pillai, who is the immediate past president of the BJP in Kerala, was instrumental in mobilising bishops to meet Modi over three days. While representatives of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church met the Prime Minister in Delhi on Monday, bishops from the rival Jacobite Syrian Christian Church did so on Tuesday. Catholic bishops will meet Modi on Wednesday. Rev. Sleeba Paul, trustee of the priests of the Jacobite Church, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that it was Pillai who had taken the initiative for the discussions with Modi. “Although we are more in number, our churches are being taken over, leaving us with no place to pray or even bury our dead,” Paul said, referring to a 2017 Supreme Court judgment that ordered over 1,064 of the 1,700 churches to be given to the rival Orthodox church. So far, 52 churches have been transferred. The dispute dates back more than a century when the Malankara church split in 1912 into Jacobite and Orthodox groups. While they were brought together in 1959, the unity lasted only till 1972. This led to one of the longest-standing disputes between two powerful church groups. While the Jacobites are numerically stronger, the Orthodox church comprises some of the elites of Kerala society. Scholar and political commentator M.N. Karassery slammed Pillai for misusing his gubernatorial office by acting as an intermediary between the Prime Minister and the Church. “He shouldn’t have taken to such mediation since he occupies a major constitutional position. Also, it’s not the Prime Minister’s job to intervene in what is strictly a property dispute between two churches. All of this means that this exercise is part of the larger RSS agenda to lure Kerala’s Christians,” Karassery told this newspaper on Tuesday. The BJP has been struggling to get a toehold in Kerala, a state where Christians form about 20 per cent and Muslims about 30 per cent of the 3.5 crore population. “The Prime Minister is trying to make it look like an international issue to portray himself as the protector of the Christian faith. This is sheer mockery of democracy,” Karassery said. He questioned the rationale of seeking the Prime Minister’s help even if the churches wanted an out-of-court settlement. “They should have gone to the court and not the Prime Minister. This means those who organised this are interfering in the affairs of the judiciary for political gains,” Karassery alleged. Reformists who have been fighting to implement a bill that would transfer much of the powers from the bishops to the laity also came out against Modi’s intervention. Felix J Pulludan, chairman of the Joint Christian Council, accused the BJP of trying to lure upper caste Christians. “Since the BJP is an upper caste party, many savarna (upper caste) Christians have often stood with the savarna politics of the RSS and the BJP. The BJP is banking heavily on that caste feeling among Christians to lure them,” Pulludan said. He called on the churches to join hands and get the state government to pass the Kerala Properties and Institutions Trust Bill, 2019, instead of going to the Prime Minister to solve a property dispute. “The Church Bill provides effective solutions to end such property disputes by handing much of the power to the laity. But the bishops don’t want to lose control of money and property,” Pulludan said. The bishops of each diocese enjoy the rights on church properties. “Disputes will get sorted out once the power shifts to the laity,” he said. While the draft bill mooted by the Kerala Law Reforms Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice K.T. Thomas seeks to make things more transparent, it has not gone down well with the clergy who suspect it is a state government plan to take over churches. The Left government headed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had put the bill on the back burner as it did not want to take on the powerful clergy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Citu call for labour law repeal ||CPM labour arm Citu has demanded that the government repeal four newly passed labour laws, at a time farmers are protesting against new farm laws and have called for their scrapping. Citu will organise a protest at work sites on Wednesday to demand that the Code on Wages, Code on Industrial Relations, Code on Social Security and the Code on Occupational Safety be repealed. Citu general secretary A.R. Sindhu described the labour laws as draconian. “We have extended our support to the farmers on their demand to repeal the farm laws. We are also demanding the repeal of the four labour laws,” she said. Citu will hold another round of protest on January 8 in front of the office of district magistrates. Sindhu demanded the expansion of employment guarantee, universal free health, social security for all, and enhanced minimum wage. She said the labour codes would help corporates and marginalise workers. The Industrial Relations Code has a provision to allow easy hire-and-fire, while there is no clear-cut condition for social security funds in the codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Police lathicharge on Bihar farmers||Several farmers were injured in the Bihar capital on Tuesday when police resorted to a lathicharge to stop a massive march to Raj Bhavan against the three controversial farm laws. Over 10,000 farmers from different parts of Bihar had assembled at the Gandhi Maidan in Patna on the call of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti (ABKSSS). The Opposition, including the Left parties, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, as well as several organisations of farmers and farm labourers, had professed their support to the protest march. With plans to protest outside Raj Bhavan to demand the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support price, the farmers had started their march in the afternoon amid heavy police deployment that also had anti-riot vehicles and water cannons. They walked for around 2km before being stopped by the police at the Dak Bungalow crossing and asked to disperse. The protesters were determined to push ahead and it led to an altercation with the police, who then lathicharged and dispersed them. At least 35 people from different organisations were injured in the police action and were taken to various dispensaries in the city. The incident also threw traffic in Patna haywire and normality could be restored only after around three hours. One of the injured farmers, Rakesh Kumar of Nalanda district, said: “The blows of the lathi are nothing in comparison to what we have to face by selling paddy at Rs 900 to Rs 1,100 per quintal when the MSP is Rs 1,868. The government has declared them (farm laws) without making proper arrangements for purchasing paddy. We are ruined.” Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawle, who participated in the march, said the farmers’ agitation in Bihar would become stronger. “We appeal to the farmers and the common people of Bihar to join this struggle to ensure that the country and its people win against the pro-corporate, anti-poor, anti-farmer laws brought by the Centre,” Dhawle said. ABKSSS Bihar-Jharkhand in-charge and Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Mahasabha general secretary Rajaram Singh condemned the police action and asked chief minister Nitish Kumar not to use force to quell the agitation of farmers. “Over 10,000 farmers from different parts of Bihar had come with their legitimate demands and wanted to submit a memorandum to governor Phagu Chauhan in a peaceful manner but the police lathicharged them. The administration showed insensitivity instead of understanding their problem. Nitish Kumar should desist from trying to subdue the farmers by the use of force,” Singh said. Singh added that this was “just a trailer shown by the farmers of Bihar. If the situation demands, they will travel to Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Gujarat MP, Mansukh Vasava, backs tribals, quits BJP ||One of the seniormost BJP MPs and tribal leaders, Mansukh Vasava, on Tuesday resigned from the party, days after writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest a government notification that would harm the interests of tribals and farmers in his constituency. Vasava, who has represented the tribal-dominated Bharuch Lok Sabha constituency in Gujarat since 1998, had written to Modi last week, seeking withdrawal of an environment ministry notification declaring 121 villages in Narmada district as “eco-sensitive zone” where farming and forest activities would be restricted. The Vajpayee-Advani era leader had said the classification would harm the interests of local tribals and farmers. He had highlighted the harassment of tribals and farmers by government officials after the notification and sought Modi’s intervention to get it withdrawn. The 121 villages are located in the Narmada river basin around Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s “Statue of Unity”, a dream project of Modi. Crores have been spent to build the world’s tallest statue and the Prime Minister is now seeking to develop the area into an international tourist spot. “In the name of the notification of the MoECC (environment ministry), government officials have begun interfering in the private properties of tribal people,” the six-time MP had written to Modi. Tribal people were “extremely angry” at not being taken into confidence and were preparing for a “mass protest”, he wrote. He stressed that tribals were dependent on forest produce for their sustenance and were now being denied. The letter sought the Prime Minister’s intervention and “immediate withdrawal” of the notification. The environment ministry’s notification and the subsequent actions of the local administration have triggered a tribal uprising in Narmada district. Tribals in Narmada district are using traditional “gram sabhas” to pass resolutions against the government order and preparing to launch a massive protest. Under pressure, a local BJP MLA, Motilal Vasava, recently wrote letters to tribal village heads supporting the move to pass resolutions against the environment ministry’s order. The tribal villagers have claimed “complete hold” on their land, citing provisions of the Panchayat (Extension of Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996. Popularly known as Pesa, the central law was enacted for ensuring self-governance through gram sabhas for people living in scheduled areas. On Tuesday, Vasava sent his resignation letter to Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil after no action was taken on his letter. Though he didn’t refer to this as a reason, people close to him said the inaction had prompted him to resign. “I am resigning so that the image of the party is not damaged because of my mistakes,” Vasava wrote in Gujarati and thanked the party’s leadership for giving him “opportunities beyond my capacity”. He didn’t clarify what he meant by “because of my mistakes”.Vasava said he would resign from the Lok Sabha during the upcoming budget session. “I am tendering my resignation. Please forgive me. I will also submit my resignation as MP to the honourable Lok Sabha Speaker during the upcoming budget session,” he said in the letter. The six-term MP was not available for comment but BJP leaders close to him said he was under “extreme pressure” from his tribal voters and had resigned to try to compel the central government to withdraw the notification. Vasava has been vocal about the rights of tribals and had been junior tribal affairs minister at the Centre. Coming at a time the farmers’ protest is raging, the resignation of the tribal leader spread concern and senior BJP functionaries in Gujarat were learnt to be trying to persuade Vasava to change his decision. Party leaders fear the development would embolden the Opposition to accuse the Modi government of being anti-tribals and anti-farmer. “We have learnt about the resignation from social media. Mansukhbhai has been a loyal party leader and he will surely take back his resignation,” a Gujarat BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||Govt school alumni quota for Odisha engineering and medical colleges||The Naveen Patnaik government will reserve a certain percentage of seats in engineering and medical colleges of the state for students passing out of government high schools. The decision was taken at the meeting of the state cabinet on Monday. A press release issued by the government said: “After introduction of centralised exams like NEET and JEE for medical and engineering courses, it is observed that the number of meritorious students from government high schools and colleges in Odisha, eligible for admission in these institutions, has been coming down over the years. This is not due to lack of meritorious students but a deeper divide in access to coaching classes, which is missing in rural areas. “ Admitting that competitive exams require special skill sets which are imparted mainly through the coaching centres and online coaching classes the government said, “Due to such centres being limited to mostly urban pockets and the high economic cost of access to such facilities, thousands of meritorious students from the government school system are at a disadvantage and therefore, fare lower than their potential in the entrance exams. This is unfair competition for the vast majority of children in Odisha.” The government wishes to correct this imbalance and provide a level playing field to the students of government-run schools so that they are able to realise their dreams of becoming doctors and engineers. “The state government has decided to provide reservation to eligible government school and college students of Odisha in Medical and Engineering Colleges admissions in the state. This will be applicable from the next academic year,” the release said. In order to implement this decision properly, the government has decided to constitute a high-powered committee under a retired high court judge. Eminent educationists of the state and eminent people from other walks of life will be included in the committee. “The committee will be asked to send its recommendations within three months. The recommendations of the committee will facilitate the implementation of the reservation policy,” said a senior government official. Reacting to the government’s decision, BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The government is yet to implement the reservation policy for the socio economically weaker sections of the society. Now it is talking of reservations in medical and engineering colleges for students. It should clarify what prompted it to announce these reservations.” She said government-run schools are yet to be upgraded with quality infrastructure. In yet another decision, the state government has decided all the public representatives from sarpanch to chief minister will submit their property lists annually. This will be mandatory. The property lists will also be sent to the Lokayukta for reference. Similarly the property lists of government employees starting from entry level to the rank of chief secretary will also be displayed in the public domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||India||SDF seeks judicial probe into cop arrest||The opposition Si­kk­im Democratic Front has ur­ged governor Ganga Prasad to constitute a judicial inquiry into the recent arrest of a police officer for his alleged involvement in the smuggling of prescription drugs in the state. In a memorandum submit­t­­ed to the governor on Mond­ay, the SDF alleged the involvement of the police officer in drug smuggling and other instances of laxity in policing were a reflection of the deteriorating law and order in the state since the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha had come to power in May 2019. “We would like to request your Excellency to kindly initiate an independent judicial enquiry into this matter,” said the SDF memorandum, which also listed the incidents of illegal entry of some people into the state during the lockdown and the arrest of SDF activists for their Facebook posts as instances of the breakdown of law and order and “politicisation” of the police force. On December 17, the police had seized huge amount of prescription drugs and small quantity of brown sugar from a taxi driven by an assistant sub-inspector in uniform at To­pakhani on NH10 and a ho­u­se in Samdung village in East Sikkim. The overall value of the seized drugs was estimated to be about Rs 14 lakh. M.K. Subba, the chief sp­o­kesperson for the SDF, said the memorandum also voiced the party’s concern at the ma­nner in which Covid-19 was being handled by the SKM government. “We have demanded that a special medical team from the Centre be assigned to the state to help the local authorities deal with the pandemic,” he told The Telegraph. Subba said Sikkim worryingly had higher percentages of Covid infection and fatality than the national average. “We have also urged the governor to ask the government to put a system in place for the vaccination of our entire people against Covid as and when the vaccines become available,” he added. Contacted, Jacob Khaling, the political secretary to chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) and SKM spokesman, said his party would prefer not to react to such baseless charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-453
30-12-2020||West Bengal||TMC moves President to remove Dhankhar from Governor's post||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said it has moved President Ramnath Kovind to remove Jagdeep Dhankhar from the post of the West Bengal governor, accusing him of "transgressing constitutional limits" by regularly commenting against the state administration and government in the public. The BJP, however, said the governor is acting within his constitutional parameters while the "TMC is scared". A team of TMC MPs has sent a letter to the President on Tuesday listing "all such transgressions" by Dhankhar in recent times and urged him to take action as per Article 156, Clause 1 of the Constitution, the party's Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told reporters here. "The governor holds office during the pleasure of the President as per Article 156, Clause 1. We have urged the President to withdraw the pleasure, which translates into removing this governor," Roy said. "We have noticed that since he arrived in the state in July last year, he has been regularly tweeting, holding press meets and participating in TV discussions, where he is regularly passing comments on the functioning of the state government, our officers, ministers, the chief minister, even once on the conduct of the speaker of the assembly. Every such action is violative of his constitutional rights," Roy said. Alleging that Dhankhar has been making such statements in the public at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre to embarrass the TMC government in the state, Roy said, "This had never happened earlier in the 75-year-long history of West Bengal. If he has to say anything, he can communicate that in the way as provided to him by the Constitution, not by tweeting or holding press meets." Roy cited Dhankhar's statement seeking expense details of the Bengal Business Summit, his demand for an apology from the chief minister over some of her recent comments and his "threat to 25 IPS officers" as instances of the governor "violating his rights and limitations". "He has also said it is his duty to ensure free and fair polls. Who is he? It is the domain of the Election Commission. Similarly, only the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) has the authority to seek details of the expenses of state-organised events like the Bengal Business Summit," Roy said. "A constitutional head chosen by the Centre cannot interfere in the functioning of the state in this way. It is akin to interference in the parliamentary system. He is intentionally doing these things. He is not fit to occupy the seat of the governor which had been occupied by many illustrious personalities since Independence," Roy said. He said such actions by the governor goes against the orders given by the Supreme Court in the past. The letter to the President was signed by five senior party MPs in both the Houses, including Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Derek O'Brien and Roy himself. Dhankhar, who has had frequent run-ins with the TMC government in the last one-and-half years, has regularly flagged concern about the alleged politicisation of the state administration and police, the functioning of the state-run universities and the law and order situation among other issues. To a question, Roy said this was the party's initial step with regard to the governor. "Depending on the situation and seeing the response, we will take steps in the future," he added. Reacting to the development, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the governor is performing his constitutional duty as he finds that the state government is not performing its duty properly on certain parameters. "I don't think the TMC's action of moving the President for the removal of the governor will have any impact. The President will go by his own understanding of the governor's role," he told reporters. "The governor is acting within his constitutional parameters as the head of the state. The TMC is doing this as it is scared," the senior BJP leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports first case of mutant Covid strain||Bengal has reported its first case of the mutant coronavirus that has been detected in the United Kingdom, a senior health official said on Wednesday. The patient, the son of a senior official of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, tested positive for the mutant strain VUI-202012/01 following his return from London, the official added. “The youth is undergoing treatment at the state-run hospital's super-specialty section. He is under observation. We have advised all those who have come in contact with him to isolate themselves,” he told PTI, adding that the mutant strain is believed to be more contagious than the existing one. The youth had tested positive for Covid-19 10 days ago at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, upon his return to Calcutta, the official said. “Six others who had come in contact with the youth at the airport tested negative for the infection. As he had returned from the UK, we had sent his samples for genetic analysis as per the protocol set by the Centre,” he added. “The new strain of the coronavirus was detected during his genetic analysis. We have sent the report to Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control,” the official said. Twenty cases of the mutant coronavirus strain have so far been reported across the country, of which eight were detected in Delhi and seven in Bengaluru. The mutant strain VUI-202012/01 (the first Variant Under Investigation in December 2020) is defined by a set of 17 changes or mutations. More than 40 countries including India have banned travel to and from the UK, a move several scientists said was necessary in view of the rapid spread of the VUI-202012/0, which was first detected on September 21. Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,587 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,244 new cases and 30 deaths, including four from Calcutta, as the state recorded a drop in total active cases for the 64th successive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases fell in these 64 days from 37,190 to 12,788, improving by nearly 66 per cent. In this period, Bengal recorded over 2.17 lakh recoveries and 1.95 lakh new cases. The state now has a total of over 5.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.27 lakh recoveries and 9,655 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 68 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.92, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul forms district-level minority panels||The Trinamul leadership in Jalpaiguri formed full-fledged committees of party’s minority cell at the district level and in 15 organisational blocks on Tuesday, prompted by a sudden surge in activities of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in parts of the district. Mosharraf Hossain, nominated as the new district president of Trinamul’s minority cell, said that the AIMIM was active in some areas was trying to erode Trinamul's support base. “In Nagrakata, the AIMIM had planned to get some of our local leaders and active workers on board a few days back. We could thwart them. Also, there is information that the party (AIMIM) is active in places like Malbazar, Kranti and parts of Rajganj. We are collecting information on a regular basis from all seven Assembly seats of the district and will take initiatives to stop the AIMIM from consolidating support base in minority areas,” said Hossain. In Jalpaiguri, around 30 per cent of the voters are from minority community in Rajganj constituency while in Malbazar, the percentage is 27. According to sources, AIMIM workers are also taking up political activities in places like Binnaguri and Banarhat quietly. On Tuesday, district Trinamul leaders announced a 50-member district committee of the cell. Along with Hossain, the district committee has three working presidents, two coordinators, four vice-presidents, a secretary-general, six general secretaries, six assistant general secretaries, 12 executive members and 15 block presidents. The minority cell president, when asked how they intend to impede the AIMIM from gathering support, was brief in his comments. “We won’t divulge our plans but we will surely stress the initiatives taken up by our chief minister and state government for the minority community,” he said. Some party insiders pointed out that unlike yesteryears, no one from other minority communities such as Buddhists, Christians and Sikhs were included in these panels. “Their votes also matter to the party. We hope representatives from these communities would be inducted in other (party) committees in due course,” said a party leader. District Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani said the AIMIM would fail to make any impact in poll results. “The party failed in Bihar Assembly elections…they have drawn up a similar strategy for Bengal. We are confident that people will stand with us.” However, ever since AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced he would field candidates in some districts of Bengal for the 2021 state elections, Trinamul is worried about a dent in minority votes. Recently, chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a public meeting here accused the BJP of spending crores to try to import Owaisi's AIMIM in Bengal and divide Muslim votes. The AIMIM chief had reacted to the accusation in a tweet: “Never was a man born who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money.” Political observers are watching the unfolding events with interest. “Trinamul is apprehensive that AIMIM’s entry would dent their support base and affect poll results, particularly when the BJP is desperate. That is why Trinamul seems to have taken up the task to engage its minority cell to prevent withering of its support base,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Forest office ransacked over detention of village youth ||A forest range office was allegedly ransacked by villagers in the presence of local Trinamul leaders at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar on Tuesday during a demonstration to protest the detention of a local youth found in the reserve area on Monday evening. Trinamul leaders called it a “spontaneous outburst” of villagers. Sources said on Monday evening, some daily-wage workers engaged by the state forest department were patrolling the fringes of the East Rajabhatkhawa range office under BTR west division when they spotted Upen Rava of Gadadhar forest village. Upen was brought to the range office and asked what he was doing in the reserve area in the evening. As news spread, some villagers reached the range office at 9.30pm and resorted to protests. They got Upen out of the range office and took him home. On Tuesday morning, some villagers and local Trinamul leaders reached the range office to meet foresters on the issue. Around 7am, some turned violent and damaged office furniture, CCTV cameras and window panes. Some 100 villagers kept forest staff confined, demanding the transfer of those who had caught Upen. “Upen had gone for fishing and yet was taken to the range office and accused of smuggling timber,” said Amir Rava, a Trinamul leader. On the ransacking of the office, Manoj Agarwal, another Trinamul leader, said it was a “spontaneous reaction of people” as an innocent youth was harassed. Ranjan Talukdar, a forest official of BTR, spoke with Trinamul leaders and persuaded them to withdraw the protests. Subhankar Sengupta, BTR field director, did not comment on the violence. “All we want to say is that in the evening no one goes to the forest to catch fish,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown extended||The Bhutan government on Tuesday extended the nationwide lockdown “until the festivities of New Year and Nyilo are over”. Nyilo is considered as an auspicious day in Bhutan and celebrated as New Year in the country. Earlier, Bhutan had announced a lockdown in August that was relaxed in September. However, after some fresh Covid-19 cases had been recently reported, the government announced a seven-day lockdown on December 23 that ended on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Malda police office shifted||The headquarters of Malda district police was shifted to a new building on Tuesday after a gap of nearly 150 years, keeping in view the requirement of a larger space and to eradicate several other problems which were causing inconvenience for regular activities of the district police administration. Vishal Garg, the inspector general of police, north Bengal, in presence of other senior police and administrative officials, inaugurated the new police office near the food park on Tuesday. According to senior researchers of the district, the office of the superintendent of police in Malda that used to function from the first floor of a building on the district court premises, was opened in 1859. “The building was constructed during the British regime. We have heard since our childhood that the British government had constructed the building when the police and judiciary wings were inseparable. The building is at the centre of Malda town and it has a heritage value,” said Radhagobinda Ghosh, a researcher based in Malda and a Bangaratna awardee. The headquarter, where the district police chief used to attend his office, was at a stone’s throw away from the district magistrate’s office and the Zilla Parishad. “The building has an area of approximately 7,500 square feet. But with the growing requirement of more space, it was essential to shift the office. A major problem was the paucity of parking space,” said sources. The new building, sources said, is nearly 5km from the former building and near the Gour Banga University. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said after he had taken charge, he felt the need to shift the office to a larger space. “Appropriate initiatives were taken and a proposal was sent to the state government. We checked out some locations and this venue was finalized. The building has been constructed on war footing, keeping in view all possible requirements to run the district police administration smoothly,” said Rajoria. Garg appreciated the shift and directed district police officials to appraise the common people of the change so that they did not find any difficulty in locating the new office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Protesters lock office in Alipurduar, BDO works from road||Residents of Kalchini block in Alipurduar district were in for a surprise on Tuesday to see block development officer Prashanta Burman on the road outside his office on Tuesday afternoon to do his official work. The reason: some members of the Trinamul-run panchayat samiti of Kalchini had locked the BDO office, alleging Burman was impeding development work at the block. The drama unfolded at around 2pm, as panchayat samiti members locked the gate and resorted to a demonstration against the BDO. “We have been asking BDO to invite tenders for road development and construction of embankments. The state has allotted around Rs 3 crore for such projects to be carried out in the block. He has not listened to us. We are worried because if dates of Assembly polls are announced, tenders can no longer be invited (as the model code of conduct will be enforced). That is why we demonstrated in front of his office,” said Rajkumkar Bhujel, a member of the samiti. When the protest started, Burman was at the district magistrate’s office in Alipurduar. As he got the news, he immediately came back but found his office locked. So he sat outside the office, and met people who approached him. “I know my responsibilities. As I could not enter office, I did my official work sitting on the road. We are carrying out the Duare Sarkar campaign these days. I don’t know what made them close down my office,” said Burman. Seeing him squatting on the road, protesters eventually opened the gates. Burman then entered office. Some residents and Trinamul insiders, however, said the BDO was doing his best and even going beyond the call of duty. “It seems his proactive approach is affecting the interest of some people. Otherwise, there is no reason for such protests,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Kidnap victim found in 24 hours||A 34-year-old poultry farm owner abducted in Malda for money was rescued within 24 hours by the police on Tuesday early morning. The police have also detained 10 persons allegedly involved in the crime. Sources said Farooq Momin, who owns a poultry farm at Chowki-Mirdadpur under Manikchak police station of the district, was kidnapped on December 26 night. “He was sleeping at a room in his farm when the gang broke into his property and before he could react, they held him at gunpoint and took him away,” said Kunal Das, the officer-in-charge of Manikchak police station. On Monday, Ekramul, Farooq’s elder brother, filed a police complaint. By then, Farooq’s family members started receiving calls from various phone numbers demanding cash for his release. Police formed a special team to investigate the kidnap. The cell phone numbers, from which abductors had called, were put under tracking. After some hours, the team could intercept three persons from Amriti, a locality under Englishbazar police station. “During interrogation, they admitted the victim has been taken to Alipur, a locality in Kaliachak police station. We contacted police officials of Mothabati and Kaliachak police stations and a joint rescue operation was planned. Eventually, the poultry farm owner was rescued at a hideout in Alipur,” added Das. During the raid, seven others were detained. Sources said that the police team was in plainclothes. The ransom money was kept ready to allure kidnappers. “However, the operation was successful without firing or bloodshed,” said a senior police officer. Alok Rajoria, the SP of Malda, appreciated the team. “They (the team) have performed a commendable rescue operation. The victim has been freed and the suspected kidnappers have been detained within 24 hours. It is the smooth coordination among different police stations that helped us,” Rajoria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Truck holds up train services in Nadia||Train services in Sealdah north section were hit for 90 minutes when a truck rammed into the level-crossing gate near Kalyani station in Nadia on Tuesday. An eyewitness said the truck speeding on NH12 connector in Kalyani hit the drop gates at 9.24am. The drop gate got damaged and overhead electric cable pole took a hit. As cables snapped, train services were suspended for almost an hour. A tower van was later pressed into action to repair the gate and the route was cleared for movement of vehicles around 11.05am. However, it took about two hours for train services to resume on stretches including Sealdah-Lalgola, Sealdah-Ranaghat, Sealdah-Gede, and Sealdah-Santipur, a spokesperson for the Eastern Railway said. Police have started a case against the errant truck driver, who drove away the vehicle that remained untraced till evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Tea unions demand daily wage of Rs 250||Trade unions on Tuesday demanded a daily wage of at least Rs 250 for tea estate workers and revision of the salaries of the staff and sub-staff in gardens with effect from April 1, 2020. The demands were put forward at a meeting between senior officials of the state labour department and leaders of the unions in Siliguri. There are around three lakh workers and about 10,000 staff and sub-staff members in the tea gardens of north Bengal. As of now, a worker receives Rs 176 per day. Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri, said: “We will soon hold a meeting with tea planters’ associations in Calcutta on the unions’ demands. Thereafter, necessary steps would be taken up for a consensus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Aishe flags digital divide worry||SFI leader and Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh, here on Tuesday, underscored the “digital divide” that has cropped up in the education sector amid the pandemic and demanded that the central and state governments take initiatives to reopen education institutions immediately while adhering to health safety protocols needed to keep Covid-19 at bay. Durgapur girl Aishe, who hit the national headlines in January 2020 for receiving severe head injuries allegedly by the ABVP on JNU campus while she was leading a protest against fee hike, was here to attend the 50th anniversary of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), the CPM students’ front. “It is necessary that educational institutions reopen immediately to bridge the digital divide that has been witnessed in education across the country because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 70 per cent students are bereft of the online education system (as they lack Internet access). In the past few months, it has been found that the number of dropouts is on the rise. This is alarming,” Aishe said, urging schools, colleges and universities to open up “so that the inclusive system of education can resume”. “We will carry out a series of programmes (under the banner of the SFI) so that the governments make appropriate moves in this regard,” the student leader added. On Tuesday, Aishe walked in a rally organised by the SFI that started from Bagha Jatin Park, moved through Kutcheri Road and Hill Cart Road, and ended at Mahatma Gandhi Chowk. Hundreds of SFI supporters and senior CPM leaders including Asok Bhattacharya and Jibesh Sarkar attended the rally. Speaking to newspersons, Aishe lashed out at the Narendra Modi government over the recent controversy over the ancestral home of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen in Santiniketan. Authorities of the varsity, perceived to have Rightwing leanings, have accused Sen of encroaching on varsity land. Aishe pointed out that the Nobel Laureate had been outspoken and had said that democratic rights of people were violated. She hit out at the saffron brigade and alleged an “undeclared Emergency” in the country. The BJP government, Aishe said, had promised two crore jobs ahead of the 2014 polls but never met it. “These days, whether it is students or farmers, no one can speak up on their demands,” she said. “As far as employment in concerned, situation has worsened as 15 crore people have lost their jobs in past six months but the RSS and the BJP are least bothered about it,” Aishe said. “These days, people are deprived of their rights, farmers have launched a movement and as a whole key problems remain unaddressed,” said the JNU students’ union leader. Aishe accused both the BJP and Trinamul of indulging in election-centric politics. “Whether it is in the state (Bengal) or in the Centre, situation is same. Instead of trying to address the issues of the common people, both the governments are indulging in election-centric politics. We are against such political practices,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh hits Amartya Sen below the belt ||The BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, having developed a reputation for shooting from the hip and embarrassing his party, on Tuesday lambasted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen in what is being viewed by some in the party as “unnecessary invitation to avoidable trouble”. Reacting to questions on Sen’s stand against the legislation against “love jihad” being enacted by many BJP-ruled states, Ghosh said the economist should not speak of ideals. “I don’t want to attack someone personally. But he has no moral right to speak since he himself has married thrice, into three different religions,” he said on Tuesday. “He (Sen) fled the country and has never been seen in times of crises, such as Cyclone Amphan or the pandemic. We will not take moral lessons from such a person,” said Ghosh, despite his party steering clear of criticising the 87-year-old, conferred the Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian honour — by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government at the Centre in 1999. The Midnapore MP issued the public statement at a time his party has been treading with caution on not only Sen but on all matters pertaining to Bengal, its culture and icons. Many sources in the BJP admitted to displeasure with Ghosh over the remarks. “Yes, of course, we do have our differences with Sen. But it is difficult to justify such an uncouth personal attack on him while we are trying our best to connect with the people,” said a state BJP leader. “Mamata (Banerjee) and her party (Trinamul) have been going out of their way to stand by Sen at this hour, and this support has brought them close. At this time, Dilipda’s remarks would give her the edge. Dilipda, yet again, handed live ammo to her,” he added. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, a BJP ideologue, and the party’s national-secretary Anupam Hazra, a Visva-Bharati alumnus, distanced themselves from Ghosh’s remarks. Both claimed they were unaware of the remarks by Ghosh. “Professor Sen is a person who is respected all over Bengal as well as all across the globe,” said Dasgupta. Hazra added: “Though many a time Sen has been rigidly against the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he is an esteemed son of Bengal’s soil. One should avoid making personal attacks at him.” State minister and Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu said: “Such foul-mouthed insults are the first instinct for the BJP when it comes to Bengal, its ethos and its essence. Since the BJP has realised that no Nobel laureate or any civil society member worth his salt is with them, their masks often fall off in reacting to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Mamata's Bolpur rally picks up gauntlet thrown down by Shah ||Rabindranath Tagore and the other cultural symbols inextricably associated with Bengal set the ambience as Mamata Banerjee set out on foot and picked up the gauntlet thrown down by Amit Shah from a truck nine days ago on the same soil. Didi’s time was over, Shah had declared at the end of a 1-km-long roadshow in the same Birbhum town that Sunday, drawing an impressive crowd that set the tone by chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki jai”. On Tuesday, Mamata answered Shah with her feet firmly planted on Bengal’s soil, walking 4km to the strains of folk music, Tagore’s songs and drumbeats. The battle is far from over was the message Mamata sought to convey in a perception race that the BJP has attempted to dominate by parading Trinamul turncoats. “The game is not that easy…. You first get 30 seats, then talk about 294 seats,” Mamata said at the end of the roadshow, countering claims by the BJP that its tally in the Assembly polls in a few months would cross 200. Trinamul saw in the estimated 1.6-lakh turnout at the roadshow an energiser to prepare the rank and file for the impending battle. As Mamata hit the streets to offer her rebuttal to Shah’s war cry, she armed herself with Bengal’s culture and Bengali sentiments. “Jana Gana Mana Adhinayaka Jaya He…. Aajke bolchhe otao poriborton korbe. Ami bolchhi, ek bar touch kore dekho (You will change the national anthem? Touch it once and see),” Mamata said, drawing a huge round of applause from the tens of thousands who had gathered at Jambuni Bottola Crossing, where the roadshow ended. BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy had earlier this month sought the replacement of some words in the national anthem in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose Covid season beard has been a subject of social media speculation on whether he is modelling himself on Tagore in preparation for the Bengal campaign. On Tuesday, Tagore was the theme of the roadshow as the entire stretch through which Mamata led the walk with hundreds of folk singers, drummers and young singers was lined with posters and banners of the Bard. Standing along the road and on balconies, thousands waved at her, clicked photographs and shouted slogans. Standing barely a couple of kilometres from Santiniketan, where Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati, Mamata took a dig at Shah for his pledge that the BJP would turn the state into “Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal)” if voted to power. “Tagore had written long back what is Sonar Bangla…. No one needs to spin a new dream about Sonar Bangla,” said the Bengal chief minister. “They don’t know Tagore or Netaji or Gandhi…. They have come here armed with fake and hate politics,” she added, before asking whether the people were ready to reject the saffron camp. An affirmative answer rend the air and a visibly pleased Mamata rolled out a list of welfare schemes — woven around the story of a family in which everyone was a beneficiary — her government had launched since coming to power. Officially, the roadshow was organised as part of the Banga-Dhwani programme through which the ruling party is rolling out its report card across Bengal. While welfare schemes launched by Mamata is billed as the main poll plank of Trinamul, party insiders said the results of the Lok Sabha polls, in which the BJP bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in Bengal and garnered around 40 per cent of the total votes, had taught them that a poll battle also requires a counter-narrative. On Tuesday, Mamata accused the BJP of using Tagore’s Visva-Bharati to peddle hate politics in Bengal by attacking stalwarts like Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen. The Bengal chief minister liberally used Tagore’s poems and songs before slapping the “invader” label on the BJP, which has pressed leaders from across the county to look after the party’s organisation in the state. “They don’t know about Bengal’s culture…. They don’t know that Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati 60 years after he was born at Jorasanko in Calcutta. But they say that he was born in Visva-Bharati,” Mamata said, alluding to a faux pas by the BJP social media team during party president J.P. Nadda’s visit to Bengal. Over the next few months, Nadda and Shah will be visiting Bengal at least twice a month — besides occasional trips by Modi — and the BJP state leaders are confident that the high-profile visits would swing the tide further in their favour. Besides, state BJP leaders are also banking on Suvendu Adhikari to engineer more defections from the ruling party, which, they think would further weaken Trinamul. “They will be spending money…. They can buy off a few MLAs but that will not be enough,” said Mamata. Sources close to Mamata said she had decided to hold similar programmes across Bengal as part of her strategy to project Trinamul as the saviour of Bengal’s culture in the battle against “invaders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||CM arranges treatment for child with hearing impairment ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee arranged treatment for Isfatara Mondal (centre), an eight-year-old from Bolpur’s Jambuni who has a hearing disorder since infancy. Mamata spotted the child standing with her mother Samapti Khatun (right) and grandmother near a Duare Sarkar camp in Bolpur on Monday afternoon. “Didi walked up to us and heard out my daughter’s plight,” said Samapti, wife of a small-time trader. “We are poor and the doctor said her treatment would cost lakhs. I got a call from the chief minister’s office on Monday evening that my daughter will be taken to Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-255
30-12-2020||West Bengal||CPI MP Binoy Viswam writes to PM on ‘abuse’ of power by VC ||CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to stop the “abuse” of power by Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to describe economist Amartya Sen as an “illegal occupant” on the land of the central university in Santiniketan. The varsity included the Nobel laureate on a list of “illegal occupants” on the campus, saying Sen had under his possession more land than what had originally been leased out to his maternal grandfather for 99 years. Sen’s grandfather Kshitimohan Sen, a Sanskrit scholar, had played a key role in building Visva-Bharati, along with Rabindranath Tagore. The economist was born and brought up at the house “Pratichi” built by his father in Santiniketan. In his letter, Viswam said: “For him (Sen) to be included as an ‘illegal occupant’ of Santiniketan, a place which his family has helped build and sustain for generations, is absolutely unacceptable and an abuse of the powers vested in the Vice-Chancellor of the University, who is appointed and answerable to the Central Government.’’ Further, according to Viswam, the actions of the VC clearly indicate an abuse of power as no intimation of such illegal occupation has ever been made to Sen. The MP said the long term lease granted to Sen’s family by the university was far from expiration. “It appears that this action is a direct response to Dr. Sen’s critique of the Central Government and its policies on certain issues. This sort of abuse of power and legal process has become symbolic of the way people supporting your party conduct themselves in public life. The actions of the VC can only be looked at in the context of the politics that is currently playing out in the state of West Bengal and your party’s role in the same.’’ Urging the Prime Minister to stop the abuse of power by an official under the central government’s control, the CPI MP said for Sen to be treated in such a manner was a “matter of national shame and belittles India’s reputation as the world’s largest democracy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Baul who fed Amit Shah hosts Didi in heart||Basudeb Das Baul, who had hosted lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah on December 20, went on the dais with Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday and sang that Didi was “in his heart”. “Basudebda, please come on the dais,” Mamata invited him before her speech and the man smiled his way to the dais. At the end of her 30-minute speech, Mamata said: “May I request Basudeb babu to sing two lines to bless us? Bolpur is the soil of the Bauls and here is a master performer like him.” During Shah’s visit in Bolpur, he had a Bengali lunch at the folk singer’s modest home. For the Union home minister, Basudeb had sung “Tomai hrid majhare rakhbo, chhere debo na (I will keep you in my heart and will not leave you)”. On Tuesday, as he picked his dotara, he sang the same lines, but customised the song using “Didi” many times. Bausdeb’s presence at Mamata’s event nine days after hosting Shah became a talking point in Bolpur on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said within 24 hours of Shah’s visit, a group of around five local Trinamul leaders reached out to him to win him over. He was invited to Trinamul’s district party office in Bolpur town where party’s district chief Anubrata Mondal assured him help for his daughter’s education that had stopped midway over money problems. As soon as Mamata’s visit was confirmed, he was invited to lead the team of Baul singers on Tuesday’s march and he readily accepted it. “I love Didi and so I came here as soon as I was invited. I am very happy that she felicitated me with her own shawl. I will come again when she calls me,” said Basudeb, overwhelmed by the warm reception. If getting the folk singer was a cultural coup of a kind, the other big achievement of Birbhim district Trinamul was ensuring a turnout far bigger than the one at Shah’s road show. The Shah event, according to police, drew a footfall of 40,000 while Mamata’s one had a turnout of more than 1.6 lakh on Tuesday. Even if one discounts the police estimate, there was little doubt among eyewitnesses that the crowd was bigger in Mamata’s road show. “It was a gigantic show and we had to divert the crowd in lanes to avoid a stampede-like situation,” said a senior police officer. “When Mamata finished her march at Jambuni the tail of the rally was at least 2.3km away,” he added. Trinamul’s Anubrata Mondal who accused the BJP of bringing people from outside Bolpur for Shah’s road show, said “more than two lakh” came from four blocks of Bolpur subdivision alone for Mamata. “Several leaders in charge of managing the crowd requested me to stop vehicles approaching the town. I think the BJP will understand the strength of Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee as well,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Active cases dip, government pins hope on HC order||Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,587 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,244 new cases and 30 deaths, including four from Calcutta, as the state recorded a drop in total active cases for the 64th successive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases fell in these 64 days from 37,190 to 12,788, improving by nearly 66 per cent. In this period, Bengal recorded over 2.17 lakh recoveries and 1.95 lakh new cases. On Tuesday, Calcutta High Court issued a set of instructions to the state government to prevent crowding and ensuring the outbreak does not worsen over New Year celebrations. The intervention came in the wake of some alarming scenes of Christmas revelry disregarding Covid-19 safety protocols. The high court had intervened with similar instructions to prevent crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “This is good news. We were hoping for such instructions from the court again. It would empower us to act in the name of the judiciary to make sure that the progress made since Durga Puja is not wasted over the New Year,” said a minister. The state now has a total of over 5.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.27 lakh recoveries and 9,655 deaths. The recovery rate has risen for 68 consecutive days, from the 87.44 per cent of October 22, to 95.92, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent now. “We will get past the national rate on Wednesday. By mid-January, we should be past 98,” said the minister. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.82 per cent now, having improved fairly steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count, including Wednesday’s 37,235, is now 70.31 lakh, at 78,123 tests per million people. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Of the total deaths, 8,090 or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s supporters attacked in Nandigram||Alleged Trinamul Congress activists attacked at least 10 buses and small vehicles carrying BJP supporters to a “religious” procession led by former minister Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore on Tuesday. Over 25 BJP members, including women, suffered injuries in the attack at Garchakraberia’s Bhutamore. The rally was Suvendu’s first foray into Nandigram after joining the BJP on December 19. A local source said Tuesday’s road show was in connection with a religious programme and several BJP supporters had joined the rally that started from Tengua to conclude at a Hanuman temple in Nandigram. “Armed Trinamul goons beat up innocent people and did not even spare women. Police remained mute spectators,” said a BJP leader. Trinamul leader Seikh Sufian, however, rejected the allegations. “The attack was the fallout of the BJP’s internal bickering,” he said. Soumendu removed Suvendu’s brother Soumendu Adhikari has been removed from the post of administrator of the Contai municipality.  Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati being used to peddle hate: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched an unprecedented attack on Visva-Bharati vice chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration for allegedly allowing the BJP to use the varsity to peddle “hate politics” and insult Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen who is known for his reservations about the saffron regime. “I don’t feel good when I see Visva-Bharati is used to peddle hate politics... Don’t forget that dirty politics has been imported to the campus and the entire Bengal,” said Mamata while addressing a gathering at Jambuni Battala crossing in Bolpur town at the end of her road show. “Tagore had set up Visva-Bharati with the theme of promoting education in nature... You have turned Visva-Bharati into a place of riots. It hurts my heart and I feel sorry,” she said after garlanding Tagore's statue at the end of the mega road show. It was clear that Chakrabarty — blamed by the many in the varsity community for promoting the saffron agenda on campus — was the target of her blistering attack. Mamata added that she was observing with dismay that several old-timers, including Sen, were attacked in filthy language by some in Visva-Bharati. “These attacks are launched on ashramik brothers and sisters from Visva-Bharati. They did not even spare Amartya Sen. I came here in Bolpur to raise a voice of protest against this,” said Mamata. Recently, Sen’s name featured on a list drawn up the estate department of the varsity of illegal occupants on the campus. The allegation came close on the heels of the vice-chancellor saying that he received a phone call from Sen, during which the latter introduced himself as “Bharat Ratna”, and asked him not to evict hawkers from near his house because his daughter buys vegetables from them, a claim the economist has since described a “completely imagined conversation”. “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi...,” said Sen after the controversy over land encroachment to The Telegraph. Mamata on Tuesday also attacked Chakrabarty for his alleged direct connection with the BJP. “I don't have any individual grudge or grievances against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of BJP. What do BJP leaders do inside the chamber of the VC every day? What do they do inside Visva-Bharati?” she asked. Varsity insiders said that in the last two years of Chakrabarty’s appointment, Visva-Bharati had become a free space for people associated with the BJP or the Rightwing ideology. Allegations of saffronisation emerged strongly when ABVP national secretary Sunil Ambekar was invited for the Halakarshana (traditional ploughing ceremony) in 2019. Both Briksharopan (tree plantation) and Halakarshana were started by Rabindranath Tagore to promote a healthy respect for ecology and cultivation. A lecture supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta was organised by the VC on January 8 which prompted students to protest. Chakrabarty told ABP Ananda in the evening: “If anyone can produce proof that the university has turned into a party office, I can clarify.” To him, the BJP, Congress, CPM and TMC “are all immaterial”, he claimed. “My aim is to do whatever possible for the development of Visva-Bharati, even at the cost of my life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-256
30-12-2020||North East||BJP formally inducts two expelled Congress MLAs||The ruling BJP formally inducted two expelled Congress MLAs, Ajanta Neog and Rajdeep Goala, three days after the duo met Union home minister Amit Shah in Guwahati. Neog, who is seen as the biggest catch for the BJP months before next year’s Assembly polls, said during her induction in the presence of the state leadership that she joined the BJP for its “futuristic vision” and that the party (Congress) she was associated with for over 20 years has “unfortunately” got distanced from the masses. A four-time MLA from Goalghat, Neog was also a key minister in the erstwhile Tarun Gogoi government with clout in her constituency in Upper Assam. She hails from a political family. Neog’s husband, Nagen Neog, was also a Congress minister, killed by Ulfa militants in 1996. Goala, on the other hand, is a two-time MLA from Lakhipur constituency and the son of Dinesh Prasad Goala, a Congress strongman from Barak Valley. While Neog was expelled from the Congress on Friday, Goala was expelled in October for anti-party activities. Before the 2016 Assembly polls as many as 10 Congress MLAs defected to the BJP, including now NEDA convener Himanta Biswa Sarma, a defection, coupled with alliance with the AGP and BJP, propelled the BJP to power for the first time in the state. Neog said, “I joined the BJP for its futuristic vision which is a must for us. Political parties without futuristic vision cannot move forward. It is unfortunate that the party I was associated with it has developed some gap with the people. I served the party selflessly for 20 years but circumstances compelled me to leave. As a new member I will contribute in whatever way possible to take the party forward, contribute towards achieving the party’s mission for 2021.” The BJP has set a target of winning 100 plus of the 126 seats with its allies in the Assembly polls next year. Both were welcomed to the saffron fold along with former BPF MLA Bolendra Mushahary by state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, NEDA convener Himanta Biswa Sarma, several sitting MLAs and senior leaders at the party headquarters here on Tuesday. The defection may also set to cost the Congress the post of leader of Opposition in the Assembly, presently held by Debabrata Saikia. The Congress, which had won 26 seats in 2016 is down to 20 in a House of 126 MLAs with the defections of Neog and Goala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
30-12-2020||Opinion||… but I have to return, Benazir said about going back to Pakistan  ||Politicians and journalists don’t always stay good friends and even if they do get close, those ties rarely last. Of course, there are exceptions. The late Kuldip Nayar remained a firm friend of Inder Gujral before, during, and after he became prime minister of India. Deceased British journalist James Cameron was a lifelong pal of British Labour Party leader Michael Foot. My most treasured memories of Benazir Bhutto are from when she flew back to Lahore in 1986 following two years of self-imposed exile. They are a reminder of another friendship between journalist and politician that survived over the years and it had its roots in our student years at university in Oxford. In 1986, reporter’s notebook in hand, I stood next to Benazir in the lead lorry that transported her from Lahore airport to Iqbal Park where she asked a rapturous crowd what they thought of the country’s military dictator General Zia Ul Haq. “Zia avey, avey”, she inquired? “Ya Zia javey, javey ?” Some in the crowd shouted, “Zia kutta hai”, but most responded more politely, “Zia javey, javey.” It was impossible not to be caught up in the excitement, not least because I was an Indian standing only yards away from the soon-to-be prime minister of Pakistan. Close by sat Mazhar Ali Khan, father of famous Pakistani writer Tariq Ali, plus a host of other VIPs and friends. Among them was another Oxford chum who spontaneously yanked me into the lorry soon after her plane landed. Benazir wore a smart, designer jacket, her head was covered in a white dupatta and her adoring, million-strong supporters were a riot of colour. Some waved the green-and-white flag of Pakistan, others held the red, black and green flag of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) that she headed. Everyone that day agreed on how she displayed qualities of dignity, grace and courage, ready to defy the military authorities of the time. It was after a similar rally that she would be killed 21 years later on the streets of Rawalpindi when she attempted another comeback to her own country. We first got to know each other in unusual circumstances when she was an undergraduate at Lady Margaret Hall in Oxford, lobbying for her father, Pakistani Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, to be given an honorary degree. I was a student at Wadham College and participated in a student movement opposed to the idea. We argued that he should not be rewarded with an honorary degree because of his alleged role in the atrocities committed against Bengalis in East Pakistan. One afternoon at Wadham, there was a commotion outside my room as Benazir - "Pinky Bhutto" to her friends - stormed up the stairs to shout at me, “How dare you block my father’s honorary degree.” I told her to mind her manners and slammed the door in her face. Six months passed, we barely spoke, then out of the blue I received an invitation to a party she was co-hosting with Peter Galbraith, later to be the US ambassador to Croatia. “Have you forgiven me?” she asked as soon as I arrived. I mumbled something about how it was impossible not to forgive a Shahzadi and we from then on remained firm friends. We talked about Indian and Pakistani politics during meetings in the company of other mutual friends and on her occasional visits to the Middle Common Room of Wadham. At other times it was an easy walk to seek her out in the gardens of her college. During a brief part time internship with the BBC, I was enlisted to seek her participation in a radio programme about the Bhutto family. Benazir agreed to start with but later pulled out, though not before prolonged discussions about what she believed were the Rajput blue blood origins of her father’s ancestors. Years later, when she was under house arrest in Karachi, and before she went into exile, I happened to be visiting Pakistan and managed to smuggle her a handwritten note of support, telling her how she was missed by her many friends in the UK. The note was conveyed by a mutual friend who played bridge with Benazir’s aunt living in the exclusive Karachi suburb Clifton. Meanwhile, I had some significant interactions with other members of the Bhutto family as well. Benazir's brother Murtaza was also a student at Oxford. We often bumped into each other, if only because we shared the same tutor in the late Sir Michael Howard. Murtaza was researching Pakistan’s nuclear programme, my thesis was about the history of India’s nuclear bomb. Then, when Benazir had been prime minister of Pakistan for barely a year, I ran into Murtaza at Sheraton Hotel bar in Damascus in 1988. Elegantly turned out in black trousers and a red waistcoat, he was living in exile in Syria at the time, a guest of President Hafez al-Assad, and I was visiting Damascus to report on the plight of Western hostages taken prisoner in neighbouring Lebanon. Highly suspicious and easily angered, he whipped out a pistol and pointed it at me when I asked, “Murtaza, is that you?” A few minutes later, he calmed down and later that same evening volunteered an on-the-record interview that lasted most of the night as we drank steadily through a large bottle of Scotch. Throughout the evening, he kept returning to the theme of how his sister, a woman (expletive deleted), had cheated him out of the Prime Minister’s job which was rightfully his as the eldest son and heir of his father. More critical comments followed that were not included in an article published the following weekend. Murtaza’s instant response was to take personal legal action and demand £10 million damages for a story that he claimed was a complete fabrication. Days later the case was withdrawn because I was able to provide witnesses who corroborated the substance of the interview. Some years later, when we met again in London, I asked Murtaza to justify his behaviour, he replied, “Come on Shyam, can’t you take a joke.” Although Murtaza did not stay in touch, Benazir remained in contact. One 1993 afternoon in Jerusalem, where l was based as a Middle East correspondent and Benazir was serving her second term as Prime Minister, the telephone in my office rang with a woman’s voice at the other end. “Shyam, this is Benazir”, the voice said. At first I thought it was a friend playing a joke, but Benazir persisted with a request. “Can you help facilitate a meeting with Yasser Arafat”, she asked? “He lives in Gaza, which is controlled by Israel, and to get to him now, I would first have to travel to Israel. The problem is that Pakistan has no diplomatic ties with Israel. Can you tell Arafat I am ready to travel from Egypt to meet him at the Gaza border?” It was an unusual request, but, sensing a possible story, I duly passed on her message to the Palestinian leader. His response was sharp. “You are a reporter, not a diplomat. Any request she has can be conveyed through the Palestine embassy in Islamabad.” This Palestine initiative of 1993 was one of many diplomatic challenges that year in which Benazir immersed herself. This was the same year in which she also travelled to North Korea, personally handing over key details of uranium enrichment technology to Pyongyang. In exchange, the North Koreans handed over the Nodong missile craved at the time by Pakistan’s generals. Details of that exchange were revealed to me a decade later when a demoralised Benazir was once again in exile, flitting between London and Dubai, remembering her murdered brother Murtaza and desperately trying to get her husband Asif Ali Zardari released from prison. The earlier context was a private dinner in London in 2003 when Benazir asked, “My brother Murtaza said some things about me when he was alive. Can you now tell me what they were?” I hummed and hawed, then agreed, provided she in return granted a no-holds-barred interview about anything I chose to ask. “Come to Dubai”, she told me. “There I’ll tell you everything you want to know.” A few months, later I flew to Dubai, recording a four-hour-long interview, including her off-the-record revelations about how North Korea obtained the secrets of Pakistan’s uranium enrichment. She also talked about other sensitive issues that were likewise recorded and remain confidential to this day. Now, 13 years after her death, some can be disclosed. They include revealing what she said when asked if Pakistan had ever considered a nuclear strike against India. This was her response from 2003. “For God’s sake. Never for a moment have I ever woken up with such a thought. Because I know that even if I was mad enough to think that, I would end up nuking my own people. I don’t understand how this is a deterrent because neither India can use the nuke, nor can Pakistan. Because whichever country is throwing that nuke knows there is not enough time/space and is going to get it back.” We subsequently remained in touch, always meeting in London although she resisted my efforts to talk in more detail about North Korea’s links with Pakistan. One lasting memory is of sharing a meal at her South Kensington flat when she insisted on her three children clearing the plates from the dining table. A day before she left the UK for the last time to return to Pakistan, I received an invitation to a farewell function at a PPP supporter’s flat located close to London's Marble Arch. “Don’t go back”, I pleaded with her. “The army fears your popularity and they’ll be waiting for you.” Ever the optimist and always courageous, she looked me straight in the eyes before replying. “You may not understand, but I have to return”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Deal with it: Brexit trade pact||An amicable separation is always better than one tinged with bitterness. The news that Britain and its largest trading partner, the European Union, have managed to chalk out their terms of separation would come as a relief, especially to the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, who is eager to milk the inking of the deal as a political accomplishment. Indeed, Mr Johnson has reasons to gloat about the achievement. As many as seven Conservative prime ministers, including David Cameron who lifted the lid on Brexit, had tripped on the vexing question of walking out of the EU. Mr Johnson has not only achieved this goal, but has done so without adversely affecting his political fortunes. The Tory triumph in the last elections, Mr Johnson can argue, was an unambiguous mandate for Brexit. But the ‘freedom’ from the EU’s coils — the Brexiteers saw it thus — may come with formidable challenges. Even though Britain’s Parliament is expected to endorse the deal — the Labour Party has already welcomed the agreement and said it is better than a ‘no-deal’ exit — the contours of the pact remain unclear at the moment. The agreement apparently outlines Britain’s engagement with the EU in such critical areas as law enforcement, data and security. But this assurance is being challenged by persistent concerns. There is a distinct possibility of implosions that are likely to take place as Britain uproots itself from the security, ease and efficiency offered by a common market. Consequently, disruptions in supply chains of companies, a discernible dip in trade volume and — most critically — job losses are a foregone conclusion. The economic distress is likely to intensify public disenchantment at a time when Britain, like the rest of the world, has suffered considerably on account of the pandemic. It remains to be seen whether Mr Johnson’s pledge of returning Britain to its — mythical? — sovereignty functions as an effective balm in these trying circumstances. What may bring this cleverly created utopia of British autonomy under a cloud are the prickly points of contention with the EU. Has the possibility of the estranged partners invoking punitive action for anti-competitive measures been eradicated completely? The outcome of Britain’s decision to chart out an independent path will also be determined by matters over which it has little leverage: the economic and political leanings of the new occupant of the White House; the continuing rise of China and its consequences on the global order and so on. Britain’s tabula rasa moment is fraught with possibility and peril.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Speak up: Loujain al-Hathloul sent to prison||Sir — The wheels of justice turn slowly; for some they come to a grinding halt. At such times, it is important that the common people come together and ensure the delivery of justice through peaceful protest. Such a time seems ripe for Saudi Arabia, where the activist, Loujain al-Hathloul — she, among others, had claimed driving rights for women — has been sentenced to over five years in prison. Her supporters suspect political vendetta since she challenged the authorities with her stance. People must protest against this injustice vociferously so that more women are encouraged to fight for their rights. Aradhana Bose,Calcutta Take a stand Sir — It is encouraging that students, teachers, cultural activists and eminent personalities have come out in support of Amartya Sen, after the vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati allegedly attempted to malign the Nobel laureate (“Plot seen in barbs at Sen”, Dec 28). Not only has the Central university named Sen in its list of illegal occupants on the campus, but the vice-chancellor has also made certain claims about a telephonic conversation that the economist has refuted downright. The attempt to target educationists and activists whenever they speak up against the ruling dispensation — in a state or at the Centre — is not new; neither is such behaviour unique to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Now that the BJP is trying to capture Bengal at the hustings this year, the Centre seems to be up in arms against any dissenter. Sen is entitled to his own political opinions. Besides, far from trying to persecute him for his views, the government would do well to heed his views as an economist. After all, how long will blind faith keep people oblivious to poverty and misery? However, in raising their voice in protest, the people of Bengal have shown that it was a misstep to target Sen. The allegations against Sen must be investigated and strict measures must be taken against the person at fault. The disrespectful accusation also raises an important question — does the saffron party understand the sentiments of Bengal? If it does not, then how will it respect the Bengali culture even if it manages to come to power? Alokananda Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The attempt by the authorities of Visva-Bharati to defame Amartya Sen has caused a lot of hurt to the people of Bengal. Every citizen of Bengal is proud of the Nobel laureate. The university should not forget the contributions of Sen and his family to its development. This ingratitude is unjust and cannot be morally supported. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — It would be really petty of the Visva-Bharati authorities if they are trying to malign Amartya Sen’s legacy in a political ploy. It is curious how there can be a miscommunication on such a basic level — the vice-chancellor apparently had a conversation with Sen where the latter called himself ‘Bharat Ratna’ and asked the former to let hawkers stay in the vicinity of his house, whereas Sen has denied not only the phone call but also the fact that there are any hawkers outside his house. This is absurd, and makes one wonder if there is a third party at play that is yet to be revealed. The plot gets thicker. Ratan Samanta,Calcutta Moment of glory Sir — It is heartening that Mahendra Singh Dhoni was named captain of the decade for both the one-day international and Twenty-20 International teams by the International Cricket Council while Virat Kohli has made his mark in world cricket by being voted the skipper of the Test team. The teams of the decades were announced by the ICC ahead of the Awards of the Decade ceremony. Indian players dominated the limited-over teams by having three and four players in the ODI and T20I respectively while England have the maximum number of players — four — in the Test side. The 39-year-old Dhoni, who retired from international cricket earlier this year, was one of the three Indians in the ODI team of the decade, the others being Rohit Sharma and Kohli. Ravichandran Ashwin has been named alongside Kohli in ICC Test side. Gundu K. Maniam,Ghaziabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Talk down: Modi says farmers are misled||The prime minister, according to the Union agriculture minister, is dedicated to farmers’ welfare. No pressure can influence his determination to improve their economic condition. Narendra Modi himself has said that his government will keep on working to better the condition of Indian agriculture and has repeatedly declared how excellent the three new farm laws are and how much they will elevate the farmers’ lot. But confronted with a seemingly immovable phalanx of farmers in their thousands positioned at the entry points into Delhi with the demand that the laws be repealed, Mr Modi has adopted a lofty tone of paternalistic benevolence — he believes the protesters do not know what is good for them. He does. Condescension seems to be the best strategy after a first burst of name-calling. The protesters, of whom farmers from Punjab form a large segment, were called ‘Khalistanis’, and ‘urban Naxals’. But that failed to discredit the movement. The farmers responded with dignity and righteous anger, grew in numbers and in unity against what they see in general terms as ‘pro-corporate’ laws, although their list of objections is precise and carefully thought-out, and their reasoning, whether one agrees with it or not, is clear as day. The prime minister however, claims that they are being ‘misled’ by the Opposition which failed to implement similar laws for farmers’ welfare and ‘fooled’ by those with vested interests. Mr Modi’s superior tone with farmers seems aimed at two goals: one, bashing the Opposition and two, evading the protesters’ demands by insisting they know not what they do. They should not ‘believe the lies’ being spread by politically motivated elements. It seems strange that the prime minister, who is professedly willing to meet the farmers with ‘bowed head’ to resolve their doubts, should have such little respect for the wisdom, hard work and sagacity of those who feed the country and who have incisively taken the new farm laws apart. Sharing this attitude, Rajnath Singh asked farmers to try out the laws for a year or two. Did he think he was speaking to uncomprehending children? But Mr Modi’s smooth expressions of considerate superiority can hardly hide the fact that the government has made no progress in its much-touted ‘dialogue’ with the protesters or convinced them of its positive intentions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||The AIMIM and Indian secularism||Asaduddin Owaisi, who was a Muslim leader confined to Hyderabad, is now staking a claim to become an all-India Muslim leader. He is being credited with bringing back the question of political representation to Muslims who have been witnessing a steady marginalization. Is the decline of Muslim representation the truth about Indian secularism or is the rise of Owaisi and his party, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, the result of Indian secularism? Is voting for the AIMIM any different from voting for the Bharatiya Janata Party? Is it not true that the consolidation of the Muslim vote for a Muslim party, moving away from the Congress and the regional parties, results in the consolidation of the Hindu votes for the BJP? The rise of the BJP on a polarized narrative made it difficult for other parties, including the Congress, to not be accused of appeasement. In response, most of them resorted to what is known as ‘soft Hindutva’, avoiding explicit support to Muslim-related issues of culture, identity and social opportunities. The BJP not only polarized the elections but also gained by accommodating wider representation among subcastes within Dalits and the OBCs. As a result, the BJP expanded its social base, created a pan-Hindu constituency, and arrested the Opposition parties from claiming the support of the ‘Hindu’ base apart from rendering their support for Muslims suspect. They ended up being branded pseudo-secular from both ends. Aggressive and resurgent Hindu consciousness blamed them for Muslim appeasement while Muslims blamed them for ‘soft Hindutva’. It is in this context that the AIMIM provided much needed relief for Muslims by coming forward to voice their grievances and expand their representation. After Owaisi’s bid in Maharashtra, his party won five seats in Bihar. The AIMIM is confident of doing well in Bengal. On social media, middle class Muslims are glad that Muslims are regaining the lost space. Poorer Muslims are left with little choice but to vote for the AIMIM to get an assurance of protection. However, wherever the AIMIM is performing well, it seems to be aiding the BJP by splitting the Muslim vote. The impact of this was most profound in Bihar where the elections were closely fought. The outcome became even murkier with Owaisi announcing that he would wait and decide which party to support in the eventuality of a hung assembly. His reasoning seems to be that as far as Muslims are concerned, it makes no difference whether it is the Congress led-secular formation or the BJP-led ‘communal’ formation as both have shortchanged the Muslims and robbed them of their rightful dues. This argument is similar to the Dalit-Bahujan view that the Congress and the Left parties are no different from the BJP when it comes to providing opportunities to the marginalized castes. The support of marginalized castes and now Muslim votes cannot be taken for granted by highlighting the impending threat of the BJP. Dalit-Bahujans and Muslims prefer to improve their own footprint. Significantly, Owaisi is pitching for an independent Muslim politics in alliance with Dalit parties like the Bahujan Samaj Party in Bihar and the Republican Party of India in Maharashtra. The accusation made by the Dalit-Bahujans and, now, by Owaisi that the Congress, Left and regional parties did not do much to fulfil their aspirations cannot be denied. But it is also relevant to ask if representation alone would make a difference. Did Dalit representatives succeed in bringing about radical transformation to the community? What kind of a difference can Owaisi make with a few MLAs and perhaps a few MPs in the future? Would it be any different from what Congress and others achieved in the past, except that now Dalit-Bahujans-Muslims themselves will be able to make their own demands? The core problem is that the gap in social and economic power among castes, classes and religious groups is so humongous that representation has become the only possible mode of forging marginal but palpable change. It is, again, similar to the policy of reservations that benefited a small segment of Dalits but this does not justify critiquing reservations. Similarly, representation cannot bring about much change, but there cannot be a political or moral critique of it. On the scale of real-time economic opportunities and social mobility, the BJP does not seem to present a threat as things were no better before it rose to power; the BJP will only consolidate the power of Hindus over Muslims, upper-castes over Dalit-Bahujans and higher-end middle and corporate classes over the working classes. It will, in addition, provide an ideological justification for removing reservations, for disenfranchising Muslims and aggressively supporting the corporates, even as it offers more representation to smaller castes. Majoritarianism is pushing marginalized social groups to a corner, forcing them to succumb and surrender. This is not being done through force alone, even though intimidation plays an important role. This end is also being achieved by producing a strategy where, in Owaisi’s case, legitimate aspirations of Muslims become a template for consolidating the grip of the BJP. In a way, history is repeating itself. Syed Shahabuddin was encouraged into active politics by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and his aggressive posturing on Babri Masjid and personal laws took the BJP from 2 seats to 182. What Shahabuddin was for the Atal-Advani duo, Owaisi is for the Modi-Shah pair. Owaisi’s consolidation of Muslim votes will result in a counter-consolidation of Hindu votes and the BJP will surge forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
30-12-2020||Opinion||Goodwill hunting||The Bharatiya Janata Party is on the hunt for icons in Bengal. It cannot be faulted for stalking Bengal’s manishis, even though men and women of learning and wisdom have not been known to win elections for political parties. The BJP’s pursuit then must have something to do with the Sons of Soil Doctrine that has an undeniable political appeal for a party battling the perception of being rooted in territory — geographical and cultural — that is distant from Bengal’s borders in spite of its electoral ascendancy in the rest of India. Bengal, therefore, must be made to believe that the ‘B’ in BJP stands for ‘Bengali’ — even if it is only for a while. The hunt began well. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee has been safely tucked inside the saffron jhuli (for years now), even though in Sixteen Stormy Days Tripurdaman Singh identified the founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh as one of the earliest champions of civil liberties, individual freedoms and a liberal India. Mookerjee and several other luminaries, Singh writes, took the battle to Jawaharlal Nehru over the maiden — and controversial — amendment to the Constitution. Having slipped 17 places on the Human Freedom Index this year, New India, now ranked 111 among 162 countries, may have rejected Mookerjee’s libertarian legacy comprehensively. Swami Vivekananda, however, is sticking out like a sore thumb from Hindutva’s Bag of Appropriation. Even a cursory reading of the Swami’s electrifying speech in Chicago in 1893, to cite just one example, would reveal it to be an unambiguous rejection — condemnation — of bigotry and dogmatism, the poisons that are now flowing through the veins of a sectarian polity (“Sectarianism, bigotry, and its horrible descendant, fanaticism, have long possessed this beautiful earth... But their time is come; and I fervently hope that the bell that tolled this morning in honor of this convention may be the death-knell of all fanaticism, of all persecutions...”). Rabindranath Tagore is resisting the siege too. During his recent address on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, the prime minister managed to spot — he, as is the wont of visionaries, sees things that others cannot — the contours of his Atmanirbhar Bharat within the Tagorean vision. Narendra Modi’s remark apparently left beads of perspiration on the visage of the university’s old-timers. Was the message of self-reliance, they reportedly wondered, a cipher for a further cut in funding for Visva-Bharati by its chancellor? Those engaged cerebrally with Tagore may have been perspiring too — but with indignation. Tagore’s visceral opposition to shrill nationalism, the kind that the BJP is fanning eagerly, is well-documented. “India has never had a real sense of nationalism,” Bengal’s foremost icon had written in “Nationalism in India” (1917). “Even though from childhood I had been taught that the idolatry of Nation is almost better than reverence for God and humanity, I believe I have outgrown that teaching, and it is my conviction that my countrymen will gain truly their India by fighting against that education which teaches them that a country is greater than the ideals of humanity.” This passage may not be palatable to an India that is being taught to demonize critics and dissenters as unpatriotic savages. The BJP’s IT cell getting Tagore’s birthplace wrong — the Nobel laureate, the state party unit had tweeted, was born in Visva-Bharati! — may have been a perfectly understandable Freudian slip. The vilification of Bengal’s second Nobel laureate, another manishi committed to the idea of Old India, by Visva-Bharati’s present vice-chancellor, an official who supposedly has the Centre’s ear, appears to be a conscious choice. How has the BJP fared with some others? There are too many pieces of Vidyasagar for the BJP to gather after that shameful desecration of his statue inside a college in the city last year. Birsa Munda, the freedom fighter revered in Bengal’s tribal pockets, was won — and, alas, lost. The Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal let Bengal know that the statue that the Union home minister garlanded solemnly was that of an anonymous hunter. History in the BJP’s hands is seldom set in stone. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president, decreed that his party would henceforth consider the figurine of the anonymous adivasi to be that of Munda. The home minister, evidently, has been blessed with Kafkaesque hands. Another departed icon slipped from the BJP’s eager hands the following month. This time, ignorant party workers, it has been reported, went to meet Jahar Ganguly, not knowing that the actor had died in 1969. None should doubt the doggedness of the BJP’s chase. Cold shouldered by flesh-and-blood icons, the party may well scour Bengal’s literary firmament for the stars that it needs. But even fictive heroes may prove to be elusive for India’s ruling party. Feluda looks best holding a Charminar, not the lotus. Professor Shonku is a man of science. And science — a realm lit up by reason, rationality, facts — is the least favourite of the BJP’s subjects. There is a line of thought that says Ghanashyam Das, quintessentially Bengali in his love for food and leisure, may hold out some hope. In his 75th year of existence, Ghanada remains Bengal’s beloved chronicler of tall tales. Now the BJP, uncharitable opponents insist, knows a thing or two about spinning a yarn. Its stories, about the economy, about sabka vikas and, now, about an impregnable border, have been just that — one tall tale piled neatly upon another. But then Ghanada is certain to fail the parivar’s ideological test. An intelligent reading of his adventures would reveal that this literary hero is emblematic of harmony, effortlessly fusing such competing forces as empiricism and imagination, myth and history. Harmony as a synonym for hegemony — is that not the grammar of politics that dominates India today? — would have not got a single tale out of a sullen Ghanada’s mouth. Of course, the BJP is responding energetically to the barb of being an outsider in Bengal. The prime minister attempted to counter such insinuations with homilies of shared associations. The Tagores, Mr Modi said in his address, had spent time in Ahmedabad, adding that Jnanadanandini Devi, the wife of Satyendranath Tagore, may have learnt to drape the sari in a particular way from Gujarat’s women. But the Trinamul Congress is in no mood to share the icons that it believes are its sole possession: a senior functionary retorted that Parsi women must be given a share for Jnanadanandini’s sartorial revolution. These bizarre exchanges would have been mildly comical had it not been for the greater unfolding tragedy in which the TMC is complicit along with the BJP. Regional identity has been made vulnerable to political weaponization with electoral adversaries keeping the sub-national pot and its narratives on the boil. Modi has special use for Gujarati asmita. He has repeatedly invoked this template of parochial pride — in effect, an indigenous version of the identitarian sensibility — to project a sense of solidarity with a people who are made to believe in slights, real or imagined. The TMC may have simply taken a leaf out of Modi’s book, forcing the BJP to cry wolf. The chief contenders for Bengal’s political crown are relying on two different kinds of divisive insularities — one majoritarian, the other ethno-cultural — to win an assembly election in a country that is meant to uphold — politically, philosophically and constitutionally — the notion of wholeness. But that is not the only irony. The ingenious application of provincialism in the defence of the fraying ethos of pluralism is indicative of a larger regression that would have made Bengal’s icons shudder. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-96
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotels readies for New Year bash, while clubs cancel events||At a time when many across the globe are bothered about the mutated strain of coronavirus, several hotels across Dhanbad are readying to ring in 2021 in style. Given that major clubs of Dhanbad, including the Dhanbad Club, Union Club and Tata Steel Officer’s Club opting to cancel the New Year celebration programmed in view of the pandemic constraints, hotels like Wedlock Greens, The Reet, and The Wedding Bells have lined up a number of special live performances for the revelers of Dhanbad. However, most of the organizers claimed they would be following all the Covid-19 rules and regulations and would be having a limited number of guests. Adding colour to the celebration will be a number of stars and celebrated singers from Tollywood, Calcutta, Chandigarh, and more. Almost every hotel will be hosting a star performer. For instance, a Tollywood troupe will be performing at Wedlock Greens situated in Govindpur, while Band Spartans will regale the audience at The Reet situated on Hirak Road in Dhanbad. Chandigarh-based anchor Abhinav will be seen hosting the entire function at the Reet. DJ Riktam will be seen entertaining the revelers at Wedding Bells situated near Asharfi Hospital at Baramuri on New Year’s eve. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, the general manager of Wedlock Greens, Soumen Chakraborty said, “Our programme will begin at 8 pm sharp. However, the entry will be limited to the occupants of hotel rooms and a few regular visitors.” He added, “We will be observing the rules and guidelines laid down by the government. We will also follow the Covid protocols.” A Calcutta-based dance troupe will perform during their function. Ravi Anand, Owner of The Reet said, “The New Year celebration at our Hotel will begin at 7.30 pm on December 31 and the band titled, Spartan of Saregama fame will performing during function as the main attraction” Sharing the details of the function scheduled at Wedding Bells, proprietor Harish Singh said, “We assure full entertainment for our guests. We have renowned dancer Dola performing at our event, while DJ Riktam will also enthrall the revelers with his beats.” He added, “There will be no compromise on following the Covid norms. We have also made a proper arrangement for frequent sanitization of the hotel after every performance.” Meanwhile, other hotels like Sonotel, The Skylark, and Seventeen Degree which are known for their restaurants have lined up special dishes for their visitors. Special offers have been rolled out for those booking a room with them from December 30 to January 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Killer dumper crushes a six-year-old boy on NH33 ||In a tragic incident, a six-year-old boy was killed in a road mishap when a speeding dumper hit the bike in which he was riding pillion with his parents, on Wednesday morning. The accident took place near Pata village, which falls on the NH-33 under Chandil thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, which is about 25 kilometres away from Jamshedpur. The couple was travelling from their house in Chilgu in Chandil to a relative’s place at Ichagarh with their only child to ring in the New Year when tragedy struck them at 10.30 am in the morning. A speeding dumper hit the bike from behind causing the vehicle to fall. The child due to impact was flung away from his parents only to be run over by the killer dumper. The vehicle even ran over the legs of the child’s father. The driver immediately abandoned the vehicle to make a narrow escape. Within 15 minutes of the mishap, a police party arrived at the spot and recovered the mutilated body of the boy before shifting it to Seraikela divisional hospital for post-mortem, as the couple wailed. OC, Chandil thana, Sanoj Kumar Chaudhury confirming the news said, “It appears as if the biker had deviated from his usual side to avoid a big pot-hole on the road. In doing so he reached almost on the middle of the highway, the speeding dumper which was coming from behind hit the bike,” said Chaudhury while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said that the boy, identified as Aditya Dev, had been crushed by the rear wheel of the dumper. The victim had been crushed beyond recognition. “We have seized the dumper and are trying to identify the driver as well as its owner on the basis of its registration number. We have also sent the injured couple to MGM Medical College Hospital for treatment,” said the OC. Notably, just two days back four people, including two women from the same family were killed in a road accident that took place on NH-33 near Daruda village which also falls under the Ichagarh thana area. A senior police officer pointed out that the number of road mishaps has increased recently as the work to widen NH-33 is still underway. “The national highway widening work is being done in parts. On the stretch where the highway has been completed, people tend to ride faster, but on the stretch where the work is yet to begin, is full of potholes, which the drivers or riders try to avoid. In doing so they do deviate onto the middle of the road and often ram into heavy vehicles,” said the police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Seraikela girl emerges as fastest sprinter in junior athletics tourney||Sixteen-year-old Lucky Kumari emerged as the fastest athlete at the 32nd East Zone Junior Athletics Championship, which concluded at Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium in Guwahati, Assam on Tuesday. The teen athlete, a trainee at Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre, represented Jharkhand at the championship in Guwahati and claimed gold in the 100 m sprint. She followed it up with a silver in the 200 m in the girls’ under-18 age group. Lucky clocked  12.82 seconds in the 100 m race and 26.90 in 200 m. A resident of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Lucky joined the Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre towards the end of 2017. She soon went on to impress everyone with her running skills, clinching to the first position in the state championship held in Ranchi in 2019. She also won bronze in the same discipline at the East Zone event, also conducted in Ranchi in 2019. “I have always had the dream to become a sprinter. I have improved a lot ever since I joined the Tata cradle. I am happy with my performance in Guwahati but want to win more medals for my state. I am working hard and also trying to build my stamina and endurance,” the teenager said. Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre coach Sanjeev Kumar, who accompanied Lucky to Guwahati, said his ward has the potential to make a mark in the discipline. “She (Lucky) is a medal prospect at the Asia level,” he remarked. According to him, diet and endurance were important components for athletes and he was trying to put this in Lucky’s mind. “My ward is very attentive but needs to build her endurance and core strength,” Kumar added. The mentor said he had plans to introduce Lucky to heptathlon as the competition among girls in India is not very strong. “Lucky will have a good chance to score points if she competes in multiple events. But I will switch her to heptathlon once she turns 18,” he said. Heptathlon comprises seven events -- 100 m hurdles, high jump, shot put, 200 m run, long jump, javelin and 800 m run. East Singhbhum District Athletics Association president M.N. Purty, vice-president Suchinder Singh, secretary Ravindra Murmu and joint secretary Birdhan Marandi congratulated Lucky for her achievements. Run by Tata Steel sports wing, the cradle operates from JRD Tata Sports Complex. Trainees from the city's surrounding areas hone their skills under experienced hands. Bagicha Singh, an Arjuna awardee, was the chief coach of the cradle before his retirement from Tata Steel in June this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Clashes break out at coal town child reform centre||A violent clash broke out on Tuesday night at the Bhuda Child Reformatory in Dhanbad, when two groups of 92 inmates, including 43 convicts and 49 accused, started fighting among themselves. The inmates also hurled stones at the police team that arrived upon receiving the news, as well as at some reformatory staff, injuring a few of them. The warring faction also pelted stones at the adjoining houses late in the night. On Wednesday,  a team of the Juvenile Justice Board accompanied  by a team of Dhansar Police visited the site to take stock of the situation. The agitated local residents of Bhuda gathered outside the child reformatory to meet the team of the Juvenile Justice Board and lodged complaints about the regular disturbance in the area carried out by the inmates. They said that the inmates hurl stones on their houses occasionally and also pass lewd comments on girls by climbing up the terrace of the building. Confirming the incident, Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar said, “This is a serious issue and we have instructed the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad Surendra Prasad to look into the causes of the regular clash between the inmates and submit a report.” The conflict got initiated in the evening when a convict beat up an under-trial detainee leading to tension between the two groups, which gradually escalated with time and became violent at around 11 pm. This led the police team to arrive at the location and control the situation. Sources in the reformatory said that conflicts take place regularly between the convicts and accused inmates. Recently, fights broke out between the two sides on October 21 and November 8. Local residents of Bhuda living in the surrounding areas of the Child Reformatory Centre demanded its immediate shifting from the area citing their security is under threat. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sunaina Devi, a local resident said, “The state of affairs at the reformatory can be understood from the fact that inmates keep parading on the terrace and boundary walls, gazing at women and girls and or our locality. They also pass lewd comments and occasionally resort to stone pelting at our homes.” Former councilor and local resident Upendra Kushwaha said, “The residents in the nearby areas are living in continuous fear. We have asked the members of the juvenile team to carry out a probe as many of these offenders seem much older than 18.” President of social organisation Jharkhand Gramin Vikas Trust Shankar Rawani said, “The issue is serious in nature and we demand a probe with regard to the presence of adult persons lying at the centre. A medical examination should be carried out to demand their age.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel literary meets cancelled in view of Covid-19||Tata Steel has decided to cancel its 2021 edition Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Tata Steel Jharkhand Literary Meets in view of the zcovid-19 pandemic. The Bhubaneshwar and Jharkhand Literary Meets were 2016 and 2017 respectively, with the belief that culturally-rich regions like Odisha and Jharkhand need a festival that would celebrate literary and allied cultural pursuits, including dance, music, recitation, and theatrical performances. The idea was to take Odisha and Jharkhand to a wider world audience and to bring the world closer to the two culturally-rich states in eastern India. Since its inception, the literary meets have drawn leading authors and speakers from across India and the world. It has hosted eminent delegates such as Manoj Das, Ruskin Bond, Jayanta Mahapatra, Sitakanta Mahapatra, Ramakanta Rath, Nayantara Sehgal, Kiran Nagarkar, Sharmila Tagore, Ileana Citaristi, Mark Tully, Nandita Das, Amol Palekar, Uday Prakash, Harivansh Narayan Singh, Jairam Ramesh, Devdutt Pattanaik, Mahadev Toppo, Ashwini Kumar Pankaj, Vandana Tete and Rekha Bhardwaj among several others. The event has become an integral part of the annual cultural calendars of Bhubaneswar and Ranchi over time. Talking about the decision, vice-president (Corporate Services) of the company Chanakya Chaudhary said, “We are indeed disappointed to be unable to host the Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand Literary meets this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.” He said that as a responsible corporate, health and safety of the patrons is of great concern to the company. “We hope to be back with the next edition of the premiere literary meets with increased participation of all our stakeholders,” he added. Director of the literary meets Malavika Banerjee said, “Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand Literary Meet’s plans for January 2021 are kept in abeyance in view of the pandemic. The edifice of this festival was hosting writers and speakers from India and overseas in Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand so that the discerning audiences there had a chance to hear and meet them.” “We will be back when a similar meaningful interaction is once again possible, with new speakers, new presentations and new energy. In the interim, stay safe and keep reading,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Post lockdown, hunger pangs have worsened||A network of food activists has claimed in a study that after the nationwide lockdown, hunger continues to stalk the poor across Jharkhand for which the public distribution system needed to be improved so that it covers those who are denied benefits of government schemes. Releasing a report titled Hunger Watch Survey on Wednesday, Right to Food Campaign said a majority of households had revealed that living conditions were still much worse today than before the lockdown, the observation coming a day after chief minister alluded to having resolved the state’s hunger problem given that no hunger deaths had been reported in the last one year. The report of the survey, conducted between September 12 to October 10 covering 179 vulnerable households across the state, said that nearly all reported a reduction in monthly incomes since the lockdown began in March 2020. Half the surveyed households did not have any income in April and May, and a third did not have any income in the month preceding the survey. “Fifty-eight per cent of the respondents (of the survey) said that their household’s need to borrow money for food had increased since the lockdown started. Eleven per cent had to sell jewellery or some other item and 8% of the landowning households even felt compelled to sell land for buying food. Thirteen per cent households had at least one member who was not working before the lockdown but began working over the past 30 days. Another 40 per cent had a member who was unemployed earlier but was searching for work at the time of the survey. Only about a fifth of all respondents felt that their situation will improve over the next three months. A quarter thought that things would remain the same and almost 40 per cent expected their condition to worsen,” the report said. The findings have been made public at time when the state government is going to issue green cards to an additional 15 lakh people living below poverty line from next month under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Among the various food security programmes, the public distribution system (PDS) functioned regularly during the lockdown. Ninety-four per cent households with a Priority or Antyodaya ration card or an APL/BPL card with an NFSA stamp got grain every month from April to August. Only Priority/Antyodaya card holders were entitled to free additional grain during the lockdown, but only 41 per cent of such households got this extra support every month from April to August, the report said. “The rest got the free grain only for only some months. Amongst those without a NFSA ration card, almost a third had applied for a card, but had not obtained one. Another 18 per cent were unaware that they could apply for a card. Sixteen per cent could not apply because they did not have all the required documents,” said the report. The study further highlighted that almost half the respondent households (48 per cent) reported eating less wheat or rice over the previous month, compared to before the lockdown. In another 18 per cent households, consumption of grain was significantly less. Considering that the disruptions due to the lockdown and the ongoing pandemic are likely to continue for several months, Right to Food Campaign has demanded that the government work towards universalisation of PDS and also provide subsidised pulses and edible oil. It has also called for reopening of anganwadis and including eggs in midday meals daily to tackle nutritional challenges. This apart, it has also demanded nutrition packages for vulnerable groups, opening of labour-intensive NREGA schemes, provision of universal social security pension of at least Rs 2000/month to all elderly, & single women and maternity entitlement of at least Rs 6,000 to all pregnant and lactating women in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI goes online with Verghese Kurien lecture ||The Xavier School of Management (XLRI) is set to host the seventh Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration, in memory of the Father of White Revolution and the man behind Amul,  on January 16, 2021. This time, the oration will be delivered by noted environmental activist Ashish Kothari,  founder-member of Indian Environmental group, Kalpavriksh. It will be conducted virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He would deliver the oration on the topic Ecoswaraj : Recovery Towards Justice and Sustainability. XLRI Director Fr. P. Christie said, “Dr. Verghese Kurien was an ingenious thinker, a revolutionary, and a social entrepreneur who ideated the world’s biggest agricultural development programme. It was his “billion-litre idea”, which made dairy farming India’s largest self-sustaining industry, with benefits of employment, incomes, credit, nutrition, education, health, gender parity and empowerment, breaking down caste barriers and grassroots democracy and leadership.” “XLRI instituted the oration in his memory to commemorate his legacy through propagating and disseminating the idea of an empowered, equitable and sustainable society,” he added. Christie added that the B-school was extremely happy to have  Ashish Kothari to deliver the seventh Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration. “His vast work on environmental issues like environment interface, biodiversity policy, and alternatives would help our students understand the current global environmental issues and inspire them to work for the greater good,” he said. Prof. Raghuram Tata, chairperson of XLRI’s Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and Sustainability, said, “Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration on Sustainable Development is our humble initiative to pay tribute to the great visionary. With this annual oration, we aim to inspire and inculcate values of social entrepreneurial spirit in budding business leaders and social entrepreneurs.” Ashish Kothari is an Indian environmentalist working on environment and development issues. He is one of the founders of Kalpavriksh, an Indian environmental NGO. He has been associated with peoples' movements like Narmada Bachao Andolan and Beej Bachao Andolan. Kothari has also been a teacher of the environment at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi. He has also been a guest faculty at several universities and institutes and Mellon Fellow at Bowdoin College, USA. He has served on the steering group or governing board of the CBD (Convention on Biodiversity) Alliance and Greenpeace International. At present, Kothari is the chairman of Greenpeace India’s board. Ashish Kothari has also worked as members of quite a few Government of India committees, including Environmental Appraisal Committee on River Valley Projects of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, the committee to Assess Implementation of the Forest Rights Act, and Committees to draft design the National Wildlife Action Plan and India's Biological Diversity Act. He is currently coordinating the Vikalp Sangam (Alternatives Confluence), a process that provides a forum for organisations and individuals working on development alternatives across India to come together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two arrested for trying to extort money from tea seller||Chatra Police on  Wednesday said they had arrested two accused, including one from Gaya, for trying to extort Rs 5 lakhs from a tea seller. The officer-in-charge of the Pratappur Police Station confirmed the arrest and said that the two were trying to extort money from Naresh Prajapati, a tea seller, and had even put a poster of the Peoples’ Liberation Front of India, a Maoist outfit, on the wall of his kiosk on November 29. The incident became a talk of the town after the accused put up the poster and followed it with making threat calls to Prajapati, demanding money. He said that he earns a meagre amount of money every month by selling tea and fritters, and the extortion calls had even confused him. Prajapati said he was even threatened when he lodged an FIR in this regard, from the caller identifying himself as Saurabh Yadav. The police probing the case sent teams on Tuesday to arrest Amjad Ansari (28) from Tandwa of Chatra, and  Ranjan Saw (19) from Bahuara village under Imamganj Police Station of the neighbouring Gaya district of Bihar. Sub-divisional police officer Avinash Kumar said after getting the complaint, police started its investigation and tracked the mobile number from which call was made to the tea seller. He said they got the lead and tip off about the duo after which, they were nabbed and sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 20 passengers injured in bus-truck collision||Around 24 passengers sustained severe injuries when a bus collided with a truck on Wednesday morning at Kejhia Ghati of Dulmi, under the Gola block of Ramgarh. The collision further  resulted in the bus overturning and falling on an SUV that was just behind it. While several injured persons were rushed to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, the others were admitted to a local hospital in Ramgarh. Talking about the incident, eyewitnesses said that the bus and the truck were coming from the opposite directions and suddenly collided with each other. The overturning and falling of the bus on the SUV seriously injured its drivers and a few others. The Rajappa Police, under whose jurisdiction the accident happened, arrived at the spot immediately to rescue the passengers from the mangled bus and the SUV. Local residents, who gathered on the spot, helped police in sending injured people to Gola community health centre. Police had to bring a gas cutter to take out a trapped person from the mangled bus, which was travelling from Dhanbad to Ranchi. Traffic on the Gola-Sikdiri road got disrupted for hours due to the accident. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who was travelling to Bokaro, visited the spot and asked the RIMS administration to provide better treatment facilities to the injured people admitted there. He had refused to change his route despite being advised to do so, to take stock of the situation. Patralekh also spoke to Ramgarh MLA of Congress Mamta Devi for updates, and assured her of all help from his side||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi reports 107 new cases, three deaths in a day||Covid-19 cases surged in the state beyond 200 and death toll neared half a dozen after a span of one week ahead of the year-end with party hotspots and picnic arenas gearing up for the New Year bash. On Tuesday, a total of 230 new infections surfaced with the state reporting five deaths came in the day, as per the bulletin issued by the state health department. As many as 203 were declared cured during the same period. State last crossed over 200 cases on December 23 while seven deaths were reported on December 12. Ranchi again led the death toll with three fatalities in last 24 hours while Dhanbad and Hazaribag witnessed one death each. Ranchi also reported 107 new cases, while Bokaro (15), Dhanbad (25), East Singbhum (26), Latehar (11) and Palamu (10) got cases in double digits. State’s total active cases rose to 1604 out of total 1,14,650 positive cases so far since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Of the total cases, 1,12021 got cured while 1025 have died till date. State’s seven days growth rate now stands at 0.13% compared to 0.18% nationally. Seven days doubling rate is 531.94 days in regard to 392.91 days across the country, while the recovery rate is 97.70% in the state vis-à-vis 95.90%. Mortality rate is 0.89% as compared to 1.40% nationally. Ahead of expected turnouts at pubs, eateries and hotels for New Year eve parties on December 31, Ranchi district administration on Tuesday night issued stern directives to all party hosting joints to follow covid safety protocols. The directive added, "Entry of all visitor must be recorded in the proper logbook with their details such as an address, and phone numbers. All visitors must provide facilities of sanitisers and masks, hotels/restuarants/pubs must adhere to the government's other reopening guidelines. In case of violations, action will be initiated under epidemic act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal India Limited to focus on raising production ||Coal India Limited (CIL) chairman Pramod Agrawal has laid out the task for Bharat Coking Coal Limited to increase the production to 30 MT annually and refused to help out its subsidiary from the poor financial situation. After a marathon two and a half hour meeting at the BCCL guest house at Dhanbad in the presence of chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) BCCL, Gopal Singh and other directors, Pramod Agrawal, an IAS officer of the 1991 batch, reviewed the strategy to increase production and sale and also look for alternative avenues. Speaking to media after the meeting, the CIL chairman said, “We reviewed the production, sale and despatch of coal at the BCCL and deliberated on means to further improve it. The focus is on increasing the production and achieving the target of 30 MT annually. If that happens BCCL financial condition would improve automatically and it would not need any body’s assistance.” Prodded further, Agrawal out rightly said that the BCCL has to find out its own way to improve its financial position and there is no other way. He also advised the BCCL to look for new markets for its product especially in steel sector and ruled out decreasing prices of coal in future. The CIL chairman further said that time has come to look for alternative sources of energy other than coal. “Demand for coal can last for a maximum of 25-30 years. We will have to look for other alternate sources like solar... CIL is aware of this challenge and is planning to venture into new frontiers,” said Agrawal. The chairman also said that BCCL will be expediting the rehabilitation of masses in the fire-subsidence hit area to avoid casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
