31-12-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans researcher passes away||Amalash Choudhury, retired professor of zoology and marine sciences from Calcutta University and a pioneering personality in Sunderbans research, succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in a hospital at North 24-Parganas. Choudhury was the founder of the marine science department in Calcutta University. A nonagenarian, he had initiated ecological research on the Sunderbans in the sixties. He set up two laboratories with his own resources — Sushma Debi Marine Biology Research Centre  was set up on Sagar Island in the sixties and another the nineties at his residence in Sodepur. “Professor Choudhury was the founder of marine science related academic discourse and research in eastern India. His work in Gangetic delta and Sunderbans ecology stood out for its uniqueness,” said Sandip Mukherjee, a scientist in the Union ministry of earth sciences in Delhi and his former student. Pulak Lahiry, a retired Calcutta University professor in zoology department and one of Choudhury’s earlier students, pointed out his great dedication in research throughout his life. “During 60s, when he built the laboratory in Sagar; nobody was used to talking about Sunderbans....” “He believed that just publishing scientific papers is useless unless those come to the help of people on the ground. Even in his 90s, he insisted on going to the field,” said one of his former students and at present in an important position in the state government. “Professor Choudhury was one of the finest teachers. Brilliant in his lectures, always unruffled, measured voice and unbridled affection for his students; he was a standout and stalwart figure” said Sujata Basu, a student towards the end of his teaching career. Lamenting his demise, Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira, said as a  Sunderban Development Board member, he was always ready to contribute for the development of the climatically-fragile area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiger kills fisherman in Sunderbans||A fisherman who had set out with two others on a country boat to catch fish deep inside the Sunderbans, died after a tiger attacked him near Mechua Island on Wednesday morning. The victim has been identified as Abhay Mondal. At least 20 fishermen have died in tiger attacks this year, seven more than the number of tiger attack deaths in 2019. This is the official data, the actual number might be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta|| West Bengal pollution control board starts distributing free LPG-powered irons||The West Bengal pollution control board (WBPCB) has started the process of distributing 10,000 free LPG-powered iron pressers among roadside laundry stalls in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and Howrah to reduce air pollution. Earlier, a study conducted by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), sponsored by WBPCB, found that such laundry stalls contribute 0.14 per cent of PM10 pollutant and 0.29 per cent of PM2.5 pollutant to the city air’s pollution mix. The pollutants are toxic and can enter deep into the respiratory system and trigger a range of diseases. “We started the distribution in Bidhannagar today. We plan to give 10,000 pressers in a phased manner,” environment minister Soumen Mahapatra told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “We plan to finish the distributing the iron pressers this winter. The pressers will also prove to be economical for the laundry stalls,” PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Molested in car on way home from party||A 21-year-old woman has alleged that she was molested by two men while she was returning home in a car after a birthday party in Jadavpur on Tuesday night. Police have drawn up a case against the men the woman has named in her FIR. In her complaint with the Jadavpur police station the woman has claimed that around 9.30pm on Tuesday, after the party got over, she had boarded the car along with a female friend. There were two men in the car. One of them drove the car while the other sat on the rear seat. The group was headed for Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas where the woman lives. The woman has told the police that the she did not know the men well, they were more close to her female friend. Soon after leaving Jadavpur, the men went around driving through parts of Southern Avenue and Sarat Bose Road for sometime, the woman told the police. She alleged that during the rounds the men started misbehaving with her and later molested her. She tried to raise the alarm and even tried to get out of the car twice, but failed. The woman managed to get out of the car near Bhowanipore police station, the woman said. “The men fled with my friend,” she told cops. The woman then called a friend and went to Jadavpur police station and lodged an FIR, the police said. The police on Wednesday evening recovered the car that was allegedly used in the crime. No arrests were made till late on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Rose garden at Botanic in full bloom||A rose garden laid out at AJC Bose Indian Botanic Garden in January this year is in full bloom now. A few yards away from the Old Banyan Tree, a 26,000sq ft of land has been developed into a rosarium with 3,000 rose plants of 300 varieties or cultivators, as they are known. The 233-year-old garden that mainly engages in ex situ conservation of rare and endangered plants is now growing ornamental plants like roses, canna, bougainvillea in designated sections because these attract visitors. The garden in Howrah’s Shibpur used to have a rosarium about 100 years back, behind the herbarium. But it had been neglected and the plants had died long ago. In January, the Agri-Horticultural Society of India (AHSI) had organised an international rose convention and as part of that, it had developed the rosarium for the botanical garden to showcase how the local soil and climate were conducive to rose-growing. There are 29 beds of roses and a circular bed going around the perimeter. There are beds for Indian as well as foreign breeds of roses. There are wild roses and climbing rose plants of different cultivators. Named after EK Janaki Ammal, the first lady officer on special duty deputed by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to reorganise the Botanical Survey of India, the rosarium also has a rose by her name. The Janaki Ammal rose plant is at the centre of the garden and is in bloom. There is also a Roxbourgh rose plant named after William Roxburgh, who was the first superintendent of the garden. Another variety called President Pranab has been sourced from a nursery in Kharagpur. “There are 16 different colours of roses, including bi-colour hybrids,” said SP Panda, a scientist who is developing the rose garden. There are fragrant roses, green roses, climbing roses, stand roses, which are ideal for areas with snowfall, and roses without thorns. “The nascent garden withstood Cyclone Amphan and also a fungal attack. We had supported the plants with props in preparation for Amphan. About 50 plants were damaged, we had replaced them. For fungal infection, we have used fungicides,” said Panda. The AHSI, which had landscaped the rosarium and provided technical knowhow, is still in consultation with the botanical garden. “We laid out the garden for them, created colour blocks and recommended the varieties to be planted,” said Anupama Mitra, deputy secretary, AHSI. No flower shows The AHSI and Indian Botanic Garden have decided to give the annual flower shows a miss this winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid tests for 700 from 3 UK flights||The state government will conduct Covid tests of 700 passengers and crew members of three Air India flights from London that arrived in Calcutta since November 30, after the mutated strain of coronavirus that was first detected in the UK, was found in the sample of one of the passengers, who had arrived in the city on December 20. The government, as part of the preparedness, is setting up a separate facility at ID Hospital, Beleghata if more people are detected with the UK strain. The 700 include 220 passengers and 12 crew members of the December 20 flight on which the passenger, a youth, had come to the city, said state health department officials. The passenger was admitted at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where he was kept in isolation. The youth is the son of a senior official of the hospital, said health department sources. “He has been kept under observation and his condition is stable. The patient is asymptomatic,” said an official of the health department. On Air India’s December 20 flight from Heathrow, of the 222 passengers, 25 had boarded from London without getting their Covid-19 tests done, said officials of the state government. All underwent the tests at Calcutta airport and reports of two had come positive. Their swab samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for genetic analysis based on the new protocol set by the ministry of health. The samples were then sent for retesting at the National Centre For Disease Control, Delhi, where the mutated strain was detected in the samples of the youth. The government on Wednesday morning, had asked Air India to send details of all the passengers and crew members of the three flights. The airline sent the details in the afternoon. “The seat mapping which shows which passenger was seated where, has also been sent to the state government,” said an Air India official. Health department officials said they were contacting all the passengers and crew members to get their tests done. “The tests will be first conducted at the Covid-19 testing facilities in the city and if some of the samples come positive, then those would be sent for further genetic analysis at the Kalyani institute. The testing process will start from Thursday,” said a senior official of the health department. In the meantime, all 700 would be advised to stay in isolation. If someone tests positive, only then, their close contacts would be tested, said officials. “In the December 20 flight, since two of the 222 passengers have already been tested, we’ll be conducting tests for the rest of the passengers and crew members,” said an official. VUI-202012/01, the new variant of Sars-Cov-2, is said to be more contagious by experts. Although health department officials said there was no reason for panic in Bengal at this moment, preparedness has started in case more people are detected with the new strain. A separate facility for such patients is being created at ID Hospital, Beleghata. “A 50-bed unit is being set up in a separate building at ID Hospital, Beleghata for such patients. If required, more beds can be added there," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Celebrate New Year’s Eve with caution||The Mamata Banerjee government on Wednesday asked people to celebrate New Year’s Eve with caution and use discretion amid concerns that unmasked gatherings could lead to a fresh spike in Covid cases. The government, however, made it clear that no extreme restrictions like night curfew would be in place in the state. “We are urging people to celebrate New Year’s Eve in a quiet, restricted and cautious manner. No one should go out without masks. The authorities have initiated several measures in places where people gather to celebrate New Year,” state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. A Calcutta High Court division bench of Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya and Justice Kausik Chanda had on Tuesday passed an order instructing the state chief secretary and the home secretary to prevent congestion in public places, particularly in the popular spots of the city, during the year-end celebrations. Like during Durga Puja and other festivals, when a similar order of the high court was in force to prevent a spike in the number of Covid cases, the onus of implementing the order would be on the police. On Wednesday, Bandyopadhyay met several senior officers from the home department and the police to discuss ways to execute the high court directive. “There are only a few places in the state — Park Street, Eco Park and Victoria Memorial among them — where people gather to celebrate. The police would convert traffic posts in these areas into assistance booths where a limited number of masks would be kept to distribute to those who come out without masks. Police would also keep a watch on the gathering (to ensure that protocols are followed),” the chief secretary said. Senior officers in Lalbazar said around 10 police checkpoints would be set up along the entire stretch of Park Street from its junction with JL Nehru Road right upto Mullickbazar. Each of these checkpoints would have police armed with sanitisers and masks. Those found to be without masks on New Year’s Eve would immediately be directed to the nearest checkpoint and a mask would be handed over to him/her. Officers in charge of Park Street and Shakespeare Sarani police stations have been asked to draw up a roster for deployment at these checkpoints from early Thursday. “There will be a continuous campaign from loud hailers requesting visitors to maintain social distance in keeping with the high court directive. Additional forces would be deployed around Victoria Memorial, the Maidan and St Paul’s Cathedral,” said a senior police officer. On Wednesday afternoon, police officers met representatives of pubs and restaurants and instructed them to deploy additional manpower to ensure social distancing among the crowd waiting to enter and to strictly follow the timeline for closure by the excise department. The police have decided that there will be no restriction on traffic movement on Park Street but if the footfall becomes high and unmanageable then senior officers at the spot will take a decision. Park Street, between Chowringhee Road and the Wood Street intersection, will be divided into multiple zones and each will be under the supervision of an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner on 31st night. The chief secretary made it clear that the situation in the state did not warrant a night curfew. “The Centre has issued guidelines and those are for all states. Where such restrictions are required, states concerned would follow the advisories. But in Bengal, the (Covid) situation does not warrant such extreme actions. At the same time, people should not celebrate in an extreme manner,” he said. On Tuesday, the number of daily Covid positive cases in the state came down to 1,244. This number had crossed 4,000 in end October. Chill alert The new year is set to arrive with biting cold, the Met office said. Fresh northwesterly winds from the upper reaches of the country are headed to the city. “The winds will be stronger than those blowing now. The effect should be felt from Thursday evening. The minimum temperature is expected to slide significantly from Friday,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Business||Over Rs 70,000 cr economic loss in Q3 due to farmers' agitation: PHDCCI||The farmers' agitation against new agri laws will lead to economic loss of over Rs 70,000 crore in the December quarter owing to supply chain disruptions, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and border areas of Delhi, the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said on Thursday. The chamber's President Sanjay Aggarwal said "the 36 days farm agitation so far will have more than Rs 70,000 crore economic loss in the Q3 FY 2020-21 due to...disruption in supply chains and day-to-day economic activities particularly in the progressive states of Punjab and Haryana and border areas of National capital Delhi." The consensus reached between the government and farmers on two points -- penalties for stubble burning and Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020 -- is highly appreciable and the chamber looks forward to an early resolution of the remaining two issues as well, he added. Talks between the farmers and the Centre remain deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. There are around 25 lakh MSMEs in Punjab and Haryana which employ more than 45 lakh workers contributing more than Rs 4 lakh crore in the total Rs 14 lakh crore GSDP (current prices) of Punjab and Haryana. The GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) of Punjab and Haryana was estimated at Rs 5.75 lakh crore and Rs 8.31 lakh crore respectively in 2019-20, Aggarwal said. Sectors such as food processing, cotton textiles, garments, automobile, farm machinery, information technology, trading, tourism, hospitality and transport have been severely impacted by the agitation which has disrupted supplies of many raw materials to the industry, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat on last trading day of 2020||Key stock indices Sensex and Nifty closed almost flat on the last trading day of 2020 on Thursday as investors tracked news related to COVID-19 vaccines rollout across the globe for further bets. In choppy trade, the 30-share BSE Sensex inched up by 5.11 points 0.01 per cent to its new closing record of 47,751.33. After opening higher at 47,753.11, the index hit its all-time high of 47,896.97 during the day and touched a low of 47,602.12. The broader NSE Nifty crossed the record 14,000 level for the first time, touching an intra-day peak of 14,024.85. The 50-issue index pared gains to close at 13,981.75, down by just 0.20 points. The indices, however, closed the year 2020 with overall gains of around 15 per cent. Sensex gained 15.7 per cent while Nifty jumped 14.9 per cent in the year. HDFC was the leading gainer among Sensex stocks on Thursday, rising by 1.65 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, Asian Paints, Titan and Infosys. TCS was the biggest loser, shedding 1.33 per cent. Ultratech Cement, Bharti Airtel, Kotak Bank and Tech Mahindra were among the other major laggards. Bourses in Tokyo and South Korea were closed for the New Year's holidays. Among others, Australia's S&P/ASX fell 1.4 per cent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose by 0.3 per cent. The Shanghai Composite gained 1.2 per cent. Analysts said focus has been on vaccine-related developments around the globe, with China's Sinopharm becoming the latest to release encouraging study results. On Wall Street, stocks eked out modest gains overnight. Oil prices inched forward in global trade. Brent crude, the international standard, gained 25 cents to USD 51.34 a barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Phone calls from Reliance Jio to other networks to be free from tomorrow||With the interconnect usage charges (IUC) regime for domestic voice calls coming to an end, Reliance Jio on Thursday said that all calls from its network to other networks anywhere in India will be free from January 1, 2021. As per the telecom regulator's directions, 'Bill and Keep' regime is being implemented in the country from January 1, 2021, thereby ending IUC charges for all domestic voice calls, it said in a statement. "Honouring its commitment to revert off-net domestic voice-call charges to zero, as soon as IUC charges are abolished, Jio will once again make all off-net domestic voice calls free, starting 1st January 2021. On-net domestic voice calls have always been free on the Jio network," it added. Put simply, off-net calls refer to calls that terminate in other networks. Over the last year or so, Reliance Jio was charging customers 6 paise per minute for voice calls made to rival phone networks, but compensated subscribers by giving free data of equal value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty flat in early trade||Key benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty were trading flat in early session on the last trading day of 2020 with IT and FMCG stocks cancelling out gains made by financials and energy shares. After opening on a negative note, the 30-share BSE Sensex was up by 17.84 points or 0.04 per cent at 47,764.06 in the morning session. The broader Nifty of NSE edged up by 2.25 points to 13,984.20 with 30 of its constituents trading in green. Among major gainers, ONGC was by 1.55 per cent, ICICI Bank by 0.87 per cent, HDFC by 0.36 per cent and Bajaj Finserve by 0.58 per cent. On the other hand, TCS, Infosys, M&M, Ultratech Cement, HUL, NTPC and SBI dropped. Markets were volatile due to the expiry of derivatives series on Thursday. The Sensex and Nifty had raced to fresh record highs on Wednesday on the back of gains in financials, auto and cement counters. Although the market is at its most expensive valuation level, FPIs continue to pump in funds and roll the Indian market higher on a daily basis, analysts said. Among other Asian markets, Hong Kong benchmark rose by 0.26 per cent while Chinese shares gain 1.45 per cent. Australian shares dropped 0.80 per cent due to fresh curbs to control COVID-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Reliance Communications claims much less debt ||Debt-ridden telecom firm Reliance Communications on Wednesday said the group owes around Rs 26,000 crore to Indian banks and financial institutions. The Indians banks, vendors and other creditors have made claims of around Rs 86,000 crore on the company which is at present going through insolvency proceedings. “According to figures certified by the resolution professional appointed by the lenders, the R-Com group owed around Rs 26,000 crore to Indian banks and financial institutions as on the date of filing before the NCLT,” Reliance Communications (R-Com) said in a statement. The creditors have submitted claims of around Rs 49,000 crore on R-Com, Rs 24,000 crore on Reliance Telecom and Rs 12,600 crore on Reliance Infratel before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). “The alleged ‘fraud’ classification by certain banks is entirely unjustified and the Delhi High Court by an interim order has directed the same to be kept in abeyance for the time being, and the matter is now sub judice,” R-Com said. It further said that the resolution plans are at various stages of approval before the NCLT and the lenders are likely to recover at least 70 per cent of their dues. “The financial stress in the telecom sector, owing inter alia to the entry of a new player in 2016 with unlimited free offerings, was not unique to R-Com, but decimated the entire industry,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Life insurance premium growth to be flat||The life insurance industry is expected to see a flat growth in annual premium equivalent in the ongoing fiscal. The industry was affected by a staggered lockdown disrupting the physical sales channel, weakness in the capital markets, focus on cash conservation and moderation in the protection business along with the pressure of a premium hike dampening the pace of recovery. The annual premium equivalent (APE) refers to 100 per cent regular premium and 10 per cent of the single premium collected by an insurer in a given period. It is used to normalise single-premium payments and recurring premium payment to accurately compare sales. On an APE basis, the industry saw a decline of 9 per cent for a five-month period ending August 2020 and 7 per cent decline at the end of September 2020. Individual new business premium at Rs 46,839 crore saw a modest 1 per cent growth on a year-on-year basis as of September 2020. “We expect the full-year industry growth to be flattish or slightly positive,” said G. Murlidhar, managing director  and chief executive officer of Kotak Life Insurance. Growth drivers The industry, however, is bullish on the growth prospects with protection plans and annuities to act as the two main drivers on the product side. The industry anticipates a 15 per cent compounded annual growth rate in insurance premium over the next 5 years. According to Kotak Life Insurance, the key factors driving this are increasing customer awareness, preference for transactions through digital platforms, favourable demography and an under-penetrated market. Protection plans are expected to grow at a CAGR of 23-25 per cent, while annuities are expected to grow at over 20 per cent. “In both the segments, the growth rate would be faster than the industry average,” said Murlidhar. “We expect the industry growth momentum to continue in 2021 with people becoming cognizant of the need for insurance. From a product perspective, while term and health plans saw an uptick, we will have to see how the next few months pan out with respect to the new strain of the virus and vaccine. If the news stays positive, I am sure market linked products would also come back in a big way,” said Tarun Chugh, MD and CEO of Bajaj Allianz Life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Cabinet approves modified scheme to enhance ethanol distillation capacity||The government on Wednesday approved an interest subvention of Rs 4,573 crore for new distilleries producing ethanol, which can be used for doping in petrol, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. The minister said the government was targeting to more than double the blending of ethanol in petrol to 20 per cent by 2030, for which domestic capacity has to be augmented. India will need about 1,000 crore litres of ethanol for doping in petrol by 2030 against the current capacity of 684 crore litres. He added that the cabinet has approved a modified scheme to enhance ethanol distillation capacity in the country for producing first-generation ethanol from feed stocks such as cereals (rice, wheat, barley, corn and sorghum), sugarcane and sugar beet. The government would bear interest subvention for five years, including a one-year moratorium against the loan availed by project proponents from banks, at the rate of 6 per cent per annum or 50 per cent of the rate of interest charged by banks, whichever is lower. Paradip go-ahead The government has also approved a Rs 3,000-crore project to turn Paradip Port into a world-class port by setting up a dock. The Paradip port handles about 115 million tonnes (mt) of cargo  which is likely to increase substantially to about 400mt by 2030.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
31-12-2020||Business||Reliance Industries seals IMG stake buy||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has started to consolidate its sporting and fashion franchises. The oil-to-telecom conglomerate has completed the acquisition of the sports joint venture — IMG Reliance Limited (IMG-R), — following which the latter will become its subsidiary. Last week, RIL had announced that it is buying out IMG Worldwide LLC from the joint venture for Rs 52 crore. “The company has, on December 28, completed the acquisition of equity shares of IMG-R. The holding of the company along with IMG-R in Football Sports Development Ltd (FSDL) is 65 per cent and FSDL has become a subsidiary of the company,” RIL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
31-12-2020||Business||Twin Reliance billion-dollar deals beef up numbers||India’s deal street was salvaged by the record strategic investment made in Jio Platforms and Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). These two arms of Reliance Industries accounted for 25 per cent of the value, a PwC India tabulation has shown. If it was not for the multiple transactions in these two entities, the numbers for 2020 would have looked tepid. However, experts feel that the trend is likely to continue as consolidation is expected to drive M&A activity in India. While initially deal activity was affected because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it received a boost after Jio Platforms garnered over $16 billion (Rs 1,18,318 crore) by selling a 25.24 per cent stake and Reliance Retail saw $6.4 billion (Rs 47,265 crore) of investments as it divested around 9 per cent shareholding. Together, they accounted for over 25 per cent of the $80-billion deal activity witnessed across 1,260 transactions. According to PwC India report titled, “Deals in India: Annual review and outlook for 2021”, the total deals in value terms showed a 7 per cent increase compared with last year. The report added that 2020 recorded 17 deals in the billion-dollar bracket, which was double the number of such deals (9) recorded in 2019. Ajay Arora, partner and national leader of investment banking, at EY India told PTI that the first half of this calendar year saw a major decline in M&As but in the second half, it saw a strong bounce back when deals rose nearly 40 per cent. “I expect this strong momentum to continue in 2021, primarily driven by a significant appetite of PEs for buyouts and an uptick in inbound deals,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
31-12-2020||Business||Ban on UK flights till January 7||Passenger flights between the UK and India would remain suspended till January 7 and will resume in a “strictly regulated” manner thereafter, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has also extended the suspension of all international flight operations in the country till January 31, 2021. The civil aviation ministry had last week suspended all flights between the European country and India from December 23-31 as a mutated variant of the coronavirus was detected there. The minister tweeted: “Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to and from the UK till January 7, 2021. Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” he said. Puri’s announcement has come following a recommendation by the Union health ministry to extend the suspension. The presence of the new UK variant of the virus has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada and Japan. More than 30 countries have suspended air links with Britain over the new strain. After a gap of two months, the domestic flight operations resumed in May. International services are being operated under air bubble pacts with different countries. The minister tweeted: “Decision has been taken to extend the temporary suspension of flights to and from the UK till 7 January 2021. Thereafter strictly regulated resumption will take place for which details will be announced shortly,” he said. Meanwhile, the DGCA extended the suspension of all international flight operations in the country till 31 January, 2021.  "Govt of India extends suspension of scheduled commercial international flights till 31 Jan, 2021," said the civil aviation regulator. However, the restrictions will not be applicable on international air cargo operations and flights specially approved by DGCA. With more than 10 million infections and 145,000 deaths, India recorded the world's second highest coronavirus caseload behind the United States.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
31-12-2020||Business||Centre extends last date for filing income-tax returns||The Centre has extended the last date for the filing of income-tax returns by individual taxpayers to January 10 from December 31. The last date for entities and individuals who have to  submit audited accounts have been extended to February 15 from January 31. The finance ministry announcement relates to filing returns for financial year 2019-20 or assessment year 2020-21. The move comes amid requests from various associations and netizens calling for an extension of the dates. “Considering the problems faced by various taxpayers, it has been decided to provide further time to the taxpayers for furnishing income tax returns, tax audit reports and declaration under the Vivad Se Vishwas scheme,” the finance ministry said.. “Further, to provide more time to taxpayers to comply under various ongoing proceedings, the dates of completion of proceedings under various direct taxes and benami acts have also been extended,” the ministry said . For individual taxpayers who are required to get their accounts audited and companies, the due date for filing returns is now pushed to February 15, 2021. Such returns were initially scheduled for submission by October 31, 2020. It was subsequently extended to November 30, 2020 and later to January 31, 2021. For taxpayers who are required to furnish reports in respect of international/specified domestic transactions, the due date has been extended to February 15, 2021 against the January 31, 2021 deadline. For all other individual taxpayers, the due date has been extended to January 10, 2021. Originally scheduled for July 31, 2020, the due date was extended twice — first to November 30, 2020 and then to December 31, 2020. Audit reports The finance ministry also extended the date of furnishing various audit reports, including tax audit reports and reports in respect of international/specified domestic transactions, for assessment year 2020-21 to January 15, 2021. The last date for making declaration under the Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme has also been extended to January 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020. “The  extension may not be adequate. This should be reviewed and extended further,” said Narayan Jain, chairman, representation committee, Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association. According to tax practitioners, the staff of advocates and chartered accounts dealing with audit and tax matters were unable to come to work frequently because of the pandemic. This made it difficult to complete compliance related work within the due date. “Although the government has given an extension, it may not be adequate. This should be reviewed and extended further,” said Narayan Jain, chairman, representation committee, Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association. The ministry has also extended the due date for payment of self assessment tax for “small and middle class” taxpayers whose liability is up to Rs 1 lakh to February 15, 2021. For taxpayers who need not get their accounts audited, the self assessment tax due date is January 10, 2021. The government has also extended the due date of furnishing of annual return under section 44 of Central Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 for FY 2019-20 from December 31, 2020 to February 28, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
31-12-2020||Business||Reliance-BP alters gas price terms||The consortium of Reliance Industries and BP on Wednesday invited bids for gas it plans to produce from the second-wave discoveries in the KG-D6 block, pricing them for the very first time against JKM or Japan/Korea Liquefied Natural Gas Import Price, an international gas benchmark. “The gas produced for KG-D6 will be available for sale at the delivery point at Gadimoga near Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh tentatively from 01 February 2021,” the companies said in a notice. The e-bidding would take place on January 22, the request for proposal said. Reliance-BP had in November 2019 sold the first 5 million standard cubic meters per day (mscmd) of gas from the R-Series field in the KG-D6 block. The duo has now invited bids for 7.5 mscmd of incremental output that is likely to be available from February next year, according to a notice inviting offer. They had priced the first 5mscmd  against Brent crude oil and now they are seeking rates equivalent to JKM or Japan/Korea Liquefied Natural Gas Import Price. Bidders have been asked to ”quote the variable denoted as ‘V’ in USD per million British thermal unit (mBtu) terms”. “The gas price (in $/mBtu (GCV)) shall be = JKM + V,” the notice said. GCV stands for gross calorific value. “V” can be a positive, zero or negative number and up to two decimal places but it cannot be less than (-) 0.30 $/mBtu, it said. This means users will have to quote (-) 0.30 or higher value of “V”. JKM averaged $6.20 per mBtu in November and at the base or cut off price, KG-D6 gas would cost $5.9 per mBtu. This is higher than $4.2-4.4 per mBtu rate at which the first 5mscmd were sold at Brent crude oil benchmark. Brent crude oil is presently in the range of $50-51 per barrel. This will be the first discovery of gas price since the October 2020 decision of the government setting out uniform e-bidding norms for finding the market price. The Cabinet decision in October allowed the sale of gas to “affiliates”, meaning Reliance-BP affiliate companies can now take part in the bidding. Earlier this month, RIL and its partner BP had announced the commencement of natural gas production from the second wave of discoveries in the KG-D6 fields. Asia's deepest project, putting the second wave of discoveries in the KG-D6 block onstream. The production from ultra-deepwater R-Cluster, the first of the three deepsea projects Reliance-BP are developing in the eastern offshore block, started production, the two firms said. Reliance and BP are developing three deepwater gas projects in block KG D6 – R Cluster, Satellites Cluster and MJ – which together are expected to meet about 15% of India's gas demand by 2023. "These projects will utilise the existing hub infrastructure in KG-D6 block," it said. Reliance is the operator of KG D6 with a 66.67% participating interest and BP holds a 33.33% stake. R-Cluster is the first of the three projects to come onstream. The field is located about 60 kilometres from the existing KG-D6 Control and Riser Platform (CRP) off the Kakinada coast and comprises a subsea production system tied back to CRP via a subsea pipeline. Located at a water depth of greater than 2,000 metres, it is the deepest offshore gas field in Asia. The field is expected to reach plateau gas production of about 12.9 million standard cubic metres per day (mmscmd) in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
31-12-2020||India||GoAir to launch new flights to Sharjah||Budget flight operator GoAir on Thursday announced that it is set to expand its services to the United Arab Emirates with the launch of a new fleet to Sharjah from Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi and Kannur. The operations will start from Friday, it said. At present, flights to the UAE are being operated under an Air Bubble Agreement as international flights to and from India have been suspended since March 23 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. GoAir currently operates flights in Dubai. The budget carrier is commencing scheduled direct flights to and from Mumbai, Delhi, Kochi, and Kannur to Sharjah under the Air Bubble Agreement effective January 1, it said in a release. The flight schedule on India-Sharjah route is designed to provide convenience and flexibility to the passengers, it added. “We have seen an enthusiastic response from our passengers travelling between India and the UAE, and there is immense pent-up demand on the said route. This has encouraged us to strengthen the network by adding these services between India and Sharjah,” the airline's CEO Kaushik Khona said. The airline is offering a special introductory return fare, starting at Rs 11,560 for the flights on India Sharjah sector. Special international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under ‘Air Bubble Agreement’ with select countries from July. So far, India has such agreements with more than 22 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||Efforts on to economically rehabilitate people who lost jobs during lockdown: Bihar CM ||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday asserted that efforts were being made to economically rehabilitate those who have returned to their homes in the state, having lost jobs elsewhere in the wake of the COVID19-induced lockdowns. Kumar made averments to the effect during a tour of a town in West Champaran district, more than 200 km from here, where he also inspected a “start up zone” set up as part of district industrial innovation scheme. Products made by artisans who have come back from places like Delhi, Punjab, Gujarat and foreign countries like Qatar were on display. “It has been our resolve to ensure that livelihood concerns do not compel our people to migrate again. Of course, if anybody does so of his or her own accord, it is a matter of personal choice,” Kumar told reporters on the occasion. The CM also said that a “new industrial policy” was in place that sought to provide artisans with platforms where they could sell their products to buyers from other parts of the country and abroad. “Many such manufacturing centres will start functioning in other districts in the days to come. All facilities will be provided. Use of new technology, which reduces the cost of production, will be encouraged,” he added. Among others, Kumar was accompanied by his deputy Renu Devi and cabinet colleague Vijay Kumar Chaudhary. The delegation also visited the site of construction of a road that seeks to improve connectivity to Valmiki Nagar, a famous tourist spot in the district named after the ancient sage who is said to have composed the original Ramayana. “It is our endeavour to develop Valmiki Nagar as an eco tourism hub. We would love to see children coming to this place and experience communion with nature. The road will be of enormous help in achieving the objective,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||BJP hosts webinars to push ‘one nation, one election’||In a series of webinars, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pushed the idea of ‘one nation, one election’ by highlighting the “drawbacks” of frequent polls and the fact that India, till 1960s used to have simultaneous Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. In Thursday’s webinar, BJP chief spokesperson Anil Baluni mentioned that most of the time the code of conduct is in place in some parts of the country due to state or local body polls, hampering development works and costing a lot of public money. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often spoken about the need for simultaneous Lok Sabha, state and local body polls, he noted, adding that the ruling party wants a consensus to evolve on the matter. Echoing his view, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi added that the concept of ‘one nation, one election’ has nothing to do with partisan politics and it falls in the same bracket as do programmes like ‘Swachh Bharat’. He said that extremely competitive nature of electoral politics results in caste and communal passions often stoked by rivals, thereby harming the social fabric. This is also a reason for not favouring frequent elections, he said. Trivedi also rejected concerns that holding simultaneous elections will result in the domination of national parties at the cost of regional players as he cited several examples of the same set of voters preferring different parties in Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in a state. In another webinar, BJP’s Tom Vadakkan claimed that simultaneous polls have “advantages” like saving government expenditure and speedy development activities. Senior lawyer Rakesh Gosain said the idea of ‘one nation, one election’ is not against the Constitution and can be achieved with minor amendments. India has elections every few months and the drain on funds can be saved if there is ‘one nation, one election’, he said, according to a statement. Most of the opposition parties, including the Congress, have opposed any move to facilitate simultaneous elections, with some of them calling it undemocratic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
31-12-2020||India||CBSE board exams from May 4 to June 10 in 2021||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct classes 10 and 12 exams from May 4 to June 10 next year, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Thursday. Practical examinations will be conducted from March 1. The results of the board exams will be announced by July 15, he added. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams are being delayed this session in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. "The board exams for class 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10. Schools will be allowed to conduct practical exams from March 1. Date sheet for both the classes will be issued soon. The results will be declared by July 15," Pokhriyal announced. Several schools have already conducted pre-board exams online to keep the students prepared. The CBSE had earlier this month announced that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of COVID-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. However, a few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections. The board exams this year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||India, China contemplating ninth round of talks on border situation||China and India are in consultations to hold the ninth round of Corps Commander-level meeting to discuss the disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Sr. Colonel Tan Kefei said on Thursday. Since the eighth round of Corps Commander-level talks between the armies of China and India, the two sides have maintained consultations on disengagement of frontline troops and strengthened management of border troops, Tan told an online media briefing. The situation in the border areas is generally stable, he said, according to a transcript posted on the Chinese Defence Ministry website. China is willing to maintain communication with India through military and diplomatic channels, he said. India is expected to work with China towards the same goal, implement the consensus reached at the Corps Commander-level meetings, and take pragmatic measures to further abate the tension in border areas, Tan said. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military-level to resolve the standoff that erupted in early May. At the latest round of foreign ministry-level talks on December 18, the two sides said that they have agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting also decided to hold the next round of military dialogue at an early date. In the midst of the eastern Ladakh standoff, Chinese President Xi Jinping on December 19 appointed a new General as the Commander of the People's Liberation Army's Western Theatre Command which oversees the China-India border. Xi, who heads the Central Military Commission (CMC), the overall high-command of the two million-strong People's Liberation Army (PLA), appointed Gen. Zhang Xudong as the Commander of the Western Theatre Command. Gen. Zhang succeeds 65-year-old Gen. Zhao Zongqi who headed the Western Theatre Command during the 2017 Doklam standoff where the Indian Army stood up against the PLA's plan of laying a road close to the Indian border in an area claimed by Bhutan. The Ladakh standoff also happened under the watch of Gen Zhao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Farmers at Singhu border to welcome 2021 sans celebrations||Thousands of farmers, protesting against the three contentious agri-marketing laws of the Centre at the Singhu, will witness the onset of 2021 on Friday sans any celebration. “There is no New Year for us until the government accepts our demands,” Harjinder Singh from Punjab’s Ropar said on Thursday. Singh has been camping at the protest site since November 25. On Wednesday, the government addressed the farmers’ concerns over the increasing power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, during the sixth round of talks between the two sides. However, that was not reason enough to celebrate yet, the farmers said. Among the issues that continue to remain unresolved are the revocation of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price for their crops. “Both the demands that they have agreed to were not laws yet. Their impact was yet to be felt. And we went to the government with the demands with clarity. They cannot pick and choose what suits them. They have to listen to all our demands,” said Harmesh Singh, a farmer from Punjab's Hoshiarpur. “If the government wants to see our strength, we will show them. People like us who are used to living in ‘kothis’ (bungalows) are now sleeping on the road. We have been protesting peacefully for a month, we can keep protesting for a year too,” echoed Bhupinder Singh, also from Hoshiarpur. Most of the protesters will be welcoming the New Year away from their close ones, but they have not complaints. “Yes, we have a family back home and we are missing them, but this is also our family. All these farmers are our brothers, and uncles,” Harjinder said. Gurpreet Hayer from Jalandhar and Pratap Singh from Bhatinda have decided to do ‘sewa’ in the New Year as they had done in the past. Gurpreet said he will be working with Gursikh Sewa Society to put up a "turban langar" for all the farmers on Friday. “We will celebrate the New Year by doing sewa. There are many farmers who don't know how to tie a turban, or don't have a fresh turban. We will give them that,” he said. Pratap said he would pay a visit to the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara here on the first day of the year. “Every New Year we go to pay our respects at gurudwara and do sewa at langar. This year too, I will do the same here,” he said. Among the bare minimum celebrations, the Working People's Charter has called upon people from across the country to usher in the New Year with the farmers. “These laws are not just anti-farmer but also anti-poor. And we want all the people who go out to celebrate New Year to come and celebrate with the farmers, with the aim of demanding social justice for them. There will be bonfire, good conversations and songs of revolution,” said Nirmal Agni from Working People's Charter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||2021 will be about rollout of Covid vaccines  ||The Union Health Ministry has released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India, something the Drug Controller General said on Thursday was likely to happen in the New Year. The strategy, unveiled on Thursday, seeks to disseminate accurate information by alleviating apprehensions and ensuring the vaccine’ acceptance. The 88-page document details information to guide national, state and district level communication activities to enable information about COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country. "The communication strategy that supports the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions, ensure acceptance and encourage uptake," it said. The communication strategy was released on a day the Drug Controller General of India, V.G. Somani, offered the first hint of a timeline regarding the availability of the vaccine. Speaking at a webinar, Somani said the most important thing was that industry and research organisations have stood the test of time. He said vaccine candidates have got the funding and also talked about the efforts made by the Department of Biotechnology. "...and probably we will have a very happy New Year with something in hand. That's what I can hint at," he said. The Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates and are awaiting approval. Somani said the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. "There has been no compromise on the safety or efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data," he said. An expert panel in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday to consider emergency use authorisation applications by SII for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' will reconvene on January 1 to further deliberate on the matter. According to the health ministry, the strategy document aims at managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or “eagerness” amongst people, and addressing vaccine “hesitancy” that could arise because of apprehensions around safety, efficacy or misconceptions. It also aims to provide information on potential risks and mitigate unintended crisis during the introduction and rollout. “The strategy also seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine amongst all people by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it," it said. The Health Ministry intends to achieve this in three ways. Firstly, using the social influence or endorsements from experts and official voices to spell out the process of immunisation (where, how, who, when date and time); emphasise on the safety and efficacy of vaccines and explain the decision to conduct the drive in a phased manner. Secondly, the ministry intends to establish a National Media Rapid Response Cell (NMRRC) under its ambit to ensure preparedness through media monitoring and social listening to respond in real-time. It will also unfold media and public discourse through extensive monitoring of print, electronic and digital media. Thirdly, this will be achieved by involving community mobilisers and frontline workers to engage with the community at various levels through community consultations, faith leaders and religious meetings, engaging youth, civil-society organisations, self-help groups, panchayats and other community-based platforms. The four key areas that will be addressed as part of interventions under the strategy are -- giving information on COVID-19 vaccines, addressing vaccine hesitancy, building vaccine eagerness along with maintaining and sustaining COVID appropriate behaviours. In case of any adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), the strategy emphasises on supporting the mobilisers and health workforce in managing crisis situations by appealing to the community to stay calm while waiting for a proper diagnosis and prevent aggressive behaviour against health||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Health ministry releases SOP for Covid vaccine rollout||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in India that seeks to disseminate accurate and transparent information by alleviating apprehensions and ensuring its acceptance. The 88-page document details information to guide national, state and district level communication activities to enable information about COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination process reaches all people, across all states in the country. "The communication strategy that supports the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in India seeks to disseminate timely, accurate and transparent information about the vaccine(s) to alleviate apprehensions about the vaccine, ensure its acceptance and encourage uptake," it said. According to the document, the strategy aims at managing and mitigating any potential disappointment expressed by unmet demand for the vaccine or 'eagerness' amongst people and addressing vaccine 'hesitancy' that could arise because of apprehensions around vaccine safety, efficacy apart from any other myths and misconceptions. It also aims to provide information on potential risks and mitigate unintended crisis during the introduction and rollout. "The strategy also seeks to build trust and enable greater confidence in the COVID-19 vaccine amongst all people by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it," it said. The Health Ministry intends to achieve this in three ways. Firstly, using the social influence or endorsements from experts and official voices to spell out the process of immunisation (where, how, who, when date and time); emphasise on the safety and efficacy of vaccines and explain the decision to conduct the drive in a phased manner. Secondly, the ministry intends to establish a National Media Rapid Response Cell (NMRRC) under its ambit to ensure preparedness through media monitoring and social listening to respond in real-time. It will also unfold media and public discourse through extensive monitoring of print, electronic and digital media. Thirdly, this will be achieved by involving community mobilisers and frontline workers to engage with the community at various levels through community consultations, faith leaders and religious meetings, engaging youth, civil-society organisations, self-help groups, panchayats and other community-based platforms. The four key areas that will be addressed as part of interventions under the strategy are -- giving information on COVID-19 vaccines, addressing vaccine hesitancy, building vaccine eagerness along with maintaining and sustaining COVID appropriate behaviours. In case of any adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), the strategy emphasises on supporting the mobilisers and health workforce in managing crisis situations by appealing to the community to stay calm while waiting for a proper diagnosis and prevent aggressive behaviour against health workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||India may have a Covid vaccine in New Year, hints Drug Controller||India is likely to have a Covid-19 vaccine in the New Year, Drug Controller General of India V G Somani hinted on Thursday. Speaking at a webinar, Somani said the most important thing is that the industry and research organisations have stood the test of time. He said vaccine candidates have got the funding and also talked about the efforts made by the Department of Biotechnology. "...and probably we will have a very happy New Year with something in hand. That's what I can hint at," Somnai said. The Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer have applied to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates and are awaiting approval. Somani said the approval process was fast-tracked in view of the pandemic by quickly processing all applications, allowing parallel phase 1 and 2 trials without waiting for complete data. "There has been no compromise on the safety or efficacy of the data. The only thing is that the regulator has accepted partial data," he said. An expert panel in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday to consider emergency use authorisation applications by SII for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' will reconvene on January 1 to further deliberate on the matter. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 on Wednesday deliberated and analysed the additional data and information submitted by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Yediyurappa rules out change in leadership, to complete term as CM||Ruling out leadership change, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa on Thursday asserted he will remain in the post for the remaining over two year period and complete the term, and there was no confusion regarding this within the ruling BJP. Suggesting that the last one year had been like a "trial by fire" for his administration with natural disasters and COVID pandemic, he said his government's desire was to take Karnataka to the first place on the development map of the country, as he also referred to financial constraints faced by the state. "In the last one-and-half years of my administration even for a day I did not bother about it, I was focused on my work and development. These things have in no way impacted," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on talks about leadership change and its impact on the administration. Speaking to reporters here, he said, after BJP General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh made it clear that there are no issues for the next two-and-half years and Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister, such questions do not arise at all. "There is no confusion among our ministers or legislators, also people. If there is confusion, it is among media friends. If you cooperate everything will be fine," he said. There has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa's age (77 years). Though the state BJP has rejected outright such speculation, it refuses to die down, with some within the party like senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements. Asked about BJP legislators making open statements and writing letters expressing disgruntlement, Yediyurappa said out of so many legislators one or two of them might have given certain statements. "..to address their concerns, I will be holding a division wise meeting with all our legislators," he said. Referring to the impact of Covid on the state and its economy, the Chief Minister, who also handles the finance portfolio said, "we may face a fiscal setback of Rs 25,000 to 30,000 crore and we may have to face this problem in the next budget as well." Despite this, efforts will be on placing emphasis on the development of the state including the welfare of farmers, farm labourers, SC/ST community and backward communities, among others, he said. Noticing that his desire and dream was to take Karnataka to the first place in the development map of the country, Yediyurappa said all his cabinet collogues were collectively working towards achieving the goal. "It was a kind of trial by fire with drought, floods, COVID and all of this led to the fiscal setback, but despite all this, all efforts are on to fulfil promises made in the budget and I'm confident we will be successful in this," he said. Stating that BJP is strengthening its base across the country including Karnataka, the Chief Minister claimed in the recent Gram Panchayat polls, for which counting took place on Wednesday, more than 60 per cent of BJP candidates won and created history. According to information, of 5,728 Gram Panchayats, BJP backed candidates have won in majority in around 3,800 panchayats, he said, as he gave credit to collective leadership for the achievement, while acknowledging efforts of district in-charge ministers, MLAs and party workers. Though the Gram Panchayat polls don't take place on party symbols, all political parties had put in efforts to ensure that the candidate supported by them wins, so as to have their hold on grassroots level politics, which may prove advantageous for them in taluk or Zilla panchayat and even assembly polls whenever it happens. Also citing BJP winning 12 out of 15 assembly seats that went for bypolls in December 2019 and the win in the Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira segments earlier this year, Yediyurappa said these results show that the party has made inroads to the stronghold of opposition parties. Highlighting his government's management of Covid crisis while also supporting distressed communities, he said, it also ensured that development works continued despite the pandemic. "Our government has topped in attracting FDI even during Covid pandemic.As many as 95 proposals worth Rs 1.54 lakh crore have been received," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Four UK retuness tested positive for mutant strain in Delhi, says health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said four persons who have returned from the United Kingdom to the national capital have been found positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19. Talking to media persons, Jain said a total of 38 people have been found positive since coming to Delhi from the UK recently, and kept in a separate institutional isolation unit in the LNJP Hospital premises. “Four such patients have been found infected with the new UK strain of COVID-19. The persons who came in contact have been also traced and tested, and it's not in them. So, only these four cases of new strain in Delhi so far,” he said. “Flights have been stopped and those who came before are being traced and tested rigorously,” the minister added. The state authorities said that Delhi recorded 677 new cases of coronavirus and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.8 per cent. “Positivity rate has dropped to 0.8 per cent from 15.26 per cent on November 7. About 85 per cent beds are vacant, so the situation has improved a lot. And, so, it had been decided to make LNJP Hospital and GTB Hospital partial Covid-19 facilities now. All services, including the OPD will be soon resumed gradually,” Jain said. Talking about the preparedness for the vaccination, he said, work is on to set up 1,000 vaccination centres. Jain said the night curfew has been imposed as the situation is under control right now, but huge gatherings could spell trouble again. The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. A formal order stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. On Covid-biowaste generation, he said, it is the responsibility of the civic bodies and they are doing it. Amid mounting concerns over the new variant of the Covid-19, the Delhi government had earlier said that people who had arrived here recently from that country, are being traced and tested, while an institutional quarantine facility has been set up separately for positive cases at the LNJP Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Vaccine preparation process in final stages, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said preparations for inoculating citizens with the Covid-19 vaccine are in their last stages, just a day after the Centre-appointed expert team assessed the emergency applications filed by three vaccine makers. Laying the foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Gujarat’s Rajkot, he said, “Preparations are in the last stages for the vaccination programme against COVID-19. People will get vaccines manufactured in India.” Modi said the number of new coronavirus cases are decreasing in the country, while warning that people should not let their guard down and strictly abide by coronavirus preventive norms even after vaccination. “I used to say 'jab tak davai nahi dhilai nahi' but now our mantra for 2021 should be: Davai bhi, kadaai bhi (yes to medicine and yes to caution),” the prime minister said. The PM also warned the general public about against believing in rumours and unfounded claims regarding the vaccine, claiming some have already started spreading such lies. "In 2020, there was an atmosphere of disappointment and dismay due to the infection. There were doubts everywhere. But 2021 brings a ray of hope in terms of its treatment. "Preparations are in full swing for the vaccination drive in India. Efforts to make a 'Made in India' vaccine available to every eligible beneficiary are in its last stage. We are fully prepared to launch the world's biggest vaccination drive," Modi said. Modi also paid tributes to healthcare and frontline workers, scientists and good samaritans for their sacrifices and services to the society during the pandemic. India has turned into the nerve-centre of global health, Modi said. "We are working on mission mode to improve medical education in India. After the formation of the National Medical Commission, the quality and quantity of health education will improve," he added. Over Rs 30,000 crore of poor people's money has been saved due to the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Modi said. “Jan Ausadhi Kendras are also a friend of poor people during illness. Over 7,000 such kendras all over the country provide 90 per cent cheaper medicines to people. Over 3.5 lakh poor patients use these kendras on a daily basis,” he said. “In the last six years we began work on 10 new AIIMS and some of them are operational. Twenty super speciality hospitals are also being built in the country,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Kerala Assembly passes resolution against central farm laws||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the scrapping of the three contentious central farm laws, against which farmers were agitating in Delhi, saying they were 'anti-farmer' and 'pro-corporate.' The resolution was passed in a special session convened in compliance with COVID-19 protocols to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. The members of the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-headed UDF supported the resolution whole-heartedly. Though the lone BJP member in the state assembly, O. Rajagopal raised objections against some references in the resolution, he did not object to it. Moving the resolution, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged the central farm laws have been amended to help the corporates. "The three contentious agriculture laws were passed even without sending them to the standing committee of the Parliament. If this agitation continues, it will severely affect Kerala, which is a consumer state," he said. After the nearly two-hour-long discussion, Speaker P Sreeramakrishan put the resolution for a voice vote and said it has been passed. "Passing of the resolution reflects the sentiments of the House towards the farmers' cause," the Speaker said. In a surprise move, the BJP’s lone member in the Kerala Assembly O. Rajagopal supported the scrapping of the three laws. “The resolution was passed unanimously. I have told my views... with regard to some matters (in the resolution) there was a difference of opinion, which I had pointed out in the House”, he told media persons after the session. “I fully support the resolution”, he said. When pointed out that the resolution was for scrapping the three central farm laws, Rajagopal said he supported it (resolution). “I supported the resolution and the central government should withdraw the three farm laws,” the senior BJP leader said, adding he agreed with the general consensus in the House. “That is the democratic spirit,” he further said. When told he was going against his party’s views, Rajagopal said, “ In a democratic system, we need to go as per consensus.” While speaking during the session, Rajagopal had said the new laws will protect farmers interests and middlemen will be avoided. Those opposing the laws were standing against farmers, he said adding the new laws would double the income of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-449
31-12-2020||India||Dense fog shrouds Delhi as mercury dips to season's lowest||Dense fog over Delhi reduced visibility to just 50 metres, as the minimum temperature in the city dipped to 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the season's lowest so far, the India Meteorological Department said. It is also the third consecutive "cold wave" day in the city, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. "Cold day" conditions are likely as the maximum temperature is predicted to settle below 16 degrees Celsius, Srivastava said. The Lodhi Road weather station registered a minimum of 3.1 degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on December 20. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, it recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said "dense" fog accumulated over Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh, lowering visibility to 50 metres at many places. Visibility levels at Safdarjung and Palam dropped to 100 metres and 50 metres, respectively, due to dense fog, he said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres, 51 and 200 is "dense", 201 and 500 "moderate", and 501 and 1,000 "shallow". The cold wave is likely to continue on Friday as well. Thereafter, the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" Western Disturbance (WD) which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6, Srivastava said. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to eight degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the WD from January 3 to January 5. The WD will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature (7.06 degrees Celsius) in December this year is less than last year when it was 7.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the national capital broke the record of the longest cold spell, registering 18 consecutive cold days. At 9.4 degrees Celsius, Delhi had also recorded the lowest maximum temperature in December in 119 years. This year, however, the city has witnessed only three "cold" days and 7 "cold wave" days so far. A cold day is declared when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Thursday. The city's air quality index (AQI) at 10 am was 331. The 24-hour average AQI was 290 on Wednesday, 265 on Tuesday, 253 on Monday and 396 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||India logs 21,822 Covid cases, 299 deaths in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,02,66,674 with 21,822 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.60 lakh pushing the national recovery rate over 96 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,48,738 with 299 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,60,280 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.04 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the tenth consecutive day. There are 2,57,656 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.51 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,20,49,274 samples have been tested up to December 30 with 11,27,244 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 299 new fatalities include 90 from Maharashtra, 28 each from Bengal and Kerala, and 21 from Delhi. A total of 1,48,738 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,463 from Maharashtra followed by 12,109 from Tamil Nadu, 12,081 from Karnataka,10,523 from Delhi, 9,683 from West Bengal, 8,352 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,104 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,331 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Night curfew imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1||The Delhi government has imposed night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am on December 31 and January 1 to avoid large gatherings during New Year celebrations due to Covid-19 and its highly transmissible UK strain. The night curfew will be imposed from 11 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, and again from 11 pm on January 1 to 6 am on January 2, said an order issued on Wednesday by Vijay Dev, Delhi Chief Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). It stated that not more than five people will be allowed to assemble at public places in Delhi during night curfew to avoid large gatherings in view of Covid-19. However, there will be no restriction on the interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods during night curfew in Delhi, the chief secretary said in the order. "A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 and after observing local incidents of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, it is apprehended that the gatherings, congregations and public celebrations of the new year pose a considerable threat of the spread of the virus and may cause a setback to appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi," the order said. The Ministry of Home Affairs in its advisory on December 28 had advised states and Union Territories that they can impose local restrictions, including night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation to contain the spread of COVID-19. All the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police in Delhi will ensure strict compliance of the night curfew restriction. A total of 33 people, including 20 UK returnees and their contacts, all of whom have tested positive for the coronavirus, are admitted to a special ward at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) in the national capital. Genome sequencing report has shown seven of them so far are infected with the mutant UK strain. The Delhi government is carrying out a district-level contact-tracing and testing drive for people who returned from the UK from November 25 onwards, and their contacts. According to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government, the city recorded 677 fresh COVID-19 cases and 21 fatalities on Wednesday, bringing the infection tally to over 6.24 lakh and the death toll to 10,523.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Pro-Jagan transfer of judges pains Andhra Pradesh High Court||Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday made unprecedented comments on the Supreme Court collegium’s decision to transfer two high court chief justices while they were hearing corruption cases against chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who has been warming up to the Narendra Modi government. The collegium headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had shifted Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari to Sikkim High Court and Telangana High Court Chief Justice R.S. Chouhan to Uttarakhand High Court on December 14. The neighbouring Andhra and Telangana high courts have been hearing cases against Jagan. The bench of Andhra Pradesh high court’s Justices Rakesh Kumar and D. Ramesh noted that the chief minister had not only shown the audacity to get some of the 30-odd corruption/ money-laundering cases against him closed but had created an impression that Justice Maheshwari had been transferred out of the state on a complaint from him to the Chief Justice of India. Writing the judgment, Justice Rakesh Kumar noted that Jagan seemed to have been emboldened by his no-holds-barred attack on the Supreme Court’s second senior-most judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, Justice Maheshwari and several Andhra Pradesh High Court judges at a media conference held by an official. The media conference was held by Jagan’s principal secretary, Ajey Kallam, on October 10, days after a bench headed by Justice Ramana had passed orders for completion of the trial against all lawmakers in the country within a year. Kallam had made public a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India by Jagan, accusing Justice Ramana of interfering in the functioning of Andhra Pradesh High Court. The Andhra Pradesh High Court bench said: “Whether by this act of sending the unceremonious letter to the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India, the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh will get final relief or not, fact remains that he succeeded in getting undue advantage at the present moment. “People may draw an inference as if after the so-called letter of Hon’ble Chief Minister, the two Chief Justices, i.e., Chief Justice of High Court for the State of Telangana and Chief Justice of High Court of AP, have been transferred. By the said transfer, naturally, the cases pending in the Court of Special Judge for CBI cases in Hyderabad against Sri Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, present Chief Minister, and others may be delayed and monitoring by the Hon’ble Supreme Court… may hamper for the time being.” Justice Kumar noted: “Similarly, by the transfer of Chief Justice of AP High Court, the Government of Andhra Pradesh is bound to get undue benefit. It is an open fact that the issue of three capitals in the State of Andhra Pradesh is the brainchild of the present Chief Minister.” The Andhra high court made the scathing observations while dealing with a batch of petitions challenging the state government’s decision to transfer government land to private individuals through auctions. Justice Kumar added: “I am not raising any question on the transfer of the Hon’ble Chief Justices, either of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh or of the High Court for the State of Telangana, but, at the same time, I am constrained to observe that transfer of High Court Judges or its Chief Justices may reflect some transparency and for betterment or uplift of the administration of justice. After all, they are also holding constitutional posts like members of Hon’ble Supreme Court collegium.” The court noted that on a single day in September, Andhra police had filed closure reports (mentioning as “false”) in more than seven or eight criminal cases in which Jagan was an accused and where investigation had been pending for several years. In a veiled attack on judges aspiring to post-retirement sinecure jobs, the presiding high court judge observed: “I am of the opinion that for a situation, which is prevailing, today in which impartiality, integrity, honesty, unbiased… in judicial system is being raised, to some extent we are also responsible. Several instances we have noticed that immediately after demitting the office of judge, the judges are provided with a new assignment. “If we start to restrict our expectation of reassignment/ re-employment at least for a period of one year after retirement, I don’t think that any political party, even a party in power, can undermine the independence of judiciary and we may be in a position to uphold the majesty of law without being influenced by anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Farmers protest: Centre accepts two lesser demands at meet||The Centre on Wednesday continued to resist the farmers’ call to repeal the new farm laws and enact legislation guaranteeing a minimum support price but accepted their lesser two demands at a meeting where the ministers appeared less patronising and more accommodating. Although the government’s ecosystem sought to project the development as a breakthrough, the farmer union leaders were more circumspect, underlining the lack of progress on the two main demands. Still, as acknowledgement of a change in the government’s attitude, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to defer Thursday’s planned tractor rally on the KMP Expressway till January 4, when the next meeting has been scheduled. The protests at Delhi’s borders will continue, the farmer leaders said. They attributed the change in the government’s attitude to their movement’s increased strength and spread. “There is no question of backing down as our main demands have not been met yet,” said Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a member of the SKM. What the government has agreed to can be described as targeting low-hanging fruits: keep farmers outside the ambit of the penalty clause for stubble burning in the ordinance on air quality management in the National Capital Region, and hold back the Electricity (Amendment) Bill that would reduce power subsidies. There has been no meeting point on the farmers’ main demand for repeal of the three new farm laws. However, Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, an SKM member, said the government had not tried to push the amendments it had been offering for a while now. “The government has asked us to come up with an alternative to repeal,” she said. The Centre’s move has given the farmer leaders the impression that the matter has become a point of prestige for the Narendra Modi government. As for a law guaranteeing an MSP for all crops, Kavita and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said the government refused to be buttonholed into saying it agreed to the guarantee in principle. The government cited the financial implications and laid stress on the need to work out the details, although this has been a longstanding demand. Asked what the government had conceded, both union leaders said the two concessions had already been offered in some measure in the written communication sent to the SKM on December 9. This time, the government had agreed fully to these two “minor demands” from the farmers, they said. Asked whether the government agreeing to these two demands could be termed a victory for the farmers, Hannan Mollah said: “It is an advancement, not a victory.” Kavita underlined that the two demands the government had granted did not come under the ministers conducting the negotiations — agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, his junior Kailash Chaudhury, food minister Piyush Goyal and the minister of state for commerce and industry, Som Prakash. This suggests the government had come prepared to concede the lesser demands while holding its ground on the two main issues that have brought the farmers out on the streets. Ahead of the meeting and through its duration, the union leaders had witnessed a concerted effort by the government to change the optics that had dominated the earlier five rounds of talks. The ministers were more willing to listen and backed off when they were requested not to repeat their regular spiel about the three laws. Also, the ministers joined the farmers for food from the langar of the Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, which has been providing the meals and tea for the union leaders through the various rounds of discussions. The union leaders have repeatedly refused the hospitality offered by the government on the ground that they could not be eating in luxury when their fellow protesters were out on the roads. The government had begun working on the optics from the morning, with defence minister Rajnath Singh frowning on the allegations levelled against the farmers by the BJP’s ecosystem, including some ministers. The accusations range from a Khalistani role to a Maoist influence on the protest. In an interview to ANI, Rajnath said: “These allegations should not be made by anyone against farmers. We express our deepest respect towards our farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers question Narendra Modi||The agitating farmers have a question for Prime Minister Narendra Modi: What are the disadvantages of withdrawing the new farm laws and who stands to lose if they are withdrawn? “There is no need for a debate. Let the Prime Minister honestly answer: What are the disadvantages of withdrawing the new farm laws?” Harjit Singh, one of the farmers at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, told The Telegraph. “What will the government lose? Who stands to lose except Adani-Ambani and, perhaps, Lala Ramdev? How will India’s interests get hurt through the withdrawal of these laws?” While the government insists these laws will benefit the farmers, the protesters say they will only help big companies like those of Ambani and Adani make profits at the expense of the farmers. The English-speaking Harjit, an educated young man from Suar in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh, said he had opted for farming while his brother, an engineer, had chosen to live in a city. Harjit said: “We are being told that India needs these reforms, that farmers’ lives will be better with these laws. If we don’t want this windfall from Modiji, why is he thrusting it down our throats?” “He didn’t consult the farmers’ unions before bringing in these laws but Adani-Ambani were busy building giant silos and acquiring agri-businesses. Now the farmers don’t want them (the new laws). Who wants them? What will these laws fill: the national exchequer or private coffers?” Harjinder Singh Sodhi, who had come from Nagaria Khurd in Rampur, picked up from where Harjit had left off. “Modi is saying these laws will transform our lives. How do we believe him? Have we forgotten his bold assertions on note-bandi — that it would end corruption, black money, terrorism, counterfeit currency?” he said. “Experts had disputed his claims from the outset and they were proved right. The demonetisation ruined our economy and destroyed the lives of millions of small traders and industries. Modi never mentions the miseries suffered by Indians during that period.” Sodhi added: “Which of Modi’s 2014 promises has been fulfilled? Six years are a long time — even the most gullible can now see through his deceptions. He says the Congress instigated us; his ministers talk nonsense about Khalistan and Maoists. “Jab raja jhoot bolega toh praja kya kare (When the king lies, what will the public do)? Protest, surely. We are doing that. Nobody should presume we’d get tired after some time and return home. We’ll be here until the laws are scrapped. We’ll sit here for three-and-a-half years more to see Modi off in 2024.” Asked whether the protesters’ families pressed them to return, Sodhi said they did not. “Even the children tell us not to come back home without winning this battle. This is not about the MSP (minimum support price); this is about our existence, our identity as farmers, about democracy. Instead of responding to the farmers’ call, the government has resorted to a ghatiya (cheap) discourse of maligning us, and to attempts to break our unity,” he said. “Slowly, the scope (of the protest and the participation) will widen as the farmers are also thinking about this regime (as a whole). Whatever was built over the last 70 years is being sold — all the PSUs. If this movement doesn’t end soon, it will acquire a bigger dimension and the whole of India will rise against the RSS-BJP.” The Delhi-Ghaziabad border is occupied mainly by farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, both BJP-ruled states, challenging the claim that only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are against the new laws. Thousands of farmers are staying here in makeshift tents and tractor trolleys. Although the presence here is not as massive as at the Singhu and Tikri borders (between Delhi and Haryana), hundreds are joining every day and systems being set up for efficient supply of food and other essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||India two days away from granting emergency use authorisation to Covid vaccine||India appears to be only two days away from granting emergency use authorisation to a vaccine against the coronavirus disease, experts said on Wednesday after the UK’s regulatory authority approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The Oxford version is expected to become the “vaccine for the world” as it is cheaper and easier to store than others. India’s regulatory expert panel met on Wednesday afternoon and examined data on the AstraZeneca vaccine and a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech but called another meeting on January 1, the Union health ministry said. The panel tasked to examine Covid-19 vaccine applications has sought additional information from both Bharat Biotech and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the company manufacturing the AstraZeneca vaccine in India. Earlier on Wednesday, the UK government had announced that Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) had approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for use across the UK after a “detailed scientific review” of the clinical trial data. The agency has approved the vaccine for use on people 18 years or older in two doses, with the second dose administered four to 12 weeks after the first dose. The vaccine can be kept at temperatures of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius, similar to standard refrigerators, for up to six months. India’s expert panel under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, had weeks ago received three emergency use authorisation applications — from the US-based Pfizer, Serum and Bharat. Pfizer has sought more time to make presentations. Medical experts tracking the vaccine development process said they expected the CDSCO panel to approve the AstraZeneca vaccine first because it had already demonstrated its protective efficacy while the Bharat Biotech vaccine was still undergoing efficacy trials. Experts had predicted that the CDSCO panel would likely approve the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for India only after the UK MHRA had approved it in its country of origin. “We now expect that emergency use authorisation for this product in India will come through at Friday’s meeting,” one expert said. A senior vaccine science specialist said India was “entirely relying” on efficacy data for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine from foreign trials. Serum’s clinical trial with the AstraZeneca vaccine has involved establishing only that it is safe and generates an immune response in the vaccinated volunteers. Serum has indicated to the government that it has stockpiled and could supply 50 million doses of the vaccine in early January and deliver around 100 million doses per month from February or March. An expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy had earlier this month recommended that four categories of people should receive the vaccines on priority — healthcare and frontline workers at high risk of occupational exposure to the coronavirus, people aged above 50 years, and those below 50 years with co-morbidities that put them at high risk of severe disease or deaths from Covid-19. The group estimates that the four categories would make up 300 million people, for whom the government will require 600 million doses of vaccines. The Centre is yet to outline the operational details of how the vaccine doses will be rolled out across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||‘Mala fide’ label on RTI panel selection||An NGO has described as “mala fide” last month’s selection of a chief information commissioner and three information commissioners by a Prime Minister-headed selection panel, questioning the short-listing of a non-applicant at an earlier stage by a search committee and its failure to explain its recommendations. The Satark Nagrik Sangathan has flagged how Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha and a member of the selection panel, had submitted a six-page dissent note on the search and selection process. The selection process works this way: the department of personnel and training advertises the vacant posts; a search committee goes through all the applications received and shortlists candidates; the three-member selection panel makes the final choices. In a statement on Wednesday, Anjali Bhardwaj, founder of the NGO, said that while 355 applications had been received, the minutes of the search committee’s meeting revealed it had also considered non-applicants recommended by its members. The search committee was headed by the Union cabinet secretary. “Not only is this beyond the explicit mandate for which the search committee was constituted, it vitiates the whole appointment process by allowing it to be manipulated arbitrarily and opens it up to external influence,” the NGO said. “The minutes do not document what criteria (were) used to consider names from outside the list of applicants and (are) also silent on who were considered.” According to the NGO, the search committee shortlisted seven names for six vacancies. It said that one of the seven, Uday Mahurkar, had not applied and that it wasn’t clear how the committee had learnt about his interest in the job. The selection committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi eventually picked Mahurkar as an information commissioner despite Chowdhury’s dissent note, it added. While Chowdhury was on the committee in his capacity as leader of the largest Opposition party in the Lok Sabha (in the absence of a designated leader of the Opposition), the third member was home minister Amit Shah. Bhardwaj said the Supreme Court had in a February 2019 judgment directed that it would be “appropriate for the search committee to make the criteria for short-listing the candidates public, so that it is ensured that short-listing is done on the basis of objective and rational criteria”. However, neither the minutes of the search committee meeting nor any other official document contains a record of the reasons or criteria behind the short-listing, the NGO said. The minutes, according to the NGO, merely say: “After taking into consideration the overall experience profile as well as suitability for the post, the search committee shortlisted the following panel....” Further, the NGO said, the selection committee failed to fill all the six vacancies. While the posts of the chief information commissioner and five information commissioners were vacant originally, the committee picked an incumbent commissioner, Y.K. Sinha, as the chief, which means six commissioners’ posts now remained to be filled. Yet the selection committee only chose three commissioners despite the huge backlog of appeals and complaints with the Central Information Commission, the NGO said. As of December 30, it said, more than 38,000 appeals and complaints were pending with the commission, and it took around two years for a matter to come up for hearing. In December 2019, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had directed the appointment process for information commissioners to be completed within three months, the NGO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh backs ‘love jihad’ law||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday asked “why should there be conversion”, as he backed the controversial anti-conversion law enacted by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh to crack down on interfaith unions that the BJP besmirches as “love jihad”. That Rajnath, known to be a relatively moderate face in the current regime, has backed the anti-conversion law, being embraced by several other BJP-ruled states as well although it is widely considered regressive and discriminatory, shows that it has wide acceptability in the central leadership. Appearing unmindful of reports of couples being harassed and even jailed under the new law in Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow MP Rajnath told news agency ANI when asked if the “love jihad” law was being misused: “Hamara toh yeh kehna hai ki, conversion hona hi kyon chahiye (I want to ask why should there be conversion)?” Told that the Constitution allows religious conversions, Rajnath intervened. “Nahi, nahi (No, no). I see reports of mass conversions taking place in the country. This should stop,” the minister said. Rajnath claimed that Muslims are not permitted by their religion to marry someone from another faith. “So, conversion for marriage, I personally don’t approve of it,” he said. Asked if an individual does not have the right to marry outside his or her religion if he or she is willing to, Rajnath interjected once again before the question could be completed. “You may have seen that in many cases, forcibly, and even allurement is offered for conversion. There is a huge difference between natural marriage and forcible conversion for marriage,” he said, defending the state governments enacting the anti-conversion law. “I think the governments that have made these laws have considered all these things,” Rajnath said. The defence of the law came against the backdrop of 104 retired civil servants writing to chief minister Adityanath on Tuesday, demanded the withdrawal of the anti-conversion ordinance, saying it was being used to “victimise Indian men who are Muslim and women who dare to exercise their freedom of choice”. The signatories to the letter included former foreign secretary Nirupama Rao and ex-national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, among others. The letter said Uttar Pradesh had become the “epicentre of the politics of hate, division and bigotry” and the institutions of governance were “steeped in communal poison”. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday approved an ordinance against what it said were “forcible religious conversions”. Some other BJP-ruled states too have started the process of enacting a law similar to what Adityanath has done in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Lawyers in Delhi High Court on ‘ugly raids’ ||A group of 21 lawyers have sought Delhi High Court’s immediate intervention to stop the “ugly raids” against two advocates representing Muslim victims of the February Delhi riots and “restrain the police from proceeding with its uncontrolled vindictive campaign”. According to the lawyers, the raids on the offices of Mehmood Pracha and Javed Ali and the manner in which they were conducted were a matter of grave concern for the entire lawyers’ community in particular and litigants in general. “The shocking fact is that after procuring a search warrant from the court, the police raided the offices of the advocates and seized computers, confidential data and electronic digital devices which contain professional as well as personal data,” the 21 lawyers have said in a letter to the Delhi High Court Bar Association, beseeching it to take up the matter with the high court. “An advocate enjoys special attorney-client privilege. The police cannot raid a lawyer’s office in this manner and look into privileged communication. The two advocates are handling sensitive cases relating to the recent Delhi violence… in which the role of Delhi police is already questionable,” the letter said. “Several advocates, including Mehmood Pracha and Javed Ali, have been able to expose the serious flaws in the motivated role of Delhi police and even a court had to remark that the investigation of the police seems to be one-sided. “In such a scenario, it can be assumed that the raid on the two offices of the advocates is purposely designed to intimidate and deter the advocates from pursuing the cases on behalf of victims of the Delhi violence. It is not only a question of client-attorney privilege, but an assault by Delhi police on the justice delivery system of our democracy,” the lawyers added. The 21 legal professionals, assembled under the banner of “Lawyers for Democracy”, sent the letter to the Bar association on Tuesday night. The letter regretted the fact that unlike Allahabad High Court, which last week intervened in the case of a brutal assault on an Etah lawyer by the police, Delhi High Court has so far not taken any action against Delhi police. “Faced with such a deplorable situation, advocates look upon the Bar associations for protection of their rights and privileges. The incidents in question are not merely the personal issues of advocates Mahmood Pracha and Javed Ali, but raise issues which concern the entire legal fraternity. The raids constitute a serious threat to the legal profession and must be dealt with firmly,” the letter said. “In a similar matter, Allahabad High Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident of Etah in UP on the representation of the Allahabad High Court Bar Association. Delhi High Court needs to be moved. “We therefore request you to take up the issues of the raids with the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and see to it that the vindictive spree of Delhi police is restrained and guilty officials are duly punished,” the letter added. The lawyers’ forum expressed satisfaction with the fact that in general the Bar had raised its voice and issued several condemnations of the “brutal act of the police”. “But the police seem to be unmindful of the reaction of the Bar and continue to keep itself busy in pursuing its nefarious designs. After the unlawful raid, it has filed an FIR against Mehmood Pracha and his associates… for allegedly resisting seizure and search. “The magistrate who issued the search warrant seems to have acted without application of mind in not realising that such a warrant was going to pollute the attorney-client privilege and would have a chilling effect on the clients who would think twice in furnishing true disclosure of facts to their advocates,” the letter said. It termed as “disturbing aspect” the fact that Delhi High Court had so far not taken any action on the complaint lodged by advocate Javed Ali on December 24. The complaint was lodged on the day of the raid itself with the Bar Council of Delhi, which had forwarded it to the registrar of the high court. “We hope and urge Delhi High Court to urgently look into the matter of these ugly raids, restrain the police from proceeding with its uncontrolled vindictive campaign and make suitable inquiries into the conduct of the police. The guilty police officials should be taken to task,” the letter said. “We hope and urge the members of the Bar to be vigilant and respond in unity against the increasing atrocious conduct of the police, which poses a serious threat to the legal profession and the rule of law,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-450
31-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir families cry fake encounter||A purported gunfight in Srinagar in which security forces claimed to have killed three militants has come under question with some wailing families saying they were innocent and had been taken out in a fake encounter. The families, protesting outside the police control room, said one of the three had left home to apply for admission in a university while another was a Class XI student. The allegations come days after police filed a chargesheet in the Shopian chief judicial magistrate’s court against an officer, Captain Bhoopendra Singh of 62 Rashtriya Rifles, for allegedly staging an “encounter” in July in which three men from Jammu’s Rajouri looking for jobs in Shopian were killed in cold blood after being branded militants. The chargesheet accuses the officer of staging the gunfight to claim the Rs 20 lakh reward placed on the heads of certain militants. On Wednesday, security forces claimed to have killed three militants in an overnight gunfight in Srinagar’s outskirts at Hokersar off the Srinagar-Baramulla highway. Major General H.S. Sahi, general officer commanding of the counter-insurgency Kilo Force, said the “three militants” were killed in a gunfight that started on Tuesday evening following inputs about the presence of insurgents in the area. Sahi said the three were carrying a lot of ammunition, which suggested they were planning a big terror strike on the highway. “We were getting continuous inputs that terrorists were planning a big terror activity. All agencies and security forces were building up inputs. When reports came yesterday, the building was cordoned off and the terrorists were asked to surrender,” the officer told a media conference. “After appealing for long, one terrorist tried to come out of the building but the moment he did so, his associates opened fire and lobbed grenades and called him in.” Sahi said the operation was suspended during the night but a tight cordon remained in place. The three were allegedly killed in the gunfight that resumed in the morning and ended by 11.30am, he added. The officer said the police were trying to ascertain the identities of the trio. In a few hours, some families from Pulwama and Shopian arrived at the police control room in Srinagar, crying and accusing the forces of killing innocent youths. “He was not a mujahid (militant). He was just studying in Class XI. Oh my God, what will I do?” wailed a woman who identified herself as the mother of Athar Mushtaq, the youngest of the three. A sister of Aijaz Ahmad, who is among the dead, said he had left home to fill up forms for university admission. “At 3.01pm (on Tuesday), he called us up to say that he might stay the night (in Srinagar city) as it would take time to write some exams. We could not contact him through the night,” she said. “Today, my papa, who is in the police, called us up to say that Aijaz has been martyred.” Another relative said Aijaz had stepped out of home on Tuesday for the first time in two months as he had been ill. The third person killed was identified by relatives as Zubair Ahmad. The families said there were no FIRs registered against them, suggesting they were not militants. “They have extinguished the lamp of my house. Oh God, where will I get justice?” a man was heard crying aloud near the police control room. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said the authorities should come clean on the encounter. “Worrying that in the past few months after the Shopian fake encounter other families too in J&K have alleged that their sons were innocent & killed in staged encounters. Authorities need to come clean on this,” Mehbooba tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||India||Bihar: RJD claims 17 JDU MLAs were in touch with them||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar claimed on Wednesday that 17 MLAs of the Janata Dal United were in touch with it, insinuating that the NDA government in the state could slip into minority any time. The claim triggered a political storm, with chief minister Nitish Kumar himself coming out to say that baseless assertions were being made. RJD leader Shyam Rajak had said in a video statement: “Altogether 17 MLAs of the JDU are in contact with us. They are not only willing, but are impatient to join our party. They are miffed with the BJP over the way it is behaving, imposing itself and throwing a spanner in the government’s work.” He added: “We are holding the JDU MLAs back. They want to join the RJD immediately, but we want to do this under the ambit of the anti-defection law. For that we need around 25 to 26 MLAs. Besides, we want only those legislators who conform to our socialist ideology. I am not putting any date to it, but very soon the JDU legislators would join our party.” The anti-defection law enacted as the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution stipulates that switchovers from a political party would be valid only when two-thirds of its legislators or parliamentarians break away. Else, the defectors could lose their position as elected representatives. Twenty-nine legislators from the JDU would have to break away to make the defection legitimate. Rajak claimed that the way the BJP had “gobbled up” six of the seven JDU MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh, was taking assertive decisions in Bihar and was trying to overshadow Nitish had disenchanted several JDU legislators and they were “determined not to allow it (the BJP) to dominate the government. They want to go with the secular parties”. A minister in Nitish’s previous cabinet, Rajak quit the JDU in the run-up to the Assembly elections and returned to the RJD. He could not contest the polls because his seat Phulwari went to Grand Alliance partner CPI-ML. He is considered close to RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Nitish reacted sharply to Rajak’s comments. “Anybody who is claiming anything is baseless. Such claims have no strength. There is no such thing,” he told journalists. Rajak’s statement came at a time when differences have cropped up between allies JDU and BJP over the defection of the Arunachal MLAs. A few days ago, RJD vice-president Shivanand Tiwary and former Assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Chaudhary had cautioned Nitish against the alleged designs of the BJP and suggested that he would be welcome in the Grand Alliance fold. Chaudhary had gone further and said that Nitish should give the chief minister’s chair to RJD leader and Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and concentrate on the Prime Minister’s post and politics at the Centre. The NDA formed the government in Bihar in November with a thin majority. It has 125 seats in the 243-member House and claims the support of an Independent. The Opposition Grand Alliance has 110 seats, with the RJD being the largest party in the Assembly with 75 members. The remaining eight seats belong to parties like the AIMIM, BSP and the LJP. In this situation, a swing of a few MLAs could easily change the political equations. Spokespersons of JDU and ally Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) pounced on Rajak for his claims. JDU spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said: “Shyam Rajak has lost his place in Bihar politics. He is making such wild claims to remain in the limelight.” HAMS spokesperson Danish Rizwan asserted that it would become clear whose MLAs were going where after January 14 when the month-long inauspicious period would end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||India||Eminent historians call for scientific approach to history ||Eminent historians on Wednesday highlighted the syncretism and inclusiveness ingrained in Indian civilisation, seeking to challenge the RSS-BJP stand about the subcontinent having a monolithic culture. At a webinar on “Indian Civilisation: Historical Perspectives” organised by the Indian History Congress (IHC), Irfan Habib spoke of India’s rich and long civilisational history. He stressed the importance of scientific and evidence-based research on history. “One of the common refrains in the presentations was that the approach to the study of history should not be influenced by the official line of the present government, which tries to belittle the national movement led by Gandhi and Nehru or projects the culture in its own way. One should be scientific and academic while approaching academic issues,” Habib told The Telegraph. According to an IHC media release, Shireen Moosvi told the webinar that Emperor Akbar’s principle of sulh-i-kul or universal peace was an inclusive policy premised on an understanding of, and respect for, India’s diverse traditions. Syed Ali Nadeem Rezavi from Aligarh Muslim University said medieval Indian architecture was an amalgamation of indigenous and Persianate traditions. He highlighted Mughla-era buildings that had images of Jesus, Mary and Hindu gods. Aditya Mukherjee spoke of the freedom struggle and underlined its leaders’ efforts to promote civilisational values without any form of sectarianism. Deepak Kumar, a JNU professor, stressed the cultivation of the scientific temper as an important civilisational virtue. IHC president-elect Kesavan Veluthat told this newspaper that he hoped young historians would pursue evidence-based research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||India||Army to restore defaced Jamia grave of war hero ||The army has decided to restore the vandalised grave of war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman, the highest-ranked officer killed in the first Pakistan war of 1947-48, who had after Independence turned down the chance to become Pakistan’s army chief. Several veterans had condemned the dishonour to the memory of a Mahavir Chakra winner who is said to have declined a request from Muhammad Ali Jinnah and chosen to stay back in India. The veterans had urged the army brass to restore the grave, located on the Jamia Millia Islamia university campus. Photos of the defaced headstone have triggered outrage on social media. It’s not clear when the vandalism happened — located at a corner of the campus, the grave had remained unfrequented during the pandemic. The vandals remain unidentified and their motive unknown. “We are deeply anguished at the damage to the grave and have decided to restore it soon,” an army official said. Brigadier Usman, known as “Naushera ka Sher (Lion of Naushera)”, was commissioned into the 5/10 Baluch Regiment and served it till Independence, the epitaph on his grave says. “During Partition, he was given the option to join the Pakistan Army as army chief. A true patriot that he was, he declined and chose to serve the country of his birth, an epitome of patriotism and secularism,” the epitaph goes on. “Brigadier Usman took over command of 50(I) of Para Brigade in December 1947 at Naushera (J&K). Under his command, the brigade halted the advance of Pakistani tribals at Naushera against all odds. He then led the brigade to recapture Jhangar, thereby turning the tide on the raiders.” An army veteran said Jinnah had personally requested Brigadier Usman to move to Pakistan after Partition. “He fought the Pakistani invasion in Kashmir, was the senior-most officer killed in action in July 1948, and was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra for his gallantry,” he said. Sources said the army had contacted the Jamia Millia authorities on Tuesday to discuss the grave’s restoration. The university administration is responsible for the maintenance and security of the grave but its custody belongs to the defence ministry. “Every year a wreath is laid by the army on Brigadier Usman’s grave on his death anniversary. The wreath-laying could not take place this year because of the Covid crisis,” a university official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||India||Congress points fraud finger at PM farmer scheme ||The Congress on Wednesday alleged massive fraud in the Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna, saying a survey of two villages in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar had exposed fake beneficiaries and brazen loot. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said at a news conference in Delhi: “The survey found that at least 185 beneficiaries of the scheme in two villages were fake. While several people who got the Rs 2,000 dole didn’t own any land, many others could not be located and identified, suggesting forgery. Some beneficiaries were government employees. You can imagine the extent of fraud nationwide if loot is happening on this scale in two villages.” The Prime Minister had held a big event last week for the transfer of the latest instalment in farmers’ accounts under the scheme to project his concern for farmers. Pritam Singh said the three new farm laws were aimed at helping the corporates and asked why the Essential Commodities Act was amended to allow hoarding. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, who also addressed the news conference, said: “It is sad that the government is holding negotiations merely as time-buying tactics to tire out the farmers. The year 2020 has been very bad for Indians because of corona and economic recession. We request the Prime Minister to make a new beginning by scrapping the three laws in the new year.” Selja said: “The government should start thinking of the poor instead of helping the rich and the corporate. It is not the government’s job to facilitate profiteering. Take steps to help the farmers, to stop hoarding, to ensure that the poor doesn’t suffer. How can the Government announce that the Prime Minister won’t come under pressure and still hold negotiations? How can the Government declare that there won’t be any rollback if the firman is made once. That’s not how we work in democracy.” In a tweet, Rahul Gandhi posed a question and gave four options: “Modi is refusing to repeal the anti-farmer laws because he is: 1. Anti-Farmer 2. Run by crony-capitalists 3. Arrogant 4. All of the above.” Rahul also highlighted the Prime Minister’s track record with this tweet: “Rs ‘15 lakh in every bank account & two crore jobs every year’, ‘Give me 50 days time, else...’ ‘We will win war against Corona in 21 days’, ‘Neither has anyone intruded into our territory nor took over any post’. Farmers don’t trust Modi ji due to his long history of ‘asatyagraha’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||India||Slugfest over Odisha govt's college reservation decision||The Naveen Patnaik government’s decision to provide reservation to students passing out from government run schools in government engineering and medical colleges has sparked a controversy with the two major political parties questioning the intention behind the move. Both the BJP and Congress have asked the government to clarify why it felt the need for reservation. The two major Opposition parties have asked the government to implement the all-India reservation policy in jobs and the education sector in the state. On the other hand, educationists feel that the government should focus on building quality infrastructure for education instead of taking populist measures such as reservation. BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar said, “The Centre has made 27 per cent reservation for OBC (Other Backward Class) and 10 per cent reservation for SEBC (Socially and Economically Backward Class). But the Odisha government is yet to implement it. Had the Odisha government implemented the reservation policy, nearly 37 per cent OBC and SEBC students would have benefited as most of the students in the government-run high schools fall into OBC and SEBC categories.” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said, “The government has no rights to go for reservation in medical and engineering colleges. Instead of reservation policy, Odisha should focus on improving the infrastructure in the government high schools.” Nearly 45,000 teachers’ posts are lying vacant in the 48,000 schools starting from primary to high schools. “Steps should be taken to fill up these posts first,” said Routray. Former Union minister Srikant Jena told The Telegraph, “As per the census, Odisha has 38.5 per cent SC and ST population and SEBC and OBC constitute around 54 per cent. Why has the Mandal commission recommendation not been implemented here? Why is Naveen Patnaik government not implementing OBC (27 per cent) and SC and ST (38.5 per cent) quota?” BJD spokesperson Elina Dash said, “We are surprised that the BJP is opposing such a historic and pro-student step of chief minister Naveen Patnaik to provide reservation for students studying in government schools. Dash said, “The entire country, including the BJP-ruled states, will follow this historic pro-poor and pro-students decision of the Naveen Patnaik in the coming days.” Stating that the BJP is actually unnerved by the popularity of Naveen, Dash maintained, “They are not able to digest the huge acceptance the decision of the chief minister has got from people across the state.” Prof (retired) of political science, Utkal University, Surjya Narayan Mishra said, “This is an act of populism. It’s an attempt by the government to save its own institutions from collapsing. Instead of focusing on reservation, the government should try to develop good infrastructure.” Odisha Private Engineering College Association (OPECA) president Binod Dash told The Telegraph that students have to clear the NEET and JEE examinations to enrol themselves in the medical and engineering colleges. “Unless they clear the examination, they would not be able to take advantage of the reservation scheme. Now the seats are lying vacant and the government has to go for dereservation of the seats.” He said, “At present, out of 100 seats, 15 per cent seats are reserved for India quota. Besides, there is 33 per cent reservation for women. Then there is reservation for SC, ST, green card holders and military quota. If we take all into consideration, the number of reservation seats would touch to 50 per cent. At this point, instead of focusing on the reservation issue, we should strengthen the education system in government run high schools.” Dash said the government should ask its officials to enrol their children in government schools. “Once they do it, the education system will improve. And there will be no need for reservation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-451
31-12-2020||West Bengal||No night curfew in Bengal on New Year's eve, confirms state official||Night curfew will not be imposed in Bengal on New Year's eve as the situation is not that adverse, a senior official has said. The state government, however, will take all precautionary measures to prevent gatherings on the occasion, he said. The current situation is not conducive to imposing a night curfew, Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. "New Year celebrations are organised at a few places in West Bengal. If people abide by the COVID-19 safety protocols and cooperate with the police and administration, gatherings can be avoided," he said on Wednesday. The Ministry of Home Affairs has permitted states and union territories to impose local restrictions such as night curfew, if necessary, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With a UK returnee testing positive for the mutant coronavirus strain in Kolkata, the chief secretary cautioned people and urged them to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. "People must cooperate with the administration and the police. There will be special assistance booths at places like Park Street and Victoria Memorial where a large turnout is expected," he said. The Kolkata Police has taken measures to ensure that all COVID-19 safety protocols are adhered to and large gatherings on New Year's eve are prevented, as per the Calcutta High Court's order to check a spike in infections. Security has been beefed up in and around the metropolis to avoid any untoward incident. The high court had on Tuesday asked the state government to ensure that effective Covid-19 safety protocols are maintained during the year-end festivities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah to talk to Matuas on CAA: Bongaon MP||Shantanu Thakur, BJP’s Bongaon MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha, on Wednesday told the media that Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Thakurnagar on January 19 or 20 to address the people of the community on the Citizenship Amendment Act. Many Matuas are reportedly restless over the delay in the act’s implementation. “If the government can pass an act in Parliament, it can also implement it...The home minister will be here in Thakurnagar on January 19 or 20 and make announcements on the citizenship act,” said Thakur. BJP state leadership has reportedly pulled up the MP over his frequent comments about “discontented Matuas”. Sources in the party said that the news meet was organised to contain the damage done by the young MP’s previous comments. He had been apparently summoned by the party’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh and the two met in Calcutta on Monday evening, where he was told that he must refrain from making public statements on CAA. “Dilipda was rigid on his point that apart from being a representative of the Matuas, Shantanu was also a BJP MP...and that his comments were showing the party in bad light,” a state BJP office bearer said. Sitting beside Shantanu, Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy, tried to turn tables on Trinamul by accusing the party of misleading the Matua community. He said that in the past, governments used the Matuas as votebanks and never cared about their development. In a bid to woo the Matuas, the saffron party has approached the central government to set up an All India Matua Development Board. It has also asked the minister of railways for the expansion and development of the Thakurnagar railway station. “We’ve spoken to the government about these and believe that a solution will be offered soon,” Roy told reporters. The CAA is a double-edged sword for the party as some leaders believe that the framing of the CAA rules ahead of the state Assembly polls will create unrest among a large section of the Matuas, who believe that they are Indian citizens and don’t need to go through the cumbersome process of citizenship. Trinamul is trying to woo this section. But a majority of state BJP leaders believe that the party won the Matua-dominated Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats riding on their CAA promise in 2019 and the promise has to be made good. “The Matuas are a deciding factor in at least 15 assembly seats and have an influence on around 35 others. So, we have to be very careful about their sentiments,” said a source. Bengal BJP launched a social outreach programme called Sonar Bangla or Golden Bengal campaign on Wednesday. The party prepared a list of 50 speakers who will reach out to people in all 294 Assembly seats and meet the members of civil society to explain the party’s vision for Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate 95.99% in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 65th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, from 37,190 to 12,381. The state on Wednesday logged 1,557 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,178 new infections, and 28 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The recovery rate is now 95.99, short of the national rate by just 0.01 per cent. The state’s total novel coronavirus cases, since the first was recorded on March 17, went past the 5.5 lakh mark on Wednesday, 288 days later. The latest 50,000, from 5 lakh on December 6, took 24 days, compared to the 15 days it took for the journey from 4.5 lakh (November 21) to 5 lakh. “That itself shows the vast improvement. Slowing down from 15 days to 24 days is a major development. The 50,000 from 4 to 4.5 lakh took 14 days, from 3.5 to 4 lakh took 12 days, from 3 to 3.5 lakh took 13 days…. To go from that to 24 days is an achievement to take note of,” said a minister. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.5 lakh cases includes nearly 5.29 lakh recoveries and 9,683 deaths. On Wednesday, the state administration announced several measures to enforce instructions from the high court to prevent crowding and ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The judicial intervention came in the wake of  alarming scenes of Christmas revelry in disregard of Covid-19 safety protocols. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.79 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count, including Wednesday’s 39,110, is now 70.7 lakh, at 78,558 tests per million people. Of the total deaths, 8,115, or 83.8 per cent, have been attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul plea to Kovind to recall governor||Trinamul on Wednesday said it has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to remove Jagdeep Dhankhar from the post of Bengal governor, accusing the Raj Bhavan occupant of having “failed” to defend the Constitution” and “breached” Supreme Court laws on account of his alleged saffron bias. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha and one of the signatories, said that ever since Dhankhar came to Bengal last year, he took “to social and mainstream media, tweeting, holding news conferences, participating in televised discussions…wherein he has been commenting on the functioning of the state government, its officers, ministers, the chief minister, and even the Speaker...” “Every such action is in violation of his constitutional authority,” Roy said. The party furnished a 20-page document, including a six-page missive to Kovind, signed by five of its senior MPs dated December 29. “The governor holds the office during the pleasure of the President, according to Article 156, Clause 1, of the Constitution. We have asked the President to withdraw the said pleasure, which translates into removing this governor,” Roy said. The Mamata Banerjee government has been at loggerheads with Dhankhar for over “unprecedented provocations” from Raj Bhavan that are virtual echoes of statements from the BJP. Trinamul sources said Mamata had “had enough”. Trinamul on Twitter said the governor’s statements “contain blatant political bias ....such tendencies...on the part of the Constitutional Head of the State to openly support a political party strikes at the very root of federalism”. The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said Dhankhar was doing his constitutional duties and Trinamul’s action would have no impact. “The President will go by his own understanding,” said Vijayvargiya. “Trinamul is doing this only because it is scared of what is right,” he added. In its letter to the President, Trinamul cited four Supreme Court rulings to substantiate its argument. In a 14-page annexure, the party cited 50-odd instances, 27 of them from December alone, of Dhankhar’s alleged lapses. “A constitutional head chosen by the Centre cannot interfere in the functioning of the state like this...he is not fit to occupy the seat (of governor),” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Farmers protest in Nadia against new farm laws||A group of farmers in Debagram are protesting for the past 16 days against the Centre’s farm laws. Setting aside their political differences, farmers of a few villages formed the Krishak Samhati Dharna Manch to demand the scrapping of farm laws. The relay dharna, which began on December 15 near Debagram’s old bus stand, found supporters from many, including homemakers and students, they said. “We initially planned to join the agitation in Delhi but because of the lack of money and the raging pandemic, the plan changed. We decided to join the agitation from here itself,” said Mahiuddin Mondal, a convener. Asked what prompted them to form a Manch when a joint forum of farmers was leading the struggle nationally, Mondal said they were in solidarity with the nationwide movement but also wanted to do something on their own. Mondal said people had been coming forward to support their agitation in every way possible. After talks between the farmers’ unions and the Centre remained inconclusive on Wednesday, Mondal said their fight would continue till the new farm laws were scrapped. “These farms laws will leave farmers at the mercy of big corporate houses,” said Kamaluddin Sheikh, a peasant and core committee member of the Manch. “While the Narendra Modi government claims that the minimum support prices (MSP) regime will stay unchanged, the laws do not say it. The Centre has lost its credibility. It is trying to cheat farmers. Though MSP is not even to meet the actual cost of production, farmers do not get the meagre support price they are entitled to,” Sheikh added. A farmer said that the protesters in Delhi were “absolutely right”. “There is no room for any compromise, the laws must be revoked,” said the farmer. The Platform for Education-Theatre-Culture, with Pather Panchali and Sanskriti Samanway, will host a convention at Barrackpore Sukanta Sadan on January 3 to express solidarity with farmers. Theatre activist and playwright Chandan Sen said: “It is an apolitical endeavour...We have requested peasant leader Hannan Mollah to address the convention.” Painter Wasim Kapoor, actors Paran Bandyopadhyay and Kaushik Sen, lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya, litterateur Swapnamoy Chakraborty, singer Subhendu Maity, music composer Kalyan Sen Barat, poet Mandakranta Sen and others would attend the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Day after mega rally, Mamata cooks up a storm ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday helped cook a vegetable curry at a roadside kiosk in Santiniketan’s Sonajhuri, much to the delight of onlookers, a day after her successful roadshow in Bolpur. “What are you cooking? Do you know I can cook too?” she asked the woman at the kiosk, advising her to add a dash of sliced green chillies. Menoka Bagdi, wife of kiosk owner Babu Bagdi, was cooking a mixed vegetable dish of chopped beans, brinjal, potatoes and pumpkin when Mamata arrived at the stall. As Mamata set to work vigorously turning the vegetables in the wok with the ladle, she asked Menoka to “lower the flame” and “pour water” at apt moments. After Mamata left, Babu hit upon a canny idea to boost his sales. “Please come…I will serve you a curry cooked by our chief minister Mamata di,” he shouted, trying to draw more customers. Mamata was in her element a day after her mega roadshow in Bolpur as she embarked on an unplanned outreach trip to Santiniketan’s Ballabhpur Danga village near Sonajhuri to listen to the rural people before boarding the chopper back to Calcutta. Sources close to her said she wanted to send out a message that unlike the curated  “lunch visits” of Union home minister Amit Shah to tribal and farmer homes, Mamata could enter any home. “It was a completely unplanned visit by the chief minister, we were not informed earlier. She suddenly asked her convoy to take a concrete road leading to a tribal village while she was on her way to the helipad from where she was to fly back to Calcutta. She got down from the car and spent 30 minutes with the villagers,” said a police officer. On reaching Ballabhpur Danga village, a tribal hamlet that houses around 130 families in Sonajhuri forest, Mamata entered a thatched home of 40-year-old carpenter Sanjoy Das and started enquiring about his family. Das said: “I couldn’t imagine Didi was standing at my door. This will remain etched in my memory. She asked my name, my profession…I am overwhelmed.” Mamata went to Manjhir Thhan, a place for worship of tribal people, and paid her respect. She also walked through narrow roads of Ballabhpur Danga village, meeting and talking to villagers. Tulsi Soren, a final-year Bengali honours student of Bolpur Purnidevi College, and her mother Sanmani, a 42-year-old widow, spoke to Mamata. Mamata praised Tulsi for studying and told her about the Kanyashree scheme. Mamata assured villagers of a school for learning the tribal Ol-Chiki script in the area and did not forget to mention the government’s free Swasthya Sathi and rations. “This is why she is Didi. She is not like (Amit) Shah who sends party leaders to decorate the home of a Baul singer before having lunch there,” said Anubrata Mondal, Birbhum Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Booths on priority at BJP north Bengal meeting||A number of state and central BJP leaders congregated here on Wednesday to address party leaders and workers who have been entrusted with the responsibility of “booth management” in north Bengal. As the Assembly polls are drawing near, the saffron brigade has planned to focus at the micro level — the booths — to retain the support that the party had earned in the region in Lok Sabha elections in 2019. In north Bengal, the BJP has set a target to win 50 (of 54) Assembly seats. “It was an organisational workshop to discuss booth management. A number of senior leaders assigned by the party were present at the event. They elaborated on certain issues which can help our workers to strengthen the support base at the booth level,” said Raju Bista, the local MP and a national spokesperson of the party. According to party sources, Shiv Prakash, national joint general secretary (organisation), Ratnakar Mishra, who has been made an in-charge of north Bengal, Arvind Menon, a co-observer of the party in Bengal, along with a number of state leaders and two party MPs of the region attended meeting. “Our party leaders have laid emphasis on the need to constitute a team of 10 youths for each booth in north Bengal. Also, specific instructions have been passed to ensure that party committees are formed at every booth in the region. Not a single booth should be left out,” said a party insider. In the Lok Sabha polls last year, BJP had won in seven of eight seats and was ahead in 38 of 54 Assembly segments. Trinamul on the other hand, was ahead in 12 segments. Trinamul leaders, however, were not ready to give much importance to such moves of the BJP and pointed that they had support of both the factions of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in the hills and in plains and prominent organisations of tribals and Rajbanshis are with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Didir Diary campaign on heels of Duare Sarkar ||Trinamul workers in Alipurduar will visit every home in over 1,200 booths spread across the district to find out whether any prospective beneficiary of the state-run welfare schemes have been left out in any town or village. The decision has been made as a follow-up move to “Duare Sarkar,” an ongoing campaign launched by the Mamata Banerjee government to reach out to people through camps so that they can get benefits of the array of schemes floated by the state government. “We have named the campaign Didir Diary,” said Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president. “Our workers functioning in booths will move around in teams. They will visit every house and talk to the families to find out whether they have enrolled themselves under schemes according to their eligibility. If it is found that anyone has been left out, they will note down the details,” said Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president. The visits, he said, have already commenced in Falakata block and will soon start in six other blocks of the district. In all, there are 1,274 booths in Alipurduar district. Once the data is collected, it would be collated and be handed over to the district administration. “We want to ensure that not a single eligible beneficiary is left out of these government schemes. As we will provide the data to the administration, we would at the same time also request the officials to take necessary steps so that these people are brought under the ambit of welfare schemes concerned,” Goswami added. Though the district Trinamul chief claimed that the campaign has been planned to plug in the gaps of Duare Sarkar and help more people get welfare benefits, party insiders said it would also help them to counter BJP. The BJP, which is aggressively campaigning in the district, has drawn up a strategy to engage 10 youths in every booth to nurse support base at the micro level. “Our plan, we believe, can help develop mass contact at the booth level and in countering the BJP. There are reports that the BJP has constituted such 11-member teams in most booths of the district and will engage the teams to maintain regular contact with people,” said a Trinamul leader. District BJP leaders, when contacted about the upcoming Didir Diary campaign, however said such tactics would not work for the ruling party. Ganga Prasad Sharma, the BJP president of Alipurduar, was dismissive of Duare Sarkar and Didir Diary. “Time and again, Trinamul leaders of all tiers have claimed that there have been huge developments since 2011 (when the party came to power) and that the state government has provided several benefits to people. Then why do they have to make such plans now?” he asked. “It is nothing but a last-minute attempt to try and convince people,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||BJP and Trinamul to play growth card||Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul as well as its principal political rival, the BJP, have planned to underscore infrastructure developments that have given a boost in connectivity in north Bengal, as they reach out to the urban lot ahead of the Assembly elections. “Unlike in rural areas where we would emphasise on how the ruling Trinamul has deprived people from central-run social welfare schemes, we will highlight the major infrastructure projects which have been taken up in the region as we approach the urban lot. New four-lane roads and bridges, changes in railway infrastructure and connectivity, would be elaborated during campaigns,” said a senior BJP leader in Siliguri. During the past few years, north Bengal has witnessed some important infrastructure developments which have improved connectivity in the region and is likely to give it a further boost in the coming days. Among these include road and rail bridges, a new rail route to Bangladesh (the first in the region) and two Asian Highways connecting three international borders. Also, a second bridge over the Ganga at Farakka – the entry point to north Bengal – is under construction. During the past few weeks, infrastructure has emerged as one of the key issues which both the camps have been stressing on. It was only last Monday when chief minister Mamata Banerjee had accused the Centre of deliberately delaying road projects and asked her party workers to put up posters, take out rallies and confine officials in protest. BJP leaders, on the other hand, have time and again maintained that it is because of the state that projects have got delayed. “The plan to widen Darjeeling More (the main entry point to Siliguri) and its approaches is delayed because the state has not handed over the project report or the land to the Centre,” said Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP. Trinamul, on the other hand, is taking a cue from party supremo, to stress the projects and initiatives taken by the state government. “Two major road bridges have come up in north Bengal over the Teesta and the Ganga (in Cooch Behar and Malda districts) during Mamata Banerjee’s tenure. It is because of the chief minister’s initiative that land has been identified and handed over to the Centre for expansion of Bagdogra airport. Also, the road projects which were taken up by the central government could happen because the state provided adequate land,” said Vedabrata Dutta, a district Trinamul leader in Siliguri. Political observers, while commenting on the issue, opined that instead of harping on the doles meted out to people, elaboration of such infrastructural projects can help in drawing support from all sections of an urban society. “That is why it seems, both the parties have planned to speak on these issues and not only on the welfare schemes. In rural areas, however, welfare schemes and development of local infrastructure are likely to be the most-mentioned topics,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Wife awaits body across India-Bangladesh border||Aleknoor Bibi, a homemaker at Chak Milepur village in Kaliachak is waiting to catch a last glimpse of the mortal remains of her septuagenarian husband. Kadir Sheikh, her husband and a peasant by occupation, breathed his last at the Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital in Bangladesh on December 14. But Aleknoor’s troubles started long back. On September 18, 2017, a team of Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) and Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), raided her house close to the India-Bangladesh border. They arrested Sheikh and Aleknoor and took them to Bangladesh, alleging that they have seized four unlicensed pistols, 27 rounds of bullets and eight magazines on them. A case was filed against them at Sibganj police station under Chapai-Nawabganj district of the neighbouring country. The couple sought help from some relatives who stay there. Aleknoor was granted bail after few days. She was sent back to India but Sheikh was kept in prison as the case was under trial. On February 23 this year, the case was dismissed by a court of Chapai-Nawabganj and both she and Sheikh  were acquitted. The judgment, however, did not bring them relief. Sheikh continued to languish behind bars for another 10 months as the formalities to send him back to his homeland could not be carried out. Mritunjoy Das, a lawyer and secretary of Gour Bangla Human Rights Awareness Centre who had been toiling for months to bring the elderly peasant back home, said Sheikh had gradually fallen ill. “It seems that the frustration of not being able to return home after being acquitted had made him fall sick. He was initially admitted to Rajshahi Central Jail Hospital and shifted to Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital, where he died on December 14,” said Das. The lawyer, who is now trying to bring the mortal remains of the peasant at his village, however, is uncertain as to whether he would eventually succeed. The home ministry of Bangladesh issued a no-objection certificate to return the body to Indian authorities on December 27, he added. But Aleknoor is getting angry. “He was as innocent as I am. For no fault of his, he suffered imprisonment. When released by court, he could not return home alive. Now, is it too much to seek his body for burial in his homeland like he wished?” said Aleknoor. Mohabul Mian, Sheikh’s younger son and a migrant labourer, sounded helpless. “We feel the government of India should expedite the process as it is already been a fortnight that his body is lying at the morgue in Rajshahi. I do not know how to get back my innocent father’s body,” he said. Das said he would approach the International Court of Justice if officials of India and Bangladesh do not make arrangements to return the body. “In Bangladesh, some media publications have flagged the issue. It is high time an Indian farmer gets his last respects. Protocol cannot be greater than an innocent citizen’s rights,” the lawyer said. Malda police launched the “Surakkha” app to help people get police services during emergencies. So far, only Dial 100 facility was available in the district. SP Alok Rajoria said that initially the services of the app — launched by Vishal Garg IGP (NB) — would be available in Englishbazar and Old Malda. This service was in addition to Dial 100, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling football tournament with 221 participating teams ||The Darjeeling police football tournament under its brand Khel Utsav has attracted a staggering 221 teams from 11 police stations this time. These many teams participating in a single tournament in the region is unheard of . “We had formally launched the football tournament under Khel Utsav initiative on December 21 and provided a five-day window period for registration of teams. We had 221 teams registering for the tournament,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional superintendent of police in Darjeeling. The tournament — now underway — was launched by Darjeeling superintendent of police Santosh Nimbalkar in the presence of Nadong Bhutia, a Kalimpong boy who is currently a striker with Real Kashmir FC in the I-League and Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa. The tournament is being held for both men and women. Apart from 186 men’s teams, 25 women teams are also competing in the tournament. The tourney which carries a winners’ award of Rs 1 lakh and a runners-up award of Rs 50,000 each in both the men’s and women’s categories. Give the sheer number of participating teams, the tournament is first being played at the police station level. Rangli-Rungeet police station has to cope with 42 teams, which includes four women teams. “The best teams from each of the police stations will match their skills in a knockout competition in Darjeeling and the finals will be held on January 19 in the hill town,” said Gupta. Darjeeling police have made a mark in organising professional tournaments, including the Darjeeling Hill Marathon which attracts international runners. “It is probably because of the professionalism seen in organising various sports events that our tournaments are attracting such a large number of participants,” said Gupta. “Our aim is channelise youth energy in the right direction and what better than sporting events,” added the additional SP. Under the Khel Utsav initiative, Darjeeling Police has set its goal in organising a volleyball tournament next. Over the past 11 days, Kalimpong police has also managed to reach out to the public through its centenary celebrations of the setting up of the Kalimpong police station. Through the week, Kalimpong police organised various events for the community such as sit-and-draw contest, blood donation camp, interactive sessions with the general public and cultural and musical events. Harikrishna Pai, the Kalimpong SP, said: “Apart from traversing the rich history of the place, we wanted to connect with former police personnel and importantly with the general public through our celebrations.” The celebration kicked off from December 21 and concluded on Wednesday with a glittering ceremony at Kalimpong Town Hall. Kalimpong police station — set up in 1920 in the colonial era — always had an important role to play, being the last frontier station for Tibet and Bhutan. The police chief from Kalimpong said that during the interactive sessions many ideas came from the public. “We are looking at making Kalimpong police station friendlier with an emphasis on the differently abled,” said Pai, who said that this was one of the ideas had came during the interactive session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-254
31-12-2020||Opinion||Step in: upgrading anganwadis||It is an unfortunate country in which many feel compelled to doubt the government’s motives even in a move towards improvement. In Uttar Pradesh, 500 anganwadis will be upgraded jointly by the Anil Agarwal Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the mining company, Vedanta, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in partnership with the Centre. This is creating discomfort. The anganwadi programme, maintained by the Integrated Child Development Services, provides pre-school children and their mothers from underprivileged backgrounds with nutrition, apart from offering the children basic learning through play and, often, daycare. Although anganwadis face numerous drawbacks, including in infrastructure and spread, their success in reducing infant mortality rates and making a dent in early malnutrition has been acknowledged. Their failures are largely a result of government disinterest: a parliamentary standing committee report shows that in 2020-21 the women and child development ministry that houses the anganwadi programme received one per cent of the budget — as in the last five years. But children and women make up 67.7 per cent of the population. The government may be short of funds for anganwadis, although it has no problems building a Statue of Unity or a Central Vista. No one denies that upgrading the anganwadis is needed; private bodies can provide certain fixed and time-bound services under government guidance. Yet many feel that the move in UP is the first step towards privatization. Worse, there is no transparency in the way the Anil Agarwal Foundation was chosen. It has been running Nand Ghars or modern anganwadis with the best amenities — reportedly 1,700 by 2015. It is far from reassuring that the name is meant to suggest the house of the child Krishna. Nand Ghars are being presented as the model that should be replicated by anganwadis across the country. Yet Vedanta, the foundation’s parent organization, has been severely criticized for violating the human rights of tribal people in Odisha as well as environmental safety measures. Full privatization, if it happens, or absorption into school complexes, as the National Education Policy proposes, will defeat the anganwadis’ purpose. And there should be transparency in selecting private entities that can help in the programme. The slightest hint of religious labelling should be avoided. Anganwadis are India’s pride. Governments should treat them as such.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Changing plan: Rajinikanth to not launch party||Sir — It was unfortunate to read that the Tamil superstar, Rajinikanth, has declared that he will not foray into politics, citing ill health and his general vulnerability to Covid-19. The announcement comes two days before he was supposed to float his own political party (“Rajini cites God, calls off political plunge”, Dec 30). Rajinikanth was recently hospitalized as a precautionary measure against a possible coronavirus infection — four members of the crew of the film that he was shooting for in Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad had tested positive. Although he eventually tested negative, he had to be kept under observation owing to severe fluctuations in blood pressure. The actor, who earlier underwent a kidney transplant and is on immuno-suppressants, sees his recent hospitalization as a “warning from” God to not venture into the murky waters of politics. While the thalaivar, as he is fondly referred to by his admirers, has apologized for the reversal in his decision, his multitude of fans will certainly be disappointed. Rajinikanth was expected to launch a party on December 31 and field candidates in all 234 seats in the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. But he has rightly decided to prioritize his health, as he should, especially during a pandemic. His fans must respect his decision and pray for his full recovery. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — After much anticipation, Rajinikanth has finally announced that he is not floating a new political party and contesting the upcoming state assembly polls, citing health reasons. A deeply religious man, he regarded his recent hospitalization as a divine warning against entering politics. His occasional speeches to the public had many of us wondering if he was reluctant to join politics but was doing so owing to external pressure. In any case, in view of the pandemic and his history of kidney-related surgery, it seems that even if he did venture into politics he might not have been able to continue for long. An extensive campaign would have required him to be healthy. It seems that Rajinikanth’s decision has a silver lining. His espousal of ‘spiritual politics’ indicates that he is inclined towards the right on the political spectrum. This might have led to a greater saffronization of politics in Tamil Nadu. While the actor has endeared himself to his fans through his humility and gratitude, his ill-disguised endorsement of Hindu nationalism has been alarming. Whether he extends his support to any party or front in the run-up to the assembly elections remains to be seen. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — While it is disappointing that Rajinikanth has declared that he will not be entering politics after much anticipation, we must respect his decision. His ill-health is indeed a matter of concern. The people of Tamil Nadu had hoped that once Rajinikanth — he is known to be morally righteous — entered politics, he would be able to bring about changes within the system. His decision has probably come as a relief to all other political parties which must have been wary of the actor’s reach among the people. Perhaps his announcement will be seen as a boon by the other beloved Tamil actor-turned-politician, Kamal Haasan, whose party, the Makkal Needhi Maiam, performed quite poorly in the 2019 general elections. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Cruel intentions Sir — The resident of a housing complex in Calcutta was recently charged with animal cruelty after a neighbour accused the man of keeping cats and dogs caged in his apartment. Moreover it was found that the owner did not usually live  there but had a domestic help look after the pets. It is heartening that the police immediately took cognizance of the matter and initiated action against the accused. There are plenty of such instances of neglect; dogs are often kept tightly and indefinitely chained. Unless the offenders are dealt with strictly and swiftly, it will be impossible to remedy the situation. Sramana Dey,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Poor hand: strife within Congress||The Congress, given its waning political fortunes, could do with a pep talk. Sonia Gandhi, the interim party president, chose the occasion of the party’s foundation day to help revive the flagging morale of the Congress rank and file, urging party workers to defend the edifice of democracy and the spirit of constitutionalism both of which, Ms Gandhi said, are experiencing considerable duress under the present regime. Ms Gandhi’s concerns about this regression cannot be denied. Neither can the Congress’s courageous role in the freedom movement be effaced. A collective pledge to revive India’s fabric of inclusion on the part of the principal Opposition party is an honourable goal. But what Ms Gandhi chose to ignore in her speech is the absence of another kind of commitment: that of the Congressmen towards the party. Even the highest echelons of the Congress, it can be argued, are not immune to this inertia. Rahul Gandhi was conspicuous by his absence during the foundation day celebration. To be fair to Mr Gandhi, his record of attendance has never inspired confidence. He was on vacation when the Congress was fighting the elections in Bihar. His absence was also noted during the passage of the contentious farm bills. Then there is the perpetual dithering over resuming command of the party. This hide-and-seek routine has made it easier for Mr Gandhi’s detractors within and outside the Congress to allege that he is neither consistent nor committed when it comes to critical issues. The crisis in leadership has serious ramifications not only for the Congress but also for India. A weak central leadership, coupled with the party’s political decline, has made it easier for Congress workers to cross the ideological barrier and embrace the Bharatiya Janata Party. Defections from the bottom and the top have cost the party a number of states in which it was in power. These defections are as much the result of the Congress’s internal schisms as personal ambition triumphing over ideological fidelity. These ugly warts have undermined the Congress’s electoral appeal further, preventing it from mobilizing public opinion on some of the monumental debacles committed by the BJP. An emaciated Congress has not demonstrated the requisite willingness or the energy to battle India’s discernible tilt towards polarization. Ms Gandhi’s clarion call — the fight for a secular, constitutional India — cannot be ignored. But the Congress needs to put its house in order if it hopes to take on this responsibility. The signs of either happening appear to be bleak at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||The Crown and the prime minister||I never was one for long-drawn-out television series. I must confess to having eschewed House of Cards, Breaking Bad, Game of Thrones, but the lockdown felled me. I took to watching The Crown, the Netflix series that hovers between fact and fiction documenting the many episodes of Britain’s longest reigning monarch, Queen Elizabeth. The series is not gripping: it is quite like the English cuisine that is bland. Yet, it has got everyone hooked. Perhaps that is because it caters to a baser, but common, human trait: inquisitiveness. Everyone knows of the Windsor family but none really knows anything about them. As I watched the series, I was struck by the following elements: the constant attempts to protect the idea of what the Queen and her family represent; the suggestion of the Queen and her family being out of touch with reality; their inability, and even unwillingness, to change, fearing it would dilute what they represent to the ordinary Briton; the substantial cost of maintaining the façade. These elements made me realize that there is a lot in common between the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and Queen Elizabeth. ‘Protecting an ideal’ is a case in point. In India, the ideas of leadership and democracy have been undergoing a process of modification over the last few years. Gone is the time when one was concerned with what the prime ministership represented; today, the country is focused on what the current prime minister represents. A prime ministership is usually concerned with representing a country; however, Modi chooses to represent an ideology that craves respect. The prime minister and his team of managers have, therefore, created a multidimensional aura around him. He is a man of the world: his sartorial choices, proclivity to hug leaders, penchant for acronyms and the ability to hold monologues on pre-organized topics are supposed to bear proof of that. Modi is also presented as a man with a commitment to tradition: there are thus photographs of the prime minister with his mother, the man meditating in a cave, Modi’s yoga poses. Finally, he is heralded as the man of the moment. Claims of a superhuman work ethic and his proclamation of ‘restoring’ the nation’s ‘respect’ have been swallowed by many Indians. Modi is the embodiment of a ‘new’ India. To question or criticize him or his government is considered to be a slight against the nation. Like the Queen, he does not hold press briefings; so the aura created around him remains unblemished. In The Crown, the Queen explains that her unresponsiveness is intended to make sure that there is no hint of royal favour. Modi seems to have altered the Queen’s logic; he seems to believe that a response could legitimize a contrarian point of view. This, in turn, can be construed as an acknowledgement of a mistake that would sully his image. As the leader of the nation, Modi, it is believed, has a finger on the country’s pulse. Unfortunately, his utterances during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests, his photo shoot with peacocks during the Chinese intrusions, and his handling of the farmers’ agitation suggest that like the fictionalized Windsors, Modi and his government are out of step with reality. Although the promise is to take India to the next century, the path that has been chosen resonates with an ancient time when religion mapped out people’s lives and power was concentrated in the monarchy. The prime minister asks the nation to do as he says, but he ignores concerns that the organs of this democracy are now beholden to him and his party. The Crown discusses the monarchy’s cost to the British exchequer; in India, there is debate on the costs of Modi’s leadership. On the one hand, there are claims of a ‘new-found respect for India’. On the other hand, there is the Galwan debacle; Modi’s approval of Donald Trump before the American presidential election; the implementation of a poorly planned nationwide lockdown that has been bettered, arguably, only by demonetization. There is concern of the pillars of democracy corroding; India’s apolitical, mighty army has also been labelled ‘Modiji ki sena’. When Henry IV said, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown”, in William Shakespeare’s Henry IV, he was alluding to the responsibilities of a king that keep him awake at night. In a democracy, this, however, can refer to the fear of being voted out of power. But this concern may be short-lived. There are alleged murmurs of an excess of democracy in India. Is there then a coronation round the corner?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Opinion||Regional tug of war: Great Game in Myanmar||After her landslide victory in November’s elections, Aung San Suu Kyi and her government are destined to become part of a regional ‘tug-of-war’ for influence centered around China’s growing sway in the country. Tokyo is leading the charge to wean Myanmar away from Beijing. But New Delhi is also hoping to exert influence in the ‘Great Game’ centered on Myanmar, especially in the light of the deterioration in Sino-Indian relations over the past year. With the imminent changing of the guard in Washington — with a more outward looking Joe Biden administration taking over — the United States of America can also be expected to re-enter the fray. Fresh from its overwhelming victory in last month’s elections, Myanmar’s ruling party, the National League for Democracy, now faces enormous challenges — rebooting the country’s flagging economy, worsened by the pandemic and the international recession, and pressing on with its economic reform programme; tackling Myanmar’s pressing need for constitutional reform, and regenerating efforts to finally end decades of civil war. Invigorated by its electoral success, the NLD has clearly indicated the policies and priorities it intends to pursue in the next five years, building on the solid foundation laid down in the past five years with renewed energy and political commitment. Most analysts and diplomats believe that the government’s key policy directions will not change substantially; instead they will be deepened, strengthened, and concertedly implemented in the coming months. There is already a new sense of urgency in government circles in Naypyidaw and feverish activity in the administration as it prepares its strategy and vision for the incoming government’s first 100 days. One of those policies that are expected to experience nuanced change is foreign policy, especially in relation to Myanmar’s neighbours. Five years on, the regional and international architecture have also changed significantly, with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic likely to have a lasting effect on foreign relations — especially trade — in the coming decade. It will necessitate the Myanmar government to re-evaluate its policy priorities and its relationships. Meanwhile, the Myanmar government has not been short of suitors. The outcome is likely to be a significantly new, nuanced approach to its foreign relations. In the lead up to Myanmar’s elections last month, there was a flurry of diplomatic activity — largely behind the scenes — as the region’s major powers all sought to curry favour with the country’s civilian leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as with the powerful army commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing. There was a parade of important visitors through the capital, Naypyidaw, as politicians and senior diplomats from the region’s key nations, especially China, India and Japan, engaged in a quiet battle for greater influence in Myanmar post-election. Other important Asian players, notably South Korea and Thailand, also launched equally significant initiatives. As the State Counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, prepares for the next five years in office, her government is restructuring its foreign policy priorities around its key concerns: maintaining its neutrality and independent international stance while encouraging support for Myanmar’s economic recovery plans, including boosting international trade and foreign investment, diversifying its informal alliances and security arrangements, and ensuring that the country is not overly dependent on any one nation for support and protection. In the past five years, Aung San Suu Kyi has pursued a foreign policy strategy that put the country’s key emphasis on its relations with the region and its top powers. This was in response to some degree to the growing Western criticism of the government’s handling of the violence in Rakhine and the mass exodus of nearly a million Muslim refugees — or Rohingya as they call themselves — to neighbouring Bangladesh. Myanmar was anxious to secure greater support from its Asian ‘friends’, especially at international forums like the United Nations. This effectively meant distancing itself from the West, especially Europe and the US. This has led the country to lean heavily on China and, to a lesser degree, on the regional bloc, Asean, for support and as a source of investment and trade. Of course, deep down, Myanmar’s fast developing dependence on China has irked the country’s diplomats, including its top diplomat, Aung San Suu Kyi, who is also the foreign minister. There is a clear recognition in government circles that Myanmar’s relationship with China needs to be significantly calibrated. Myanmar will use the opportunity of its massive political mandate and the changing post-Covid international environment to adjust its policy orientation and begin to look westwards to balance its reliance on China — strengthening ties with India and encouraging warmer relations with the US, in particular. Going forward, Myanmar wants to broaden its network of alliances and strong bilateral relationships, while remaining loyal to the country’s traditional ideological principles in foreign policy: non-alignment, neutrality, independence and universal friendship. But the international reality and the legacy of the country’s isolation during its period under military rule have meant that China remains its key partner — an ever-present, ever-dependable and uncritical supporter. Aung San Suu Kyi has had to struggle with this conundrum ever since assuming power after the 2015 elections: how to relax Myanmar’s dependence on Beijing without offending its giant northern neighbour. For a while, Aung San Suu Kyi dabbled with the notion of eliciting collaborative support from an ‘Asian triumvirate’ of China, Japan and South Korea, especially in terms of investment and trade. But she seemed oblivious to the obstacles that the political realities and rivalries in North Asia posed to this vision. It now seems that Myanmar has become much more responsive to Delhi’s recent overtures for strengthened ties between the two countries. India has stepped up its courtship of Myanmar in the light of Delhi’s deteriorating relations with Beijing. The visit to Myanmar by India’s foreign secretary, Harsh Shringla, who was accompanied by the Indian army chief, M.M. Naravane, a month before the elections clearly reflects India’s interest in weaning Myanmar away from Beijing, or at least helping counter Beijing’s influence in Myanmar. Ostensibly, this was a visit to review and consolidate cooperation on security and development issues. A coastal shipping agreement with Myanmar was signed during a meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi. More importantly, it has opened the door to greater cooperation on a wide range of issues, including military matters, according to Myanmar diplomats. The importance of this strategic initiative cannot be underestimated: the fact that India’s top diplomat and top military man made a joint visit to Myanmar is highly significant, according to Asian diplomats, and was counter to the usual protocol. That it was timed just before the elections was no coincidence. It is something that their Myanmar counterparts appreciated only too well. There have also been behind-the-scene discussions on how Japan and India could cooperate on strategic, security and development initiatives that could help balance China’s penetration into Myanmar. The resuscitation of the Quad, involving diplomats from Australia, India, Japan, and the US sharing their vision and concerns of a free and open Indo-Pacific strategy, has galvanized cooperation among these four countries to counter China’s aggressive and belligerent posturing in the region. “It’s a valuable venue for sharing information and intelligence, coordinating approaches and generally promoting mutual understanding,” according to an Asian diplomat involved with these meetings. The idea was conceived by Tokyo several years ago, but has only got off the ground in the last 12 months as relations in the region with Beijing took a turn for the worst. India and Japan have cooperated successfully on infrastructure projects in Bangladesh, including the building of a port at Matabari to counter the Chinese-built port at Payra. This model of cooperation can provide a framework for similar initiatives in Myanmar, according to Indian and Japanese diplomats. While Japan is prepared to bankroll many of these potential projects, it is particularly keen to maintain a ‘low-key’ presence. While Myanmar has responded enthusiastically to India’s overtures, it may be even more enthusiastic about Indo-Japanese cooperation. What is certain is that Myanmar’s foreign policy will undergo changes in the coming months, including a distinct tilt westwards, as it broadens its strategic approach and tries to veer away from its unhealthy reliance on Beijing. The main focus of Myanmar’s foreign policy will be on strengthening its economic and security ties with regional partners — especially India, Japan, Thailand, South Korea and Singapore — while continuing to maintain good relations with China. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-95
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city hotel sealed after 11 foreigners test positive ||The district health officials sealed the Fortune Park Centre Point Hotel here after 11 foreign guests tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. One hotel staffer has also tested positive. All of them have been quarantined at the hotel. District civil surgeon Dr RN Jha revealed that around 46 foreigners entered Jamshedpur between December 5 and 8. All of them had checked in at Fortune Park Centre Point Hotel in Bistupur. “Most of these international tourists hailing from countries like Philippines, Ghana, South Africa, New Zealand, and Zambia, were employees of an international firm and had come here for a contractual job at Tata Steel’s Pellet Plant. We got their swab test done at the Tata Main Hospital. Out of the 46 foreigners, 11 tested positive. We got the report on Thursday evening. After that we sealed the Fortune Centre Point hotel,” said Dr Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon further added that after the foreign nationals tested positive, the health department decided to conduct a sample test for all the hotel staff. “Of the 29 hotel staffers that underwent the Covid test, one tested positive. As a precautionary measure, we have not just sealed the hotel but have also quarantined all the occupants including the hotel staff inside the hotel,” he said. The detection of 12 Covid-19 cases has made the East Singhbhum health department officials intensify their screening operations at other hotels on Thursday evening, as many of them have organized special programmes for the year-end bash. According to a senior official at the district civil surgeon’s office, requesting anonymity said, “The district health department will have to be more vigilant in implementing Covid norms. Foreign nationals entering the city need to be scanned for the deadly virus. The detection of so many cases from a single hotel is ominous for steel city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader’s brother arrested for smuggling opium in Chatra||Chatra Police busted a gang of interstate opium smugglers on Thursday. The team of four includes Mozibur Rehman, brother of RJD leader Babu Kalal, two more men and a woman. The busted gang had eight kilograms of opium, Rs.4.61lakh cash, a car, one digital weight machine, and two mobile phones in possession, all of which were recovered by the police. According to the police, this gang has links with Mumbai drug peddlers. An investigation has been initiated in connection with this case. The arrested smugglers other than Rehman have been identified as Sarita Devi, Narendra Gupta, and Mohammad Javed. Sharing the details, SP Rishav Kumar Jha, revealed that getting a tip-off about the opium smugglers in Itkhori block, he immediately constituted a team led by DSP(headquarter) Kedar Ram, subdivisional police officer Avinash Kumar, and Itkhori police station officer-in-charge Niranjan Kumar Mishra, including an armed team of police jawans. He said, “The team conducted the raid in a house at Itkhori, where they nabbed the four smugglers and recovered the opium, cash, and other items.” Jha said, “We recovered around 4.7 kilograms of opium from Mozibur, around 2.5kilogram opium, and Rs.4.61lakh cash from Sarita.” According to him, they have been able to extract some more details of other smugglers who had managed to escape during the raid.” He added, “We will conduct an investigation and if we recover assets more than the known source of income of the arrested individuals then we will recommend the case to the enforcement directorate.” Talking about Rehman, he confirmed the smuggler’s political connection. “He is the brother of RJD leader Babu Kalal,” he said. “He is involved in this illegal business and is having connections with suppliers of other states as well,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||PM to launch housing project in Ranchi on Jan 1||Ranchi is among six cities of the country that will roll out the Centre’s ambitious housing project for the poor based on new technology that uses prefabricated structures to build low-cost environment-friendly homes. On New Year’s Day on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay foundation stones for the dwellings under the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs titled, Light Houses Project (LHP). The initiative, part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), will be for economically weaker sections, ie, for those earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum. Apart from Ranchi, the project will also be rolled in the first phase in Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow. Speaking to reporters on the eve of the ceremony, director of municipal administration under the state urban development department Vijaya Jadhav said that 1,008 houses are being built in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on about seven acre land. “The idea of LHPs is to offer state-the-art houses at affordable rates. But these will be built in record time using latest technology. In Ranchi, the houses will be built using prefabricated structures, most of which will first be constructed in workstations and will be brought here for customisation. This way, houses will be installed quickly and the process will reduce environmental hazards,” she said. The cost of the houses, she added, would be borne by the Centre, state and the end user. Each house would be of 315 sq feet with a bedroom, kitchen, balcony, and toilet. “There will be water and power facilities, lifts, park and other amenities in the complex,” she said, adding that Rs 133.99 crore has been earmarked for the project. The department has roped in a Mumbai based agency, M/s SGC Magicrete LLP, for the job. The target is to complete the work in 12 months. The Prime Minister will also felicitate best performers to mark the occasion. While Jhumri Tilaiya Nagar Parishad will be awarded for good work in civic administration, Jharkhand will get the best community mobilization award, as per a statement from urban development department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Local trains back on track in Ranchi, Chakradharpur from January 2021||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to restore local passenger train services in its Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions from the New Year in deference to passengers’ wishes. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway in Calcutta, released the schedule of trains on Thursday. The 08619 / 08620 Ranchi-Dumka Special will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 9.30pm and reach Dumka the next day at 7.25am. While the return train will leave Dumka daily at 6.55 pm. The train will reach Ranchi at 3.55 am the next day. The 68035/ 68036 Tatanagar-Hatia MEMU will be introduced from January 4. The train will leave Tatanagar station at 5.40am and will reach Hatia, the destination, at 10.45 am. The return train will leave Hatia at 6.10 pm and will reach Tatanagar at 11.05 pm. The 68037 / 68038 Ranchi-Tori MEMU will run daily from January 3. The train will leave Ranchi at 8.55 am and will leave Tori at 12 noon. On its return journey, the train will leave Tori at 11.30 am and will reach Ranchi  at 2.25 pm. Another train the 68039/ 68040 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU, will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 2.55pm and reach Lohardaga at 4.45pm. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 4.20 pm and will reach Ranchi at 6.20pm. The 08085/ 08086 Kharagpur-Ranchi - Special will be introduced from January 2. From Kharagpur, the train will leave daily at 4.40am and reach Ranchi at 12.35pm. The return train will leave Ranchi-at 3.40 pm and will reach Kharagpur at 10.55 pm. The 68135 / 68136 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU will be introduced from January 3. The train will run daily. It will leave Ranchi at 4.50am and reach Lohardaga at 6.20am. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 6.40am and reach Ranchi at 8.10am. The 68141/ 68142 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU will be introduced from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 6.30 p.m. and reach Lohardaga at 8.10 pm. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 8:30 pm and reach Ranchi at 9:50 pm. The 68041/ 68042 Adra-Barkakana (in Ramgarh) MEMU will run daily except on Sundays from January 2. The train will leave Adra at 4.55 am and will reach Barkakana at 9.45 am. The train will leave Barkakana at 2.05 pm and will reach Agra at 7:15 pm. The 58659/ 58660 Hatia-Rourkela-Passenger will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Hatia at 5.05 pm and will reach Rourkela at 11.15 pm. The return train will leave Rourkela at 4:40 am and will reach Hatia at 9:15 am. Another daily train was announced between Hatia and Tatanagar (58662/ 58661) with effect from January 2. Hatia-Tatanagar Passenger will leave Hatia at 4.25 am and will reach Tatanagar at 10:30 am. The return train will leave Tatanagar at 12.45 pm and will reach Hatia at 6.55 pm. The office of chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) has appealed to passengers to use the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) App for updates, train stops and train timings before undertaking a journey. "We are also requesting passengers to follow all the necessary safety protocols before and during journeys in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief PRO of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||State steps up vigil ahead of year-end bash at tourist locations||While a few states have come up with night curfews or other restrictions in view of latest concerns of new covid strains in the United Kingdom, the Jharkhand government has not yet announced any fresh advisories for the New Year bash on December 31 as well as January 1. However, the state disaster management department has urged revelers to maintain restraint and follow all the prescribed Covid safety norms in public places. As per the last advisory issued by the government ahead of Diwali, Chhath and subsequent festivals, the gathering limit has been increased to 200 indoors and 300 outdoors while the bursting of crackers is allowed only for 10 minutes from 11.55pm on December 31 to 12.05 am on January 1. Meanwhile, several district administrations have stepped up vigil both in terms of maintaining law and order and compliance of covid safety protocols. In Ranchi, the district administration has decided to press vehicles for random Covid checks at popular picnic spots in and around the capital on January 1. Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the decision has been made in view of Ranchi continuing to get a major share of new infections on a daily basis out of the total cases in the state. On Wednesday, Ranchi got 87 out of 233 new cases while two fatalities were reported from the capital. “At popular falls and water bodies, wherever, people usually head in large numbers on January 1 every year, we will deploy mobile Covid testing vans for random testing. All those, who are caught violating norms like not using masks, overcrowding and others, will be made to take Covid tests,” Ranjan said, expressing concern over the increasing trend in Ranchi’s Covid-19 infections. “If required, we shall also go for slapping of cases against the violators,” he added. For the new year bash, the district administration in Ranchi has also issued guidelines to mandate all pubs, hotels and the likes, who have lined up programmes on the eve of new year, to maintain proper logs of the visitors. “We have already sent directives to all hotels, clubs and the likes to maintain a proper register of all the incoming visitors with their details of phone number and addresses,” Ranjan said. He added that the organisers have been asked to ensure that all safety protocols are maintained. “Party organisers will have to ensure social distancing, sanitisation facilities, and masks are available to one and all. Random checks will be done and strict action will be initiated on erring entities,” the DC said. Ranchi SP Saurabh said that patrolling teams both in four wheelers and two wheelers have already been implemented in sensitive areas where accidents or brawls were reported in the past. “On both days starting from Thursday, our focus will be to totally curb drunk driving, overspeeding and the likes to prevent accidents, for which both in rural and city areas random vehicle checking drives are already on,” he said. He added that police teams will be deployed at key areas where hotels and clubs are located for the safety of the public, while urging people to follow all safety guidelines. Police will also be deploying divers at key waterfalls and water bodies to prevent mishaps. Rural SP Naushad Alam warned picnickers from consuming liquor at public places. Similar advisory was issued in East Singhbhum too earlier this week and the administration has also put a ban on loud music at party hotspots after 10 pm. While the residents of Jamshedpur seem to filled with the enthusiasm for celebrating the year end and the New Year in and around the steel city,  dark cloud of Covid-19 which still hovers over the sky of the has led the district police to dampen the spirit of revellers. Unlike previous years there will be no New Year eve-bash given the district police's instruction not to hold DJ functions beyond 10 pm in public places and also in the hotels on the year end celebration. Senior superintendent of Police, Jamshedpur, M. Tamil Vanan while addressing media on Thursday said in the event of the DJ service is allowed beyond the 10 pm point, since people tend to hug each other while wishing a new year at the click of 12 o'clock, thus contributing to the spread of Covid-19 "Coronavirus is very much there. By Wednesday night 40 new cases of Covid was reported in the East Singhbhum district whereas the daily figure of new cases in the district would fluctuate between 15 to 20 for the past fortnight.  We have to see that all norms against the spread of Coronavirus like use of sanitizers and wearing masks are maintained by the people, even during the year end and New Year celebration," said Vanan. Significantly, the streets will also not bustle with activities on the New Year either.  With the Jubilee Park -- the main crowd puller -- remaining shut on the New Year too, most of the revellers will throng to Dimna for picnicking.  But the majority of the revellers are unlikely to visit the picturesque Dimna as the district health department officials will subject the visitors  to Covid test. Replying to queries, the senior SP pointed out that they have put up over 20 armed police beside five police officers at Dimna Lake area for Friday. "In all 22 checking points have been set up en route to Dimna and also Bhurudih Dam in Ghatsila from the city for both the year end as well as the New Year celebration.  We anticipate the new year celebration will pass on peacefully with so much checking on road beside the restrictions at the picnic spots," said the senior police officer, adding that those found unmasked will be taken to task. In the city, Bistupur Main Road happens to be a place of attractions for the year-end revellers who will have to spend the New Year eve amidst the deployment of heavy police force. In a similar bid, the Dhanbad District Administration has issued guidelines for new year celebration and also made sufficient deployment of security forces at strategic locations. The police have deployed forces in highways including Highways including at National Highway-2 and National Highway-32, where incidents of drunk driving are frequent. “The district administration team led by the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad will carry out inspection of different picnic spots from Thursday night and ensure strict observance of Covid-related guidelines,” ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar said. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said, “We have made sufficient deployment  of security forces at all picnic spots, highways and religious places.” “The focus will be on religious places as huge congregations of people arriving to seek blessings ahead of the new year are witnessed at these places,” said Minz. “Though it is practically not feasible to restrict people gathering at the site, we have instructed our officials to ensure gatherings happen at a specific time and regulate the crowd in order to avoid violation of Covid norms,” he added. Meanwhile, in Egyarkund, where the major picnic spot of district Maithon Dam is situated, the district administration led by Dhanbad Block Development Officer, Vijendra Prasad has instructed local fisherman committees to ensure strict observance of all Covid guidelines. They have been asked not to carry more than the allotted number of persons in boats and steamers, and to wear masks mandatorily among others. Similar arrangement has been made by the Binod Bihari Mahto Smarak Samiti at Bhatinda Falls in Moonidih area of Dhanbad. In Koderman’s Tilaiya Dam Superintendent of Police (SP) Ehtesham Waquarib visited the area to set up a helpdesk for picknikers and tourists. Waquarib said policemen deployed at this helpdesk will keep eyes on hooligans and if any such incident happens, they will immediately take appropriate actions. The dam attracts a large number of tourists around this time, which is why incidents of eve teasing surges. Waquarib said he has made available two bikes, life jackets and rope to the helpdesk, asking Tilaiya Dam outpost officer-in-charge Vishal Pandey to ensure proper patrolling in this area and to take legal action against troublemakers. The Koderma SSP asked people to enjoy their time at this picturesque location but not to create trouble for anyone. He asked them to follow Ccovid guidelines to remain safe from infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 233 fresh cases, two casualties in a day||Active cases and death toll surged further in the state on Wednesday with 233 new infections and two fatalities reported in the last 24 hours while 185 were declared cured, state health department’s Covid-19 bulletin has stated on Wednesday. Both the latest deaths were reported in Ranchi while it got 87 new cases out of state’s total caseload in last one day. Ranchi’s active cases are 769, highest across the state. Of 30,448 who tested positive in Ranchi since March, 29,462 recovered and 217 have died. Out of seven fatalities in the state in the past 48 hours, five emerged from Ranchi alone. On the other hand, East Singbhum, Bokaro, Dhanbad, and Hazaribag witnessed 40, 20, 18 and 13 new cases respectively. The state currently has 1640 active cases out of 1,14,873 who tested positive since the virus outbreak. The recovery figures stand at 1,12,206 and 1027 deaths. While Pakur district continues to remain free of infection out of the 24 districts, three others — Giridih, Godda and Khunti have active cases less than 10. State’s seven-day growth rate currently is 0.14% vis-à-vis 0.17% nationally while seven days doubling rate is 510.32 days that of 407.37 in the country. Recovery rate is 97.67% compared to the national average 96%, and the mortality rate stands at 0.89% in respect to 1.40% nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel eco-friendly long pipe conveyor||Tata Steel installed an environment-friendly long pipe conveyor (LPC) at its open-cast coal mines at West Bokaro division in Ramgarh district of Jharkhand on Wednesday. The facility, as part of endeavour to continually improve technology and drive productivity, was virtually inaugurated by Tata Steel chief executive officer and managing director T.V. Narendran. Congratulating the entire team, Narendran said: “The implementation of best-in-class technologies and sustainable practices are critical success factors for mining operations. The LPC would improve the productivity and help in reducing the environmental footprint in coal logistics, significantly,” In addition to the growth of technology in West Bokaro, the 4km LPC is an ambitious project of the company doing away with the 61-year-old mono cable and bi-cable ropeway system. LPC will bring coal and by-products from washeries to the Chainpur railway siding by replacing the existing ropeway transportation system. The conveyor is driven by controlled start transmission drives, comprising a steel cord belt with fire-resistant properties. Maintenance staff and all equipment will be borne by two maintenance trolleys atop the conveyor. This pipe conveyor will not only have zero spillage but will also be noiseless and improve productivity in the West Bokaro Division. The single unit can handle both coal and by-product grades and can carry 1200 tonnes per hour, making it much cheaper and safer than road and ropeway transport. The enclosed structure will ensure there is no degradation of materials along the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
