01-08-2021||---||PSEB Class XII results: Labourer’s daughter scores 98.4%||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31Sarita Kumari, a daughter of a daily wager and a student (humanities stream) of Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, has made the city proud by obtaining 98.4 per cent in the Punjab School Education Board Class XII results, which were declared on Saturday.Students of Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, scored far better marks than most private schools of the city. Dhanvi Sharda (commerce stream) from the same school also got similar marks. In non-medical, Jasveen Kaur and Ziya scored 97.6 per cent. Ridhima topped (medical stream) with 97.8 per cent, followed by Neha with 97.2 per cent. In commerce, toppers include Damini Kumari (97.6 per cent) and Sukhjeet Kaur (97.4 per cent). From Arts, Samarpreet achieved 96.6 per cent and Bharti of Khodian Mohalla got 96 per cent.Among all the top scorers, story of Sarita is the most inspiring. Residing at Buta Mandi, she faced a lot of hardships to fulfil her commitment to her father of getting the top rank. “I told my dad that I want to study because I think I can reach to the top. My family did not had enough money to even bear my daily transportation cost as it was a long way from home to the school. Covid came as a blessing for me as that daily worry got over and I continued my studies at home. For online education, the smartphone that I got under the government scheme came as a huge relief and I remained completely updated with daily notes, videos and other instructions sent by teachers,” said Sarita.Perhaps lacking proper guidance, she said she had still not made her mind on which course to pursue and where. “I have got 100 marks in fine arts, 99 in music, 98 in elective hindi, 97 in english and 98 in Punjabi. I really do not know, which subject to pursue and how. I will seek guidance from teachers.” Asked if she was worried about paying fee for her college, she said that she was not, especially after her result, “I think I have got enough marks to be eligible for a complete fee waiver.”Sarita’s classmate Dhanvi, on the other hand, is quite clear. “I have already taken admission in BCom at DAV College,” she said specifying her aim to become a bank officer. Daughter of a retired PSPCL employee, Dhanvi scored 99 marks inbusiness studies and Punjabi and 98 each in economics, accountancy and English. She is a resident of Raj Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pseb-class-xii-results-labourers-daughter-scores-98-4-291328
01-08-2021||---||Students bring laurels||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31KMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School students have made KMV proud by their outstanding results. As many as 45 collegiate students excelled by getting 90 per cent and above. Nidhi Kaur (non-medical) scored 97.8 90 per cent , Bhavneet (medical) obtained 96.6 90 per cent, Vartika Tuli (commerce) got 97.6 90 per cent and Khyati Avasthi (humanities) got 96.8 90 per cent and bagged first positions in their respective streams. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students.Among other toppers from commerce stream are Gurpreet Sandhu with 96.2 per cent and Sakshi 95.2 per cent. In arts, other top scorers were Bhavleen Kaur with 95.2 per cent and Isha with 93.6 per cent. In non-medical, Beenu got 97.6 per cent. In medical stream, Bhavneet Kaur got 96.6 per cent, Amanpreet 95.8 per cent and Neetika 94.4 per cent.Hindu Kanya Collegiate SchoolHumanities student Sanjivanie Bhalla secured the first position in the school with 97.4 per cent. Non-medical student Lovepreet Kaur topped science stream with 95.4 per cent. Amanpreet Kaur topped commerce stream with 93.4 per cent. In addition, medical stream student Jaskaranjit Kaur topped the table with 92 per cent. School academic in charge Sanjeev Bhalla said the result has been excellent. Eleven students of the school scored above 90 per cent. Ramandeep Kaur ranked second in (arts) with 93.4 per cent. Besides, Sandeep Kaur and Kiranjot Kaur (medical stream) Jasmine Kaur, Anugraha and Simran (arts) and Shivani have secured more than 90 per cent in commerce stream. Principal Dr Archna Garg congratulated the school staff.New St Soldier SchoolIn science stream, Garima bagged first position with 97 per cent. Vikasdeep bagged second position with 95.2 per cent and Harman ranked third with 94.42 per cent. In commerce stream, Jasmeet bagged first position with 94 per cent. Ritika and Raghav bagged second position with 93.8 per cent, whereas Abhishek bagged third position with 92.8 per cent. Ridham scored 92.6 per cent, Shobita, Kanika and Simranjeet scored 92 per cent each. In humanities stream, Manjot and Shyna bagged first position with 92.6 per cent.DIPS GB Public SchoolStudents of GB Public School of DIPS series performed well in Class XII exams. MD Tarvinder Singh, CAO Ramnik Singh and Jashan Singh, CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated all the students who secured good marks in the exams and wished them a good future. Jasneet Kaur (commerce stream) of DIPS GB Public, Dhilwan, remained the topper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-bring-laurels-291330
01-08-2021||---||2 peddlers held with 50-gm crystal meth||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31The Kapurthala police have seized 50-gm metamphetamine (ice), 15 gm of heroin and drug money worth Rs 2 lakh from a swift car on Monday. Costing around Rs 10-crore per kg, ice is also know as the party drug, which is much costlier than heroin.The accused have been identified as Abhishek, a resident of Ladhewali, Jalandhar, and Nitin, alias Nannu, a resident of Guru Nanakpura Avtar Nagar, Jalandhar.The police said the duo was carrying out operations on the directions of Jasmeet Singh alias Lucky, a resident of Sham Churasi, Hoshiarpur, who was lodged at the Kapurthala jail. The police said the value of the contraband was estimated to be around in several crores of rupees.The Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, said Phagwara CIA in charge Sikander Singh along with his team stopped a car (PB32-Q-3857) near Palahi village and seized 15-gm heroin, 50 grams of ice and Rs 2 lakh drug money hidden under front seats of the car.During preliminary interrogation, the accused revealed Lucky used to supply contraband through his associates outside the jail.The Senior Superintendent of Police said the peddlers would be produced before the court today. He said they would also seek production warrant of Lucky.The police have booked the accused under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-peddlers-held-with-50-gm-crystal-meth-291331
01-08-2021||---||Registration of drones must in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, July 31In a major development, the district administration has issued guidelines to register drones and seek permission for their use, especially during weddings, parties and political gatherings.Kapurthala Additional District Magistrate-cum-ADC (G) Aditya Uppal issued orders in this regard under which use of drones has been regulated due to possibility of law and order problems, security threats and misuse of drones/UAVs by anti-social elements to create panic.Uppal said all drones operating in Kapurthala should be registered with the SDM as per rules and regulations of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. He said the SDM would issue a unique identification number (UIN) and maintain a proper register mentioning the make, type, unique body chassis number of the drone.He said no drone can be flown more than 400 feet vertically, besides drones cannot be flown in areas near airports, international borders, strategic locations, vital installations, prohibited zones, government buildings, CAPF and military installations.No drone shall be flown after sunset and before sunrise and in case of any exigency, prior permission of the DM/ADM needs to be obtained, which may be issued on the recommendations of Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police.Uppal said owner of a drone and operator there of shall be liable for all damages incurred, to person or property, due to mishandling or malfunctioning of drone. He also made it clear that these restrictions would not be applicable to the police personnel and other government officials/agencies.He said the permission of the DM or ADM has to be obtained in writing for using the drone for photography during social events. The permission can be issued on the recommendations of the SSP. The social events include wedding ceremony. The orders would come into force from August 1 to September 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/registration-of-drones-must-in-kapurthala-291332
01-08-2021||---||A writer’s tryst with Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31Punjab’s noted Hindi novelist Dr Ajay Sharma has penned another novel titled ‘Kamra (room) Number 909,’ which was released on Friday. Eminent writers have been discussing this novel on various fronts.The author outlined the story of this novel while undergoing treatment being a Covid patient in a private hospital for 10 days. He has touched various local, national and global issues in his unique novel.Famous Shaitya Awardee and Hindi author Chitra Mudgal says it is probably the first novel written on this pandemic situation and it beautifully depicts the physical and psychological changes faced by the humanity. It is written in first person and the narrator himself is a doctor and he feels life and death at every moment in hospital.Another prominent Hindi author Mamta Kalia says the novel exposes the truth of the so-called spiritual gurus. Medical facts are engrossing given the fact that writer himself is a doctor. Expressing his views, Dr Paan Singh, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Hindi, Himachal Pradesh University, says that the author has seen so many ups and downs, changes and hollowness of relationships in just 10 days spent in the hospital that he decided to pen a complete biography.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-writers-tryst-with-covid-291333
01-08-2021||---||Inmate’s death: Police fail to crack the case||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31The mother of a 25-year-old man, Baljinder Singh, alias Ballu, is running from pillar to post to bring justice to her youngest son who was reportedly beaten to death at an illegal drug de-addiction centre in Kartarpur here.Though 14 days have passed since the incident, but the police failed to trace the whereabouts of the accused involved in the case. The police also denied having the post-mortem report of the victim, a resident of Khirawali village, who was admitted to a drug de-addiction at Pattadkalan village around July 8.His mother, Sukhjinder Kaur, told the police that her youngest son was a drug addict and to get him out of this bad habit, she admitted him to the de-addiction centre being run allegedly by Nihangs.“A few months ago, the owner of the drug de-addiction centre visited our village and asked if there was any drug addict in our village. Being run by Nihangs, I got convinced by him and agreed to send my son to the centre. They had assured us of curing the drug addicts. Subsequently, we borrowed Rs 10,000 from villagers and sent my son to the de-addiction centre. Sukkha Nihang, owner of the centre, asked us to pay Rs 10,000 monthly for three months for the treatment of Ballu. However, after 10 days, on July 18, we were told that our son has passed away due to heart attack,” said the victim’s mother.Balbir Singh, a maternal uncle of the victim, said while the de-addiction centre had 15 workers, 45 youths were enrolled as inmates. There were injury marks on Ballu’s body.The Kartarpur SHO, Inspector Rajeev Kumar, confirmed that the de-addiction centre was not registered and operating illegally in a building located outside Pattadakalan village.“The owner, Sukkha Nihang, is still absconding and a case under Sections 323, 342, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against him and a few others at the police station. The other inmates have been sent back to their families. Besides, the autopsy samples have been sent to a Amritsar-based hospital,” added the SHO.Earlier, the investigating officer, ASI Bodhraj, said there were injury marks on Ballu’s body and apparently he was beaten to death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inmates-death-police-fail-to-crack-the-case-291334
01-08-2021||---||City students shine in Class XII exams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31In the CBSE Class XII results declared yesterday, many students from city schools scored good marks. The celebrations which started on the campus last afternoon continued even today as students kept on coming to the schools to thank their teachers by presenting them flowers, sweets and greetings.Apeejay SchoolIn the medical stream, Risheek Goel got 98.2 per cent, Guneet Kaur got 98 per cent and Prachee Mal got 97.4 per cent. In non-medical, Satyam Sharma, Tejas Sood and Shreya Thakur got 97.2 per cent. Anuj Joshi and Sanyum Manhas got 96.2 per cent. In commerce, Aaliah Janeja, Purab Jain and Sanya Gupta topped the school with 99.2 per cent, 98.6 per cent and 98.4 per cent, respectively.Army Public SchoolMehar Kaur remained the topper among non-medical students with 99 per cent marks. In medical, Sahira Bano got 98.2 per cent marks. In commerce, the school topper Anjana Kumari attained 97.6 per cent marks and in humanities, Malvika scored 98.2 per cent. In a nutshell, the students of the school got top positions in the district in all the streams, getting first rank in humanities, second in medical and third in non-medical.Ivy World SchoolAs many as 13 students from Class XII of Ivy World School, Jalandhar, have scored above 90 per cent marks. Kimpreet Kaur topped the batch with 98.2 per cent in Commerce, followed by Rhythm Arora with 97.6 per cent , Smera Sharma with 95.4 per cent , Shubhdeep Singh Thind with 95.2 per cent. In Science stream, Gurneet Kaur topped with 97.6 per cent , followed by Abhineet Kelley with 96.4per cent , Rupreet Kaur Rai 96.4 per cent and Gurjot Kaur with 96 per cent . Principal S.Chauhan, president KK Vasal, Chairman Sanjeev Vasal and CEO Raghav Vasal (CEO) shared their happiness with the students and their parents congratulating them for the result.St Soldier GroupStudents of St. Soldier Group of Institutions excelled in the results. Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said, in the non-medical stream, Kavya Aggarwal scored 97 per cent, Neha scored 96.4 per cent, Ranveer Virk, Avdhesh Paswan scored 96.2 per cent, Daksh Lumb, Mehakpreet Kaur scored 96 per cent, Kiranpreet Kaur , Sanju Yadav 95.6 per cent, Deepak Kumar 95.2 percent and Deepesh Rana 95 per cent. In medical stream, Pallavi scored 95.2 per cent. In commerce stream Priyanka, Sonia Kumari got 95.2 per cent. In Arts, Anshula Grover scored 95.8 per cent. On this occasion, Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra congratulated all the students and their parents and gave them best wishes for bright future. Chopra said more than 90 students got above 90 per cent marks and more than 380 students scored above 80 per cent.Swami Sant Dass SchoolStudents brought laurels in CBSE Class XII results. Anurag scored 97.4 per cent in the commerce stream followed by Vanshika with 96.8 per cent. Gauravdeep Singh performed with 96.6 per cent the highest in the non medical stream and Fiza topped in the medical stream with 95.6 per cent per cent . The school got a hundred percent pass result and 35 students scored above 90 per cent . Principal Kamaljit Kaur appreciated and congratulated them on their success and wished them good luck for their future endeavours .Seth Hukam Chand SchoolStudents brought fame to school by scoring 100 per cent successful result. In Commerce, first position was bagged by Ravneet Kaur who scored 96 per cent and Rajdeep Kaur stood second with 95 per cent . Principal Priyanka Sharma congratulated all the students on their success and wished them good luck for their future.State Public School, NakodarState Public School, Nakodar, got a good result in Class XII results. In the science stream, toppers are Aditi Jain (95.2 per cent ) and Pawanpreet Kaur (95.2 per cent ). In commerce stream topper is Ravleen Kaur (95.2 per cent) followed by Balpreet Kaur (95 per cent ). Overall 102 students scored more than 90 per cent in different subjects and made institute proud. President and Vice President, Group of State Public School, Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur, respectively, felicitated the students and their parents. Principal Dr Ritu Bhanot congratulated the teachers, students and their parents for the outstanding performance.State Public School, ShahkotState Public School, Shahkot, once again showcased academic excellence in Class XII results declared by the CBSE. Gursharan Singh (non-medical) scored with 96.2 per cent, while Sukhmeet Kaur excelled with 96 per cent in the commerce stream. Students aced the individual subjects by scoring more than 90 per cent marks. Overall 20 students scored over 90 on English. President Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur and Principal Kanwar Neel Kamal congratulated the toppers.The Gurukul, JalandharThe Gurukul got 100 per cent result in CBSE Class XII. In Class XII commerce, Ramandeep Kaur bagged first position with 95.4 per cent marks. In XII Science Vaneet Kaur Jutla bagged first position with 94.8 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-students-shine-in-class-xii-exams-291335
01-08-2021||---||‘Low-cost teaching aids help in faster learning among kids’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, in association with the National Council for Science Technology Communication, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, organised four workshops on low cost teaching aids for government schoolteachers, which concluded on Saturday. More than 120 teachers from various districts of the state participated in the workshops.The main idea was to discuss the facts that low cost teaching aids are an effective tool as it helps to understand various complex scientific principles in an easy way.Dr Rajesh Grover, director, Pushpa Gujral Science City, emphasised the need to inculcate passion amongst students for science by making classroom teaching more interactive and enjoyable through use of low cost teaching kits. He said these tools were designed to engage students through hands on activities for faster learning, discourage cramming and make the subject interesting for them. Further, studies have suggested that students remember 90 per cent of what they do and are demonstrated through the medium of science communication.Darshan Lal Baweja from Yamunanagar, Sanjay Kapoor from New Delhi and Rann Singh from Rohtak were experts on this occasion. They motivated the participants to adopt this medium of instruction for better classroom interaction with students.The participants during the workshops were trained to make easy to use low cost teaching kits in classroom, which could help in improving conceptual understanding and promoting creativity among students. The participants showed keen interest in the workshop and also prepared their own low cost teaching kits demonstrating various scientific principles.Dr Munish Soin, programme coordinator, delivering vote of thanks at the occasion stressed upon making teaching aids to be an integral component in classroom as they create a visual and interactive experience for students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/low-cost-teaching-aids-help-in-faster-learning-among-kids-291336
01-08-2021||---||3 test +ve, no death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 31Three new Covid cases were reported on Saturday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,091 cases. Two of the three cases belong to another district. No Covid death was reported from the district. The toll remained at 1,490. As many as 61,552 people have recovered from Covid while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 49.9 cases, no death at K’thalaWith nine cases of Covid reported from the district on Saturday, the total cases have reached 17,747. No death from Covid was reported today.Hoshiarpur sees no caseThe health authorities reported no fresh positive case in district on Saturday. With this, tally stands at 30,642. The authorities reported no Covid-related death in the district and the toll stood at 975. As many as 29,648 persons have recovered from the virus in the district. At present, the district has 19 active cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-test-ve-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-291337
01-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Webinar organised at DAV College||A book exhibition was organised by the Library of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, in College Library dedicating it to the Birth Anniversary of Munshi Prem Chand and Martyrdom day of Shaheed Udham Singh. The exhibition was inaugurated by college Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-organised-at-dav-college-291338
01-08-2021||Jalandhar||Webinar on Kargil War||Manav shines in BBA examManav Kareer of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged 14th position in the university exams of BBA Semester-I by getting 273 marks out of 350. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. He also said that the college was committed to provide quality education to its students and it would ensure all possible help to the deserving and needy students. The president of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr Rashpal Singh Sandhu, Head Department of Commerce was also present on this occasion.Rainy season activity conductedRainy season or monsoon, the beautiful season of the year is a gift of God to mankind. This season is celebrated by people in many different ways. To celebrate the ‘Colourful Scene of Rainy Season’ activity was conducted online at The Nobel School. The students from Grade VI to XII participated in the competition with enthusiasm and showed excellent imagination through colours. The aim of the competition was to let the students to show their creativity using colours on sheets. This activity was managed by activity incharge Neeta and Pooja. All the participants sent pictures their paintings to their respective class In charges. Best three of them were awarded and applauded.At the end, Chairman Prof CL Kochher, Managing Director Kumar Shiv Kochher and Principal Ravinder Kaur congratulated the participants and awarded them with certificates. They encouraged the students to participate in forthcoming events also.Investors Meet organisedDAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jalandhar, in association with Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Govt of India and Chandigarh Angels Network organised Punjab’s first ever Virtual Business Startup Investor Meet during pandemic. This event was a platform provided to budding entrepreneurs to present their business idea in front of investors and panelists and also the opportunity for the top three winners to get prizes. As DAVIET is the host institution for MSME in entire region, so the 10 best ideas will also get the opportunity to apply for funding up to 15 lakhs each under MSME scheme. The event proved to be important as it spreads awareness about start-up ecosystem and scout aspiring and grass root entrepreneurs. The underlying objective of this event was to motivate the youth, create self-employment, upgrade the skills of entrepreneurs and provide them support to set up their units under professional guidance. This event would provide an opportunity to the youths to turn their innovative ideas into reality. The contest was open to students, corporate professionals, entrepreneurs, as well as other independent individuals and age is not a limit. This would go a long way in galvanising the youth to take up self-employment ventures, which would eventually help in creating enormous job opportunities for unemployed youth. The event has reached out and sensitised more than 255 business ideas throughout India and was purely based on the skill and talent of students. After final evaluation from the panelists and investors, the first position was awarded to the Idea “Jai Bharat Agritech” of Deepak with cash prize of Rs 31,000, second position was awarded to the Idea “Magazo”of Samridh Khanna with cash prize of Rs 21,000 and third prize was awarded to idea “Sivious Solutions” of Shambhavi with cash prize of Rs 11,000. Vishav Kapoor, Manager (Industry Interface) along with Ratish Bhardwaj and Kalpana Sharma said that the institution has been organising these kinds of events from time to time to promote entrepreneurship among the students of DAVIET. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-kargil-war-291339
01-08-2021||Jalandhar||Ragpicker electrocuted||Twenty booked for assaultHoshiarpur: The Model Town police station have registered a case against 20 persons for assault. Kamal Bhargav, a resident of SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpurm, had lodged a complaint with the police. He said he was present at the office of his friend Vivek Kaushal’s Kishna Car Bazaar on July 27. At around 2 pm in the afternoon, a group of armed youth came inside the office, allegedly vandalised the office and assaulted him. The police have booked Vishwanath alias Bunty, a resident of SAS Nagar, MC Nawab Hussain, a resident of Anmol Nagar, Ajay Rana, Manu Pehalwan, Lucky Bhatti alias Lucky, Rishu Adia, Shubham, Sadiq, Shama, Sunny Hariana, Sajan, Mani, Navdeep Singh, Shehzada and registering a case against 6 unknown people under Sections 323, 324, 451, 148, 149, 427 of the IPC. OCSmuggler held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police have arrested a smuggler and recovered 22 gram of intoxicating powder from him. The accused has been identified as Gaurav Kumar alias Gaura, a resident of Jattan Mohalla, Garhdiwala. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OCStudies of six pupils sponsoredHoshiarpur: Six bright students of DAV Senior Secondary School, Hoshiarpur, have been adopted by the Suman Memorial Society by sponsoring their education. Society president Dr KK Sharma, while handing over the cheque of sponsorship amount to the school, said that it has been decided by the society to sponsor the education of the bright students from the economically disadvantaged section, under which the education of these six students of DAV School is being sponsored. The fees, copies-books, uniform and all kinds of expenses related to education will be borne by the society. School principal Monica Sood thanked the society. OCTwo booked for celebratory firingJalandhar: The police have registered a case against two persons for indulging in celebratory firing in a pre-wedding ceremony of a city-based Tiktok star near Zinda Road. About half a dozen shots were fired in the function, a video of which went viral on the social media. Subsequently, an FIR has been lodged at the police station-1. The SHO said the incident took place on the night of July 27. A case under Sections 336, IPC, and under the Arms Act has been registered against Sukhwinder, a resident of Maqsudan. The bullets were fired from his licensed weapon. TNSNAAC team visits DAV CollegeHoshiarpur: A three member NAAC team with Dr Nand Kumar Yadav, VC Central University of Jharkhand, Dr Virmati Amirtham, Registrar Avinashi Lingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, Coimbatore and Dr Devendar Vyas, Principal, Radhadevi Goyanka College for Women, Akola-Maharashtra visited the college. The team in its inspection assessed the college on various parameters and thoroughly inspected offices of NCC, NSS, IQAC record room and various departments. Principal Prof Vinay Kumar informed that the performance of the college was evaluated on the basis of various criteria devised by NAAC. The peer team enjoyed and appreciated the cultural activities presented by college students. Besides, the team planted saplings to cherish the visit. OCMan booked in dowry caseHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked a man for torturing her wife for dowry. Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Miani, said her husband, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Raipur Peer Baksh village, Kapurthala harassed her demanding more dowry and threw her out of the house. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ragpicker-electrocuted-291340
