02-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Provide higher pay, better job avenues to check emigration||Address all issues triggering emigrationSettling abroad is a dream for many youngsters in Punjab. The desire to move to other countries has risen during the pandemic, especially from Punjab. A report presented in the Lok Sabha in March, 2021, estimated that there has been demographic crisis in Punjab as more than 4.78 lakh individuals left the state for employment and 2.62 lakh left for studies since 2016, the real figures are more than estimated. The lack of employment opportunities forces youth to settle abroad. The state government instead of providing good governance has been a facilitator of this exodus. It has involved itself in the profiteering business of immigration and has made tie ups with the foreign universities for their own monetary interests turning out to be an immigration agency. There is need for the government to take measures to control the phenomenon and make improvements in its existing structure. The government needs to review the existing framework of large scale movement, conduct a periodical survey, keep a record of the people moving abroad, identify the loopholes for such mass movement of the people in its system and finally bring reforms.Raja CheemaHealth, education infra not up to markNo doubt the Covid is wreaking havoc across the world as per WHO, but scientists and epidemiologists predict that the third wave, if it comes, would not be as lethal as the second wave. So, there is no need to check the exodus of students and job seekers. The country is faring low in all parameters of health and education. Even the supply of vaccines is very erratic. Many people have to return back from the vaccination centres without being inoculated. Unemployment is on the rise. The budgetary allocation to health and education sector is minuscule compared to the other countries. Even our universities are not up to the standard of foreign universities, even of Japan and China. If students and those going for work are properly vaccinated as per the designated vaccination, they should be allowed to go abroad. The population of those countries is better vaccinated than in India. So their chances of getting infected with Covid virus would be less than in India.Dr JS WadhwaGood for our economy, foreign reservesEven in the pre-Independence period Punjabis migrated to California, the US, and have the distinction of carrying out development works there. Similarly, in the post-Independence period Punjabis migrated to the UK and Canada in large numbers. Emigrants earn in foreign currency there which when converted into rupees becomes a handsome. This money has really boosted the Indian economy and foreign reserves. No doubt that India has top universities and colleges but it doesn’t stop people from going abroad for higher studies. If India wants to stop brain drain it will have to make certain policies for generating jobs in the private or public sector.Rajat Kumar MohindruTime to review economic policiesPopulation explosion, declining jobs and desire of dollars are the major reasons behind students and job aspirants settling abroad. India should review its economic policies for more jobs in government and private sector. Youth should be provided job opportunities according to their caliber. This way we will succeed in halting the migration of the students.Simmi MohindruIndia losing future scientists, doctorsLast year, the pandemic severely disrupted the domestic and international education system. While those skeptical about visa availability and job opportunities after completion of their studies abroad were left in a quandary, others chose to pursue their dreams online. But lured by overseas degrees and the prospects of a better livelihood, a large majority of students put their study abroad plans on hold and waited for the situation to improve. Now, with many foreign educational institutions making liberal changes in their curriculum modules, introducing heavy fee-waivers and IELTS relaxation, offering financial support and assurance of work permits, and the easing of travel restrictions, a horde of students are leaving the Indian shores to enter coveted universities and colleges. Though the new National Education Policy, 2020 has outlined greater flexibility in various courses and more emphasis on skill education, there is no stopping them. Unfortunately, the state is not only losing billions of dollars but also many a budding Hargobind Khoranas and Amartya Sens who can play a spectacular role in its holistic development. To reverse the current trend, the government must prioritise to practically revamp the higher education sector, ensure that public and private universities provide quality education at affordable rates, create ample employment avenues and improve overall living conditions in the state.D S KangGraft, rising crime deter youth to stayYoungsters plan to study and settle abroad for a number of reasons. There is lack of job opportunities in the country. India has the highest number of educated unemployed youth. Job opportunities in other countries provide a good pay scale to youth for work. Whatever you study in abroad there is a value of that and you get a good job. So, youth prefer to go abroad. Corruption is prevalent in the government machinery. Getting work done without paying bribe is a challenge. So, youth prefer to study, work and settle abroad for a better, safe and secure future. Crimes are common in India forcing youth to find a secure and safer life abroad. India also has a poor health infrastructure. Situation became worst during the second wave of Covid-19. In a nutshell, youngsters are moving to abroad as they feel that in abroad they can get a better, secure and safe future.Rimplepreet Kaur PataraCovid no hurdle for students, job seekersThe craze for getting overseas education from a top university and achieving professional success or otherwise working abroad to earn better livelihood is not new. Since Independence, aspiring Indians have been constantly settling in foreign countries, courtesy successive governments’ pathetic academic and scientific policies. But now, more and more parents in Punjab are sending their children abroad because of increasing corruption and unemployment, rampant drug abuse, deteriorating law and order situation and rapidly degrading quality of life. Undoubtedly, the pandemic had an adverse impact on the international study plans of our youngsters. But despite the pandemic fear still looming large, they are upbeat to move abroad after visa availability and gradual opening up and lifting of travel restrictions. It has caused serious concern among authorities and citizens. With the emergence of quality institutions like the IITs, IIMs, central and private universities, the expanding educational options and adoption of new innovative teaching technologies across campuses might prompt our youth to have second thoughts about their foreign study dreams. Our academicians and policymakers should emphasise the need for superior faculty and research opportunities to improve the quality of higher education in domestic institutions and ensure respectable employability. Effective steps by the government to meet the socio-economic and political challenges confronting the state will help in checking the exodus of brilliant and hardworking young minds.Tajpreet S KangTime to work togetherLack of remunerative and lucrative opportunities have resulted in this grave situation. Sincere efforts must be modeled by the state to ensure that the problems of brain drain, relocation and resettlement abroad reduce. The job and professional opportunities must commensurate with the qualifications acquired by youth. We must work together to make the country a better place to work and live.Sameer BhatiaReforms to tackle unemployment neededUndeterred by the badly hit economic and academic curriculum all around due to Covid, the exodus of youth to study abroad goes on unabated. Barring a few genuine cases, most of the boys and girls under the garb of admissions to overseas colleges/ universities find an easy way out to realise their aim. The favourite destination countries have better infrastructure and discipline in their institutions. According to an estimate, every third student from Punjab is pursuing IELTS with a view to migrate. It is quite worrisome that even after 74 years of Independence, we have not been able to create enough opportunities for satisfactory placements of our youth. Currently, while the normalcy from the earlier impact of pandemic is being restored, Delta+ variant and the third wave of pandemic are in sight in many parts of the world. Despite that, the yearning for green pastures on foreign lands goes on unabated. A large number of students are applying for even petty courses paying hefty fees. To reverse the trend, the government is required to bring about extensive reforms to tackle unemployment and ensure congenial working climate sans exploitation.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathThings have changed abroad after CovidDespite the effect of Covid is looming large across the world, youth of Punjab are hell-bent on moving abroad for higher studies or work. The grass is always green on the other side. They always think that the people living there seem to be in a better position. Almost all want to go there to settle and not study, wasting their parents’ hard-earned money. Parents sell land or go for mortgage or take loan to send their child abroad. Those who are intelligent and want to go for further studies should make a list of the challenges. After Covid, jobs are also very less. The infrastructure aboard is not all that attractive as shown in the movies.Shashi KiranIt’s better to settle in foreign countriesConsidering the state of economy of our country, there are fewer employment opportunities and the pandemic has further deteriorated the situation. So, the only alternative left is to go abroad for study purpose and due to abundance earning opportunities settle there permanently. What is wrong in it? Instead of remaining unemployed and becoming a liability for parents and society, it is better to settle abroad. In this way they earn for themselves and for their families left behind in India. It should not be checked rather it should be encouraged. The government should be more liberal in providing loans to study abroad. Ultimately, the government's investment is to be returned with interest and in form of foreign exchange.Naresh JoharMake education system job-orientedQUESTIONThe onset of monsoon has again exposed the lack of preparedness on the part of the MC as several areas get inundated causing great hardships to residents. Should the civic authorities be taken to task for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 5)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/provide-higher-pay-better-job-avenues-to-check-emigration-291476
02-08-2021||Jalandhar||Lovely Professional University student qualifies for Junior World Championship||Kunwar Ajai Raj Singh Rana, a student of Lovely Professional University, has qualified for the Junior World Championship after winning the gold medal in the javelin throw event in the ongoing Junior National Federation Cup Championships.The three-day (July 31-August 2) championships are going on in Sangrur.The 19-year-old — who was earlier a trainee of the Punjab Institute of Sports (PIS) – touched his personal best of 74.75 metres. However, to qualify for the U-20 World Championship he had to cross 69.05 mark. Rana, who belongs to Kiratpur Sahib, trains under Bikramjit Singh, coach at PIS and DAV College, in Jalandhar. “He came to me as an 11-year-old and has shown a lot of improvement in the last six years,” said Bikramjit.Rana’s progress over the last few months has been phenomenal. At the Junior (16-20 years) Fed Cup National Championships in April, 2018, Rana had won the bronze medal with a best of 68.94m. Similarly, he was at fifth spot in Youth Olympic games, in 2019, he was the only one from Punjab. He is a national record holder, Khelo India and Under-17 School Games record holder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lovely-professional-university-student-qualifies-for-junior-world-championship-291477
02-08-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Dilpreet wins hearts at Olympics, kin elated in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 1At the Butala village (in Amritsar district) house of hockey player Dilpreet Singh, his family back home is being showered with praises and congratulations from all corners. Dilpreet is a member of the Indian hockey team, which is participating in the Tokyo Olympic Games.Dilpreet Singh is just 20 years and six months old and his father Balwinder Singh is a hockey coach with the Baba Uttam Singh National Hockey Academy, Khadoor Sahib, in Tarn Taran district.Butala village (in Baba Bakala subdivision) too has a hockey academy being run under the Baba Palla Sports Club and Welfare Society, Butala. Balwinder Singh is the president of the society from where Dilpreet Singh learnt the fundamental techniques of playing hockey.Dilpreet Singh is the creation of Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar, which he joined just seven years ago. While playing for Surjit Hockey Academy, he was selected for country's national team and joined the camp.In the hockey match played between Great Britain and India at the Tokyo Olympics on Sunday, India won the match by defeating Great Britain (British) 3-1. In the match, Dilpreet Singh scored one goal against Great Britain. What is most satisfying is that the Indian hockey team has entered the semifinals of the Olympics after 49 years.Dilpreet's family is hard working and is receiving congratulations from all sections of society. There was a marriage-like function going on in the house where nearby residents were seen dancing to the beats of the dhol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dilpreet-wins-hearts-at-olympics-kin-elated-in-tarn-taran-291478
02-08-2021||---||7 booked for attempt to kill in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, August 1Seven persons have been booked for attempt to murder by the Nawanshahr police. Out of seven, three of them are unidentified.Gulshan, a resident of Kathgarh, in his complaint to the police, said when he came back from his work at 8.30 on Saturday night, his mother told him that his father Paramjit, who had gone to Balachaur to buy some essentials, had not returned yet.“When I was going to Balachaur to look for my father, I suddenly saw my father come running towards me and seven persons were chasing him with sharp-edged weapons. They attacked my father and he became unconscious,” Gulshan said.It has been alleged that the accused attacked Paramjit over an argument that took place two days ago between the victim and the father of one of the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 324 and 323 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-booked-for-attempt-to-kill-in-nawanshahr-291479
02-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 7 test positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 1As many as seven new Covid cases were reported on Sunday from the district, taking the total tally to 63,098 cases. The deceased tally remained at 1,490 as no Covid death was reported today. As many as 61,567 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar are 41.No death in KapurthalaWith five cases of Covid reported from Kapurthala on Sunday, the district Covid cases have reached 17,752. No death was reported today.All well in NawanshahrNo fresh case of Covid or death were reported from Nawanshahr on Sunday. The district tally remained at 11,426 and there are three active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-7-test-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-291480
02-08-2021||---||Again: Water hyacinth chokes Kali Bein; fields inundated||Jalandhar, August 1Water level of the Kali Bein has again risen due to heavy rainfall witnessed in the Doaba region for the past few days. While environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, along with his volunteers, has been cleaning the bein of water hyacinth, the environmentalist said due to incessant rains, the water levels in the 165 km long bein had again risen. He said due to this, the crops along the bein have been destroyed. At many places, water is touching the fields.Seechewal said for the past many days, he, along with the residents of the village, had been working to remove water hyacinth from the water. He also added that it was also one of the prime reasons for floods after heavy rains as it obstructs the natural flow of water, choking the bein.He said machines had been pressed into service to take out hyacinth for which Rs 20,000 to 25,000 diesel is being used every day. He said the contribution for this is being made by the residents. During the course of the kar sewa, bridges on Kanjli, Subhanpur, Bhawanipur, Gurdwara Sant Ghat and Bosewal were inspected by the environmentalist where there was probability of water hyacinth being stuck. He also appealed to the village residents and administration not to flow the hyacinth upstream but to pluck it out so that it doesn’t choke the bein.Seechewal said, “Earlier, there were three bridges on the bein at Sultanpur Lodhi from which it was easy to take out the water hyacinth but the three pontoon bridges and four other new bridges have taken the total number of bridges to 10. Due to this, it has become more difficult to take out the water hyacinth.”He added if the bein gets 250 to 300 cusecs of water all year round, it won’t choke up like this. In the past few days, water hyacinth has been removed from three spots on the bein banks, Gurdwara Sant Ghat, Gaziour Haranamur village and Khaira village. The kar sewa will also continue so that the hyacinth isn’t stuck in more bridges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/again-water-hyacinth-chokes-kali-bein-fields-inundated-291482
02-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||SC commission seeks status report from cops in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 1Taking cognizance of the report published in these columns, Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka, member, Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes (SC), on Sunday visited the family members of the victim (Baljinder Singh, alias Ballu), who was beaten to death at an illegal drug de-addiction centre in Kartarpur a few days ago.Sialka said to provide justice to the family members, who lost their young son, a notice was also issued to the IG, Jalandhar Range, regarding the case (number 118 dated July 18) registered at the Kartarpur police station and the status report of the case is sought to be submitted by the police on August 20.The commission assured that it would provide help to Balbir Kaur, a resident of Kapurthala, and appealed to the police for early arrest of the accused. “The accused, Sukkha Nihang, had approached the family members of Baljinder Singh, alias Ballu, last month and kept him at his de-addiction centre for nearly 10 days. On July 18, he along with other staff members of the centre hit him brutally, which led to his death. As per sources, though two-three criminal cases were already registered against Sukkha, he was running the centre openly. Therefore, the police need to swing into action immediately,” added Sialka.The victim was beaten to death by owners of the de-addiction centre last month. Investigating officer and Kartarpur police station SHO (under-probation DSP) Arun Mundan said apart from the main accused (Baljit Singh, alias Sukha Nihang), three more accused had been nominated in the case.“On the basis of the statement of the victim’s mother and another injured victim Hardeep Kumar, we have booked Ravi Baba, a resident of Malsian, and Baghi Nihang and Palwinder Singh, alias Bhinder Nihang, both residents of Pattarkalan village. A raid was on Sunday conducted to trace the whereabouts of all the accused, who have been booked under Sections 302, 34, 323, 342, 148 and 149 of the IPC.In addition, a three-member medical board, in its postmortem report also confirmed brutal injuries as the cause of death, added the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-commission-seeks-status-report-from-cops-in-jalandhar-291483
02-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Children’s home in Jalandhar gets new superintendent, finally||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 1Harinder Kaur, CDPO, Nurmahal (Jalandhar), has been given the charge of Superintendent, Children’s Home (home for runaway girls), Jalandhar, and Children’s Home for Girls (which houses, destitute or orphaned girls).The orders to this effect were issued by the Principal Secretary, Social Security and Women and Child Development Department, on Friday. She is being deputed in place of the former Superintendent, who has now been deputed at the state protective and window’s home.Notably, the orders came two weeks after The Tribune highlighted the state of the ashram in a news report “All is Not Well at Jalandhar’s Gandhi Vanita Ashram” in these columns. The order, issued on July 30, stated that, “Keeping administrational/people’s welfare in mind, Manjit Kaur, Superintendent, Children’s Home, Jalandhar, is being deputed at the State Protective Home, Jalandhar, and is being given the additional charge of Home for Widows and Destitute, Jalandhar, along with DDO Powers.”Earlier this year, an inquiry ordered by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori into the incident of the escape of 37 girls from the Children’s Home at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram (GVA) on March 8 had also found glaring irregularities at the same home.The DC’s report found grave lapses in the ashram’s functioning and also referred to “immense psychological stress” among inmates and also took note of the ‘the wrong recording of their age in documents’. Charges against a house mother of getting an ‘unauthorised exertion’ from inmates were also made.In the report carried on July 18, The Tribune had highlighted that the ashram had been in the news for frequent incidents of escapes of girl inmates regarding which disciplinary action had been taken against some staff members. However, questions were raised on the same set of staff being re-deputed at the home due to the lack of better substitutes. The Tribune had also highlighted that despite many CDPOs available, same staff was being chosen for deputation.While repeated incidents were bringing a bad name to the goings-on at the home, after the March 8 incident this year, officials had said many constructive changes were being made at the home now, including better infrastructure and counselling for girls at the home.Sources said, “Resentment had been brewing among the staff too as constructive changes were awaited at the premises. But the recent few months indicate a churning at the highest level. A number of measures, including this recent decision, indicate the department is committed to finally bettering things at the home.”Why was the same staff re-deputed at ashram?In the report carried on July 18, The Tribune had highlighted that the ashram had been in the news for frequent incidents of escapes of girl inmates regarding which disciplinary action had been taken against some staff members. However, questions were raised on the same set of staff being re-deputed at the home due to the lack of better substitutes. The Tribune had also highlighted that despite many CDPOs available, same staff was being chosen for deputation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/childrens-home-in-jalandhar-gets-new-superintendent-finally-291484
