03-08-2021||Phagwara||Friendship Day organised in Phagwara||Workshop on mental well-beingJalandhar: In continuation with the series on ‘Professional Overthinkers’ (All about mental well-being), a session on ‘Headspace- All about Mindfulness’ was conducted for students of Classes VI- XII of Delhi Public School Jalandhar. It was a skill-based workshop hosted by school counsellor Vandana Sondhi to provide the young students with tools for maintaining mental well-being. The session aimed to make students realise that it was extremely vital to ‘be kind to the mind’. She emphasised that a person’s state of mind or mindset is very significant and it is this mental health that needs to be looked after with care and gentleness. Through extensive interaction, brainstorming and use of video clips, she elucidated to the children, techniques of being in the moment and the benefits of awareness and mindfulness.Alisha first in BA BEdPrincipal Dr Pardeep Bhandari said that Doaba College’s BA BEd and B.Sc. BEd (Four years integrated courses) students of Department of Education have excelled in GNDU semester exams and have brought laurels to the institution. BA BEd (Sem-V) students- Alisha secured 543 out of 700 marks and bagged 1st position, Bhavya Sethi and Manmeet Kaur secured 485 and jointly bagged 2nd, Harinder secured 479 and bagged 4th, Ravneet secured 470 and bagged 5th, Simranjeet and Tamanna secured 460 and jointly bagged 6th and Kritika secured 458 and bagged 8th position in University. BSc. BEd Sem-V student Sushma secured 561 out of 700 and bagged 6th position in university.Webinar on NAAC accreditationUnder the guidance of Padma Shree Prof RC Sobti, DAV University, Jalandhar, will be organising a webinar-cum-workshop on “NAAC Accreditation and Quality Assurance in HEIs” on August. Scholars of great stature will grace the occasion virtually and guide the university to make preparations for NAAC accreditation. The inaugural address will be given by Dr VS Chauhan, former Chairman, NAAC. Dr K Rama (Adviser, NAAC), Dr Priya N (Assistant Adviser, NAAC) and another expert from NAAC will be the expert speakers. Vice Chancellor (officiating) Dr Jasbir Rishi said that the university focuses on the multidimensional growth of its students and strikes a perfect balance between curricular and co-curricular activities; theoretical knowledge and practical knowledge; and material requirements and inner peace/ contentment.Students do well in CBSE examsStudents of Cambridge International School (Co-Ed) have got good results in Class XII CBSE exams. In non-medical, Arnav Chopra scored 97.6 per cent. In medical, Jagmeet Birring obtained 95.2 per cent. In commerce, Navjeet Kaur got 96 per cent. In humanities, Yastika Handa got 95.6 per cent. In Shiv Jyoti Public School, Piyush Gupta got first position in commerce stream scoring 98 percent, Priyam Gupta bagged second position scoring 97.8 per cent. In medical stream, Mandeep bagged first position with 97 per cent and Priyanka bagged second position with 95 per cent. In the non-medical stream, Jeewan Jyoti stood first, scoring 96.4per cent while Arpit Sharma bagged the second position with 95.6 per cent and Amisha Sharma and Vani Khanna bagged third position by scoring 95.4 per cent. In the humanities stream, Divya got first position with 97.2 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/friendship-day-organised-in-phagwara-291933
03-08-2021||In order to cope up with the shortage of oxygen||Oxygen plant to be functional soon in Phagwara||A helping hand for thalassaemic kidsTo mark the martyrdom of Udham Singh, the Hindustan Welfare Blood Donors Club organised a blood donation camp at Phagwara Civil Hospital. Around 19 blood units were collected from the donors, including three women in the camp. The members of the club, Prem Gupta, Jagjivan Kumar and Kush Wadhera, appealed locals to come in large numbers to donate blood. All safety measures were followed during the camp. The blood units would help thalassemia kids. In addition, the club members said, they were buffer stock of blood, which would be used during any emergency.Cambridge girl eyes civil services examAspiring to join civil services, Vani Dheer, a student of Cambridge International School Phagwara, topped her school by scoring 96 per cent in Class XII, the results of which were recently announced by CBSE. While crediting her success to her teachers and parents, vani said, during lockdown, she used to study for over six hours daily and was always in touch with her teachers to get her doubts cleared. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-plant-to-be-functional-soon-in-phagwara-291936
03-08-2021||---||I’ll talk to Gurjit Kaur only after matches: Father||Jalandhar, August 2“I have still not spoken with Gurjit. I want her to concentrate on her next matches. Main te keha hai ki hun final khedke hi gall karange,” an elated Satnam Singh, father of quarterfinals match-winner Gurjit Kaur, said today.Also read: Gurjit converted penalty corner, father misses it as he performs sewa at Anandpur SahibA farmer by profession, Satnam Singh could not watch the match and came to know of the win only when he started receiving calls from relatives and journalists. He said he also used to play hockey but never played professionally, but never thought his daughter would make it to the Olympics.Pardeep Kaur, elder sister of Gurjit, is a hockey coach at Sansarpur. “Since childhood I have not seen her interested in anything other than sports,” said Pardeep.Gurjit studied in Jalandhar for two years after she completed her 12th. Talking about her sister, Pardeep said she talked to Gurjit early in the morning and wished her good luck. “I don’t have the words to explain how proud I am to see my little sister achieving this position,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ill-talk-to-gurjit-kaur-only-after-matches-father-292214
03-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Hardik’s magical goal left us overwhelmed’||Tribune News ServiceBatala/Jalandhar, August 2Batala Police SP Varinderpreet Singh, father of midfielder Hardik Singh, who scored a peach of a goal against Great Britain in the quarterfinals, is trying hard to adjust to his new-found fame.“Hardik called me minutes after the match. He said winning a gold medal was more important for him than scoring goals,” said Varinderpreet, himself a national player from 1996 to 1999. After his magical goal, Hardik looked above and pointed to the sky and murmured something — who was he talking to?Varinderpreet told The Tribune that Hardik was remembering his grandfather. “His grandfather had this dream of seeing Hardik in the Olympics and when he passed away in 2017, Hardik made this the ambition of his life,” Varinderpreet said. Hardik’s grandfather used to take him to the village ground to practise, and both of them dreamt of the day when Hardik would play at the Olympics.“Hardik told his mother that he thanked his Daddy (as he used to fondly call his grandfather) for his blessings,” said Varinderpreet.Remembering Hardik’s childhood, Varinderpreet said he would never go for a family event and would instead go to the hockey ground to play. “Other than hockey jerseys, he never liked to shop for anything,” he said. “Since he hardly attended any family function and always focussed on games, some of my wife’s relatives did not even know that Hardik is our son!” he added.Goal!As recounted by Varinderpreet, these are the exact words of his son about that fabulous goal: “I collected the ball nearly 15-20 yards from outside the circle. I then weaved my way towards the goal from the left side and once the citadel was in clear sight, I pushed the ball in. However, the push lacked punch. I attempted this shot knowing perfectly well that the angle was acute and the goalkeeper had already adjusted himself to block my shot. A moment of sadness followed when the goalkeeper padded away the ball but then, much to my delight, it landed back into play. I rushed towards the centre of the circle but found myself hemmed in by a couple of defenders. I managed to get my stick to the ball but then thought hitting the ball without having much space, which would have meant hitting it without the desired force, would serve no purpose. As if on a hunch,I pulled the ball a few inches away from the defenders. This gave me enough space, and with it the desired punch, to whack the ball in!”Hardik belongs to a hockey-playing family which includes former Indian women’s team captain Rajbir Kaur and her husband Gurmail Singh, who was part of the 1980 Moscow Olympics gold medal-winning team. India’s former star drag-flicker Jugraj Singh is his uncle. Varinderpreet said he was flooded with calls once the match was over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hardiks-magical-goal-left-us-overwhelmed-292215
03-08-2021||Nawanshahar||SC panel head takes note of ‘discrimination’ with Dalits||After receiving scores of complaints from the Dalit community for the past many years, the National Commission for Scheduled Caste (NCSC) has now again received a complaint from sarpanch of Sahungra village here, regarding the discrimination in executing development works in the areas where mostly SC residents of the village reside.Taking strong notice over the harassment, threats and discrimination in providing facilities to the residents of Sahungra village, the commission has now issued a notice to the Nawanshahr, administration asking the authorities to submit an action taken report till August 10.As per the information received, a pond is located in the village, which is filled with contaminated and dirty water. For the past 30 to 40 years, dirty water from the pond enters the houses of the residents during the rainy days and most of the houses around the pond belong to the SC community. Also, the residents are prone to getting infected due to dirty water, which is the breeding ground for mosquitoes and flies.The commission asked the DC and SSP to investigate the matter and to submit the report till the stipulated time.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-panel-head-takes-note-of-discrimination-with-dalits-291926
03-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||MLA Raj Kumar Chabbewal hails CM for Punjab SC Welfare Bill||Terming it a commendable step by CM Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure the welfare and improve the socio-economic status of the SCs in Punjab, MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal lauded the new Punjab SC Welfare Bill put forward in the cabinet. He said this would pave way for the enactment of the law to earmark the budget for SC welfare in the next Assembly Session.He mentioned that he had raised this issue of bringing this SC Sub-Plan Bill at all available forums, be it the meeting individually with Chief Minister or raising questions in Assembly Sessions or other meetings on SC Agenda. He said this was a historic step that would prove to be a milestone for the welfare of Dalits.On this occasion, he said under the leadership of the CM, various initiatives have been taken by Punjab Government for the welfare of the SCs. He termed it a historic decision to give reservations to the SC employees working in government services by amending the Punjab SC / BC Act 2006 and 2018. Debt waiver of landless labourers, increase in old age and widows pensions, clearing arrears of post-matric scholarship, etc. are other prominent steps.He said under the Sarabat Sehat Bima Yojana, 42 lakh families of Punjab are covered while the Central Government had given this benefit to only 14 lakh families in Punjab. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-raj-kumar-chabbewal-hails-cm-for-punjab-sc-welfare-bill-291925
03-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid warriors felicitated in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 2Employees who made people aware by risking their lives in Chabbewal segment during the pandemic were honoured with letters of appreciation by Assistant Excise Commissioner Avtar Singh Kang.These include Kamal Kumar Khosla, Rajnish Kumar Guliani, Honey Raja, Excise Inspector Manjit Kaur, Excise Inspector Naresh Sahota, Kashmir Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Onkar Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Dinesh Kumar and Angrez Singh.Kang said making people aware amid the raging pandemic was the most important work because only on the basis of awareness we could save people.When people were staying indoors, members of awareness teams were going door-to-door in order to motivate people to wear masks and sanitise their hands frequently. Not only this, when the government started vaccination, these employees played an important role in removing rumours among residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-warriors-felicitated-in-hoshiarpur-291923
03-08-2021||---||Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala rolls out record 164 coaches in July||Kapurthala, August 2The Rail Coach Factory has created another record by producing 164 coaches in July this year.Earlier in July 2020, the RCF had manufactured 151 coaches while in July 2019, it rolled out 123 coaches. The average outturn of coaches in July was 6.07 coaches per day whereas in the months of July 2019 and 2020, the average coach manufacturing per day was 5.59 and 4.73, respectively.In the first four months of this financial year, the RCF had manufactured 502 coaches with a limited manpower due to the pandemic. In July, it produced 164 coaches — including 38 parcel van coaches, 35 AC three tier and 18 AC three tier economy class coaches — in 27 working days.The coach production target of the RCF is above 2,000 coaches in this financial year. New products like narrow gauge Vistadome coaches, Tejas sleeper class coaches and AC general class coaches are also to be manufactured, said PRO Rajinder Singh.He said the RCF administration had arranged for high-speed internet facility for the residents of RCF Colony. “This service is to be provided by BSNL. Owing to the outbreak of the contagion, the residents of the colony have to work from home and their wards have to study online and hence, the need for high-speed internet service was felt.“To fulfill this, the administration approached BSNL to provide the facility. The licence fee was waived in the interest of the employees and their families. Now, an underground optical fibre cable has been laid by BSNL in the colony and a concession of 5 per cent in monthly bill will be given to the colony residents under fit to the home connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-rolls-out-record-164-coaches-in-july-291924
03-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Plantation drive for clean, green Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, August 2Guru Nanak International Trust, UK, which provides education to the poor and helpless children, organised a plantation drive at Guru Nanak Holy Forest, Ajjowal. District Forest Officer Amnit Singh was present on the occasion.Guru Nanak Holy Forest Project Coordinator Prof Bahadur Singh talked about the working mechanism of the trust and said the need of the hour was that every person must plant at least one tree for himself and his family to provide a clean and pure environment to the coming new generation. He thanked the members. Dr Ranjit Singh said the rising pollution was a matter of great concern and the only solution was to plant as many trees as possible to get a clean environment. DFO Amneet Singh thanked the organisation for the service and said every person should come forward for this noble cause.Van Mahotsav celebrated with fanfareRotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, under the chairmanship of president Praveen Paliyal, organised Van Mahotsav at Government Senior Secondary School, Nara. Avinash Rai Khanna, former Rajya Sabha member was the Chief Guest while Dr Subhash Jalali, former CMO, Jammu and Kashmir, Advocate SL Khosla, retired ETO attended as the guests of honour. Club Secretary Varindra Chopra said more than 50 ornamental and herbal tree saplings were planted in the school by the club. Khanna planted neem and peepal trees in the school, and said the club should aim to create a natural oxygen centre in which neem, peepal and banyan trees should be planted together. All members of the Rotary Club and their family members contributed to the plantation drive.‘Grow trees for the future generation’Guru Nanak Holy Forest Project Coordinator Prof Bahadur Singh talked about the working mechanism of the Guru Nanak International Trust, UK, and said the need of the hour was to make every person realise the importance of planting trees. One must plant at least one tree for himself and his family to provide a clean and pure environment to the coming new generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plantation-drive-for-clean-green-hoshiarpur-district-291921
03-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar: Agriculture Department fails to achieve target of covering 32,000 hectare under Direct Seeding of Rice||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2Contrary to the target of the Agriculture Department to cover over 32,000 hectares of land under the direct paddy sowing method or Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) method, only 21,670 hectare of land could be covered under the DSR method this year. The expected figure was double the last year’s figure as only 16,800 hectares land was covered under the DSR method.In-addition, the area under paddy cultivation also got decreased by nearly 2,000 hectare this year. Despite lockdown, last year, 1,73,000 hectare land was covered under paddy cultivation, and this season, the area got reduced by 1,71,600 hectare. Interestingly, more number of farmers showed interest in sowing Basmati rice and its area under cultivation also increased by 900 hectares. The total area remained 21,900 hectares.In order to replenish depleting water level, the administration was expected to include 32,000 hectares of land under the DSR as the technique saves groundwater up to 25 per cent while farmers need not to do puddling which also saves labour costs.But, despite various camps being organised to sensitise farmers to sow the paddy crop directly, a majority of farmers opted for the traditional method of sowing. Besides, only 25,000 hectare land was cultivated using machines, said, Agricultural Officer, Surinder Singh. Apparently, poor power supply, delayed monsoon and water shortage forced farmers to reduce area under the paddy cultivation this season.Malkiat Singh, a farmer from Daulatpur village said, last year he sowed paddy in around 40 acres land, whereas this year the shortage of water forced him to reduce the area to 25 acres. Along with him, farmers in various parts of the district reported that their fields had developed cracks due to unavailability of enough water, which damaged his crop.Charanjit Singh (80), a farmer from Jandusingha said in the last 40 years, it was for the first time that the farmers faced shortage of water to this extent. The erratic power supply not only delayed the sowing period but also forced farmers to reduce their area under paddy.Most of the Farmers chose traditional way of sowing paddy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-agriculture-department-fails-to-achieve-target-of-covering-32-000-hectare-under-direct-seeding-of-rice-291922
03-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man arrested with intoxicants in Hoshiarpur||One held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The police of Hariana police station have registered a case against an accused of illegal mining on Sunday and has taken possession of a trolley laden with sand. The accused has been identified as Kangmai village resident Rana Ranjit.OCNawanshahr gets new Civil SurgeonNawanshahr: Dr Gurinderbir Kaur assumed charge as a new Civil Surgeon of Nawanshahr. She had earlier served as the first Civil Surgeon of Malerkotla, Deputy Director, Department of Health and Family Welfare and as Senior Medical Officer, Jalandhar. After assuming office, Dr Kaur asked all programme officers and employees of the Health Department to work hard, diligently and honestly. She said every effort would be made to achieve 100 per cent target of all national and state health programmes in the district. OCFour booked for firingHoshiarpur: On the charge of firing with the intention of killing, the police of the city police station have booked four accused. According to the information, Ravinder Singh, a resident of Suki Choi Bahadurpur, has lodged a complaint with the police. He told that on July 31 at around 10 pm, residents of his locality Yuvraj, Akash and Vicky, along with Jatt, residents of Sukhiabad opened fire at him after assaulting him, with the intention of killing him. The police have booked all the accused under Sections 307,323, 324, 148, 149, and Sections 25,54 and 59, of the Arms Act. OCTwo snatchers nabbed in cityHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked six persons and arrested two for snatching the mobile phones from an employee of a mobile company. According to the information, Kuldeep Singh, a resident of village Jidowal in district Nawashahar, had lodged a complaint with the police. He told that he was going from Chabbewal to Banga Road on July 5. When he reached near the Paddi Sura Singh village, masked robbers riding two bikes surrounded him and snatched his backpack which contained the company’s mobile phones. The police, after investigation of the said complaint, have registered a case against Sunil Kumar, Raju, Deepak alias Deepu, residents of Nora, Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Wahad Majra, Jai Sharma, a resident of Varna district Kapurthala, Ajay, a resident of Radka and arrested two accused Rakesh Kumar and Jai Sharma.OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-with-intoxicants-in-hoshiarpur-291934
03-08-2021||---||Abetment to suicide: Cop among 10 booked in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 2In connection with suicide of a hairdresser, the Sadar police have booked 10 persons, including a cop, for abetment to suicide.Baljeet Kumar (32), alias Gora, a resident of Kukkad pind, ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance on Saturday.Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurdayal Hira said on the basis of statements of the elder brother of the victim and suicide note recovered from the spot, we have registered a case against Gora’s wife, his in-laws and a constable.A case bas been registered under Section 306 of the IPC against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/abetment-to-suicide-cop-among-10-booked-in-jalandhar-291937
03-08-2021||---||2020 Tokyo Olympics: As hockey teams enter semis, Jalandhar residents in festive mood||Jalandhar, August 2The entry of both men and women Indian hockey teams in the semi-finals of the Tokyo Olympics has made the city proud.Celebrations for the occasion were held in almost every household as most residents stayed glued to the TV for the past few days to watch the Indian contingents and cheer them as they advanced to this level.At Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, where hockey player Gurjit Kaur studied and was groomed in the game, the faculty and students rejoiced the moment when she scored a penalty corner, thus defeating the three-time champions Australia.Principal Dr Navjot Kaur addressed that everyone, including LKCW fraternity and Gurjit’s parents saying that the whole country was proud of her. She also expressed her gratitude towards her coach Kulbir Singh and appreciated the efforts of the faculty members. President, College Governing Council, Balbir Kaur congratulated the whole hockey team and especially Gurjeet on her achievement as she said, “Today, we feels proud of its daughter Gurjit Kaur and are assured that every sports girl of the college would follow her footsteps.”Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Surjit Hockey Society working president and MLA Pargat Singh, Secretary Iqbal Singh Sandhu, Chief PRO Surinder Singh Bhapa in a joint statement congratulated the Indian women’s hockey team. They expressed their delight over the fact that the winning goal was scored by Punjab’s drag flicker Gurjit Kaur.They further said that this historic victory of the girls had brought honour for the whole country. Society office bearers wished the team all the best for the upcoming matches and hoped that they would win the gold medal for the country by playing in the same planned manner. On this occasion, the office-bearers of Surjit Hockey Society and players of Surjit Hockey Academy also celebrated the victory on the playground. Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur is a coach at Sansarpur hockey ground here.Even the authorities of Lovely Professional University said that they were happy to see the Indian hockey team with seven students from their campus to enter semis of Olympics after 49 years. The team had yesterday defeated Great Britain in quarterfinal by scoring 3-1. The team has Manpreet Singh as Captain, who is LPU’s MBA student. Another LPU’s BA Student Dilpreet Singh scored first field goal added with two other by his teammates, Gurjant and Hardik. Hardik too hails from Khusropur village in Jalandhar and is related to hockey Olympians from the city – Rajbir Kaur and Gurmail Singh. The men’s team will now take on World Champions Belgium in one of the semi-finals to be played tomorrow morning. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal said that other five LPU students in Indian Men’s Hockey Team are Harmanpreet Singh (MBA), Mandeep Singh (BA), Shamsher Singh (MBA), Dilpreet Singh (BA) and Varun Kumar (MBA). The last time India participated in the semi-finals of the Olympics was in the 1972 Munich Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2020-tokyo-olympics-as-hockey-teams-enter-semis-jalandhar-residents-in-festive-mood-291920
03-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Protesting doctors lock room of Civil Surgeon in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 2On a call given by the state body and joint action committee of PCMS Association, senior medical officers and medical officers of the district gathered at the CMO’s office and locked the rooms of civil surgeon and programme officers here on Monday.They were protesting against the report of the Sixth Pay Commission, under which the Punjab Government had reduced the NPA of government doctors from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, de-linking it from the basic pay. They said the Punjab Government had played a nasty joke with the corona warriors.They said their fight was with the government, not with the general public. Reducing NPAs and de-linking it from the basic pay was a ploy to destroy and privatise the government’s public health care system.On the occasion, press secretary of the state PCMS association Dr Rajkumar said if the government did not accept their demands, they would intensify their struggle. On next Thursday (August 5), a dharna would be held at the Punjab Directorate of Health and Family Welfare, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesting-doctors-lock-room-of-civil-surgeon-in-hoshiarpur-291917
03-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 2 catch infection, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 2The health authorities reported two new Covid-19 cases in the district on Monday. With this, the tally increased to 63,100.The authorities reported no Covid-related death in the district today. The toll stands at 1,490.As many as 61,571 patients recovered from the virus in the district while number of active cases stand at 39.5 cases reported in KapurthalaWith five cases reported in Kapurthala, the count has increased to 17,757. The authorities reported no Covid death in the district today.4 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district health authorities on Monday reported four new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 30,646.The authorities reported no Covid-related death today, with this the toll stands at 975 in the district.As many as 29,659 persons have recovered from the virus in the district. At present, Hoshiarpur district has 12 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-2-catch-infection-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-291919
03-08-2021||---||International drug racket busted in Phagwara, 3 held with 15-kg ganja||Phagwara, August 2The Kapurthala police have busted an international drug racket spread across India and Nepal on Monday. Cops arrested three persons and seized 15-kg ganja from their possession.The accused have been identified as Avtar Singh, a resident of Ashok Nagar, Jalandhar; Lakhwinder Singh alias Gora, and Gurpreet Singh, residents of Chhota Surtanpur, Chamkaur Sahib, Ropar.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said several teams were formed under the supervision Phagwara SP Sarbjeet Singh Bahia along with DSP Paramjit Singh to keep a vigil on the activities of anti-social elements.The SSP said acting on tip-off, the police party led by the CIA Staff, Inspector, Sikander Singh and ASI Paramjit Singh stopped a private bus near Phagwara bypass. He said cops seized 15-kg ganja hidden in plastic packets from the accused who were travelling in the bus.Khakh said during preliminary investigation, it has come to fore that the consignment was being smuggled from Nepal and the trio had links with peddlers in Nepal and Bihar. He said the peddlers will be produced before the court today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-drug-racket-busted-in-phagwara-3-held-with-15-kg-ganja-291915
03-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Parking row: 2 injured in firing during marriage function, 3 held in Phagwara||Phagwara, August 2A minor issue over parking during a marriage ceremony led to firing and injury to two persons on Sunday night. The incident took place at Windsor Palace.The vicitms, Balwinder Singh, sustained a bullet injury and Balbir Singh was attacked with sharp-edged weapons. Both the injured were from the bride’s family.Phagwara Superintendent of Police Sarabjeet Singh Bahia along with DSP Paramjit Singh rushed to the spot.The injured were first admitted to Phagwara Civil Hospital, but were later referred to Ludhiana due to their serious condition, said Senior Medical Officer Lehmber Ram.Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the have been identified as Amit Kumar, Daman and Vijay, all residents of Jalandhar.He said the trio have been arrested and the police have recovered .32 bore pistol and two empty cartridges used while committing the crime.The SSP said their five accomplices managed to escape from the spot along with weapons.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 326, 324, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parking-row-2-injured-in-firing-during-marriage-function-3-held-in-phagwara-291914
03-08-2021||---||Primary classes witness 15% to 20% turnout on Day 1 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 2As the state government allowed to call students for regular classes from Monday, the government schools and some private instiutes in the district welcomed students with open hearts today.It was after four-and-a-half months that schools opened up for students. While senior classes got a better response, similar attendance was missing in primary classes. Only 15 per cent to 20 per cent students from primary classes attended schools today.At Government Primary School, Ladowali Road, only 50 out of 300 students reached the campus. Same trend was witnessed in other primary schools of the city.Students of Classes IV and V outnumbered those in Classes I to III. Schools even started serving midday meals to students from today.While attendance of students of Classes X to XII has picked up significantly, students from Classes VI to IX also came to schools for the first time today.DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said, “The overall attendance in the district of all secondary and senior secondary classes was 52 per cent today. Some schools in rural areas witnessed 65 per cent attendance as kids certainly prefer offline classes more. In cities, the attendance was relatively less.”Many private schools in the city today opened up for all classes. All 33 branches of St Soldier Group of Institutions resumed classes today. Students were welcomed with flowers by staff members of schools. The happiness of getting back to school was clearly visible on faces of students. Chairman Anil Chopra and vice chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said adequate arrangements were made for safety of students. “Seating arrangements have been made as per SOPs of the Health Department. All classrooms will be sanitised daily. Its mandatory for students and staff to wear masks. Students are called to school after consent of parents,” said Anil.Even some playway schools opened in the city. Owner of Cynosure Prep School said, “We called kids and their parents to give consent. We explained them how we will run our classes by following safety measures. Half students will come on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Remaining kids will come on other three working days. Many parents working parents gave their consent. We told parents that online classes will continue alongwith offline as we cannot make it compulsory for little kids to attend regular classes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/primary-classes-witness-15-to-20-turnout-on-day-1-in-jalandhar-291918
03-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Kitaba Waali Gaddi’ hits roads in Sultanpur Lodhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 1How far can one go for the love of books? From starting a library in the village to organising a langar of books to launching the ‘Kitaba Waali Gaddi’, Mandeep Singh (26), who had recently started a library named ‘Tera Tera library’at Jabbowal village, in Sultanpur Lodhi, has now initiated another project. Not only does he love and admire books, but also wants others to develop the habit of reading.Several writers and artists have also supported him in the initiative. The library has books in Urdu, Punjabi, English literature, novels, apart from various magazines and newspapers‘Kitaba Waali Gaddi’ is a concept where 176 villages of Sultanpur Lodhi will be covered. The car containing a plethora of books will move around and go to every village so that the books are made easily accessible to villagers.Every day, a village will be covered and announcements will be made so that those interested could come and take the book of their choice for free.The langar of books was also started by Mandeep Singh on July 31 on the Martyrdom Day of Shaheed Udham Singh and the langar was held today outside a gurdwara. “We are going to start from surrounding villages, will tell everyone regarding our initiative. We have a target of five months in which we will cover 176 villages. We will again organise a langar of books on August 15,” Mandeep said.He urged people, who have old books in their homes, to hand it over to the library. Those wanting to help the library by lending the books can contact 8283870384.Mandeep has dedicated his own space for the cause. The youngster has been urging people to donate books for the library. So, if anyone has already read spare books at their homes, they can donate them for this cause.Several writers and artists have also supported him in the initiative. The library has books in Urdu, Punjabi, English literature, novels, apart from various magazines and newspapers.With each kind of book available, the youngsters from the villages will have the opportunity to come to the library and then prepare for the competitive exams. Any writer keen on discussions can also come to the library.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kitaba-waali-gaddi-hits-roads-in-sultanpur-lodhi-291481
