04-08-2021||---||Sports trials at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 3Lyallpur Khalsa College students started a five-day sports trial at the college to select the players for the new season 2021-22. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra specially attended the inaugural function of these sports trials. He added that on the first day of the sports trials in athletics, basketball, badminton, gymnastics, archery, swimming and water polo were held, in which about 155 students participated. On Tuesday, the trials of hockey, kho-kho, wrestling, weightlifting, pancake silat, and Wushu, on Wednesday, football, karate, cycling, baseball, kabaddi (National Style) and Tennis, on Thursday cricket, boxing, fencing, judo, rugby and shooting, on Friday trials of handball, rowing, kayaking, canoeing, Taekwondo and volleyball will be held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-trials-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-in-jalandhar-292770
04-08-2021||---||CT Group, Doaba Hospital ink MoU for providing practical exposure to pharmacy students||Jalandhar, August 3CT Group of Institutions has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Doaba Hospital for providing practical exposure to pharmacy students.The MoU was signed in the presence of dignitaries Dr Ashutosh Gupta, advocate Vikrant Rana, director, legal, Punjab International Human Rights Organisation; Dr Rahul Malhotra, director, CT campus; Dr Anupamdeep Sharma, Dean Academics; Vansh Raheja, deputy director, CT campus.Dr Ashutosh Gupta emphasised on the framework in which both parties will work together in an effort to foster and develop a corporate relationship between them through a plethora of activities and also resolve problems that are related to different sectors. This MoU has a great benefit to all students, especially that of pharmacy. The objective of signing this tie-up is mobility of staff, faculty and students and focusing upon research activities, training, industrial visits, placement opportunities and publications. Advocate Vikrant Rana, while addressing, said, “A monitoring committee has also been formed headed by Vansh Raheja.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-doaba-hospital-ink-mou-for-providing-practical-exposure-to-pharmacy-students-292772
04-08-2021||Garhshankar||Farmers to contest all 117 seats under ‘Mission Punjab’: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Gurnam Singh Charuni, leader of the United Kisan Morcha, on Tuesday announced to contest all 117 seats in the 2022 Assembly elections during a meeting with farmer leaders at Garhshankar. Naming the initiative as ‘Mission Punjab’, Charuni said till now all political parties have used farmers as vote bank but never did any work in their interest. He said after Punjab, they plan to contest General Election under ‘India Mission’.Talking to reporters after the meeting, he said elections would be contested on all 117 seats of the state not under the banner of Kisan Union but under the banner of ‘Mission Punjab’. He said he has put this proposal before the people and hoped that everyone would accept it. Responding to a question, he said it was not yet decided whether he would contest the elections himself or not.He said ‘Mission Punjab’ would be formed soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-contest-all-117-seats-under-mission-punjab-gurnam-singh-charuni-292774
04-08-2021||Jalandhar||Land acquisition: Higher compensation demanded||Farmers from several parts of Doaba on Tuesday staged a protest against the land acquisition for the six-lane Delhi-Jammu-Katra expressway project, with the Kirti Kisan Union (KKU), Rajewal, extending its support to them.After submitting a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, the farmers also burnt the effigies of Capt Amarinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The farmers said the government was not offering them the market rate for acquiring the land for the ring road project.Farmers under the banner of Road Sangharsh Committee, Jalandhar and Doaba, visited the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum demanding stalling of the acquisition process.Amarjot Singh, member, Road Sangharsh Committee, said, “We are not against development but the government should offer farmers the market rate. It is an open secret that there is always a variation between the actual land price and the registry rates. The government is offering Rs35-40 lakh per acre. It is peanuts, as the market price of their lands is in crores”.The farmers also demanded that the state government should halt the land acquisition process until the agitation against the farm laws came to a logical conclusion.The farmers also said they were not getting adequate compensation for their land. Ajmail Singh, a protesting farmer, said: “The government is acquiring land at low rates to help industrialists. The farmers will be benefitted only if the government gives the market price of their land and not the collector rate, which has not been revised for decades.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/land-acquisition-higher-compensation-demanded-292769
04-08-2021||Jalandhar||Covid-19: 15 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||The district health authorities reported 15 new cases in the last 24 hours. Jalandhar was the only city in the state to report new cases in double figures today. While four patients got discharged, the number of active cases in the city also jumped to 45. A total of 63,110 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district so far.In Kapurthala, the health authorities reported four new positive cases today. Two patients also got discharged and the number of active cases in the district stands at 30. In Nawanshahr, no positive case and death was reported in the district today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-15-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-292777
04-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three of family killed in accident in Hoshiarpur||Half-naked body of woman foundJalandhar: A partially naked body of an unidentified woman was found in a canal at Raipur-Rusulpur village on the Jalandhar-Pathankot road on Tuesday. Panic gripped the village, near Pathankot Chowk in the district, after the body was spotted by villagers. Inspector Manjit Singh, SHO, Maqsudan police station, said the body was spotted around 9 pm. There were deep cuts and injury marks on the body and the head was smashed with a stone. The body was disposed nearly 4-5 days ago and the deceased appeared to be in her mid-thirties. A case has been registered against an unidentified person. TNSSend cases to Lok Adalat, banks toldHoshiarpur: Aparajita Joshi, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), held a meeting with various bank managers and asked them to send more pre-litigation cases to the National Lok Adalat for settlement. She said the cases should be sent to the office of the DLSA, Hoshiarpur, by August 10 this month so that the summons of these pre-litigation cases can be delivered to the applicants in time so as to settle the maximum number of cases in Lok Adalat to be held on September 11. Assistant RTO was also directed to send maximum traffic challans to the National Lok Adalat to be held on September 11. OCMan held with smuggled liquorGarhshankar: The police have arrested a person and seized 73 bottles of smuggled liquor during a raid on Tuesday. Garhshankar SHO Iqbal Singh said the police had got a tip-off that Sandeep Kumar, alias Joti, a resident of Dallewal, sells smuggled liquor in the area. ASI Kaushal Chander raided the house of Sandeep and seized 73 bottles of liquor from his possession. A case has been registered under the Excise Act. OCSaplings planted at govt schoolJalandhar: The Regional Business Office of the State Bank of India on Tuesday planted saplings at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, and also distributed fans and sanitiser stands for the convenience of the students and teachers as well. SBI General Manager Sumit Phakka said the bank actively participates in the upliftment of society and fulfils its social responsibilities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-of-family-killed-in-accident-in-hoshiarpur-292783
04-08-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 3 held in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, August 3The Kapurthala police have busted a gang of robbers and seized 10 mobile phones, a digital camera, LCD and two gold ornaments from possession of three miscreants on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Bagicha Singh, a resident of Dadwindi, Sonu of Kamalpur Bhathe Mothanwal, and Harpreet Singh, a resident of Ghas Mandi, Jalandhar. Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the gang was active in the district and its three members were arrested today.The SSP said cops at Fattu Dhinga police station got a tip-off that some robbers had assembled in the area.He said the police teams immediately cordoned off the area and found that three of the gang members were cornered in a pit. Giving details of the past records of the criminals, the SSP said the criminals were habitual offenders. Khakh said cases under relevant sections of the IPC have been registered against the trio. He said the police will produce them before the court and seek their remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-in-kapurthala-292785
04-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||2020 Tokyo Olympics: Lost match, won hearts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 3Although the Indian hockey team lost to Belgium (5-2) in the semis of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics today, the players have won millions of hearts back home. Now, the Indian men hockey team will take on Germany for a bronze medal on August 5.India’s Harmanpreet and Mandeep Singh scored a goal each today. Harmanpreet belongs to Gurdaspur and Mandeep hails from Jalandhar. The duo took training at Surjit Hockey Stadium.Avtar Singh (59), one of the first coaches at Surjit Hockey Stadium, talks about the journey of players. Before he joined as a coach in 2008, he was master chief electrical radio (MCELR) in the Indian Navy. He was also a member of Navy hockey team.Avtar has trained several players who have left their mark at various international arenas. He said, “My players have made me proud and I am so glad. What else I want? They were kids when they took admission here. I knew that they are going to make it big one day.”The coach said budding players came to him at the age of 15 to 16. “When players were young, they were only eyeing jobs, but playing at the Tokyo Olympics is a great achievement,” he said.He also talked about Hardik Singh, whose magical goal, sealed India’s win against Great Britain on August 1. Hardik had also taken training at the stadium. “I was impressed by his technical expertise at such a young age,” said the coach.Avtar said along with him, coach Gurdev Singh and physical trainer Jaspreet Singh, guided the boys.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2020-tokyo-olympics-lost-match-won-hearts-292779
04-08-2021||---||Punbus contractual workers hold protest over demands in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 3Following the call given by the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, the city bus stand remained closed for four hours from 11am to 3pm here on Tuesday. The movement of buses and passengers was affected till the time the protest continued.As part of the two-day protest and an unofficial holiday from August 3-4, this was the first day of the protest by the contractual workers demanding regularisation. The bus stand will again be closed for four hours tomorrow.Addressing a gathering here, Chairman Jasbir Singh said neither any passenger nor any bus was allowed to move inside the bus stand. The strike was observed against the non-fulfilment of the demands of the workers.Apart from that, the union members also announced to hold a three-day state level strike from August 9 and 11 and gheraoed the residences of CM Amarinder Singh and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committe Chief Navjot Singh Siddhu. Their demands include a fleet of at least 10,000 buses considering free travel for women and the population of the state, the contractual employees of PUNBUS and PRTC should be regularised in their respective departments, implementation of the Supreme Court’s equal pay for equal work, repeal the condition of the report and reinstate the employees.Jasbir Singh, district general secretary of the Thekha Mulazim Union, said, “We have been seeking regularisation of jobs for the past several years but to no avail. The government seems to have turned its blind eye towards us. The strikes and protest would continue to be intensified unless our demands were met, added Jasbir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-contractual-workers-hold-protest-over-demands-in-jalandhar-292780
04-08-2021||---||Class X results: Students pass with flying colours||Jalandhar, August 3Though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X examinations were not held this time, students of almost all schools are largely satisfied with the results. They expressed gratitude to their teachers as they reached the campuses soon after checking their marks on the web. They enjoyed this much-awaited get-together after remaining holed up at home for almost the whole academic year due to the pandemic.Innocent Hearts SchoolStudents of all branches of Innocent Hearts School, including at Green Model Town and Loharan, scored good in the CBSE Class X exams. As many as 86 students have got more than 90 per cent and 24 students have got more than 95 per cent. In Green Model Town, Mehak Gupta has topped in the city with 99.6 per cent. The second position in school and third position in the city bagged by Aashna Sharma with 99.2 per cent and Gaurangi Kohli has stood third by getting 98.8 per cent. In Loharan, Smayra has stood first by scoring 98.6 per cent, Puneet Madhas and Ankita Sethi stood second by getting 98 percent and Uday Verma stood third by scoring 96.6 per cent.MGN Public SchoolIn MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, as many as 43 students scored above 95 per cent marks. Calculated by adding IT also as a subject, Dilpreet Singh Boparai got 99.4 per cent. Aiming to be an IAS officer, he scored 100 marks in science and IT and 99 in maths and English, and 94 in Punjabi. With same subjects, Shipra Mago got 99.2 per cent. Deepesh Kakkar and Mohit Davar got 98.8 per cent. Deenank Sharma, Nitish Nanda and Vaibhav Nayyar got 98.6 per cent. Principal Kanwaljeet Singh Randhawa has congratulated all the students and their parents.MGN Public School, KapurthalaStudents brought laurels to the school by clinching top positions in CBSE Class X exams. Praneet Kaur excelled by scoring 99 per cent, Gunarpit Kaur Ghotra bagged second position scoring 97.8 per cent and Snehpreet Kaur stood third by scoring 97.2 per cent. Major Charanjit Singh Rai, Chairman, MGN Educational Trust, and Principal Rashmi Sharma congratulated the meritorious students.Mayor World SchoolThe first position was clinched by Aahana Aggarwal (98.8 per cent), whereas the second position was secured by Roshni Bhatia (97.2 per cent) and the third position was held by Atishey Jain and Atulya Malhan (97 per cent). Aahana Aggarwal scored 100 per cent in four subjects, including English, social science, computer and mathematics exam. Vice-chairperson Neerza Mayor and the director Sarita Madhok congratulated the staff and students. Principal Harjeet Kaur Ghuman and deputy vice-principal Charu Trehan also applauded the students.St Soldier GroupOver 80 students got more than 90 per cent marks. Group chairman Anil Chopra and vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said the results of all branches of the group were excellent in which Gurnoor Kaur scored 98 per cent, Pawanpreet Kaur 97.6 per cent, Arshi 96.6 per cent, Harleen Kaur Bajwa and Pallavi Kumari 95.8 per cent, Ravneet Kaur 95.4 per cent, Prabhjot Kaur, Gursimran Kaur 95.2 percent, Alfred 95 percent and Hrithik Bansal 94.8 per cent.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolAs many as 195 students appeared in the Class X examination. Ayush Kumar Tiwari stood first in school by getting 98.4 per cent followed by Devanshi Sharma with 98.2 per cent and Ishant Katyal at 98 per cent. Forty six students got 90 per cent and above marks. Krishna Jyoti (Chairperson), Dr. Vidur Jyoti (Chairman, Trust), Dr. Suvikram Jyoti (Manager, Managing Committee & General Secretary, Trust), R. R. P. Sharda (Trustee) Principal Neeru Nayyar and Parveen Saili (Vice-Principal) congratulated the parents, teachers and students for their performance.Apeejay SchoolAs many as 23 students scored above 95 per cent marks. Aarushi Mittal and Ananya Chopra topped the school with 99.2 per cent, followed by Siya Talwar with 97.6 per cent, Ruhaan Chopra with 97.4 per cent and Khushi Sharma with 97 per cent. Sahibjot Singh Chadha got 96.8 per cent. Aarushi Kapoor got 96.6 per cent. Angad Dhawan, Siddharth Cheema and Misha Puri have got 96.4 per cent. Yajur Gupta secured 96.2 per cent.Swami Sant Dass School, PhagwaraAt Swami Sant Dass Public School, Phagwara, 39 students have secured 90 per cent and above in Class X. Suvir Duggal, a consistent performer, secured 98.4 per cent and topped in school. Following him at second position has gone to Krish Kumar with 97 per cent and Ashmit Aggarwal is third with 96.2 per cent. They are followed by Gursharen Kaur Suri with 95.8 per cent and Garvdeep Singh with 95.6 per cent. The Management, Principal and staff congratulated the students and their proud parents.Swami Sant Dass School, JalandharStudents of Swami Sant Dass Public School, Jalandhar, performed well in the exams with Khyati clinching the top position with 98 per cent. Amritpal Singh stood second with 97.2 per cent and Pragati bagged third position with 96.4 per cent. A total of 160 students appeared for the examination and 66 students have scored above 90 per cent.Ivy World School, JalandharAt Ivy World School, 15 students have scored above 90 per cent marks. Raising the bar for their coming batches, the topper Rikhil Taneja scored 99 per cent, followed by Bhagyesh Kumar with 98.8 per cent and Balpreet Singh Minhas with 95.4 per cent.State Public School, ShahkotAt State Public School, Shahkot, Pavitar Singh has topped with 96.6 per cent, Nimrat Kaur with 96 per cent and Gurleen Kaur with 95.4 per cent in CBSE Class X exams. President of Group of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh and Vice-President Dr Gagandeep Kaur applauded Principal, staff and students for garnering a good score. Nearly 68 students made the school proud by scoring more than 90 per cent marks in different subjects. Principal Kanwar Neel Kamal credited teachers and the students.State Public School, NakodarAt State Public School, Sukhdev Chhabra grabbed the highest percentage by scoring 97 per cent, Rupanshu Chawla scored 96.4 per cent, league followed by Parv at 95 per cent. Aditya Bhanot made a mark by scoring perfect 100 in English, Sukhdev Chhabra and Rupanshu Chawla proved their worth by scoring perfect 100 in mathematics. President and Vice President, Group of State Public School, Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur felicitated the students and their parents. Director Principal Dr Ritu Bhanot applauded the teachers, students and their parents.Delhi Public SchoolOut of 112, nearly 47 students scored 90 per cent and above, while 72 students got more than 80 per cent in aggregate. Four students achieved a perfect score of 100, two each in mathematics and science. Ashika Aggarwal got 98.6 per cent, Gauri Gupta scored 98.4 per cent and Ishmeen Kaur obtained 98 per cent. Thakur Arun Singh, Pro-Vice Chairman, and Principal Ritu Kaul applauded the students for their hard work.Army Public School, BeasStudents of Class X of Army Public School, Beas, performed well. Vansh Harkirat stood first with 97.6 per cent marks, Narinder Kaur and Navjot Kaur shared second position with 97.4 per cent marks and Navjot Kaur Sandhu stood third with 97 per cent marks. Thirteen students scored above 90 per cent and 24 between 90 per cent and 94.99 per cent. The school chairman congratulated all students, parents and staff.Army Public School, Jalandhar CanttThe school scored 100 per cent result in CBSE Class X exams. Shaurya Singh topped the school with 99.2 per cent. The second position was bagged by Khushi Tomar with an aggregate of 98.8 per cent while Kaasvi Dhankhar secured the third position in the school with 98.4 per cent. Dr Saksham Singh, Principal, Army Public School, congratulated the students.Dayanand Model Sr. Sec. SchoolStudents of Dayanand Model Sr. Sec. School passed with flying colours. Aditi Mahajan scored 97 per cent marks. As many as 11 students scored 90 per cent, 17 students scored over 85 per cent and 23 students made us proud by scoring more than 80 per cent. Principal Dr SK Gautam congratulated the achievers.CT Public SchoolKhushi of CT Public School has come first by scoring 96.6 per cent in CBSE X results. Pragti and Krishita Sharma scored 95.8 per cent and stood second while Jiya Wadhwa stood third with 95.6 per cent, who is also a national level tennis player. As many as meritorious students scored above 90 per cent.Cambridge International School, PhagwaraAkshun Mahajan stood first by scoring 99.4 per cent. Sidak Singh was ranked second with 98.8 per cent. It is noteworthy that AkshunMahajan and Sidaksingh scored 100 per cent marks in Maths, Science, Social studies and IT. Four students- Komalpreet, Palakbansal, DeveshMatta and Sipha scored 94.8 per cent and stood third. Palakbansal scored 100 per cent marks in Maths. A total of 20 students scored more than 90 per cent and 94 students scored more than 60 per cent. The Principal, Jorawar Singh, congratulated students on their success.Cambridge International School for Girls, JalandharAt Cambridge International School for Girls, Aditi Kapil and Jiya Mahajan got 99 per cent, Gursimran Kaur and Khushi Sharma 98.2 per cent, Sukhnoor Kaur 98 per cent, Kunjam 97.8 per cent, Rupeena Kumra, Rubab Kaur and Vidhita 97.4 per cent, Ekampreet Kaur, Krishika Chadda and Riya Shoor 96.8 per cent, Tanvi Kad 96.4 per cent, Jesnoor Kaur 95.8 per cent, Bhavika Madan, Mehak Dua and Sandhya 95.4 per cent, Mishthi Mahajan 95.2 per cent and Sukhman Sangha 95 per cent.Cambridge International School (Co-Ed)Students of Cambridge International Co-Ed School got a good percentage. Calculated while adding IT as the main subject, Siddharth Miglani got 99.4 per cent, Dimpalvir Singh 99.4 per cent, Simrat Kaur 98.6 per cent, Namitbir Singh Walia 97.6 per cent. Chairman Nitin Kohli, Vice-Chairman Deepak Bhatia, President Pooja Bhatia, Vice-President Paarth Bhatia and Director and Principal Dr. Ravinder Mahal congratulated the students and their families.Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Sr. Sec. SchoolStudents brought laurels to the family and the institute by scoring 100 per cent result. The first position was bagged by Gunika who scored 95 per cent. A total of 15 students scored above 90 per cent marks. As many as 21 students scored above 80 per cent marks.Eklavya School, JalandharEklavya School excelled with 100 per cent results. Toppers of Class X were Kritish Arora (96.4 per cent), Sanchit Gandhi (96 per cent), Nishesh Singla (95.6 per cent), Sienna Masih (95.6 per cent), Amandeep Singh (95 per cent). Director Seema Handa, Principal Komal Arora, Administrator Dimple Malhotra and staff of Eklavya School Jalandhar, congratulated all parents and students.DIPS SchoolMD Tarvinder Singh, CAO Ramneek Singh, Jashan Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated all meritorious students and motivated them to work hard in the rest of the examinations. Akshpreet of Karol Bagh, Harshdeep of Urban Estate, Jasleen of Karol Bagh, Simranjit Kaur of Nurmahal got 96.4, Priyanka of Nurmahal got 95.6, Shanpreet Singh of Tanda got 95.2.MGN, Urban EstateGunjan scored 98.2 per cent. Both Harshpreet Singh Sodhi and Raiza have scored 97.8 per cent and Man Agochar Singh has got 97.6 per cent. Principal Jatinder Singh has congratulated all students and their parents on their achievements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-x-results-students-pass-with-flying-colours-292787
04-08-2021||---||Covid no hurdle: Mehak tops Jalandhar district with 99.6%||Jalandhar, August 3A regret of not being able to appear for Class X board exams vanished from minds of students, especially the toppers, after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared results on Tuesday. Most students said they could have achieved just that much of what they actually got through a formula devised by the CBSE for evaluation.The top slot from the city went to Innocent Hearts School’s student Mehak Gupta who obtained 99.6 per cent. She was followed by two students of Police DAV Public School – Mansi Aggarwal and Saniya Arora – both obtaining 99.4 per cent.Mehak Gupta said she had been nurturing this dream for the last two years. “Every year after seeing photos of toppers in newspapers, I used to tell myself that my picture should also be on the top of all newspapers. Today, I have fulfilled my dream and I am getting calls from all media houses,” she beamed.Mehak scored cent per cent in maths, science and Punjabi, and 99 in English and social studies. Aiming to become a chartered accountant, Mehak has already taken commerce stream.“I have always been consistent. I had scored 97 per cent in Class VIII and 96 per cent in Class IX. I also maintained a fixed routine when Covid made us stay indoors. I used to attend online classes for three hours and after that I devoted my full day for studies, relaxing only for two hours, which included mealtime,” said Mehak.Mehak attributes her success to her father Vikas Gupta, an industrialist, and mother Cherry Aggarwal, housewife, and her schoolteachers.While Mansi has taken medical stream and wants to be a doctor, Saniya has joined non-medical and wants to be a civil engineer like her dad. Mansi has got cent per cent marks in maths and social studies and 99 in English, Punjabi and science. “My dad Karandeep Aggarwal is a pharmacist and my cousin with whom I am closely attached is BDS. They both are from medical background and I felt inclined for the same stream,” said Mansi and added that she was very upset at the board exams getting cancelled as she had prepared very well. Today I felt that I could have obtained just around similar marks had I appeared for exams, she said.Scoring the same marks, Saniya also has a similar opinion on being able to take her examination. She said, “Had I not been regular with my studies in Class X and not been serious about my pre-board exams, I could have scored less. The consistency that I maintained in Class IX and continued even sitting at home during the pandemic has ultimately paid.”Saniya has got 100 marks in social studies, science and mathematics. She has 98 in English, 99 in Punjabi and 96 in Hindi. She credits her schoolteachers, her father Suresh Kumar Arora, a civil engineer, and her mother who is a teacher at Government School, Mithapur. “My younger sister who is in Class VII also had a major role to play as she ensured that I was relaxed even in some tense moments. She helped me kill my boredom,” said Saniya.The third slot was shared by six students, all scoring 99.2 per cent. One of them is a student of Innocent Hearts School – Aashna Sharma. Japjee Kaur of Police DAV School has also obtained similar marks. The four other included Army Public School’s student Shaurya Singh, Apeejay School’s students Ananya Chopra and Aarushi Mittal, and Akhil Mittal of Sanskriti KMV School. Shaurya scored 100 marks in each subject, except Hindi. Shaurya’s owes success to his father Col Aditya and mother Esha Singh for being a great motivating force. Grandparents Maj Gen Arun and Amita Khanna also celebrated the achievements.Japjee credited her school principal Rashmi Vij for mentoring her and other students from time to time. She scored 99 marks in English, maths, social studies and Punjabi and cent per cent in science. Aiming to be a doctor, she has taken medical stream. “I have set a target of providing free treatment to five poor patients daily once I start practising.” Her father Tajinder Singh is working in the Indian Railways and her mother Swaranjeet Kaur is a government schoolteacher posted at Kishanpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-no-hurdle-mehak-tops-jalandhar-district-with-99-6-292792
04-08-2021||---||Despair & hope at homes of hockey stars||Jalandhar, August 3It was a day of rollercoaster emotions for fans of Indian hockey. When the Indian men led Belgium 2-1 in the semifinals of the Olympic Games hockey, it was a moment to celebrate — but as they conceded goals to first give up their advantage and then concede the lead, joy turned to despair.The families whose sons were playing in Tokyo went through the same emotions — joy and despair. But there remains the hope of a medal, which a win over Germany in the bronze playoff would ensure.Manjit Kaur, mother of Indian captain Manpreet Singh, was crestfallen after today’s loss. She was unhappy, and said her son was in the same state of mind when they talked after the match. “Khush nahi si oh,” she said.“All of us are disappointed after today’s loss,” she added. “Let’s see what happens in the next match with Germany… Asi Germany nu easy nahi lai sakde (we can’t take it easy against Germany).”Hoping for bronzeThe families of the four players from Amritsar district are also hoping for a bronze with a win over Germany. Balwinder Singh, father of Dilpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son after the match. “He sounded a little disheartened, and I told him to not lose heart over a result which cannot be altered,” said Balwinder. “I told him — put all your energy into the next match as the whole country would be looking at all of you with hope.”“It is better to have something rather than nothing,” said Hardev Singh, father of Shamsher Singh, from Attari village. “One out of the two teams must lose. Sadly, it was not our day.”Sarbjit Singh, father of Harmanpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son and his room partner Mandeep Singh to motivate them for the crucial match against the Germans.“I told them to not brood over a lost match and focus on the next match as the whole of India hopes for a hockey medal this time,” Sarbjit said. “Anyway, it is not a small feat that after decades, this team reached the semifinals at the Olympics.”“I told them they played well today, and that it was only in the last 10 minutes that Belgium steered the match in their favour,” he added.Gurjant Singh’s father Baldev Singh said the team played well for the most part. “They led 2-1 in the first half and it was only in the second half that Belgium converted penalty-corners into goals. This means our team’s field hockey is strong enough to counter direct attacks,” he said, hoping the team would ensure a medal on Thursday.In Faridkot, the family of drag-flicker Rupinder Pal Singh remains confident that the team would come back with a medal. “They still have a chance to secure a bronze medal, and I have no doubt that the boys will bring back a medal,” said Rupinder’s father, Harinder Singh.(With inputs from Amritsar & Faridkot)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despair-hope-at-homes-of-hockey-stars-292562
