05-08-2021||Nawanshahr||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni lands up in controversy||As Charuni walked up a staircase to reach out the statue of the architect of the Indian Constitution, he chose to remove garland from around his own neck and put it on the statue. He was accompanied by ex-BSP state chief Rachhpal Raju during the ceremony.As videos of the ceremony got circulated, the BSP leaders led by Dr Nachhatar Pal Singh condemned the action and lodged a complaint with SSP Alka Meena alleging dishonour of the revered national hero.Eventually, on Wednesday, Charuni chose to get out of the controversy by putting up his video on social media seeking an apology from all those who got hurt, especially those belonging to the dalit community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-lands-up-in-controversy-293442
05-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Lyallpur Khalsa College student selected for World Deaf Games||Rain Dance Party organisedIVY World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, organised a Monsoon Dance Party in the kindergarten wing. To beat the heat of summer, a virtual “Rain Dance Party” was organised for the Ivyians. Children were also taught how to protect themselves from the summer sun. All the little wonders of Ivy looked adorable in their swimming suits, complete with colourful umbrellas, splash pools, and rainy-day snacks. The icing on the cake was the well-planned activities, such as having the children dress up in rain dance gear, swim in a water pool or a splash pool, special dishes that we eat during the rainy season. During the rainy season, children were taught about the benefits of eating a well-balanced diet as well as maintaining proper hygiene. The Little Rock Stars danced to the exhilarating virtual music, which filled the spectators with energy and joy. S. Chauhan, Principal of Ivy World School, praised and thanked parents for their support and cooperation in making the event a success.Foundation Day celebrationTo inculcate the religious and moral values in children, Eklavya School celebrated its 17th Foundation Day. On this occasion, a hawan ceremony was performed. Seema Handa, Director Eklavya School , Komal Arora ,Principal Eklavya School Dimple Malhotra, Administrator Eklavya School ,and the educators made offerings into the fire, which re-energised, created a revitalising and rejuvenating effect for both the body and the mind. JK Gupta, Chairman, showered his blessings in the form of flowers on the students. The students gathered to celebrate the foundation day of the school. At the end of the Hawan ‘prashad’ was distributed among everyoneBilateral State ScholarshipsThe students and faculty of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have been granted Bilateral State Scholarships 2021 for Summer University Courses in Hungary. Four student of MA (Psychology) — Jagriti Nagpal, Pranavcheet Kaur, Amandeep Kaur and Shreya Dogra along with faculty member Dr Sharanjit Kaur have been granted the scholarship to attend summer course in the prestigious Universities of Eotvos Lorand University, Budapest and University of Szeged, Hungary. The classes for this course have commenced. In these courses, the scholarship holders are gaining knowledge about Hungarian language and its culture. In the cultural lectures, information on the traditions prevailing in various geographical areas of Hungary is given. The scholarship included participation in the courses free of charge as well as a stipend consisting of a supplement, an accommodation and meals.Online programme with friendsDIPS School, Tanda, organised an online programme in which students enjoyed with their friends by playing online games, organised a party and had lots of fun and entertainment. Students made cards and friendship bands for their friends. Some students presented handmade card and friendship band to their siblings and recollected the wonderful moments spent together in childhood. Principal Divya Chawla told the students that the friendship is the most valuable treasure in the world and is a wonderful relationship of love compassion and togetherness. Be with your friend through thick and thin. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra lauded that books are the best companions in the world.Education fair inauguratedThe Career Counselling Cell of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya inaugurated two-day Education Fair in its premises. The incharge of the fair were Dr Harpreet Singh, Dr Seema Khanna and Rama Sharma. An open mike competition was also organised on this occasion in which students showcased their talent in singing, dancing, poetry, mimicry etc. The students participated in open Mike with full enthusiasm and they were honoured. The fair was inaugurated by Officiating Principal Navroop Kaur. Dean Academics Dr Seema Marwaha, IQAC Coordinator Dr Ashmeen Kaur, Science Faculty Incharge Dr Neelam Sharma, Head Commerce Department Meenu Kohli and School Coordinator Meenakshi Syal also accompanied her. Vote of thanks was given by Dr Seema Khanna. Stage was conducted by Gagandeep and Binoo Gupta.CBSE Class X resultStudents of Guru Amar Dass Public School Model Town, Jalandhar, showed good result in the Class X CBSE results declared on Tuesday. Binju Thapa and Gursimar Kaur stood first by securing 95.6 per cent and Anmolpreet Singh secured 95.4 cent and got second position. At Kamla Nehru Public School, Phagwara, 126 students of Grade X appeared in CBSE Class X. In Saffron Public School, Phagwara, Supreet Kaur scores 95.4 per cent. From State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, Sukhpreet Kaur brought laurels by securing 96.4 per cent. In Apeejay School, Rama Mandi, Yugta scored 97 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lyallpur-khalsa-college-student-selected-for-world-deaf-games-293394
05-08-2021||A group of local leaders from Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr Diary: Aam Aadmi Party gains with Cong turncoats||Aditi tops with 97.4% in Class X, Mehak 2ndA student of the local Cambridge School, Aditi Arora, has topped the district in the CBSE Class X results declared on Tuesday. She has scored 97.4 per cent. Mehak Verma from KC School came second with 96.4 per cent. Kanishka, also from Cambridge School obtained 94 per cent. Both her parents being doctors, Aditi Arora also wants to follow them and has taken admission in the medical stream. Her elder sister Kirti too has completed her MBBS. Mehak wants to be a CA and has opted for commerce stream in Plus One. Her father Deepak Verma works in the Health Department while her mother is serving as Dean in the KC Group of Institutions.— Compiled by Deepkamal Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-aam-aadmi-party-gains-with-cong-turncoats-293393
05-08-2021||---||Development works pick up pace in Phillaur||Jalandhar, August 4To speed up development works in Phillaur Assembly constituency ahead of polls, former Punjab Youth Congress president Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary inaugurated streets constructed with interlocking tiles in Garhi Mahan Singh village and kick-started the work of building a park in Mehsampur here.The streets have been constructed with a grant of Rs 6 lakh under the Smart Village Campaign scheme, while the park would be built by contributions from NRIs at Rs 10 lakh. Speaking after the inauguration in Garhi Mahan Singh, Vikramjit Chaudhary said a long-pending demand of residents has been fulfilled by the state government. He said after coming to power in 2017, the Congress government launched various programs such as Smart Village Campaign and Urban Environment Improvement Programme to bring development to everyone’s doorsteps in Punjab.In Mehsampur, he thanked the NRIs for contributing to the development of their village and appreciated their love for the homeland. Vikramjit Chaudhary informed that since Congress came to power in 2017, Rs 42 lakh and Rs 27.5 lakh have been spent on development projects in Mehsampur and Garhi Mahan Singh villages, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/development-works-pick-up-pace-in-phillaur-293392
05-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: One booked for Rs 23.5 lakh fraud||Four booked on assault chargeHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a case against four persons for assaulting a man after forcibly entering his house. Kewal Singh, a resident of Wahad village, told the police that Karnail Singh, Ranjit Singh, Balveer Singh and Avtar Singh, all residents of his village, forcibly entered his house and beat him up. The police have registered a case. OCIntoxicants seized, three arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police arrested three smugglers from different places and recovered a large quantity of narcotics. The Chabbewal police arrested Manzoor Mohammad and recovered illegal liquor from him. Meanwhile, the Dasuya police arrested Bittu Pradhan, a resident of Anandpur Sahib, and seized 25 gram of heroin from him. The Tanda police arrested Sandeep Singh, a resident of Sikri, and seized a large quantity of sedative pills. OCCharuni meets NRIs in DoabaJalandhar: Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, under the banner of Mazdoor Kissan Dalit (MKD) Front, organised a gathering at Dr BR Ambedkar Bhawan here. Charuni after touring Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr and Garhshankar area in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday reached Jalandhar. He said, “We are connecting with all people in Punjab. We will take the message of Mission Punjab to every corner of Punjab.” He listened to the problems of NRIs in Doaba and assured them that he would take them up at a proper forum. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-one-booked-for-rs-23-5-lakh-fraud-293391
05-08-2021||---||13 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 4After a fortnight, positive cases have shot up, in the district on Wednesday. The health authorities have reported no Covid-related deaths in the district for the last one week. The authorites reported 13 new positive cases today, thus taking the tally to 63,128. No Covid death was reported today in the district and the toll stands at 1,490. As many as 61,580 people have recovered from the virus while number of active cases has reached 58 in the district.No case, death in K’thalaThe authorities reported no case and death in Kapurthala today. The tally stands at 17,761.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-293390
05-08-2021||---||Dakoha underpass bids to open on August 31||Jalandhar, August 4As a part of development projects being planned by the government just ahead of the Assembly elections, the financial bids for the upcoming Dakoha railway crossing are slated to open on August 31 as the NHAI had already floated the tenders for this project last month.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said to minimise the traffic problem at the busiest Dakoha railway point, the district administration had earlier proposed the construction of an underpass here. He added that this underpass would cost nearly Rs 14 crore. He also mentioned that the project would be completed within one year of its commencement and is aimed at easing traffic problems at this Amritsar-Delhi rail route. He said that during the peak hours the traffic piles up at NH-44 due to the closure of this crossing, which in turn forms an accident black-spot in this area.The DC further stated that the feasibility survey was also carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD) at this place, which suggested that a RUB/ROB was not possible here due to the proximity of this crossing to the NH-44, thus the problem could be sorted out by setting up of a vehicular underpass here.Pointing out further, NHAI project director Varinder Singh said the vehicular underpass would cost around Rs 14 crore, and after the opening of financial bids, the work order would be issued to the successful bidders. The duration of the project is 12 months after its commencement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dakoha-underpass-bids-to-open-on-august-31-293389
05-08-2021||---||She can’t see any flower or leaf dying||Jalandhar, August 4Guninder Kaur (61), chairman of Inner Wheel Club, knows how to balance her love for the job and her green babies. While she takes care of others’ needs as she is associated with the club, her plants are a great source of stress-reliever for her. Guninder says she is quite possessive of her plants and cannot watch any flower or leaf dying.“I have loved gardening since my childhood, and I am fond of collecting every type of plant. I’m always delighted to see my plants growing and I am very sensitive when it comes to plants,” she said. Whenever I see any of my plants dying, it makes me very sad, she said.She shared that plants played a very important role in her life. “Whenever I feel low, I sit next to my plants. I believe that plants talk to you when you spend time with them or you are sad. I love herbal plants and have mint, ajwain, tulsi, curry leaves, gilloy, turmeric, etc. I’ve permanent floral plants like Rose,Hibiscus Masanda, Chandni, etc, in my garden,” she said.A lot of oxygen-producing plants like areca palm, snake plant, money plant, spider plant, Ashokas are also adding to the beauty of her space. Bonsai of Banyans, peepal, jade and adanium, ficus and ornamental plants are also present.At the terrace, she has grown vegetables in grow bags and big planters. She makes compost from kitchen garbage. While explaining her admiration for plants, she said, “I start planting tree saplings in parks and schools during this month of July and August. I can spend hours with the plants.”“Being in this organisation we serve the needy, under-privileged sections of society especially women and girls. We also work to save the environment by planting more and more trees and motivating people to create urban forests and to manage kitchen garbage into compost,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-cant-see-any-flower-or-leaf-dying-293356
05-08-2021||---||Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary for renovation of Phillaur’s Gandhi Dham||Jalandhar, August 4Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary met Union Minister of Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw and raised the matter of construction of approach road and renovation works at Gandhi Dham, Phillaur.He told the minister that the Congress government in the state had sanctioned Rs 2.30 crore for this work to be done by Block Panchayat Samiti Phillaur, but since the land of Gandhi Dham was in the name of Indian Railways, the permission from Railways was necessary to undertake the works.Highlighting the importance of the place, MP Chaudhary said Gandhi Dham is a place having significant historic value as the ashes of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi were immersed there in Sutlej on February 12, 1948. “Every year, official functions are organised on February 12 and October 2 at Gandhi Dham and dignitaries and local people come to the memorial to pay their tributes to Mahatma Gandhi,” he added.Chaudhary Santokh Singh further stated that several years ago, the highway leading to the memorial was diverted and therefore, the approach road is in a dilapidated condition now. Moreover, the present condition of the memorial is in a shambles and requires renovation. Therefore, to maintain its dignity, it is vital that the memorial is renovated and the approach road is reconstructed.“I have requested Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to grant the permission for constructing the road and undertaking the renovation works at the earliest so that we can honour the memory and legacy of the Mahatma in a befitting manner,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mp-santokh-chaudhary-for-renovation-of-phillaurs-gandhi-dham-293359
05-08-2021||---||Labourers from Jalandhar all set for Patiala protest||Jalandhar, August 4Members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union on Wednesday decided to join the three-day morcha at Patiala to raise demands of labourers. During a meeting, the activists declared that rural and farm labourer unions’ sanjha morcha shall hold a protest at Patiala on August 9, 10 and 11 and shall hold a march to the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh.The union also condemned the rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi and demanded strict punishment for the perpetrators of the crime. Union general secretary Avtar Singh Rasoolpur and state press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghugshore said the government has sided with corporates and working against labourers. While polls promises haven’t been met, false claims regarding debt waivers of landless people were being made by the government. Cooperative societies have been kept out of the ambit of debt waivers. The government has also turned a blind eye from issues of waiver of non-government debts. They said these kind of ‘anti-labourer’ and ‘pro-corporate’ policies were fuelling unemployment and poverty.Policies under the MNREGA, provision of plots to landless, domestic electricity etc. have also failed. Union state leaders Hans Raj Pabwan, Mahinder Singh Khairar, Kamaljit Sanawa, Raj Kumar Pandori, Sherpur Saddha, Manga Singh among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourers-from-jalandhar-all-set-for-patiala-protest-293354
05-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Number plate recognition device to keep eye on crime||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 4The Jalandhar rural police installed a hi-tech system in Phillaur to help it keep a tab on all incoming and outgoing vehicles past the Jalandhar-Ludhiana route across Sutlej to check crime.SSP Rural Naveen Singla, sitting at district headquarters in Jalandhar city, 40 kms from the site, has started personally monitoring the movement at the crucial entry and exit points of the city. Explaining the purpose, he said, “We have installed a number plate recognition (NPR) device with which we are keeping a track on all vehicles entering and leaving the city. The automatic system scans the number plates of all vehicles, including cars, two wheelers and trucks and stores the data of the same along with the exact timing of its passage at the naka.”The SSP added, “Through the system, we can also check as to how many times a particular vehicle crossed the naka in a week or so. The biggest advantage is that if a particular vehicle owner, after committing a crime, passes through the naka, a siren will be blown at the site and our police teams there can immediately chase the vehicle and nab the offender.”Singla also added that pan and zoom cameras had also been installed at the site which can rotate 360 degree and zoom the videos for more clarity and noting any details. “Our cameras have a good night vision too and will work and report for 24 hours. Besides, we can also zoom in and capture images of the persons there in the suspected vehicles,” said the SSP, who has installed a big screen, high-quality server, PCs and high speed internet in his office here.Singla said such devices would also soon be installed at other strategic sites in the Jalandhar Rural police area. “Our next point would be installing this device at Gidderpindi near Shahkot, which too is a common point for the criminals to escape and is remotely located from the headquarters. Next, we may use the same technology at Kartarpur on Amritsar highway”, he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/number-plate-recognition-device-to-keep-eye-on-crime-293349
05-08-2021||---||Gang involved in theft of transformer oil busted in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, August 4The Kapurthala police busted a gang involved in the theft of transformer oil on Tuesday by arresting seven of its members and recovering 145 litres of oil, a Swift (PB-09-AH-6729), 14 buprenorphine injections and 14 vials of pheniramine maleate injection from their possession.Those held have been identified as Bhan Singh, alias Bhana, Sukha, alias Katta of Sundar Nagar, Jaskaran Singh, alias Bunty of Preet Nagar, Deepak Kumar, Harmanjot Singh of Ratta Nauabad village, Satwinder Singh of RCF, Kapurthala, and Jarnail Singh of Buhai in Kapurthala.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said, “We had been receiving several complaints from the PSPCL and the locals about the oil theft from transformers causing disruption in the power supply.”He said all SHOs were instructed to keep a tab on the crime and today, a police team led by SHO Sadar Kapurthala Gurdial Singh, under the supervision of DSP Kapurthala Surinder Singh, arrested the accused and made the recovery from them. “A special type of oil is used in transformers for cooling purposes. Once the oil is stolen, the transformer gets heats up and catches fire,” said the SSP adding that the oil has a huge demand in the metal industry for its use in welding machines.HPS Khakh said the arrested accused have confessed of dozens of such thefts in the district and a case has been registered against the accused at police station Sadar Kapurthala under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Sections 22, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.During interrogation, it was revealed that the accused were involved in more than 39 criminal cases of theft. It is presumed that they might be involved in more cases of oil theft as well.The accused would be produced before the magistrate and their remand would be sought to further investigate the matter and trace the links. The kotwali police also arrested two persons of similar module for stealing cables and electric equipment from motor pump room of a farmer in Kanjli village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-involved-in-theft-of-transformer-oil-busted-in-kapurthala-293352
