06-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Mithapur village of Jalandhar erupts in celebrations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5It was gold at the 1980 Moscow Olympics 41 years ago. But bronze at the 1972 Munich when Rupinder Pal Singh scored the fifth goal in the match India played against Germany. Today at Mithapur, hopes and aspirations, being harboured for the past 49 years, were realised. It has been 49 years since any lad from Mithapur was a part of the medal winning Indian hockey team in the Olympics. The last player from the village was Kulwant Singh who was part of the Indian hockey team that took part in the 1972 Olympics.team that took part in the 1972 OlympicsIndia entered the Olympic semifinal for the last time in the 1972 Munich Olympic Games. The dusty lanes in the village today were reverberating with dhol beats. Many elderly people of the village were seen doing bhangra.Manpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar’s parents were so happy that they left their houses without having any food just to be part of the celebrations. Wherever they went, the dholis and dhol beats accompanied them, even to their houses and the village gurdwara. Coaches, elderly people, relatives, donors, hockey stick manufacturers funding village hockey — all joined in the celebrations. It was an atmosphere of great bonhomie in the village where the three families enjoyed collectively, visiting the local gurdwara, dancing at each other’s houses and giving video bytes together.Manpreet’s mother said, “They have all grown up together. They went to school together. When they come here, they visit the gym and go to Nik Baker’s together. Ik vari tan shami jana hi hunda. (They have to go once in the evening).” Nik Baker’s eatery is at Model Town in Jalandhar which is adjacent to Mithapur village.Brahmanand, Varun’s father, said, “Manpreet and Varun went to school together. It was watching Manpreet play hockey that Varun took to the game. Manpreet’s mother used to watch him and ask Manpreet this boy also plays hockey. Manpreet told her he also played hockey with us. It was watching Manpreet that Varun took up hockey. It makes us happy as the kids’ collective team work has borne fruit.”While the three players have been buddies for long, another reason for the jubilations is more than just India’s Olympic win.Coach Balwinder Singh, who trained the kids at the local academy, says, “The boys have upheld the age-old hockey legacy of the village. It will usher in a revolution. Hockey is in our blood here. Men have been toiling for ages. Every house has a hockey player. In the three boys, the village’s dream has come true. From Swarup Singh to Kulwant Singh to Pargat Singh, the hockey medal dream which was thought to have erased from residents’ memory long ago seemed to have been revived with a bang.” Harminder, Mandeep’s brother, was seen hanging out with Talwinder Singh, another ace hockey player today, who is also among the most talented hockey players and plays for India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mithapur-village-of-jalandhar-erupts-in-celebrations-293871
06-08-2021||Ashok Kaura||Heavy discount on dresses lands Phagwara shopkeeper in trouble||Phagwara, August 5The police on Wednesday booked a person, who runs a cloth shop, on the complaints of customers who felt cheated and disappointed as the shopkeeper had offered a heavy discount on women dresses but instead of keeping his promise he closed his shop, which is situated on the Banga Road here.A huge crowd of customers from parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Chandigarh and various other districts were shocked as the shopkeeper downed the shutters of the shop in the early morning. The customers were infuriated and held a protest and raised slogans.The lureAccording to information received, the owner (shopkeeper) of Ashu’s Hatti had announced on social media that a suit priced above Rs 5,000 would be sold for just Rs 395 for two hours in the morning — from 3am to 5am.The lure drew a large number of women along with their families, who started reaching the place from the previous night. Around 700 tokens were issued by the shopkeeper, but, as everyone was in hurry to avail the offer first, it led to chaos in the shop and he had to drive them out of the shop and close it. The customers staged a dharna in front of the shop, leading to traffic disruption on the Phagwara-Chandigarh road. At dawn, a huge crowd gathered there, which left people living nearby wondering what was happening there.As soon as the incident was reported, SHO (City) Surjit Singh and PCR in-charge Shuminder Singh Bhatti along with a large number of police force rushed to the spot and tried to calm down the customers. But the people who came from far-off places were not ready to calm down, so the police had to deploy a force in front of the shop to avoid any damage to it.While confirming the incident, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh told this correspondent here that the police got the shop open and registered a case against the shop owner, Ashu Duggal, alias Armesh Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Prabhakar, Hadiabad, and more than half a dozen persons for violating the government instructions in view of the pandemic under Section 188, IPC, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in this regard. Earlier, a case was also registered against the shopkeeper for violating the rules during the Covid-19 health crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heavy-discount-on-dresses-lands-phagwara-shopkeeper-in-trouble-293872
06-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: Joie de vivre after podium finish in Tokyo Olympics||Jalandhar, August 5The entire city watched the exciting match of the Indian hockey in the Tokyo Olympics, which led to it winning the bronze medal today. The colleges, where these players studied locally, held events and announced cash rewards for the winning Indian men’s team.LPU announces Rs 10 lakh each for its seven studentsLovely Professional University (LPU) too was in full festive mood while celebrating Indian Men’s Hockey Team Bronze winning at Tokyo Olympics-2020. As the Indian team, with seven LPU student-players, created history, the whole campus got resounded with drum beats and rhythmic feats on the tunes of Bhangra and Giddha. To the five winning goals, LPU MBA students Harmanpreet and Rupinderpal contributed one each. The seven LPU students in the Indian Men’s Hockey team are its Captain Manpreet Singh (MBA), Rupinderpal Singh (MBA), Harmanpreet Singh (MBA), Mandeep Singh (BA), Shamsher Singh (MBA), Dilpreet Singh (BA) and Varun Kumar (MBA). LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal announced Rs 10 Lakh to each LPU student who is part of the Indian hockey team. He also informed about the raising of a world class hockey stadium at the LPU campus, in addition to already existing international level huge sports infrastructure for various games. A rally was taken out in which the staff members were seen waving Tricolour, keeping up the national glory for the national game - hockey.LKC to offer Rs11Kto each player from PunjabDemonstrating their love for sports, a function was organised at Lyallpur Khalsa College to celebrate India’s bronze medal victory in hockey in the Tokyo Olympic Games, which was marked by the presence of Rajinder Singh, an Olympian and Dronacharya Awardee and S Gundeep Singh. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra welcomed all guests and congratulated the Indian Hockey Team for winning the bronze medal in the Olympic Games. On this occasion, Principal Dr Samra, addressing the staff and students, said it is a matter of pride that the Indian team has won a bronze medal in Olympic hockey and that three players, Harmanpreet Singh, Vice-Captain, Varun Kumar and Simranjit Singh, have been students of the college. A total of seven players are from Punjab. He announced that the College Governing Council would give a prize of Rs 11,000 to each player. He hoped that the Indian hockey team would win a gold medal in the next Olympic Games. Motivating the students, he said with commitment, hard work and single minded devotion, every goal can be achieved. Principal Dr Samra congratulated and thanked the teachers, the newly admitted student players, NCC cadets and students and celebrated this victory by distributing ladoos.Ramgarhia College erupts in joyIt was a proud moment for Ramgarhia Educational Institutions, Phagwara, as well as Hardik Singh, who played a mid-fielder and gave an outstanding display of his hard work. He is a student of Ramgarhia Arts College, Phagwara. Manjit Singh, principal, said Hardik Singh belongs to a sports family as his father was also an international hockey player and is presently posted as Senior Superintendent of Police at Batala. “Hardik’s grandfather’s brother was a team member of Indian hockey team in 1980 that won gold medal for India in Moscow. So it was a proud moment for the family to secure a medal at the Olympics again after 41 years,” Manpreet Kaur Bhogal, Chairperson, Ramgarhia Educational Institutions, said. She said the council and also the management wished and prayed for his great success and hoped that he will keep bringing more glory to the nation and to his team in the future.Historic win will restore glory of hockey: DCCongratulating team India for its historic feat in Tokyo Olympics, the Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori today said it will pave way for restoring the pristine glory of national game in the country. In his congratulatory message to the team, the DC, who is the President of Olympian Surjit Hockey Academy, said the team India led by Captain Manpreet Singh has made the entire country proud by this spectacular victory against Germany. He bemoaned that despite being our national game, the hockey had lagged behind in sports arena. However, Thori said this win had brought relief after the 41 years of drought by bagging the medal in the Olympics after four decades. The DC said this victory would go down in golden words in the annals of sports history. He said Captain Manpreet Singh, who hails from Mithapur village of district, has scripted a new success story and will be remembered for his stellar role. Thori said this will also further help to channelise the unbounded energy of youth in a positive manner especially in the field of sports. The DC said this day has proved that the game of hockey was on the path of revival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-joie-de-vivre-after-podium-finish-in-tokyo-olympics-293873
06-08-2021||---||Cong MLAs try to ‘isolate’ Rana Gurjit Singh||Kapurthala, August 5In order to isolate MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, three Congress MLAs from Kapurthala district —Navtej Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara) and MLA Sukhpal Khaira (Bholath) today held a joint meet with the ADC (D) and officials of various departments.Even though the meeting was shown to have been held to review the progress of development works and implementation of welfare schemes at ground level, it came out to be a show of unity of the three MLAs. Earlier, too, the three MLAs had held joint meetings, thus isolating Rana.Cheema and Khaira have been at loggerheads with Rana and roped in Dhaliwal as well.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal skipped the meeting. She reportedly came to her office in the afternoon and Cheema and Khaira reportedly met her after their meeting.The MLAs have reportedly got Rs 10 crore grant each for development works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-mlas-try-to-isolate-rana-gurjit-singh-293874
06-08-2021||Jalandhar||2 new Covid cases reported in Jalandhar district||Creativity on displayJalandhar: The city-based NGO for the destitute children, EduYouth Foundation (Regd) organised an online drawing competition. There were more than 80 registrations from various schools across the state. The children between 7-15 years age group participated in the painting competition. The first position was bagged by Tanish Jhanji (Apeejay School, Jalandhar) followed by Mukti Singh (DAV Centenary Public School, Jagraon), Damanpreet Kaur (Police DAV, Jalandhar), Gursirat Kaur (Delhi Public School, Jalandhar). The most creative painting award was given to Saihejpreet Kaur Sokhi (MGN Public School). The NGO has been operational for the past one year and has taken various initiatives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-new-covid-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-293875
06-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Hockey tournaments act as fuel for players||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5It was a day of celebrations as the Indian hockey team bagged a medal in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics after a gap of 41 years. Olympians from the district expressed satisfaction over the much-needed win. Three players—Captain Manpreet Singh, Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh — belong to the district. Most of the players have also trained at Surjit Hockey Stadium from time to time.Today members of Sardar Balwant Singh Kapur Memorial Hockey Tournament and Mata Parkash Kaur Cup exchanged sweets on the occasion. Olympian Sanjeev Kumar said players who made the nation proud had also played the Sardar Balwant Singh Kapur Memorial Hockey Tournament. Kumar said, “Finally, the drought has ended. It is a proud moment for everyone.”Harbhajan Singh, chief of the memorial, said it was indeed a moment of joy as the players had also marked their presence in their tournament.The Sardar Balwant Singh Kapur Memorial Hockey Tournament has become a symbol of togetherness.Six brothers — Gursharan Singh Kapur (82), Harbhajan Singh (79), Manjit Singh (76), Manmohan Singh Kapur (73), Tirath Singh (68) and Hardeep Singh (59) — have been organising the tournament for the last 15 years to keep memories alive of their parents.After the death of their father, the brothers organised the first tournament in 2004. After their mother passed away in 2008, Kapur brothers named the trophy after their mother’s name ‘Mata Parkash Kaur Cup’. The winning team gets Rs 1.25 lakh, followed by Rs80,000 and Rs60,000 and Rs40,000 to the second, third and fourth teams, respectively. Six best players get Rs7,500 each.Olympian Col Balbir Singh speaksOlympian Col Balbir Singh expressed happiness and said it's the revival of hockey in India. His son Col Sarfaraz Singh in 2018 had taken a hockey stick on the Mount Everest. “I told him that he should pray for the uplift of hockey in India,” said Col Balbir. “My son prayed with a hockey stick at the top of Mount Everest and it did pay off,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-tournaments-act-as-fuel-for-players-293876
06-08-2021||Jalandhar||Sapling plantation drive at Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women||Environment Protection DriveKanya Maha Vidyalaya commenced Environment Protection Drive. The chief guest for the event was Karnesh Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. NCC cadets of KMV along with all the faculty members participated in the drive. Welcoming the guest, Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred said that umpteen activities like tree plantation drives, cleanliness rallies and drives, polythene free city campaign and moreover, colossal contribution has been made to Swatch Bharat Abhiyaan by KMV. Karnesh planted a sapling in the KMV campus in order to motivate the students for environment conservation. Principal appreciated the students and faculty member and also motivated them to contribute significantly to the environment conservation.Baby 3rd in MSc Computer ScienceBaby Kumari of PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar, entered in Guru Nanak Dev University merit list with third position in the recently declared MSc (Computer Science) Sem. 1 result by securing 474 marks out of 600. Applauding the meritorious student on her remarkable success, Principal Dr Pooja Prashar wished for her bright future and commended the highly dedicated faculty of the Department of Computer Science for the spectacular results year after year. She expressed confidence that the students guided and mentored by the highly qualified faculty equipped with the ultra-modern infrastructure of the college will continue their journey of success in future also.4 DAVIET students get jobsFour students from various departments of DAV Institute of Engineering & Technology (DAVIET), Jalandhar, were selected for the Multinational Giant Greyb Research. GreyB is a business innovation consulting company founded with a belief that protection and valorisation of innovation will represent an integral part of the commercial food chain. GreyB’s mission is to strategically create and manage the intellectual assets that will eventually benefit the world with more and better inventions and create financial rewards for the owners of the intellectual property. The selected students are Nikhil Kaushal, Tushar Arora, Mohit Mahajan and Ansh Sharma.Two-day education fair organisedA two-day education fair was organised at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, by Career Counselling Cell of the college. The incharge of fair was Dr Harpreet Singh and Co-Incharges were Dr Seema Khanna and Rama Sharma. The students were told about various courses run by the college and their future prospects. The students asked various career related questions. The Psychology Department of the college also arranged psychometric tests for the students in the fair. In open Mike Competition the students also showcased their talent in singing, dancing, poetry, mimicry etc.Webinar on Higher Edu InstitutionsUnder the guidance and mentorship of eminent educationist Prof Dr R C Sobti (Padma Shri Awardee), the Internal Quality Assessment Cell of DAV University organised a webinar-cum-workshop on “NAAC Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Higher Education Institutions”. Dr Sobti chaired the webinar-cum-workshop and laid emphasis on quality and inclusive education. He insisted on the significance of education in the sustainable development of any society. Dr V S Chauhan (Former Chairperson NAAC) gave the inaugural address. Dr K Rama (Adviser, NAAC), Dr Priya N (Assistant Adviser, NAAC) and Dr Shyam Singh Inda (Assistant Adviser, NAAC) were expert speakers.Webinar on Role of a TeacherTo celebrate 75 years of Independence, MGN College of Education, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on the topic “Nation Building through Value Based Education: Role of a Teacher”. The resource person for the webinar was Dr Dinesh Arora, Associate Prof, PG Department of Political Science, DAV College, Jalandhar. While elaborating the meaning of value, he explained it as principle of life which tell us about what is right or wrong and lead us to the path of contentment. He also stressed that the teacher has a great role to play in developing values among students as he/she gives message of not to swerve from the path of truth and dharma and contribute something useful to the society.Debate competitionVassal Education Group led Cambridge International School, Phagwara, organised a debate competition for Class XI in order to polish their English speaking skills. This debate competition was based on the topic models/ heroes and heroines are setting wrong objectives for common people. Participants were judged based on content, presentation, use of examples and facts and use of arguments. Sidak Singh and Veerika Johal Class XI sciences bagged the first position. Yashika Jain of Class XI commerce secured the second and Jasmeet Kaur from Class XI sciences stood third. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sapling-plantation-drive-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-for-women-293878
06-08-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on National Achievement Survey held||A one-day workshop was organised for the Principals and Incharges of the district Aided Schools in connection with the National Achievement Survey (NAS)The workshop was conducted on behalf of the Education Department at the local Sain Daas Senior Secondary School, Patel Chowk.Surinder Pal, in-charge of District Education Reform Committee, while commencing the workshop, gave basic information regarding NAS. Rakesh Sharma, Principal of Sai Das School welcomed all the school heads present in the workshop,that was primarily focused on growth and development of the children. Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) Rajiv Joshi motivated everyone to be active and work with full energy.It was told in the workshop that the survey would be conducted in all government, aided, private, Kendriya Vidyalayas, etc, on November 12 for evaluation of education activities and policy making at the national level. The Punjab government has made a detailed plan to reach out to all school heads, teachers, students, setting the goal of coming first in the quality education. Along with this, infrastructure has also been added as an important part in the survey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-national-achievement-survey-held-293879
06-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Debut to remember: Hockey player Mandeep Singh’s kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5“A medal in his first Olympics, we are elated!” Nothing else can sum up the mood at Mandeep Singh’s house better. Dhol beats haven’t stopped reverberating in his house since early morning. Everyone has tried their hand at Bhangra, even the most solemn of village men.“Can’t tell you how happy we are. We have tears of joy,” says an elated father Ravinder Singh.As a steady stream of mediapersons flood their home, parents flit from one house to another — getting hugs and nibbling on a never-ending supply of laddoos.Ravinder says: “My cousins and I are so happy. My son has become an Olympian. He has brought a medal in his first Olympics.” For mother Davinderjit Kaur, all her dreams have come true.Mandeep’s brother Harminder, 32, who casually lounges with player Talwinder Singh, has played hockey in his youth.His uncle Surinder Pal Singh Ghugga, 72, played for East Bengal, while his son Balwinder Singh is a village hockey coach. Between the family, there are 10 people, including elders and cousins, who have pursued hockey at point in their lives.Ravinder plans to go to Amritsar to receive Mandeep and pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib. “After he returns, all relatives will gather. He will go to the village ground, from where he started his hockey journey, to pay tribute. He was extremely emotional during our conversation today. Could barely talk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/debut-to-remember-hockey-player-mandeep-singhs-kin-293538
06-08-2021||---||Jalandhar coach Avtar Singh who trained Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh elated||Jalandhar, August 5“When Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh first came here to take training, he just wanted to play to get a job, now he has won a medal in the Olympics. I always told him to think big. Now he, along with other players, has made me proud,” says Avtar Singh, who joined as a coach at Surjit Hockey Stadium in 2008.Singh was a Master Chief Electrical Radio in the Navy for 20 years. He was also a member of the Navy hockey team.“Manpreet’s family was going through financial challenges at that time. But I wanted him to continue playing and represent the nation at the international level. I also told Manpreet’s mother that he was a great player in the making and should continue playing. Today, under his captaincy, the team has won bronze,” says Singh.Saw dragflicker in harmanpreetAfter the 2016 Junior World Cup, I asked Harmanpreet to keep himself focused as the nation didn’t have many dragflickers at that time. —Avtar Singh, Coach, Surjit hockey stadiumTalking more about Manpreet, Singh says he always had leadership quality and fighting spirit in him. “He was physically very tough and always worked towards winning every game.”First tournament that Manpreet played under coach Singh was the Nehru Hockey Tournament and the team won. After that, the team won Junior National Hockey Championship in Lucknow and Haryana. After that, there was no looking back.About Harmanpreet Singh, who scored a goal for India today, the proud coach said: “After the 2016 Junior World Cup, I asked Harman to keep himself focused as the nation didn’t have many dragflickers. I told him that he could be a part of the Olympics one day if he remains dedicated and keeps himself fit.” Varun, Hardik Singh and Mandeep Singh, have also taken training at Surjit Hockey Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-coach-avtar-singh-who-trained-indian-hockey-team-captain-manpreet-singh-elated-293539
06-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar village that sent 3 hockey players erupts in celebration; couldn't have asked for more, says captain Manpreet Singh's mother||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Mithapur village in Jalandhar, which has three players in the Indian hockey men's team, erupted in celebrations after India won bronze at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday.Also read: A real 'Chak De' moment for Indian hockey: Men's team wins Olympic medal after 41 yearsPunjab announces Rs 1 crore each for men’s hockey team players from stateThe captain of the team, Manpreet, too hails from the village.Two days ago, Manpreet's mother Manjit Kaur, while talking to The Tribune, had said that the team shouldn't take Germany lightly, but her joy knew no bounds after India's sensational victory."I will hold 'Akhand Sahib path' now. We will celebrate to the fullest. I have no words to express my happiness," she said, tears of joy flowing onto her cheeks.She said when her son in childhood would devote most of his time to hockey, she kept wondering what Manpreet would do once he grew up."But those training him then would always tell me that from the village playground, my son will move to international venues and I will watch him play hockey on TV some day. The day is here and I watched him win an Olympic medal. What else could I have asked for!"Hardik Singh, another star player who scored a goal against Germany, phoned his brother after the match, asking him to imprint Olympic logo on his car."When he got selected for the Olympics, his younger brother asked him if he could get Olympics ring imprinted on the car. Hardik replied he will tell him at an appropriate time. The time has come," said an elated mother of Hardik, who belongs to Jalandhar."I have got a gold ring made for my son in the shape of Olympic rings," she said, adding their prayers had come true.Also, huge rush of camerapersons was present at Varun's house. He too belongs to Mithapur village. As video bytes of Varun's father were being recorded and interviews were being taken, old struggle days came as a quick flashback in his mind."I am celebrating with mediapersons. There is a dhol, and we are dancing.  I had never expected such a day in my life. I have seen Varun doing hardwork day and night. Today the hardwork has paid off. On this big day, I suddenly got a flashback of every struggle and pain I have gone through in life," Brahma Nand, Varun's father said.Brahma Nand was a truck driver and because of financial constraints, he had to see a lot of problems in his life."I am the luckiest one today. My son has made India happy, is there are other feeling that can beat this one?," The father asked.Having a calm demeanour, Brahma Nand said that he thanked the almighty and asked him to keep his blessings on the boys forever.He said that now he wishes the players to win a gold in Commonwealth games in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-village-that-sent-3-hockey-players-erupts-in-celebration-couldnt-have-asked-for-more-says-captain-manpreet-singhs-mother-293411
