07-08-2021||Jalandhar||Vajra Tech and Innovation Fest||One Kala Kachha gang member heldKapurthala: The Kapurthala police today arrested one member of the inter-state Kala Kachha gang who was previously arrested but had jumped his bail. The arrested accused has been identified as Illa, son of Mir Hassan, resident of house No 32/11 Nirankari Colony, Old Delhi Hall. He was presently living at Pilani district Junjanu, Rajasthan. Addressing a press conference, SSP HS Khakh said the accused was arrested with nine other gang members during the last operation at Mothawal village and he was lodged in Kapurthala jail. He said in 2013 at Mothowal village, Kala Kacha gang members had attacked a house in night with weapons in which six persons of two families were seriously injured and money and jewellery were looted. He jumped bail on February 8, 2019 and was suspected to have reorganised the gang. The arrested accused would be produced in the court by the police and his police remand would be sought to further investigate the matter and trace out the links. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-tech-and-innovation-fest-294337
07-08-2021||Jalandhar||Prof Lakhbir Singh passes away||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-lakhbir-singh-passes-away-294336
07-08-2021||Jalandhar||Campus notes: Nail art competition organised at DIPS College in Jalandhar||Lovepreet shines in BCA VILyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus is known for providing quality Education to its students. This is proved by the results of Department of IT declared by IKG Punjab Technical University in which students of BCA & MCA have brought laurel to the Institute by bringing good marks in the University. In BCA VI, Lovepreet scored 9.15 SGPA ,Vartika scored 9.12 SGPA; Nikita Nayyar scored 8.96 SGPA; AnchalSaini , Ashima, Sahibpreet Singh scored 8.81SGPA; Dilpreet Singh scored 8.65 SGPA. In MCA VI Ritika scored 9.31 SGPA ; Amanpreetkaur, DaljitKaur, Ravit Kumar pharma scored 9.14 SGPA, Balwinder and Kanika Arora scored 9.03 SGPA ; Pooja scored 8.97SGPA; AvtarLal , Dimpal, Ekus Bhogal scored 8.86 SGPA; Heera Lal scored 8.83 SGPA. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents for their implausible achievement.PCM SD College gets new principalMarking a new innings in the glorious journey of PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar, Dr Pooja Prashar (pic) joined as the new Principal of the college as Dr Kiran Arora superannuated after rendering a remarkable service of over one and a half decades. Dr Pooja Prashar started her academic career at Dev Samaj College for Women, Ferozepur as an Assistant Professor in History and later served as the Head of the Department of History in the same college. During her tenure, she did her Doctorate in History. She authored several books and published a number of high quality research papers in reputed journals.Rupali 1st in BVoc Web TechnologyBVoc (Web Technology and Mutimedia) Sem - V students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got 1st, 2nd and 4th positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Rupali stood 1st in university with 356 marks, Suman stood 2nd in the university with 354 marks and Bhavyaa Manocha stood 4th with 351 marks out of 400. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and encouraged them to reach greater heights. On the occasion, Ashish Chadha and Rishabh Dhir were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/campus-notes-nail-art-competition-organised-at-dips-college-in-jalandhar-294335
07-08-2021||Extending congratulations to the Indian hockey team for winning bronze medal at Tokyo Olympics||Kapurthala diary: Seechewal  extends wishes to hockey team||No gathering in 100-m radius of exam centresArrangements are being made for the effective implementation of guidelines around the examination centres where the exams for patwaris are being held on August 8. Various examinations for the posts of patwaris are being held at designated centres from 11 am to 1 pm on August 8. The Deputy Commissioner, Deepti Uppal, on Friday issued orders directing that no kin, parents of examinees, public or any other persons could gather within an area of 100 metres from the examination centres. Orders were also released for restrictions on any other gathering at the centres except the examinees, examiners or staff members deputed for various duties during the exam. The instructions were issued to avoid any untoward incident around the examination centres.Soni announces four new medical collegesMedical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni on Tuesday announced four new medical colleges, including one at Kapurthala. During a visit to Virk village, the minister inaugurated Gee Bee Institute of Nursing and Home Sciences. The minister announced the setting up of four new medical colleges at Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Mohali and Malerkotla. He said the medical college at Kapurthala will be dedicated to the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev and would cost Rs325 crore. He added that in addition to the 300-bed hospital, the medical college will also have a hostel, education college, residential complex, multi-storey parking etc. The minister said a detailed project report had been submitted to the Centre in this regard and Rs40 crore each for the medical colleges of Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala during the Budget 2021-22. He said the state government had already sanctioned the first installment of financial grants for four new medical colleges in the state which will enhance the MBBS seats up to 1,500 in the state from existing 700. Prominent amongst present on the occasion included Dr GB Singh, Dr BS Bhatia; Congress leaders Kamal Dhaliwal, among others were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-diary-seechewal-extends-wishes-to-hockey-team-294334
07-08-2021||Jalandhar||6 infected of Covid, no death in Jalandhar district||As many as six new Covid cases were reported on Friday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,136 cases. One of the patients belonged to another district. No Covid death was reported today. The deceased tally remained at 1,490. As many as 61,588 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 58.One death in KapurthalaFive cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala on Friday, taking the Covid tally to 17,766. One death from Covid was reported today. The deceased is a 59-year-old woman from Khalwara in Phagwara.No case, death in NawanshahrNo Covid positive or death was reported from Nawanshahr on Friday. The active cases in the district stands at three and one patient was under home-isolation. The tally in the district is 11,427 (4.12 per cent) and death toll is 374. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-infected-of-covid-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-294333
07-08-2021||---||Oxygen concentrators donated to Army by Jalandhar Administration||Jalandhar, August 6The district administration on Friday donated six oxygen concentrators (with capacity of 10 LPM each) to Army officials for use in ex-servicemen polyclinics and hospitals.Handing over the equipment to GOC Manoj Kumar at the District Administrative Complex, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori reiterated the administration’s commitment to serving every strata of society amid the Covid crisis. He briefed about the initiatives taken by the administration to contain the virus spread, especially serving weaker sections of society.He said the district administration was working round-the-clock to make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in terms of oxygen production as most of the hospitals have installed PSA-based oxygen plants so that any kind of O2 shortage could be tackled efficiently.Jalandhar in-charge of Guardians of Governance (GOG) Major General (retd) Balwinder Singh said four of the six concentrators were donated by the Punjab Engineering College Old Boys Association (Australia). Singh added that these oxygen concentrators to be utilised in military polyclinics, including ECHS Polyclinic, Jalandhar Cantt; Suranasi ECHS, Hoshiarpur; ECHS, Beas, and others.GOC Manoj Kumar said the equipment would further strengthen the Covid care infrastructure in the healthcare institutions of the ECHS and their dependents. He also stated that all Army healthcare establishments have been rendering their services to people.Prominent among others present on the occasion included Colonel Gurcharan Singh Colonel Goraya, Dr Priyanka Parmar, Colonel Dadwal, and Colonel Umang and many more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-concentrators-donated-to-army-by-jalandhar-administration-294331
07-08-2021||Jalandhar||Cover cases till 2017 under OTS scheme, Jalandhar traders urge CM in letter||Traders under the banner of Khel Udyog Sangh have written to the Chief Minister and Finance Minister of Punjab to cover the cases till 2017 under the one-time settlement scheme (OTS).The OTS was implemented for 2013-2014, and the traders have been demanding to include cases till 2017 under the scheme. “The sports industry is going through the toughest time due to the pandemic. We request you to pay attention to the extensively labour-intensive industry which is surviving with difficulty and is in doldrums and it is badly hit,” the memorandum reads.The traders said the problem was only aggravating amid the pandemic as they cannot deal with the cumbersome procedure of the tax.The members also handed over the copy of the memorandum to Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri. The MLA played an important role in bringing the OTS scheme as he always accompanied the traders and the industrialists to various ministers and raised the issues of the industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cover-cases-till-2017-under-ots-scheme-jalandhar-traders-urge-cm-in-letter-294328
07-08-2021||---||DGP lays stones of police infra projects in Nawanshahr||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, Dinkar Gupta on Friday laid foundation stones and inaugurated a slew of projects to develop a robust police infrastructure in the district for the welfare of the people and the police of Nawanshahr district.The DGP, while laying foundation stone of the District Police Lines project at Jethu Majra village here, said this was the most prestigious project of the district police, which is coming up almost 26 years after the formation of the district. He said the District Police Lines, which will be established in over 10 acres land with a cost of Rs25 crore will have all required facilities, including stadium/parade ground, quarter guard, GO mess, GO quarters, NGO hostels, barracks, administration block, police dispensary, police gym and MT section etc.The DGP also inaugurated the district police office (DPO), which comprises modern conference hall, spacious public room with separate feeding corner for nursing mothers and video conferencing eoom etc.DGP Gupta also unveiled two other major projects, including police station Sadar Balachaur, which will house the SHO residence.Later, the DGP also inaugurated the Mukandpur police station building established with a cost of Rs1.64 crore. He said the three-storey built in an area of four-kanal comprises SHO Room, armoury, munshi room, lock ups and waiting area for the public at the ground floor, while the first floor has IO’s rooms, malkhana, whereas the third storey will consist of recreation room, residential portion, including barracks for NGOs, besides the dining/kitchen facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dgp-lays-stones-of-police-infra-projects-in-nawanshahr-294325
07-08-2021||---||Hoshiarpur MC collects Rs10.5 lakh in just 2 days||Hoshiarpur, August 6With 10 per cent rebate in payment of property tax of 2021-22 as announced by the Punjab Government till September 30, the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation has witnessed overwhelming response with collection of nearly Rs10.50 lakh property tax in just two days.Divulging details for payment of property tax, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Aashika Jain said the system of depositing the tax was very simple and people can deposit their property tax online.She said the Municipal Corporation was sharing all details online besides setting up a special counter on the MC complex to facilitate people. She stated that for the convenience of the people, the state government has also started mSeva app, a chatbot having number 87509-75975 through which people can get all the required information.The MC Commissioner said every property had already been allotted a unique ID as well as number plates. She urged the people that they must mention the unique ID number while submitting the assessment form for paying property tax.Municipal Corporation rolls out ‘Swachh Ward’ competitionIn a first of its kind initiative to further intensify the Swacch Abhiyan, the Municipal Corporation here rolled out the ‘Swachh Ward’ competition on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. The results of this competition will be declared on August 12.The municipal wards bagging first three positions will be awarded with the development grants to the tune of Rs20 lakh, Rs15 lakh and Rs10 lakh, respectively as announced by Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora. Besides this, the safai sewaks, councillors and ward swachhta warriors of the winning wards will also be felicitated on August 15.Giving details in this regard, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) and Municipal Commissioner Aashika Jain said the motive of this competition was to make all wards garbage free to ensure clean, green and health hazardous free environment. She also made a fervent appeal to the local residents, market associations, resident welfare associations, NGOs for their active participation besides assisting the Municipal Corporation in cleaning the city.The Municipal Commissioner mentioned that the sole criteria to win the developmental grants is ‘Zero Garbage Vulnerable Points’ or elimination of all garbage dumps in all wards other than four secondary garbage collection points established by the Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-mc-collects-rs10-5-lakh-in-just-2-days-294324
07-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Tokyo glory: Hardik Singh wants Olympic rings imprinted on his car||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Hardik Singh, a star player of the Indian Hockey team, who scored a goal against Germany on Thursday and against Great Britain earlier, phoned his younger brother after the match, asking him to get the Olympics logo imprinted on his car. “When he got selected for the Olympics, his younger brother asked him if he could get an Olympics ring imprinted on the car. Hardik said he would tell him at an appropriate time. The time has come,” said Kamaljit, an elated mother of Hardik, who belongs to Jalandhar. The mother further shared that Hardik was a calm person and doesn’t get excited about everything very easily. He always awaits the right time to react. “His brother is very excited,” she said.“I have got a logo made for my son in the shape of the Olympics rings,” she said, adding their prayers had come true. The family is residing in Batala these days and is here to celebrate with their kin in Jalandhar. History repeats itself: History has repeated itself in the family of Hardik Singh, who scored the second goal against Germany in Tokyo Olympics and won Bronze. He is the grand nephew of Gurmail Singh, who was part of the Indian Hockey Team that won a gold medal in the 1980 Olympics.Gurmail said, “I could see myself when I saw Hardik running to goal, lots of memories ran through my mind.”The Olympian and an Arjuna Awardee said he could feel what the players must have been feeling after the win because he has experienced it. Hardik’s grandfather Pritam Singh prompted both Gurmail and Hardik to join and play hockey. After Gurmail, it was the dream of Pritam Singh to see Hardik getting a medal in the Olympics.When Hardik had scored a magical goal against Great Britain, he pointed his hands towards the sky and remembered his grandfather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tokyo-glory-hardik-singh-wants-olympic-rings-imprinted-on-his-car-294323
07-08-2021||---||Farmers protest against new PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at Ballan village||Jalandhar, August 6PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu faced stiff opposition from members of various farmer organisations during his visit to the Dera Sachkhand Ballan here on Friday. Sidhu, who visited the house of the Balla village sarpanch in Jalandhar, faced a protest from farm leaders of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) and the Kirti Kisan Union who raised sloagns against him with black flags in hand. Farmers also had an altercation with police personnel who stopped them outside the street where Sidhu was going to visit the sarapanch.Farmers were held back by the policemen outside and not allowed to reach the spot where Sidhu was visiting. Raising slogans, the farmers protested against Sidhu and a war of words ensued. Farmers said the police warned that they would be arrested, but they did not relent.While farmers have announced a complete boycott of the BJP leaders on the call of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, they had also announced that they would ask tough questions from the rest of the leaders.Amarjit Singh Jadiala of the BKU Rajewal said, “He terms himself a well, but we were not even allowed to be near the leader. We were stopped outside so that we can’ confront him.”Kirti Kisan Union leader Santokh Singh Sandhu said on one hand, farmers were working on roads to earn their livelihoods, political parties were only bothered about their vote bank politics. They said Sidhu who called himself a well and the farmers thirsty was making misplaced statements ahead of the elections. Farmers said if he stood for the cause of farmers, he would have visited farmers’ homes or asked about any of their well being. On the occasion, BKU Rajewal district spokesperson Jathedar Kashmir Singh Jandiala, members Amrjit Singh Shergill, Amarjot Singh Jandiala, Balbir Singh Seham, among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-against-new-ppcc-chief-navjot-singh-sidhu-at-ballan-village-294322
07-08-2021||---||Jalandhar Sevak – a one-step app for collating social efforts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6While the response of the government was at the centre of ensuring the rapid and effective response to aid citizens against the pandemic, many civil society organisations have been able to support these efforts in their own way by providing ambulance services from Jalandhar to New Delhi at only Rs 11 and serving free food to families affected by Covid. Thus, it ensured that even if anyone fell out of the government safety net, their basic needs had not gone unmet adhering to the sewa culture in Punjab.To honour this commitment of Jalandhar’s civil society, and to take a step further in realising the goal of integrating citizen services on a digital platform in the district, the district administration has developed an in-house mobile application (Jalandhar Sevak) that can collate all the work being done by the civil society in the city.The application is expected to create information symmetry between the government, the civil society, and the citizens enabling them to optimally utilise the services being provided by the civil society in the city. The app was developed completely through the philanthropic support of the Jalandhar Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) and had no financial liability on the administration.Currently, there are 56 service providers registered on the application across eight categories. Any NGO, essential supplier, or philanthropic organisation wanting to register on the application can do at https:// app.jalandharsevak.com/signup and access their profiles by logging into https://app.jalandharsevak.com.The application also saw the launch of ‘Bablu’ and ‘Babli’ – Jalandhar’s Covid response mascots that are expected to successfully disseminate Covid related information to the younger age groups. It is a part of the targeted strategy being undertaken by the district administration to create awareness among the younger age groups.“Since vaccination for children is yet to be available, it becomes of paramount importance to ensure that they follow appropriate Covid protocols. As a parent, I understand that isolating children in a household is next to impossible. Therefore, there is an added risk of the children infecting other high-risk individuals if they contract the disease from outside. Keeping this in mind, we are undertaking several targeted initiatives along with dedicated testing and prevention strategies to ensure that the children are not affected by the pandemic in any way. The creation of the mascots by the administration is one such step in that direction”, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.The DC expects that the Jalandhar Sevak app would be another e-governance initiative that would positively impact the lives of the citizens in the district. Dedicating the application to the civil society of the city as a completely de-centralised forum for information sharing, he further requested citizens to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination as the effects of the pandemic are far from over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sevak-%E2%80%93-a-one-step-app-for-collating-social-efforts-294320
07-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Punjab village proud of hockey player Gurjit Kaur’s stellar performance at Tokyo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar/Jalandhar, August 6“Tu jitti hain, haari nahi,” said a proud Satnam Singh while speaking to his daughter Gurjit Kaur on the phone after the Indian women hockey team lost to Great Britain in the bronze medal match and finished fourth at the Tokyo Olympics. “You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire nation is very proud of you,” he said.Unforgettable momentTu jitti hain, haari nahi (You have won, not lost). You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire country is proud of you and other girls of the team. — Satnam Singh, Gurjit’s FatherThere will be many Gurjits nowGurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival. — Parminder Kaur, Gurjit’s College CoachLater, talking to The Tribune, Satnam Singh, said: “I felt sad to see tears in the eyes of our girls. Had Gurjit not scored goals in the Olympics, we would have felt bad. She, along with other girls, gave her best.”Though residents of star dragflicker’s Miadia Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil were heartbroken after the team’s defeat, they felt proud of their daughter for making the obscure village famous and hogging the limelight at the international level.Gurcharan Singh, a village nambardar, said: “If it was goalkeeper Savita who was the protagonist of the team in the first quarter, saving two penalty corners and three goal attempts, it was dragflicker Gurjit Kaur in the second quarter who converted two penalty corners into goals.”Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur, a coach at Sansarpur, said: “I am proud of my sister. She has worked very hard to make it up to here. The girls played their hearts out and gave us a perfect display of quality hockey”.Parminder Kaur, who coached her at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, said, “Gurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival with Gurjit at the centre of it.”Meanwhile, Congress leader Dilraj Singh Sarkaria today inaugurated a stadium named after Gurjit Kaur in the village.(With inputs from Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-village-proud-of-hockey-player-gurjit-kaurs-stellar-performance-at-tokyo-294106
07-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Navjot Singh Sidhu visits Doaba deras ahead of polls||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today visited Dera Sachkhand Ballan and Dera Baba Jaura, both with a sizeable following among the Dalits. Accompanied by ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Aruna Chaudhary, among others, Sidhu paid obeisance at the two deras ahead of the Assembly polls.At Dera Ballan, he met Sant Niranjan Dass and sought his blessings to create a "new Punjab". Channi sought 101 acres of land for the dera. The issue of due representation to the Dalit community in the civil administration and the police was discussed too. At Dera Baba Jaura, the Congress team met Sant Nirmal Dass. As Dalits comprise 32% of Punjab's population, leaders of almost all parties make it a point to meet the dera heads prior to the elections to enlist their support. Sidhu's dera visit today is significant as both the BJP and the SAD have announced top Cabinet positions for Dalits.Also read: Farmers protest against new PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at Ballan village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-singh-sidhu-visits-doaba-deras-ahead-of-polls-294162
