08-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||PSPCL in recovery mode||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 7A massive raid was conducted in the wee hours on Saturday by the enforcement wing teams at various locations in the North Zone.A coloniser located at 66 Feet Road in Jalandhar was asked to pay Rs3 lakh for misusing electricity. He was running construction activities from his commercial connection.“Total 155 connections were checked, seven cases of electricity theft and 18 cases of other violations were also found. A total penalty of Rs7 lakh was charged for various offences apart from registering FIR against the thieves. More such raids to curb power theft will continue,” said, Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, enforcement wing, Jalandhar circle.High-tech gadgets come to rescueIt is pertinent to mention that the enforcement wing of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Jalandhar circle, has recovered Rs1 crore as penalty from those stealing power in the month of July this year.The information was revealed after the revenue assessment of the enforcement wing. The amount surpassed due to the large number of electricity theft cases reported last month amid rise in mercury.In the month of July, the enforcement teams of North Zone checked over 8,000 electricity meters in ME laboratory and in the field. Nearly, 150 cases of electricity theft, 15 cases of wrong metering and 90 cases of unauthorised extension were found during this period.“The enforcement teams are working day and night to curb the menace of electricity theft and strictly implement zero tolerance policy of A Venu Parsad, CMD, PSPCL,” said Jasbir Singh Bhullar, head, enforcement wing.The enforcement wing is also taking strict action against corrupt practices adopted by its own employees and recently, a clerk of the corporation posted in Nakodar was suspended for fudging the bill amount of a consumer, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-in-recovery-mode-294749
08-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Vaccination or -ve RT-PCR must for visiting Chintpurni||Hoshiarpur, August 7Anticipating the third wave of Covid-19 in the state by the Himachal Pradesh Government, persons wishing to visit various temples of the state during Shravan Ashtami Navratris (from August 9 to August 17) will be allowed to enter the state borders only if they possess a Covid-19 vaccination certificate (both doses) or negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours. It is necessary that the said report is issued from the authorised laboratory.Giving information, Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said many devotees from Punjab and other states visit Mata Chintpurni and other religious places for darshan on these days through Hoshiarpur. Therefore, before going for darshan, they must carry the certificate of both doses of Covid vaccination and the RT-PCR report. She said the orders issued by the Himachal Pradesh Government should be fully followed, so that devotees do not face any problem at the Himachal border. She said the Himachal Government would set up checkpoints on its border and only those who have the above documents would be allowed to enter.In this regard, Raghav Sharma, Una Deputy Commissioner (Himachal Pradesh) said: “It is very important for devotees coming to Himachal Pradesh to follow the health instructions related to Covid-19. The policy of no mask, no darshan, social distancing of two yards would be implemented strictly during the said time in the district. Legal action will be taken against those who violate rules. The arrangement of hand-washing, sanitisers and thermal scanning will be ensured during entry to religious places and temples of the state.”OfficialspeakMany devotees from Punjab and other states visit Chintpurni temple on these days through Hoshiarpur. Therefore, before going for darshan, they must carry the certificate of both doses of Covid vaccination and the RT-PCR report.  —Apneet Riyait, Hoshiarpur DCIt is important for devotees coming to HP to follow instructions related to Covid-19. The policy of no mask, no darshan, social distancing of two yards will be implemented strictly during the said time. —Raghav Sharma, Una DC (HP)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-or-ve-rt-pcr-must-for-visiting-chintpurni-294774
08-08-2021||---||With love, from Gakhal brothers||Jalandhar, August 7NRI philanthropists Gakhal brothers on Saturday announced Rs11 lakh cash reward for the men and women hockey teams, which brought glory to India in the Tokyo Olympics 2020.Holding a press conference here on Saturday, the brothers said an amount of Rs5.5 lakh each will be awarded to both teams for their glorious performance during the Olympics.While they will be awarding a cash prize to the bronze winning men’s Olympics team, they said the decision to award the girls’ team was taken in view of the impressive performance put up by them and because they brought India so close to winning a bronze. They were joined by 1980 Moscow Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi.Addressing the press, Amolak Singh Gakhal, chairman of Gakhal group, said the award was being dedicated to his grandmother Gurbhag Kaur and mother Gurdev Kaur.Gakhal brothers Palwinder SIngh Gakhal and Iqbal Singh Gakhal were also present. They said they had earlier announced that Rs11 lakh would be awarded to the Indian Hockey team if it wins gold in the Olympics, but due to the impressive performance of the teams and Gakhal brothers’ own love for the sport and players, they have decided to award both teams.They lauded the men’s team for the impressive bronze win breaking the 41-year-old hiatus at the Olympics and also the girls, who bagged the fourth spot, thus creating history.Amolak Singh Gakhal said: “We have been sponsoring sportspersons and events but the joy of this year’s Olympics win is special. The teams will be honoured at a special event held in their honour at Gakhal village. This is our mark of love and adoration for players.”While the Gakhal brothers sponsored and gave Rs6 lakh cash award to the first prize winner at Surjit Hockey Cup, they also sponsored the children’s camp at the Surjit Hockey Society. They had also honoured 2008 Beijing Olympics gold medal winner Abhinav Bindra with a cash award of Rs10 lakh.Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi said: “While Hockey was thought to be fading away in the state, the Olympics win of the teams has brought a new lease of life into the game and into the spirit of the state collectively. It is a moment for much celebration for us.”LPU celebrates students’ achievements at Olympics Jalandhar: LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal expressed happiness over athlete Neeraj Chopra winning an Olympics gold on Saturday. Mittal said Chopra is a student (distance education BA) at the Lovely Professional University. Neeraj Chopra created history by winning a gold medal in javelin throw at the Tokyo Olympics. He glorified India by clinching the top Olympics medal after over 100 years of the games. Chopra led the scoreboard with an effort of 87.03 on his first attempt, 87.58 on his second and 76.79 on his third. His win is a golden moment for all Indians, he said. Mittal said on the wrestling side, LPU’s MA public administration distance education student and wrestler Bajrang Punia also defeated his rival Daulet Niyazbekov of Kazakhstan to win a bronze in the Olympics. Mittal said: “The marvellous and exemplary outcomes of LPU athletes at Tokyo Olympics have brought great happiness to the country and LPU.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-love-from-gakhal-brothers-294776
08-08-2021||---||To shed hesitancy, twins hold vax camp||Jalandhar, August 7In a first-of-its-kind initiative, teenagers undertook the job to carry out a special vaccination camp in the district on Saturday. Ranveer Singh and Sumerveer Singh, both twins, held a vaccination camp for those, who can’t access other medical facilities.Held at an eatery at Urban Estate, as many as 150 people were vaccinated during the camp.Both brothers also run an NGO Spot the Stops aimed at promoting menstrual hygiene, but the camp on Saturday was held due to the vaccine hesitancy they witnessed around them.Aged 13, the twins who study at Doon School are at home in Jalandhar due to the pandemic. They organised the camp after witnessing vaccine hesitancy among their house staff. The boys were assisted by many friends in the endeavour.Ranveer Singh (13) said: “Most of our house staff hasn’t been forthcoming about their vaccines. They don’t want to go to a hospital due to too many people there and they also don’t want to spend the money. We wanted a space, where people would be charged nothing and could be comfortably vaccinated without the fear of crowd. The process went on smoothly and many, who had inhibitions, shed these and got vaccinated.”Held at an eatery at a public thoroughfare, many rickshaw pullers, labourers and other employees working in the area also got vaccinated.Sumerveer said: “Except staff members, all our family members have received both shots. They are very happy about it. We have been home due to the pandemic and can’t even go to school. We can’t go out and play. We want as many people to be vaccinated as possible. This was our own little effort to ensure that.”Mother Reeti Singhm an entrepreneur, who backed their effort, said: “The boys want people to shed their vaccine hesitancy and go out in a world that is easier to be with. During the lockdown, they also disbursed sanitary pads, sanitisers, masks, gloves and soaps to ease people’s experience of the pandemic. Therefore, I fully supported them when they wanted to hold the camp.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-shed-hesitancy-twins-hold-vax-camp-294777
08-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district reports 9 cases, no death||No case, death in KapurthalaNo Covid cases were reported in Kapurthala on Saturday and the district tally remained at 17,765. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala. TNSHoshiarpur reports one positive caseA person tested positive for Covid while no death was reported from Hoshiarpur on Saturday. The active cases in the district stands at 18 and 29,666 patients have recovered so far. The tally in the district is 30,660, including 2,046 cases reported from other districts while the toll is 976. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-9-cases-no-death-294780
08-08-2021||---||Deposit beneficiaries’ share to upgrade CETP, tanners told||Jalandhar, August 7Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has asked all 59 members of Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) leather complex to deposit the first instalment of beneficiaries’ share for the up-grade project of CETP by August 9 as interim committee would be left with no option but to seal defaulting units according to the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Chairing the general house meeting of CETP members, the DC, accompanied by senior environmental engineer Tejinder Kumar, environmental engineer Arun Kumar Kakkar, PGO Randeep Singh Gill, chief scientist Central Leather Research Institute SK Mishra, executive engineer Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Jalandhar, Jitin Vasudeva, and administrative officer CETP KC Dogra, interacted with the owners of leather tanneries and answered their queries on various issues related to CETP. The DC said as per the High Court orders, the interim committee was directed to invoke sealing action against the defaulting industry by serving a prior notice of 24 hours.He appealed to all members to come forward and deposit their first instalments for the up-grade of this project, so that the CETP could function as per latest parameters.During the meeting, some tanners cited their financial problems and said they were approaching the state government to provide funds against 15 per cent share of industry of the total cost of the up-grade project. Whereas, some of the CETP members deposited cheques with PETS office against the bills dated 28.07.2021, raised by PETS with last submission date of 9.08.2021.Pointing out further, administrative officer, CETP, KC Dogra said to adhere to the timelines for the issue of award of work to the L-1 Agency, all tannery members were asked to deposit their first instalment share on time, as the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s standing orders dated 09.12.2021 says: “The interim committee is entitled to recover the lawful dues from the industries towards the recurring expenditures to be incurred on the functioning, maintenance, upkeep and up-grade of the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP).”The HC further said: “We make it clear that if any effluent generating industry fails to contribute its share towards maintenance and upkeep of CETP, the interim committee constituted here in above shall seal such industry within 48 hours after 24 hours’ notice.”Meanwhile, the general house also extended existing operation and maintenance work to existing agency Jalvayu Parivartan Consulting Engineers for a period of three months as house members said the financial bids of JBR Technology were too high for this work.Notably, the interim committee had earlier floated tenders for the operation and maintenance of CETP and a single bid was received from JBR Technology, which was rejected by the general house citing its high rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deposit-beneficiaries-share-to-upgrade-cetp-tanners-told-294782
08-08-2021||---||30 officials receive  appreciation letters||Jalandhar, August 7Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori felicitated 30 officials for their good work in reducing pendency in sewa kendras, making Jalandhar a leading district in terms of lowest pendency in sewa kendras in Punjab. Notably, Jalandhar district has zero pendency status, which is lowest in the state.The DC while handing over appreciation letters to best performing officials said it was only team work that has led to this position. He added that all of us must continue working with renewed zeal and passion to maintain the top position. He said more appreciation letters would be given to officers/officials for making Jalandhar a leading district in flagship programmes of the state government.Officials who received appreciation letters included superintendent MCJ Kamal Roop, junior assistant, MCJ, Satnam Singh, ASI Jaswant Lal, ASI Manjinder Singh, constable Amanpreet Singh, Sanjeev Chauchan and Ritu Sharma from Civil Surgeon Office, Amritpal Singh, Rajinder Kumar, Jagraj Chopra, and Mandeep Singh from LA branch of DC Office, Amarjit Singh and Satinder Singh from the Health Department, Parmod Kumar, Rakesh Kumar-clerk-SMO Nakodar, Jaspreet Singh District trainer Sewa Kendra, Lovejot Chander computer operator, Naresh Kumar Senior Assistant Tehsil-2, Balwant Singh Junior Assistant Tehsil-2, Nidhi clerk DSSO Jalandhar, Varinder Kumar DSSO, Himanshu Arora clerk, EOMC, Nakodar, Ganesh Kumar from SMO Shahkot office, Mukhtiar Singh Junior Assistant Shahkot SDM, Pawan Kumar block accountant PHC Mehatpur, Seema Rani computer clerk CHC Adampur, Jaswant Rai junior assistant Tehsildar Phillaur, Honey Bansal Clerk Sub Tehsil Kartarpur, Angrej Singh Reader Tehsil-1, and Narinder Singh reader Tehsildar Shahkot.The felicitated officials thanked the DC for recognising their services and reiterated their commitment to maintaining top position in terms of lowest pendency in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-officials-receive-appreciation-letters-294783
08-08-2021||---||DAV Public School, Jalandhar, celebrates success of its hockey star Hardik Singh||Jalandhar, August 7Students and teachers of Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, celebrated the success of the Indian hockey team in the Tokyo Olympics, especially of their alumnus Hardik Singh.At the beat of dhol, the school hockey team danced at the PAP Hockey Stadium along with Principal Rashmi Vij, hockey coaches, and alumnus hockey players of the school. Alumnus hockey players — Harsimranveer Singh, Ajaypal Singh and Lavnoor Singh — who have been selected in Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar, and Punjab Institute of Sports, Mohali, joined the celebrations along with Kulbir Singh, who was Hardik’s coach at that time.Police DAV is the only school in the city that has AstroTurf, said Vij. Coaches Dupinder Singh, Pardeep Kaur, Munish, Dimpy and sports in-charge Vinod Sharma were also present on the ocassion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-public-school-jalandhar-celebrates-success-of-its-hockey-star-hardik-singh-294784
08-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||This farmer reaps a bumper crop sans fertilisers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7A marginal farmer Gurmeet Singh from Madhu Shanga village has been setting an example for others by cultivating organic crops.Initially, Gurmeet began by adopting the technique for domestic use and subsequently stopped using chemical fertilizer, insecticides and pesticides with the passage of time. Then the government agriculture agencies came to know of his interest in the organic farming and motivated him to grow the organic crops for commercial use. For the past two years, Gurmeet Singh is growing the organic Basmati in his fields at Madhu Shanga village.“Initially, I adopted organic farming in one-acre land and will increase it depending upon the demand for crop in the market. The agricultural experts have been supporting me for non-chemical farming. In order to minimise the pesticide residues and for enhancing its export, the regional office of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) set a field demonstration in my field,” said Gurmeet. The project emphasised on the use of non-chemical methods and biological methods for management of insect pests.“The agricultural experts are laying stress on not using banned insecticides which causes residue problem and hence puts hurdle in the basmati export. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) experts have provided pheromone traps for catching adults of stem borer. They provided the cards to breed the farmer friendly insects in the crop. I have sprayed only neem oil and other herbal products,” he added.“The pesticides cause health hazards and hence their use should be minimised. The experts from KVK, PAU and NABARD often visit and train us to identify the nature of damage, symptoms and management of various insect pests in basmati crop. Dr Narinderpal Singh from KVK also shared tips on marketing of organic basmati. The organic produce needs separate market chain as there is no separate stall in the ordinary markets,” he said.Growing organic basmati in his fieldsInitially, Gurmeet began by adopting the technique for domestic use and subsequently stopped using chemical fertilizer, insecticides and pesticides with the passage of time. Then the government agriculture agencies came to know of his interest in organic farming and motivated him to grow the organic crops for commercial use. For the past two years, Gurmeet Singh has been growing the organic basmati in his fields at Madhu Shanga village in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-farmer-reaps-a-bumper-crop-sans-fertilisers-294786
08-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Teej celebrated with fervour||‘Teeyan Teej Diyan’ - a festival to celebrate the bounty of nature, arrival of monsoon — was celebrated with fervour by women of Chabbewal at the residence of MLA Raj Kumar. Sonia, vice chairperson of NGO, Koshish, arranged the programme with all traditional flavours. Young girls, kids and women participated in the programme, singing traditional fold songs and performing gidda, bhangra and danced on the beats of the dhol. MLA Raj Kumar was the chief guest at the event.He welcomed the audience and thanked them all for being a part of the event. He shared the efforts made by the Punjab Government for empowering women such as 50 per cent reservation in local bodies, 33 per cent reservation in government jobs, free bus service, doubling of pension of elderly females from 750 to 1500, rise in Shagun scheme amount and distribution of free smartphones to female students etc. At the end of the event, prizes were given to the performers and gifts were distributed among all visiting guests. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teej-celebrated-with-fervour-294788
08-08-2021||Jalandhar||National Handloom Day observed||Webinar on entrepreneurshipGNA University organised an Interactive Session on Entrepreneurship and Motivation with respect to the entrepreneurial journey of a renowned entrepreneur for all the students of GNA Business School via the online platform, blackboard. The esteemed resource person for the webinar was Harbhajan Kaur, a 94-year-old successful woman entrepreneur and the founder of Harbhajan's Made With Love (Besan Ki Barfi). The resource person has served as a epitome of hard work and the fact that age is no deterrent to one's dreams. The webinar started with the welcoming of the resource person by Neetu Mahendru and Dr Manpreet Kaur, Assistant Prof, GNA Business School. Harbhajan then shared about her journey with the students and faculty members and her key principles and values that she follows in her business. The session then ended with a vote of thanks by Dr Sameer Verma.Poem recitation competitionAn inter-house poetry recitation competition was organised for Classes 1 and II at Cambridge International School, Phagwara. The competition inspired the young poets to come forward and recite on virtual stage. The students of CIS enthusiastically participated in the competition as they got an opportunity to exhibit their talent and confidence. The students came up with different poems on the theme "Nature/God" and recited them with great enthusiasm and zeal for the nature that they have in their heart. They enjoyed the perfection of expression, thoughts, emotions, rhythm and music of words. School Principal Jorawar Singh, Chairman of the school KS Bassi and Chairman of Vasal Educational Group Sanjeev Vasal congratulated the teachers, students for their endeavour and their parents for their active involvement to make this event successful. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-handloom-day-observed-294789
08-08-2021||Our Correspondent||AAP distributes ‘free power guarantee cards’ to people||Hoshiarpur, August 7Aam Aadmi Party workers, led by state joint secretary Brahmshankar Jimpa, distributed guarantee cards to people. It was in accordance with the announcement made by the AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that 300 units of free electricity will be given to the public, when the party comes to power in Punjab.Party officials and workers ran the campaign by putting canopies at different places. Jimpa said the Delhi Chief Minister has done whatever he promised in Delhi and now, every promise made to the people of Punjab would also be fulfilled when the government comes to power, that is why guarantee cards are being given to the public.Jimpa said people have faith in the policies of Aam Aadmi Party and the public’s confidence is getting stronger with this campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-distributes-free-power-guarantee-cards-to-people-294790
08-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Girl booked in accident case||Husband booked for dowryHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have registered a case against Harish Kumar of Bham village for allegedly harassing his wife for dowry. Mandeep Kaur of Krishna Nagar, New Delhi, told the police that she was married to Harish Kumar. After marriage, he started harassing her for more dowry. Seeing that the demand was not fulfilled, he tortured her and threw her out of the house. OCYouth missing, case registeredHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have booked an unidentified person for kidnapping. Jagpal Singh of Kathe village, said his son Atul went missing from the house around 10 am on August 2 under mysterious circumstances. The victim’s father expressed apprehension in his complaint that some unidentified persons might have kidnapped him. OCMinor abducted, one bookedHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have booked a youth for abducting a minor girl. The complainant said his daughter left home for school on August 4, but did not return. He said Abhay Sharma of his village lured his daughter on the pretext of marrying her. A case was registered. OC‘Golak’ money stolen, 1 heldHoshiarpur:The Mahilpur police have arrested a man for stealing money from a golak kept at a gurdwara. Dilbagh Singh of Jassowal village said cash was stolen from the golak of Gurdwara Sahib. After checking the CCTV footage, it was found that Mangat Ram, alias Manga, of Ema Jattan village, stole the money by putting a wire in the golak. OCIntoxicants seized, 7 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested seven smugglers and seized a huge quantity of intoxicants. The police arrested Vicky, alias Vikram, of Guru Nanak Nagar and recovered 230 grams of intoxicating powder. The Model Town police arrested Chetan Hans, alias Robin, of Balmiki Mohalla, and recovered 8-gram heroin from him, while Sucha Singh, alias Sukha, of Ramgarh was arrested with 12 bottles of liquor. The Bullowal police have arrested one Rampal of Shamchuarasi and recovered 28 gram of narcotics powder from him. The Tanda police arrested Nimat Kumar of Fatehgarh Niada and Sandeep Singh of Ajjowal, and seized 600-gram opium from him. Sukhveer Singh, alias Mithu, a Miyani resident was arrested and 6,750 ml liquor was recovered from him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-booked-in-accident-case-294792
08-08-2021||Ajay Joshi & Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar-made hockey sticks behind India’s Tokyo magic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 7As men and women hockey squads created history with their sterling performances at the Tokyo Olympics, two Jalandhar-based firms were key to their success as the players wielded hockey sticks manufactured by these.Sanjay Kohli, Owner of Rakshak SportsIn business for 41 yearsIt’s been 41 years since my company at Wariana Industrial Complex has been making hockey sticks. We also sponsor players.Sanjay Kohli (56), owner of Rakshak Sports, is the man behind the powerful weapons of the leading players of the women’s contingent. It’s been over 10 years since the captain of women’s team, Rani Rampal, is relying on ‘Rakshak’ hockey sticks to deliver her best performances in the game.Nitin Jain, Owner of Pooja Enterprises Proud association with teamFeels so proud to be associated with the team. I’ve known Mandeep since he was 10 years old. There was always something special about these kids.In the Tokyo Olympics, Niki Pradhan and Sharmila Rani also preferred to defeat their opponents with the hockey sticks made in Jalandhar. “It’s been 41 years since my company at Wariana Industrial Complex has been manufacturing hockey sticks. With an aspiration to see women hockey players on the top of their game, we also sponsored players in the 1982 Asian games, followed by 1992 Barcelona Olympics. While my daughter Aakansha Kohli (30) now gives special attention to women players, son Sarthak Kohli (25) ensures the best hockey sticks are supplied to the men’s team,” Kohli said.Aakansha says before leaving for the Olympics, Rani Rampal had specially asked her to engrave a map of India on her hockey stick. She wanted to come back with a medal. A composite hockey stick used by any player takes 14-15 days to get ready.The suave poster in which Indian Hockey team captain Manpreet Singh is seen screaming into the void with a Hockey stick in hand has become an iconic image of our times. The Alfa hockey stick which Manpreet and 16 other players of the Tokyo Olympics’ men’s and women’s squad are seen carrying comes from a Jalandhar-based firm.Nitin and Jatin Mahajan, owners of Pooja Enterprises and manufacturers of the Alfa hockey sticks, are beaming with happiness.In the gloom brought by Covid, the bronze medal win of the Indian men’s team after 41 years has acted as a fillip for the local hockey industry. There is much to celebrate at the Basti Nau manufacturing unit of the firm.The firm’s office proudly displays a hockey stick signed by all women team members. Priced between Rs 1,000 and 28,000, the firm’s sticks in neon, white and gold adorn countless Olympic posters and photos.Launched in 1963 by Sukhdev Raj Mahajan under the name Sukhdev Impex Pvt Ltd, the firm changed its name to Pooja Enterprises in 1991. The company provides sticks to various Indian states as well as Europe and sponsors 80 Indian players across national teams and academies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-made-hockey-sticks-behind-indias-tokyo-magic-294481
