09-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||She fought mobile snatchers a year ago, now studies on a gifted laptop||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8A year ago, Kusum, Jalandhar’s braveheart girl, showed exemplary courage when she fought bike borne snatchers, defending her mobile phone that her labourer father gave her for online studies. She successfully caught hold of one of the snatchers, but got injured in the scuffle and was admitted to a hospital.How the incident got everyone’s attentionThe story inspired and moved many. The report published in The Tribune was widely circulated on the social media and shared on Twitter by celebrities such as Varun Grover and Richa Chadha, and cartoonist Satish among others, and that is how everyone got to know about the actual reason why Kusum couldn’t let the snatchers take away her phone.A year later, she has a laptop and a new mobile phone and studies without any problem. “Life has completely changed for me. People were so generous to contribute and I received immense support from everyone,” said Kusum, who studies in Class IX.She said her unit tests will start from August 10 and she has been studying on her laptop.“I have become famous and people call me brave girl,” the 15 year old shared. She also said that her friends also get motivated from her. “Recently, a friend of mine came to meet me. She had a smart phone in her hand. Her mother asked her to be brave like Kusum and not let go of it and become sad if any untoward incident happens,” Kusum shared a story.Kusum said that she felt so proud that because of her, girls get courage to fight for themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-fought-mobile-snatchers-a-year-ago-now-studies-on-a-gifted-laptop-295138
09-08-2021||Jalandhar||Snatchers flee with gold chain after throwing chilly powder in woman’s eyes in Jalandhar||Two unidentified bike-borne miscreants on Sunday made away with a gold chain after throwing chilli power into the eyes of a woman. The incident was reported near Nakodar Chowk. The snatchers also fired gunshots in the air after the husband of the woman tried to chase them.The incident was reported around 1.30 pm on Sunday, when Yogesh Kohli and his wife Anju Kohli were going towards Model House.The couple was going on an Activa, when the miscreants drove their bike near to them and threw chilli powder into Anju’s eyes. When she tried to cover her face, the miscreants pulled the gold chain from her neck. The accused were wearing mask, the victim told the police.When Yogesh tried to chase them on his Activa, the accused threatened to kill him and opened fire on him.With the help of locals, Yogesh, businessman, immediately called the police. The division number four police reached the spot and took the statements of the victim.Pregnant woman dies under mysterious circumstancesA 28-year-old pregnant woman lost her life under mysterious circumstances on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Kavita, a resident of Nangal village, in Patara. The victim was seven months pregnant. Mamta, sister of the vicitm, accused the in-laws of the latter of harassment. She said her sister got married around one year ago. “Right after her marriage, she suffered domestic violence and even during pregnancy she was troubled by her in-laws,” said Mamta. On Friday night, Kavita's health deteriorated and her in-laws took her to two hospitals, from where she was referred to Johal Hospital at Rama Mandi, where she breathed her last. The police have initiated the inquest proceedings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatchers-flee-with-gold-chain-after-throwing-chilly-powder-in-womans-eyes-in-jalandhar-295139
09-08-2021||---||7 test positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 8As many as seven Covid cases were reported on Sunday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,152 cases. None of the cases belonged to another district. No Covid death was reported today from the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,490. As many as 61,599 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 63.1 infected in KapurthalaOne case of Covid was reported from Kapurthala on Sunday, taking the Covid tally to 17,766. No death from Covid was reported today. TNSNo death in NawanshahrNo Covid case or death was reported from Nawanshahr on Sunday. There are three active cases and the tally stands at 11,427 and toll is 374.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-test-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-295140
09-08-2021||---||Police clueless on 22-yr-old’s murder in Shakot||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8The police have failed to find clues about the whereabouts of five accused who reportedly killed a 22-year-old man with sharp-edged weapons in broad daylight in Shakot here on Friday.The deceased, Rohit Kumar, was brutally beaten up with sticks before being attacked with weapons in a crowded market. The incident was reported on Friday evening when the victim had gone to the market with his friends. The video of the whole incident was circulated on social media after which the Shahkot police registered a case against six men, who reportedly have links with local political leaders.The victim's mother, in her statement to the police, stated that some youths had tried to kill Rohit earlier, but they could not be traced.She said nearly five men attacked his son with sharp-edged weapons in the market. After they left, Rohit was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.Meanwhile, tension rose at the Shahkot police station after the family members of the victim and villagers gathered outside the police station against inaction by the police. After sitting on a protest for a few hours, the agitators pelted stone at the police station and damaged the vehicles of the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-clueless-on-22-yr-olds-murder-in-shakot-295141
09-08-2021||---||Patwari exam in Jalandhar: Social distancing goes for a toss||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Heavy rush was witnessed outside examination centres in the district as many aspirants appeared for the patwari exam on Sunday.Centres were designated at the CT Group of Institutions, Apeejay College, Police DAV School, SD College, among many other centres. A candidate’s father from Amritsar, said, “We arrived early in the morning. There is no arrangement for water. It is hot and we are in a dire straits.”Surinder Singh, who came from Dera Bassi, said, “We started from our home at 5.30 am but here we are greeted with utter mismanagement. There is no proper arrangements and there is a huge rush. For a candidate from Dera Bassi, one would hope a centre closer to home. People from Amritsar, Dera Bassi, and Jalandhar are all at the same place. Especially, for girls it is very difficult. Those coming from so far don’t have a place to sit, there are no proper toilet arrangements and no water.”Another candidate said while 11 am had been pegged as the time for exam, examinees were not let in until 12 pm. They also said there was no place to keep their belongings as nothing was allowed inside the examination room.Huge traffic jams were also witnessed outside many of the centres after the exams.Jashanpreet from Amritsar, said, “There’s a rush and its too hot. No sanitisers. There is no Covid protocol. AT least they could have ensured water.”Gursharan from Amritsar whose daughter was appearing for the exam said, “There is no place to keep our stuff. Be it bus stand or exam centre, we had to find our way ourselves. An outsider doesn’t know the exact place to find the centre. It was difficult and we had to ask around with auto rickshaw wallahs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwari-exam-in-jalandhar-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-295142
09-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||20-kg giant burger is next from Hoshiarpur-based Burger Chachu’s platter||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Popular as “Burger Chachu”, Sharandeep Singh (30), a resident of Tagore Nagar, Hoshiarpur, has added another feather in his cap by making a 20-kg burger. With this, he created a record by making a giant burger at a private show in Mohali.He used a 6-kg bun, 6 kg of vegetables, 7-kg sauce, 2.5-kg aaloo tikki and 2-kg tin food to attain this feat. From selling burgers on a vending cart to running his own restaurant, Singh now feels proud of his achievements. His earlier creations included a 7-kg burger, a 7-kg sandwich, an 11-kg burger and a 15-kg burger, videos of which went viral on social media.His ‘Six10Burger’ restaurant is the only serving platform, which offers oil-free burgers and turns junk food into healthy stuff by adding salads. However, from selling burger on cart to getting popular as Burger Chachu, Sharandeep had to experience a lot of struggle.Around 10 years ago, after completing his graduation in Hotel Management and Catering Technology, he worked with a five-star hotel in Hyderabad. Following his passion of cooking, he was living the life of his dreams. But due to the sudden demise of his father and a robbery at his house, his mother asked him to come back to Hoshiarpur. To support his family, he started doing odd jobs. While he managed to earn two square meals for his family, he was not contended with what he was doing.Therefore one day, he decided to sell street food. “Around five years ago in July 2016, I borrowed some money from my boss and brought a cart and started selling burgers. With the Almighty’s grace, local residents loved the burgers that were cooked without oil or butter. Within seven months, I opened my own restaurant and named it Six10 Burger. Gradually, visitors’ footfall, specially children, went up and started calling me burger chachu,” said Sharandeep.Despite facing criticism from local residents for being a turbaned Sikh and pushing a cart on roads, he continued to follow his passion and in just five years, he not only made his business successful but also opened his Six10 Burger chain in Ludhiana. He wife also works with him at his restaurant and supports his choice of career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-kg-giant-burger-is-next-from-hoshiarpur-based-burger-chachus-platter-295143
09-08-2021||Should the civic body authorities be taken to task for their monsoon ill-preparedness?||Shun complacency, make preparations before the rains||Sue civic body officials for their negligenceThe lack of monsoon preparedness on the part of the MC authorities leads to waterlogging in different areas of the city. It affects and damages the roads and houses. Even many lives are lost because of the same situation. Such is the sorry state of affairs. It is the apathy and corruption in the MC that is damaging civic affairs and infrastructure. They should definitely be taken to task and made to pay suitable penalties for not taking proper care of the city and its surrounding areas which fall in its ambit. Citizens should file legal suits against the MC authorities to make them aware of the pitiable condition of the people in the city during the monsoon season.Dr JS WadhwaGovt must realise its duty and act on timeState has a very pivotal and significant role to play in providing basic amenities to citizens. People have been facing myriad problems ever since the onset of monsoon season that needs to be addressed by the civic authorities besides extending an olive branch to overcome the situation arising out of the Covid crisis. Most importantly, apart from catering to the basic health needs of the citizens falling in nature of proper sanitisation services, re-carpeting of roads, incessant electricity supply, avoid short-circuiting / high-voltage transmission of electricity, water-logging issue in narrow areas of the city needs to be addressed at the very outset without fall. Undeniably, the civic authorities in due exercise of their duties must be receptive, accessible and sensitive enough to address maximum public issues by discarding their recalcitrant, defiant and stubborn behaviour. State no doubt has taken admirable and commendable steps by introducing Public Grievance Portal (PB-PGRAMS) but still a lot needs to be done in the right direction suitably to avoid annoyance and harassment.Sameer BhatiaCivic body, PWD should make joint effortsWater-logged streets, traffic chaos, submerged vehicles, fallen trees, disrupted power and telecommunication systems, collapsed roofs causing casualties and the spread of infections that exposes residents to a health crisis. Along with changing rain patterns accompanied by high-intensity winds, population pressure, unplanned and unauthorised urban development, dumping of household, industrial and construction waste near wetlands and water bodies that impedes the natural flow of water, uncleaned city drains, unseemly politicking, rampant corruption, rot in the daily working of civic bodies, administrative apathy and callousness, and the utter lack of political will are some of the major contributory factors. Despite spending huge amounts of money on developmental works, the situation on the ground level remains almost the same. It calls for serious introspection and pro-active measures. The Municipal Corporations, the PWD and the Irrigation Department should make joint efforts to set things right on priority basis. In case of their laggard performance, it is the responsibility of the educated and awakened citizens to take these civic bodies to task. They should demand proper response from the officials concerned and municipal commissioners for the solution of their problems and hold them accountable. To ensure tangible improvement in the functioning of municipal administration, the state government should also keep a close tab on their performance and send a clear signal that any sloppiness on public issues will not be tolerated at all.D S KangAdopt rainwater harvesting systemWe have perhaps accepted surroundings flooded with sewer water during rains as our fate during the monsoon every year. Now, when the monsoon has already arrived one can only hope that the civic authorities ensure that their men and machines reach every waterlogged area without any delay. Can't say what parameters make a Smart City but the prerequisite of a clean city is its well-functioning sewage system. Outward make-up of city lanes by recarpeting or fixing tiles is fine but what Amritsar needs more is a revamped sewage system. If rainwater harvesting and setting up of sewage treatment plants are taken up as a priority, problems of inadequate/contaminated water supply will also be solved along with flooding of roads/streets. Some water for irrigation may also be there as a bonus.HL SharmaUrbanisation, climate change main culpritsDue to heavy downpour, speedy winds and sodden ground, streets and roads are inundated; cars are found abandoned; trees are uprooted and electric poles are knocked down; traffic and power supply is severely disrupted; houses and commercial buildings suffer structural damages, killing or injuring inmates; and life virtually comes to a standstill resulting in great economic loss. The reasons are not hard to find: extreme weather conditions owing to global warming, increasing population, large-scale migration to cities, unsustainable urbanisation and encroachments on the natural open spaces, green covers, parks and playgrounds that absorb excess rainfall, drastically diminishing traditional outlets for water, administrative and political nonchalance, and lack of transparency and accountability. Urban flooding is a challenging public issue that needs greater scrutiny and long-term planning. Rather than blaming climate changes, the local governing authorities should conserve city’s blue and green cover and ensure the holistic growth of cities; store flood water for urban use; revamp the old and overwhelmed sewer and drainage systems; and give timely warning to people to prepare for the severity of monsoon events. The government should enhance budgetary allocation to the cash-strapped MCs for upgrading infrastructural facilities and break the unholy nexus between politics, land mafia and organised crime that wreaks havoc on city’s eco-balance. People should be conscious about the promotion of their interests at the hands of public servants. The higher authorities should take strict action against the egregiously corrupt and non-performing municipal officials, commissioners and contractors.Tajpreet S KangUnplanned urbanisation reason behind messThe early signs of monsoon season raised the anxiety of residents in some flood-prone areas of the city. It is a pity that city roads get flooded even after a short spell of rain. Although the problem turns acute every passing year, the corporation has been unable to find a solution. The civic body did take up the annual exercise of cleaning up some stretches of the major drains and sewers in the city. But these works taken up in bits and pieces have never been comprehensive enough to tackle the problem. Cities are expanding and engulfing the open areas which were major drainage points or forests in the past. We see this happening in most of the cities in Punjab. So, when there are excessive rains, cities are not able to drain the water and hence many areas get inundated. The Municipal Corporation plays a critical role in the decision making of a city’s master plan and directing its growth with the support of urban planners. Urban planning intends to make a city function efficiently, by marking layouts and zones in a city, designing networks of mobility, water supply, electricity, sanitation and drainage. Sometimes the focus of making efficient cities overshadows conserving its natural resources. To accommodate a growing city’s population or cater to real estate greed the natural repositories are converted into buildings, roads or transport systems. So, these climate and human events superimpose on bad urban planning which has slowly engulfed environmental resources while building more and more.Parampreet KaurTall claims of MC fall flat every yearEvery year before the advent of monsoon, the civic administration makes tall claims of being well-equipped to deal with any eventuality. The reports on the other hand present an extremely dismal picture. What to talk of heavy rainfall, even due to mild showers, roads are submerged with water and huge potholes appear at many places. Quite often, sewer pipes get choked and manholes are left uncovered. Such negligence on the part of the MC staff not only causes severe traffic ordeals to public but fatal accidents. People living in congested localities where basic facilities such as proper drainage system and sanitation are lacking are at a higher risk of infection during waterlogging conditions. It is really amazing that nowadays when technology provides almost accurate weather forecasting, officials responsible for maintenance and upkeep of the infrastructure do not pay timely attention to the warning bells. While the citizens are bearing all kind of taxes, they cannot be left to suffer the unpleasant incidents merely by tagging it to the vagaries of inclement weather. The civic authorities must be held accountable and punished for indifferent attitude and carelessness towards such vital issues of public interest.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathSet up SPV to clean city drainsWaterlogged roads and overflowing sewers have become a common sight every year during the monsoon. Given the unprecedented expansion of the city over the last few years and rising threat of climate change, the civic body should construct underground rainwater storage tanks at critical points to considerably reduce waterlogging during heavy rainfall. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) should be set up to clean the city’s drains and prevent waterlogging on roads. The city’s municipal corporation should ensure prompt remedial action in case of drainage congestion and must be well-equipped to deal with any eventuality on account of heavy rain. Deploying smart water management tools could also be effective in tackling the problem of water logging as these would interpret statistics from water-logged points and provide a holistic picture with robust real-time analytics.In the long-run, building rules and codes must also emphasise on storm water use wherever possible.Akash KumarPlanning must to deal with this problemIt is the duty of the Municipal Corporation and the Municipal Committees to remove the waste from the chambers and clean the sewer pipes throughout the year with machines. However, these are only temporarily measures to tackle the problem. Proper planning is needed to deal with the issue.Rajat Kumar MohindruMake MC officials accountable for their negligence QUESTIONIndia’s performance at the Olympics has been best so far as it won highest number of medals ever, clinching the first gold in athletics and finishing on podium in men’s hockey after 41 years. Do you think the governments (Centre and states) are doing enough to support players and what steps should they take to take India to the top-10 in the medal tally at the 2024 Paris Olympics?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (August 13)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shun-complacency-make-preparations-before-the-rains-295146
09-08-2021||Jalandhar||Folk songs, dance mark Teej celebrations at Phillaur community centre  in Jalandhar||Teeyan Teej Diyan – a festival to celebrate the monsoon season – was celebrated with fervour at the Phillaur community centre here on Sunday. The programme was organised by Sandeep Kaur Dhindsa of Punjabi Sabhyacharak Pid (Phillaur), Punjab. Children, girls and women sang folk songs and performed giddha during the programme. Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge, Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary, was the chief guest at the event.Chaudhary appreciated the efforts of Punjabi Sabhyacharak Pid in keeping alive the traditional culture of the state. He said Punjab has a rich heritage which needs to be preserved for future generations. He added that the festival of teej is also a symbol of women empowerment. Highlighting the efforts of the Punjab Government for the empowerment of women, he said there is 50 per cent reservation in local bodies, 33 per cent reservation in government jobs, free bus service, doubling of pension of elderly women from Rs750 to Rs1,500 and increase in Shagun scheme amount.At the end of the event, Chaudhary distributed prizes to the performers and honoured the guests, including Prabhnoor Kaur Dhillon who has won several awards in giddha and bhangra, including Miss Punjaban and Punjab Di Dhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/folk-songs-dance-mark-teej-celebrations-at-phillaur-community-centre-in-jalandhar-295147
09-08-2021||---||Indian hockey team’s win celebrated in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Members of the Silver Heights Housing Association celebrated the Indian hockey team’s victory (bronze medal) at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. The association held a party for residents on the premises.Ashok Gupta, member of the union, said, “It’s an unprecedented victory by the Indian hockey team. It’s a very happy occasion for the entire nation.” Residents also invited the area councillor to be a part of the event. A resident said, “Excellent step has been taken to celebrate our India’s victory. Let us all come forward and wish luck to the team for their future endeavour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indian-hockey-teams-win-celebrated-in-jalandhar-295148
09-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar boy tops Punjab in JEE Main||Jalandhar’s Vaibhav Bajaj has topped the state in JEE Main exams, securing 99.987 percentile in the third session, results of which were declared today.A student of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, Vaibhav, 18, said the extra time he got during the pandemic came in handy for him to prepare harder. He is a super medical student, which means he was pursuing biology out of curiosity, along with his chosen non-medical subjects. Vaibhav says during the pandemic he attended classes as early as 2 am to 4 am.Speaking to The Tribune, Vaibhav said: “The extra time saved during the pandemic came in handy. I managed the extra hours in a constructive way. I credit my parents for the success and thank teachers for guiding me.” His father Rakesh Bajaj is a banker and mother Soni Bajaj is an officer with the central government. He wants to pursue computer science engineering or research. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-boy-tops-punjab-in-jee-main-294913
09-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Admission to Btech: Private tech colleges go for the kill||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Even though it has been nearly four months since various private universities have been conducting admission to B.Tech, the Technical Education Department was yet to issue a notification for admission to the affiliated state engineering and management colleges of Punjab.The private universities have been holding admissions since April this year. Even some private colleges have been doing provisional admissions. But all government engineering colleges and the five universities which are awaiting the government notification are stuck up and apprehend that they might lose out badly on students, who have already started taking admission in private colleges owing to the delay.The five universities which are to participate in the centralised counselling, including IKG Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala; Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda; Shaheed Bhagat Singh University, Faridkot; Beant University, Gurdaspur; and Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The university officials said they were still in dark as to which university will hold the centralised counselling.Owners of the private colleges said in such a scenario, they had no option but to hold provisional admission and keep the students intact. “We had to start pre-registration so that the students do not move on towards the private universities. There already are lots of issues in ensuring fulfilling of the seats”, he said.Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education, however, clarified all issues, “The counselling will surely be conducted by IKGPTU as it has all the systems in place. We are in the process of sorting out all details. We will most likely issue the notification by Monday or Tuesday. The delay occurred because the AICTE had revised its admission calendar. In our admission plan, we will give the institutes a time of two to 2.5 months to conduct the admission. Like the previous year, admission this year too will be conducted on the basis of the Class XII results and not the JEE.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admission-to-btech-private-tech-colleges-go-for-the-kill-294321
