10-08-2021||Kapurthala||Covid advisory for Himachal Pradesh visitors||Event on Quit India movementJalandhar: To commemorate the sacrifices of the freedom fighters in the struggle for Independence, an event on the theme of ‘Quit India Movement’ was organised on the eve of ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ and ‘Azaadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ (75th Anniversary of India’s Independence) by Vajra Corps on Monday at Jalandhar Cantt. The event aimed to revive the euphoria of ‘Quit India Movement’ and develop the spirit of nationalism among the youth. The event commenced with a video clipping on Quit India Movement which was followed by a play enacted by the children from various schools of Jalandhar Cantt depicting the heroism of freedom fighters. TNSRozgar mission: Job fair todayJalandhar: To provide employment opportunities to the youth of Jalandhar district under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission’, a job fair will be organised on August 10 at the office of the District Employment and Business Bureau. The Deputy Director, District Employment and Business Bureau, Jaswant Rai, said big companies will participate to provide employment opportunities to youth. Candidates with educational qualifications of Classes X and XII can participate in the fair. Rai informed that Covid norms would be complied with during the fair. The Deputy Director appealed to the youth to register on the website www.pgrk am.com for more jobs and said that for other information, the office’s helpline 90569 -20100 can also be contacted. TNSF&CC meeting on August 13Jalandhar: An F&CC meeting will be held on August 13 in the Municipal Corporation. One of the agendas during the meeting would be regarding supply of five tractor trolleys with GPS system on hiring basis with driver and two unskilled labour each for lifting of garbage for the health branch in Jalandhar Cantonment constituency, six tractor trolleys in Jalandhar West constituency, and seven in Jalandhar Central constituency. TNSTwo nabbed on theft chargeHoshiarpur: The police have arrested two persons for stealing cash from a shop in broad daylight. They were identified as residents of Sangrur and the vehicle recovered from them was also found to be the stolen one. Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of the local market Vakilan, told the police that he went out of the shop for some work at around 1 pm. A man came to the shop while another was standing outside with a two-wheeler. He entered the shop and tried to take away the cash, but the owner of Sheru Tea Stall saw him and raised an alarm. Both the accused were nabbed by the people. The accused have been identified as Dinesh Kumar alias Sanjay, a resident of Bhavanigarh, Sangrur and Diwan, a resident of Ramnagar Basti, Sangrur. A case has been registered. OCFIR lodged week after snatchingHoshiarpur: Seven days after the incident, the Garhshankar police have registered an FIR against unidentified youths who had run after snatching a woman’s purse on August 1 from near Padrana village. Ram Lubhaya of Bharta Ganeshpur village told the police that on August 1, he was going from his village to Garhshankar with his wife. When they reached Padrana village, two youths came on a bike from behind, snatched his wife’s purse and fled. After seven days, the police have lodged a case of robbery against unknown persons. oc1 booked for molestationHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked Deepak Kumar, alias Bunty, a resident of Khushi Paddi village, for allegedly molesting a married woman two days ago by entering her house late at night. The woman in her complaint said her husband was out of the house while she was sleeping with her children. Late night, a resident of village told her that someone was roaming on the roof of her house. When she reached the roof of the house to check, the accused allegedly molested her. The police have registered a case. OCOne booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked Principal Singh, alias Mintu, a resident of Prempur, on the charge of abducting a minor by luring her on the pretext of marriage. The complainant told the police that her minor daughter had gone missing on August 6. The next day, she returned home late in the evening and told that the accused had allegedly abducted her but she somehow managed to escape. OCMan booked for cheatingHoshiarpur: The police have booked a person for allegedly cheating Sonalika company of Rs45 lakh. Anil Mathur, an official of the company, said Deedar Singh alias Billa Saini, a resident of Patti village, had allegedly cheated the company of Rs45 lakh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-advisory-for-himachal-pradesh-visitors-295672
10-08-2021||Jalandhar||Campus notes: National Handloom Day observed at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya||Shubhita 1st in BJMCShubhita of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of BA (Journalism & Mass Communication) Semester by getting 377 marks out of 450 whereas Anshu secured 5th position by getting 362 marks and Vikrant bagged 6th Position by getting 359 in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. The president of the college governing council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Prof Manohar Singh, Head Department of Computer Science & IT, and Prof Himanshu were also present on the occasion.Lovenya Sahni third in BVocStudents of BVoc (E-Commerce and Digital Marketing) Semester III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar brought laurels to the institution by securing various positions in the University. Lovenya Sahni bagged 3rd position in the university by securing 366 marks out of 425. Monika, Riya and Rushali stood 6th in the university by securing 358 marks. Varsha stood 8th by securing 350 marks, Jasmeet stood 9th with 347 marks and Ruchika stood 10th in the university by securing 345 marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated faculty members and students for this achievement.Freeships for meritorious studentsKanya Maha Vidyalaya has announced full freeship to students scoring 95% marks and above and students achieving top position in the university in any stream. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi said, “The college offers an amount of Rs10,000 as scholarship to students scoring 90 to 94.9% marks, Rs6,000 to students obtaining 86 to 89.9% marks and Rs4,000 to students securing 80 to 85.9% marks. The students securing 1st position in the class receives Rs4,000 as scholarship,Rs2,000 is given to students securing 2nd position in the class. The college provides up to 100 per cent fee waiver for economically weaker students and further helps them by offering free books, free Internet facility, free remedial classes and free personality development programme, foundation programme, yoga, self defence classes, moral science programmes and student counselling facilities.Teej celebratedThe festival of Teej was celebrated at Desh Bhagat Technical College, Hoshiarpur, with enthusiasm and traditional fervour. Setting the tone of the entire function, A glimpse of Punjabi Virsa (heritage) greeted everyone as an exhibition of folk art and cultural lifestyle organised. A lively cultural programme was held and swinging ropes in the college ground were decorated with flowers and delicacies. “Kheer Poora” were also served to add to the occasion. Ravinder Kaur was present as a special guest and she addressed everyone, saying that the festival highlights the importance of women in society. College Chairman Balwinder Singh, and Managing Director Jaspreet Singh congratulated everyone on this festival. He said in his speech that women are progressing in every field and are leading the world.Pre-primary online activitiesTiny tots of Eklavya School have performed various online activities related to the academics. These activities helps in making the teaching learning process more interesting easier and creative to the students. By watching the real images of things like real leaves, parts of plant, real fruits and vegetables students will understand the concept deeply. They did sorting of grains, colouring in tree and ice cream, montessori activities like hopping, balancing and jumping. They did yoga and meditation also. They did theme activities like types of leaves, soluble /insoluble, types of plant. JK Gupta, chairman of Eklavya School, encouraged the children by saying that doing activities are good for enhancing their knowledge. The Director, Seema Handa, appreciated the efforts done by the students.Skill development contestCT Educational Society hosted a state-level skill competition 2021 on restaurant service, an initiative of National Skill Development Council (NSDC) and Punjab Skill Development Mission (PSDM). In this competition, seven participants from various organisations participated. They were given a variety of tasks to perform like napkin folding, silver service and identification of glasses. The three member jury namely Sahil Kashyap, Ankush and Rajeshwar Singh announced the top three winners. Aryadhya Rai of Lovely Professional University secured first position, Jaskin from CT Educational Society, Jalandhar, got second position and Hrithik Kataria from LPU secured third position. CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh and Director Dr Yogesh Chhabra congratulated the winners for participating in this event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/campus-notes-national-handloom-day-observed-at-hans-raj-mahila-maha-vidyalaya-295671
10-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: Issues of postal staff discussed||Jalandhar, August 9Sixteenth Circle Conference of the National Association of Postal Employees was held on Sunday under the presidentship of Saurabh Mittal.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was the chief guest on the occasion. Association general secretary Sivaji Reddy from Andhra Pradesh also attended the conference. Various problems related to postal staff such as shortage of staff, server issues, pending promotional cases, security in post offices, medical facilities for the staff etc were discussed. Reddy assured the members that their issues would be taken up at directorate level by the central headquarter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-issues-of-postal-staff-discussed-295670
10-08-2021||---||World awaiting fresh ideas in IT sector: IKGPTU VC Sharma||Jalandhar, August 9“Information Technology, computing, networking and renewable energy are the subjects which need upgradation, development and innovation every second at global level. No one knows on which platform your high study, hard work in these subjects give you the global recognition. Keep your research and focus high you will surely achieve.” These motivational words were delivered by Vice Chancellor IKGujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma. He was addressing researchers, academicians and students on the occasion of a conference here.The conference was organised by IKGPTU in which renowned academician Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, was the chief guest. Prof Awasthi inspired participants for high research on their subjects.The valediction programme was live streamed online through YouTube. A total of 150 papers were submitted by the researcher from various institutes like IITs, NITs, CFIs, foreign and universities and colleges. The university published only 60 high quality full-length research papers in its conference.Members of the organising team of IKGPTU, Dr Satvir Singh and Dr Naveen, said that every paper has undergone plagiarism check and at least two blind reviews. In some cases, four reviews were considered to ensure the quality of research papers. Dr Bharat Bhushan Sharma from Banasthali Vidyapith Jaipur, Dr Anuj Banshwar from UPTU Lucknow, Dr Rajiv Chauhan, Dr Rakesh and Dr Amit from IKGPTU Kapurthala coordinated special sessions on relevant domains.Prof Amarish Dube (France) and Prof. Viera Rozinajova (Bratislava) delivered keynote addresses and introduced participants with the latest research issue in the domain of renewable energy. Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal congratulated the team for organising the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-awaiting-fresh-ideas-in-it-sector-ikgptu-vc-sharma-295669
10-08-2021||---||Teachers get training on IT tools at NIT-Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 9The Centre for Continuing Education, Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, today inaugurated a five-day AICTE-ATAL Academy-sponsored online faculty development programme on ‘Technology management : Information and communication technology (ICT) in education’.NIT-Jalandhar Director Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi inaugurated the online programme. A total of 150 participants, including faculty, research scholars and industry personnel, from various institutes across the nation participated in the event.The online programme is being coordinated by Dr SK Mishra (Registrar and Head CCE). He said the department was organising second such programme sponsored by the ATAL Academy this year. The theme of the event is ‘Education technology management’ and aims to impart basic knowledge and skills required to assist users in their daily life.Dr Mishra, coordinator of the programme, welcomed all participants and shared his words about its importance. He said information and communication technology in the education sector had a major role in development of education technology. He said one way to obtain this knowledge is to focus on importance of management of technology education. He said the programme was a way to sustain ICT-enabled activities and processes in order to improve access, quality and efficiency in the education system.Prof Awasthi focused over the role and application of technology that has impacted every facet of daily life over the past few years especially during the Covid pandemic and the ways in which we learn something new every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-get-training-on-it-tools-at-nit-jalandhar-295668
10-08-2021||---||GREEN FINGERS: Regular dose of gardening is a must for this gynaecologist||Jalandhar, August 9A gynaecologist by profession and a mother of two, Dr Harneet Grover is a busy woman. But she makes sure that she is able to spend an hour or two daily in nurturing a collection of 150 potted plants, propagating and replanting them on the balcony of her house on the Link Road here.Her house has four huge garden areas on the ground floor but she makes sure that her gardener does not enter her balcony garden as she wants to tender it all by herself. Using various drums, jars, drawers, crates, jute bags, waste sewer pipes, dried bamboo stems, used curd containers, bottles, milk mugs etc, she has been multiplying her plants which are seeing a huge growth in the ongoing rainy season.Her collection of plants includes vegetables, including bitter gourd, chillies etc. and some medicinal herbs such as tulsi, ajwain, arjun etc. but most of them are ornamental plants. Jades are her all time favourite as one can spot them in multiples. Flowering plants such as allamanda, hibiscus, portulaca, jalapa, peace lilies, bougainvilleas and begonia and foliage plants such as a variety of creepers, succulents, kochia bushes, snake plant, spider plant, ferns, monstera, pothos, caladiums, ficus etc have been kept nicely covering most of the floor of her balcony. She has been pruning and twisting various varieties of the foliage plants to various shapes and even attempting to create bonsai out of them.Dr Harneet has arranged her pots in a systematic manner. The plants grown in bamboo sticks hang down with ropes. The mugs and bottles have been kept in a plastic stand. The window shelves too have creepers hanging down from the pots. The central area has a huge designer pot with five corners. Earthen and ceramic pots in the shapes of snails, car, basket and tortoise too deck up her spaces especially on a stand in the staircase.She said: “It is not just me but also my children Sehaj (10) and Sidak (7) who help me out with the crafty ideas. They paint various pots and bottles for me. They even help me in re-arranging the pots in a decorative way.”She credits her husband and urologist Dr Puneet Grover too for the task. “He does photography and all purchases for me. All designer pots and varieties of plants are brought by him from the nurseries. This really peps me up to continue with my passion,” she said.Her mother-in-law Harvinderjit Kaur with the help of a gardener takes care of the garden areas of the house in the ground floor which have a variety of tall palms, mango, lemon trees, besides swings and garden furniture for the children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/green-fingers-regular-dose-of-gardening-is-a-must-for-this-gynaecologist-295667
10-08-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees just one fresh case of Covid||Jalandhar, August 9In a big relief, Jalandhar district reported only one fresh Covid case on Monday. Also, no death was reported. The district tally has now increased to 63,153 and the toll stands at 1,490. One Covid patient in the district is admitted to the Civil Hospital. At present, there are 59 active cases in Jalandhar. As many as 61,604 patients have been recovered in the district so far.Tally stands at 11K in Nawanshahr Nawanshahr is on a path to recovery as district did not see any fresh Covid case or fatality in the past few days. The district tally remained at 11,427 (4.09 percent) and 374 people have succumbed to the virus so far. The recovery rate in the district is 96.7%. There are three active cases and one is under home isolation.No fatality in KapurthalaKapurthala saw one fresh case on Monday with a 15-year-old testing positive for the virus. The district did not report any death to the virus today. There are 20 active cases in the district at present. The tally is 17,766. Seven persons were discharged today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-just-one-fresh-case-of-covid-295666
10-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar: Hearing-impaired boy fights all odds, scores 92% in Class X||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9Even though learning from home during the pandemic was difficult for almost all students, it came out to be a huge trouble for Ananya Anand, a hearing challenged boy who has just passed out Class X from CBSE-affiliated Cambridge International Co-Ed School. But he beat all odds to score 92 per cent and scoring cent per cent in two subjects - Food Technology and Painting.Since Ananya uses cochlear implants and tries to comprehend a lot from the lip movement of the speaker, attending online classes on using audio mode became very difficult for him. Attending a normal school since the beginning, it was an entirely different situation for him that too at a point when his studies were at a crucial juncture.It was at this moment that he needed a lot of help from his mother and mentor Priti Anand. She sat with him for all his online school and tuition classes so that she could clearly grasp what was being said and later explain it all to her son. “My son is very intelligent as far as mathematics calculations and logical understanding are involved. He scored 98 per cent in IT and 91 in mathematics. His only problem is language and its expression. He scored less in English. We got him exemption from taking the second language, science and social studies and hence we had to get his subjects changed”, says Priti, who resides at Vijay Nagar here.She shared how the last few days were very worrisome for her. “On August 3, when the CBSE declared the Class X results, we too had some anxious moments. We knew that the result would be good and we opened the portal with much excitement. We tried to re-open it several times but his result was not showing. We approached the school authorities and they asked us to contact the CBSE office. They told us that there could be a problem in proper uploading of his marks from the school side and that we should get it all clarified from the school. The school then sent the CBSE office a mail. It all took some days and finally we got Ananya’s result day before.”Priti says that Ananya has already taken admission in Class XII in humanities stream with web development as a subject. “My son is very fond of using gadgets and is very good at it. He wants to pursue web development and painting as his passions. But he ultimately wants to join his father Lalit Anand’s business in sports goods trading. He says that whenever he will get into it, he will re-organise it in a better way and make it grow further,” she said pointing to her son’s immaculately arranged study table and book shelf. “He is himself very organised and disciplined and cannot see anyone else creating mess around,” she points out.Priti says that she is able to devote her full day to Ananya owing to a huge support of his grandparents Baldev Raj Anand and Vinod Rani Anand. “Ananya was 10 months old when we got to know of his hearing problem. We had to take him around to doctors and get the cochlear implants done. Ever since they both have taken a very good care of him and even ensured that there is a full-time helper at home so that I can spend all my time with my son. We had decided that we will send him to a normal school. Cambridge School, which has special educators and arrangement for taking special one-to-one classes also for the children, also came as a big boost,” she acknowledged the efforts of the authorities. Ananya has a sister, Mannat, who is a year younger to him. Both share a special bonding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-hearing-impaired-boy-fights-all-odds-scores-92-in-class-x-295665
10-08-2021||---||SAD’s Valmiki card upsets local leaders in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 9Even as SAD chief Sukhbir Badal has attempted to play a Valmiki card by appointing ex-safai karamchari and Valmiki leader Chandan Grewal as halqa in charge from the general Jalandhar Central seat, it has upset the plans of some local leaders who had been eyeing the seat.A protégé of ex-MLA Sarabjeet Makkar, Iqbal Singh Dhindsa is quite upset as he had even got hoardings put up across the area to tell them that he would contest the polls from Akali ticket in 2022. Dhindsa was quite elated after SAD parted ways from BJP as Jalandhar Central seat was in the kitty of the saffron party in the alliance. But his hopes dashed.Like him, the aspirations of ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia also dashed as he too had got active in the area for the past few months and was very confident of getting the party ticket. Bhatia on Monday announced that he had given the party a 10-day ultimatum to review its decision or face the consequences. “Nearly 42 party workers have handed over their signed resignation letters to me saying that they were not interested to work for it if I was not duly rewarded with a ticket”, he said. He, however, did not spell it clearly as to what he had planned in the event the party did not take back its decision.Bhatia and Grewal had been at loggerheads in the Municipal Corporation earlier. Grewal as the president of the Safai Mazdoor Union had got garbage waste strewn in Bhatia’s office during his tenure as senior deputy Mayor. But the two had later reached a compromise and were reportedly in good terms with each other. Bhatia said that he had congratulated Grewal on his being taken as halqa incharge. “I have my fight with the party but I am not averse to Grewal”, he said.On the party playing Valmiki card, he said, “I am for giving all communities a due representation but I do not think it will work. It did not even work during a similar ploy the party planned on Kapurthala general seat in 2017 polls.”He also said that he did not like the idea of the party to have more SC candidates than the actual reserved seats in Jalandhar. “We already have Jalandhar West, Phillaur, Adampur and Kartarpur as the four reserved seats in the district. I do not understand this idea of the party of deploying another SC candidate, one above the total number of four reserved seats from here”, Bhatia questioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sads-valmiki-card-upsets-local-leaders-in-jalandhar-295664
10-08-2021||---||Jalandhar on high alert after tiffin bomb found in Amritsar ahead of I-Day||Jalandhar, August 9The Commissionerate Police have beefed up security in the city after the recovery of a tiffin box carrying an IED explosive bomb in Amritsar, besides issuing red alert and putting anti-sabotage team on high alert to prevent any untoward incident in view of independence day.The Commissioner of Police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, while chairing a review meeting with the police officials at the Police Lines, said the police were making all efforts to maintain law and order situation in the city at any cost. He also issued a WhatsApp number 9646018201 for people to inform the police, if found any suspicious activity in their neighbourhood so that such unscrupulous elements could be nabbed beforehand.The CP also directed the officials to launch a special checking drive in PGs to verify the credentials of tenants living in such accommodations without proper verification.Bhullar further added that the anti-sabotage team was also put on high alert in the wake of ensuring Independence Day event besides appealing to the people to remain vigilant while visiting crowded places. He urged people to not touch any kind of unclaimed article and immediately inform police so that such objects could be screened by the special teams without any delay adding people should beware of unclaimed tiffin, school bags or any kind of packets.The CP also added that special checking drives would be carried out in crowded places such as markets, railway stations, bus stands, and shopping malls to ensure foolproof security arrangements at these vulnerable points. He also pointed out that special awareness audio clips were being prepared by the police which would be played in the crowded place to make people sensitize about the potential security threat.The CP mentioned that the Commissionerate Police were deploying extra force in the city as a part of its measure to beef up security arrangements besides keeping a close eye on anti-social elements. The Station House Officers (SHOs) have been asked to tight noose around the anti-social elements by keeping a close tab over their activities besides ensuring monitoring of criminals on bail.Further, officials were ordered to also intensify patrolling at public places so as to maintain the law and order situation in wake of ensuring festival season. He said police teams/PCR staff have been monitoring and patrolling in the city round the clock as these places witness high footfall on weekends including shopping malls, markets, restaurants, and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-on-high-alert-after-tiffin-bomb-found-in-amritsar-ahead-of-i-day-295663
10-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar: Attendance on the rise in schools, but concepts out of mind||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9On the one hand, the government schools have started witnessing rise in attendance of students. Parents who had been waiting for schools to reopen were happy and content that their wards were finally attending regular classes. On the other, teachers and principals believe that a lot has changed in the last one-and-a-half years and students have forgotten several things. They said it would take some time to bring them back on track.Teachers said though students were enjoying coming to school, extra efforts were needed to ensure they study hard and cover the syllabus.Staying indoors during Covid-19’s wave after wave has made kids careless, irritated and lethargic. Continously sitting online has further taken a toll on students’ attitude. At Government Senior Secondary School, Alampur Bakka, 300 students out of 380 attend school daily.Sukhdev Lal, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Alampur Bakka, said students have forgotten several things. “We need to bring them back to the level where they were before the pandemic hit,” he said.Lal said, “Students hardly write and have forgotten basic concepts. It’s very important for schools to run continuously. Else, it will become very difficult for them and us.”At Government Middle School, Mundi Cholian, 118 students were present today out of 132.Kulwinder Singh, head teacher, Government Middle School, Mundi Cholian, also shared the same concern. “Students were doing everything online till now. It will definitely take sometime. We need to clear certain concepts at the earliest,” he said. As students were getting promoted to next classes without appearing for exams, teachers said bright students, who were earlier conscious of their grades, hardly cared anymore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-attendance-on-the-rise-in-schools-but-concepts-out-of-mind-295662
10-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar: Bhangra, gala feast await Mithapur hockey stars||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9“We will welcome our sons with bhangra.” This is how parents plan to receive the hockey heroes upon their arrival at Mithapur village here on Wednesday. The men’s hockey team landed in New Delhi today after winning the bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics.The team received a grand welcome as a huge rush of admirers cheered for the players. Skipper Manpreet Singh called up mother Manjit Kaur and told her he was going straightaway to the hotel as there was a huge crowd. “I felt so proud to see admirers gather just to have a glimpse of the players,” she said.Manpreet, Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh hail from the village, where the families have planned a grand celebration upon their arrival.A common celebration will be held where the players will be welcomed into the village amid drum beats and dancing. A lavish feast awaits them later.The parents will first head to Amritsar to receive the players. An event to facilitate the players has been planned at the PAP. In the evening, they will reach Mithpaur and then the celebrations will begin.Asked whether she had some special food planned for Manpreet, Manjit Kaur said: “I will prepare whatever he likes.” Varun’s family, on the other hand, has already decided on the menu. “There will be curry and paranthas. He has never been fussy about eating. But he loves these, so my wife will make his favourite food,” said his father Brahma Nand.Mandeep’s father Ravinder Singh said his son rang him up to enquire if they would be there to receive him at the airport. “Why not, we are all ready, I told him,” said Ravinder, adding his relatives would reach the village in the morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-bhangra-gala-feast-await-mithapur-hockey-stars-295334
10-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Need Rs 1K cr sports budget for Punjab: Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Punjab needs at least Rs 1,000 crore budget for sports. To promote the existing talent, setting up quality infrastructure is the need of the hour. This was stated by MLA Pargat Singh here today.The bronze win of the Indian hockey team has suddenly brought the spotlight on Pargat Singh, currently MLA, Jalandhar Cantt, and former Director, Sports, Punjab, who has been credited with building a grass-roots mechanism to encourage hockey and other sports in the state. The three-time Olympian, who hails from Mithapur village, started the first batch at a derelict stadium and hired hockey coaches. “To become a player of national level, it requires 15 to 20 years of practice. At that time, there were only two-three players in the national team. The streamlining of hockey infrastructure started in 2005-06. We identified pockets which were original talent hubs. Coaches and selectors had certain kind of mentality to choose boys. Recommendations were favoured. We ensured our coaches and selectors did not let that happen,” he said.Better infra requiredNations that lead in sports allocate 10-15% of total budget on human resource to shape the youth. We also need well-equipped training centres. —Pargat Singh, MLA“We need at least Rs 1,000 crore budget for the state. The leading sporting nations allocate 10 to 15 per cent of their total budget on human resource to shape the younger generation. We also need well-equipped training centres and stadiums,” he said. “We have to plan for 2032 and 2036. We have to reach a bigger base. Every village has to have a coach,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-rs-1k-cr-sports-budget-for-punjab-pargat-singh-294911
