11-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||40 pc Subsidy on dairy machinery||Action sought on paper millsGarhshankar: Shri Anandpur Sahib MP and former Union Minister Manish Tewari has written a letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh demanding action on paper mills causing pollution in Saila Khurd village of Garhshankar. A delegation had met MP Tiwari mentioning the problem being faced by residents. In the letter, Tewari wrote that according to the panchayats and people of different villages of Garhshankar subdivision, poisonous chemicals, dirt, gases etc. are taking a toll on the health of the people and animals. The villagers alleged that they had contacted officials concerned at the local level, but no action was taken. Tewari had sought departmental action against the accused officers. OCAdmissions open at Sainik InstituteHoshiarpur: The District Defence Services Welfare Officer Colonel (retd), Dalwinder Singh, said admissions have started at Sainik Institute of Management and Technology, an Punjab Technical University accredited institute, for regular computer courses such as BSc (IT), PGDCA, and MSc (IT) for session 2021-22. Ex-servicemen, para military forces, SC and other students can take admissions for these courses by contacting the institute office between 10 am to 3 pm on Monday to Thursday with their original documents. Col Dalwinder Singh said the minimum educational qualification for the BSc (IT) course is Class XII, for PGDCA the eligibility if Graduation and for MSc (IT) is PGDCA or graduation is required. Interested students can contact the institute at 98157-05178, 9478618790 and 01882-246812 for more information. OC1 booked for rash drivingNawanshahr: A case was registered against a JCB driver in Rahon, Nawanshahr. The complainant, Manje Rishidev, told the police that his younger brother had gone to buy groceries and was hit by a JCB. He was commuting on his bike when the driver hit my brother and he died on the spot, the complainant said. A case under Section 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), and 304 (Causing death by negligence) was registered against the driver who fled from the spot after the incident. TNS4 arrested with 107-gm heroinHoshiarpur: The Tanda police on Monday arrested four smugglers and seized 107 gram of heroin. Cops stopped a car passing through the Beas bridge on suspicion. During the search, 107 gm of heroin was found in the car. All four aboard the car were arrested. The accused have been identified as Sunil Kumar alias Neela Balala and Parvinder Singh residents of Dehriwal, Avtar Singh alias Sunny and Daljit Singh alias Monu, residents of Tanda. OCMan killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A man was killed while another was injured in a road accident. The complainant, Surjit Singh, a resident of Dharampura village under the Bareta police station of Mansa, told the police that he was returning with his friend Ranjit Singh, a resident of Nurpur Khurd, Ropar, from a religious place on Sunday evening. When he reached near Adamwal, a car passing by hit them. They were admitted to a government hospital. Ranjit Singh, who was critically injured in the mishap, was referred to a private hospital where he died. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-pc-subsidy-on-dairy-machinery-296145
11-08-2021||Jalandhar||Documentary teaser, song launched by HMV Alumnae Welfare Association||Young warriors awardedLyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar is contributing significantly to its duty towards social causes. Volunteers of NSS unit of the college have played their role in defeating coronavirus. These volunteers were awarded certificates by UNICEF India as Young Warriors. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra congratulated the volunteers and said that Lyallpur Khalsa College is committed toward society in creating a better social environment. He motivated the students to do all in their capacity to defeat Covid-19 and also to follow guidelines strictly. During the event, chief programme officer Prof Satpal Singh informed that a record 20 volunteers are awarded with Young Warrior certificates while some more volunteers will get certificates soon.Jaspreet Kaur 1st in BAThe students of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar again brought laurels for the institute by outshining in the BA Geography (Hons) (Sem V) results of the GNDU declared so far. Jaspreet Kaur achieved 1st position in the university and scored 81per cent marks. Kamalpreet was 2nd with 80 per cent marks. Kajal secured 3rd position with 79 cent marks. Following their footsteps was Deepika who achieved 4th position with 78 per cent marks. Principal patted the merit holders and blessed them. She also appreciated the efforts of Manita, Head, Department of Geography, for her efforts and guidance.Online Talent Hunt competitionKanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised Online Talent Hunt 2021. The event began with the welcome address of Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi. The students performed in various events such as solo dance, solo song, best out of waste, still life/landscape, mask making, modelling, wonders of sciences at home, etc. During the culmination of the event, winners in various categories were announced. Modelling was the chief attraction of the event.Teej celebrated at Dhilwan DIPSDIPS School, Dhilwan, performed bhangra and gidda to celebrate Teej festival. Staff attired in traditional Punjabi attire took swings and also song customary Punjabi songs and danced merrily gidda and bhangra. During this activity staff members Neha, Neelam, Herman, Sumit, Rachna, Renu and other teachers together relished jalebi, malpuas etc. Ramp walk and dance round were also organised during the programme in which all the teachers participated and showcased their talent. Folk songs were sung to depict the rich cultural heritage of Punjab to apprise about “sarson ka saag” and “makki ki roti” to realise and acquaint about the rich splendour of Punjab.Quit India Movement Day observedThe Quit India Movement Day was observed at Shiv Jyoti Public School. The students were made aware about this day through online presentation. This presentation was prepared by co-associate teachers of Pragati House Shallu Magow and Ritu Devgon under the supervision of House Master Neeru Bala. Krishna Jyoti (Chairperson), Dr Vidur Jyoti (Chairman Trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (Manager, Managing Committee and General secretary Trust) Principal Neeru Nayyar, Vice Principal Parveen Saili appreciated the initiative taken by the teachers in this regard.Patent grantedThe Commissioner of Australian Patents has certified that Vikram Dhiman, CSE department LKCTC, with his team had successfully granted the patent “Novel Sustainable Stubble Burner for Cooking Purpose”. To motivate and encourage researchers, Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director Academic Affairs, KCL Group, congratulated and honoured Vikram Dhiman with a token of appreciation. Dr RS Deol (Dy Director, KCL Group) appreciated the efforts made by Dhiman and congratulated the department for this achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/documentary-teaser-song-launched-by-hmv-alumnae-welfare-association-296144
11-08-2021||---||Langar sewa completes 100 days in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 10The Youth Morcha, Jalandhar, completed 100 days of free food distribution service for Covid-19 patients and the needy at Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. The noble work was started by president Gagandeep Dhatt, and members namely, Manbir Singh, Vikram Dhiman, Jaskirat Toor and Jasdeep Bawa etc. Till date, the NGO had distributed food to around 15,000 persons at the Civil Hospital and bus stand. Dhatt said, “Besides the langar sewa, we have also provided essentials for farmers in Delhi. We have also extended financial support in the marriage of a few girls.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/langar-sewa-completes-100-days-in-jalandhar-296143
11-08-2021||---||Six-day dist badminton tourney at 
Jalandhar's Hansraj Stadium from August 24||Jalandhar, August 10The District Badminton Association (DBA), Jalandhar, will organise District Badminton Championships from August 24 to August 29 at Raizada Hansraj Stadium.DBA’s interim committee member and former national player Ritin Khanna said during the championship events for under-11, 13, 15, 17, 19, men and women singles, doubles and mixed doubles matches will be organised.He said there would be matches in the age group of 35 to 60 in the veteran category. The fee for each player is Rs 600 per event and players can register their names till August 18. He said only Jalandhar residents or students can take part in the championship. Those who want to participate can submit their entries along with two passport size photographs at the DBA’s office, he added.Players above 18 years participating in the championship would have to submit a certificate of one dose of Covid vaccination to the association along with their entry.Khanna said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori would honour the winners on August 29. “All the players will get free refreshment and live-streaming of matches will be done on Facebook. He further added for the first time in the history of DBA, the winners will get prizes worth Rs 2 lakh. A certificate and a trophy would be given to each participant. The winners of the women’s and men’s singles events will be awarded the PV Sindhu and Gopi Chand running trophies, respectively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-day-dist-badminton-tourney-at-jalandhars-hansraj-stadium-from-august-24-296142
11-08-2021||---||Fire breaks out at pipe factory in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 10A major fire broke out at a pipe factory situated at the industrial area in Globe Colony here on Tuesday morning. The fire brigade officials received a call at 7.30 am regarding the incident.When the fire brigade reached the spot, the fire was out of control. The goods kept in the factory were destroyed in the fire. However, no loss of human life was reported in the incident. According to the owner of the factory, a spark in a transformer was noticed first, after which the fire broke out. However, the fire brigade team was unsure of the actual reason of fire.Over 25 fire tenders were used to douse the flames. It took almost four hours for officials of the Fire Brigade to control the flames. Smoke could be seen billowing out of the factory. “The moment we got to know about the incident, the fire tenders were pressed into the service immediately. While the teams were on work, the roof and a wall of the unit collapsed. Nobody was hurt,” said Jaswant Singh, the District Fire Officer.Even after the fire was controlled, the fire tenders remained on the spot to avoid any plastic material catching fire again. As per the information, the unit owners of nearby factories too came and were worrying that the fire might reach their units too.Jaswant Singh said the fire tenders were deployed outside the factory because he didn’t want any casualty to happen in case the pipe materials and raw materials caught fire again.Recently, a chemical factory situated at Shekhein village on Hoshiarpur Road had also caught fire and the officials had remained unaware of the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-at-pipe-factory-in-jalandhar-296140
11-08-2021||---||BJP leaders allege graft in Jalandhar civic body||Jalandhar, August 10Former mayor Sunil Jyoti and BJP councillor Sushil Kumar on Tuesday again attacked the municipal corporation alleging that a lot of corruption was going on in the civic body.They said a tender had been passed for the road stretch from Maqsuda to Vidhipur railway lines at an estimated cost of over Rs 26 lakh, but a simple patchwork costing around Rs 50,000 would be suffice for it. Sushil Kumar went live from his social media official page where he showed to his followers and Jalandhar residents that there was not much work needed on the road for which a whopping sum of over Rs 26 lakh would be spent by the MC. “I want to know who made the estimate and who will be benefited from it. We smell a scam in it. We would demand a probe into the matter by the Vigilance Bureau,” said Sushil Kumar. He said he could not find even a single pothole on the road so what was the need to float a tender for the same. “I challenge MC officials to show me that the road needs patchwork by spending this amount,” the BJP councillor added.During the live session, to prove his point, Kumar also asked an auto-rickshaw driver if the road where he commuted daily needed to be repaired at a cost of over Rs 26 lakh. Sunil Jyoti and Kumar also raised another point and said Jalandhar had always remained a sports hub. “We wanted Burlton Park to be developed as a sports hub where there could be best swimming facilities apart from other games, but now, there is a proposal to construct a police chowki, school, etc. Burlton Park was not meant for these things,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-allege-graft-in-jalandhar-civic-body-296139
11-08-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted in Bholath, two arrested||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, August 10Kapurthala police on Tuesday busted a gang of robbers, who had attacked a money changer at Bholath three days ago, by arresting its two members and recovering one country-made .12 bore pistol and two live cartridges from their possession.The accused have been identified as Deepak, alias Jaggi of Ramgarh, Bholath, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Kamrai village in the district.Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said under the supervision of SP (Investigation) Vishaljit Singh and DSP Kamaljit Singh, SHO, Bholath, Sub-Inspector Jasveer Singh and his team arrested accused Deepak and Gurpreet Singh.The SSP said municipal councillor Kuldeep Singh, who runs a Western Union shop at Kamrai in Bholath, was shot at by six unidentified youths who came to his shop on two motorcycles and a scooter with the intention of killing and looting him. Two of them came inside his shop and started talking to him about ordering money from abroad. On suspicion, Kuldeep Singh grabbed a suspect by the throat and then they called their accomplices and one of them opened fire on Kuldeep Singh with a pistol. The bullet hit his right thigh. They fled to the Bhogpur side on a scooter. During the investigation, various teams were formed to trace and arrest the culprits.The accused, Deepak, alias Jaggi, said he was involved in the incident with his relative Jas, alias Yuvraj Sabharwal, of Gali Ghumiaranwali, Majitha Road, Amritsar, and Shiv, who is Jas’s friend, and along with three other unidentified youths, about whom Jas knows well. Gurpreet had told him to do a recce of the area and he had called his fellow accused from Amritsar, who joined them in the incident.Giving details of the past records of the criminals, the SSP said these criminals were habitual offenders. Accused Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, had two cases of murder and robbery of cash van already registered against him at the Bhogpur police station, Jalandhar, and he has come out on bail in a murder case. Besides, he also has one case registered against him at the Kotwali police station under the NDPS Act in Kapurthala.Accused Deepak, alias Jaggi, too has a case registered against him at the Kartarpur police station on the charge of looting a Kartarpur financier, besides two other cases, including the use illegal pistol and a theft in the Bholath police station.During the investigation, it was also found that fugitive accused Jas, alias Yuvraj Sabharwal, had been convicted of murder at the Chheharta police station under the Amritsar Commissionerate and cases have been registered against him at the Majitha Road police station and other police stations for two different offences.Police teams were also conducting raids in Amritsar to nab the absconding accused, he added. HPS Khakh said the accused arrested in the case would be taken on remand to get clues about other gang members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-bholath-two-arrested-296138
11-08-2021||Tribune Reporters||Parents panic as 2 Nawanshahr government school students test +ve||Jalandhar, August 10Just two weeks after the schools were re-opened, the reporting of cases of Covid-19 in a government school of Nawanshahr on Tuesday led to panic among the parents.After a random sampling by health teams in schools of Nawanshahr, two students from Government Senior Secondary School, Saroya, tested positive for the virus. The two students are from Classes VI and VII. The school, which has a strength of 400 students, was immediately ordered to close for the next 14 days on the orders of DEO Jagjit Singh. A total of 1,274 samples were reportedly taken from Nawanshahr, most of them from government schools.The district had been reporting nil detection of Covid cases since the last over a fortnight and the sudden emergence of two cases has again brought the health teams on their toes. The officials asked the health teams to do contact tracing, test more students and their family members and try to contain the infection by stepping up all efforts. After the discharge of one patient, only one active case was left in the district when the fresh emergence of cases in the school got reported.In Jalandhar, five new cases were reported. These cases are being reported from Ajtana village in Nurmahal which is the new containment zone in the district. Four patients were also discharged. With this, the total active cases in the district now stand at 30 and total cases since March 2020 stands at 63,158.In Kapurthala, one new positive case was reported. Six patients got discharged bringing down the active cases to 15. A total of 17,767 cases have been reported so far in the district.Hoshiarpur reported a fatality due to Covid-19. The death toll in the district has reached 978. There are 18 active cases in the district after the discharge of one patient. Two new cases were on Tuesday reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-panic-as-2-nawanshahr-government-school-students-test-ve-296137
11-08-2021||---||Amid tight security claims, firing in 
Jalandhar's Basti Sheikh area||Jalandhar, August 10Despite the police are on toes to maintain law and order situation ahead of Independence Day, there is no end to the firing incidents in the city. A firing incident was reported in the Basti Sheikh area at 4 am in Billa Colony, near Kala Sanghiya Road.The victim, Sonia, said two men were roaming around her house for the past two days. When she objected to it, they hurled abuses at her. Before firing, the accused made WhatsApp call to her daughter in the midnight and later around 4 am fired two bullets at her house. The bullets hit the walls and furniture and no one was hurt in the firing. The accused was on the run.The incident created panic among residents. An illegal weapon was used in the firing. Reportedly, there was a dispute between the accused and the woman, after which he opened fire at her house.Meanwhile, taking swift action on the incident, the police have identified both the accused and lodged an FIR against them.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said both the accused have been identified as Manik Babbar of Basti Bawa Khel, and Abhimanyu. He added that as per preliminary investigation, the reason behind the incident was found to be the personal grudge against the complainant.The DCP stated that the accused Manik Babbar had a relationship with the victim. However, the relationship between them turned sour, resulting in the firing incident. A case has been registered at the Bhargo Camp police station.Checking drive ahead of I-DayOn the directions of Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, the police on Tuesday launched an intensive checking drive at all prominent places to ensure foolproof security cover in the city. While leading the campaign Assistant Commissioner of Police (Headquarter) Subash Arora said in the wake of Independence Day, the police were making concerted efforts to maintain law and order situation in the city. The ACP said the anti-sabotage team, special operation group, district police and GRP Police jointly conducted inspection at all vulnerable places. “The teams also covered some of the government offices, market places, and religious places with higher footfall, including passport office, court complex, Devi Talab Mandir, Rainik Bazaar, Dilkusha Market, Bus Stand, followed by special checking at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium, where district-level Independence Day event was going to be organised. During the checking in public places, the officials also sensitised people and shopkeepers to remain vigil of any kind of suspicious activities and inform police immediately, if they found anything unusual. The police teams also urged people to stay away from unclaimed articles and share such information with the Police Department so that such items could be screened at the earliest,” added Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-tight-security-claims-firing-in-jalandhars-basti-sheikh-area-296136
11-08-2021||---||22-yr-old shot in Nurmahal||Jalandhar, August 10A 22-year-old man was shot dead in broad daylight at his home in the Nurmahal area here. The incident was reported at around 6.45 am on Tuesday when the victim was sleeping at his house in Khateek Colony. The victim has been identified as Rohit Kumar and the accused as Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana.As per information, before killing Rohit, the accused also shot at his wife and his mother-in-law in the wee hours on Tuesday at his residence in Haibowal, Ludhiana. Both Ludhiana and Jalandhar Rural police have started investigation to nab the accused. A case under Section 302 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against Jaswinder at the Nurmahal police station.The initial report stated that when the victim was sleeping at his home, the accused, who arrived on his Activa, knocked the gate of the house. The moment Rohit opened the gate, Jaswinder fired one bullet at him. As it missed him, he fired again and the bullet hit the victim’s forehead. After hearing the gunshot, his elder brother Vishal raised an alarm and tried chasing the accused. However, he managed to run away from the spot. The other family members also rushed downstairs.The victim, lying in a pool of blood, died on the spot. His body was later sent to the Civil Hospital for a postmortem.Though the motive was not clear, the police suspect that the accused killed the victim due to alleged extramarital affair between him and the killer’s wife. Both of them were reportedly known to each other and the victim even used to visit his house.SSP, Rural Police, Navin Singh, who reached the spot along with the DSP, Nakodar, stated that police teams had been formed to trace the accused and the registration number of his vehicle recovered.The police in a joint operation also managed to recover some CCTV footages, from which the identification of the accused was confirmed. SHO, Nurmahal, Inspector Jatinder Kumar said two bullet shells were recovered from the spot and an illegal weapon was apparently used by the accused. Before killing Rohit, he shot at his wife, mother-in-law in LudhianaAlso read: Man shoots at wife, her mother, kills paramour in Haibowal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/22-yr-old-shot-in-nurmahal-296135
11-08-2021||Jalandhar||ED raids house of naib tehsildar, 13 other places across Chandigarh and Punjab||The Enforcement Directorate teams today raided 14 locations across Chandigarh and Punjab under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the wrong mutation case of 1,295 acres of shamlat land of Seonk village of Mohali.In November last year, the Vigilance Bureau had arrested the then naib tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, patwari Iqbal Singh, property dealer Sham Lal, nambardar Gurnam Singh and two others in the case. The ED had lodged an Enforcement Case Information Report into the matter in March this year.On Tuesday, the ED teams raided 14 sites, including Dhoot’s house in Chandigarh, two premises at Hoshirapur and his in-laws place in Ludhiana; and six other locations at Mohali, including those of patwari and property dealers.The ED officials said some evidences had been recovered from all locations, which would help in following the money trail of the proceeds in the alleged crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ed-raids-house-of-naib-tehsildar-13-other-places-across-chandigarh-and-punjab-295970
