12-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid: Health, Education Deptartments in Nawanshahr on tenterhooks||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, August 11The district had reported zero case for the last 10 days before two students of a government school at Saroya tested positive here on Tuesday.This has surely become a matter of concern for the Education and Health Departments and has brought back the memories of February when 28 students from one school in the district had tested positive and then scores of them were found positive creating panic among the parents.However, the students who were found positive are asymptomatic. But, higher education officials have stated that there is negligence on the part of the students. So, DEO Jagjit Singh has said that he will be conducting surprise checking in schools and will send a show-cause notice to the school authorities if students or school employees are found flouting the Covid-19 norms.The Health Department has now accelerated the sampling process so that all the 655 schools in the district could be covered at the earliest and the infected students identified and isolated.Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Kaur said, “We have set a target of sampling 1,000 teachers, students and other staff members on a daily basis because we want to cover all 655 government, government-aided and private schools in Nawanshahr.” The Civil Surgeon said it would now be preferred that RT-PCR of the students is conducted rather than RAT.”She said it had been advised that even if any family member of either a student or a teacher was unwell, the teacher or the student could take leave from the school so that the infection does not spread to others.“Even if a single student tests positive during random sampling, we will close the school. Otherwise, the instructions have already been sent where proper ventilation and cleanliness in the schools has been advised. The schools have also been asked to invite students on a rotation basis in case of less space,” the Civil Surgeon further said.Today, there are four more active cases in the district, including two students, out of which two are under home isolation.District reports four fresh cases of covid, no casualtyA total of four fresh cases were reported in the district today, with which the district tally went up to 63,162 (two of these belong to other districts). The toll remained at 1,490 as district reported no Covid death today. As many as 61,611 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 61.4 test +ve in KapurthalaFour fresh cases of Covid were reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally increased to 17,775. No death was reported in the district today.6 students +ve in HoshiarpurAs many as seven persons tested positive for Covid in the district on Wednesday. Among them are six students of a government school in Tanda block. For precaution sake, the school has been closed till further orders. With the fresh cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 30,674. The number of active cases in the district is 23 whereas 29,673 have recovered.Helpline numbers for Covid patientsAmbulance helpline: 108Emergency helpline: 104Jalandhar Helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Dist Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-health-education-deptartments-in-nawanshahr-on-tenterhooks-296565
12-08-2021||---||1 held in Jalandhar's Billa colony firing incident||Jalandhar, August 11The city police on Wednesday apprehended Manik Babbar, who was involved in the firing incident that took place in Billa Colony, Kala Sanghia Road, on early Tuesday morning. The arrest was made within 24 hours of reporting of the incident.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused had been arrested from Solan in Himachal Pradesh, who had fled to the district after committing the crime. Bhullar said he was already wanted in the murder case of Davinder Singh, alias Baba, of Sehra Fields, which was registered at the New Baradari police station on February 6, 2019. The police have recovered a 9mm pistol with three live rounds and a .32 bore pistol with two live rounds from the accused.The accused has been arrested from Solan in Himachal Pradesh, who had fled to the district after committing the crime. He was already wanted in the murder case of Davinder Singh of Sehra Fields, which was registered at the New Baradari police station on February 6, 2019. —Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Commissioner of policeBhullar further added that Manik had been a close aide of gangster Mani Nasa who was killed in a gang war in Delhi and who had provided Manik a shelter after the murder incident in Jalandhar. He also mentioned that Manik had been hiding in Himachal Pradesh and was involved in drug peddling as he was already booked under the NDPS Act at the Adampur police station. He stated that the accused had been living with his friends in Bhopal, Mumbai, Mohali, and other places, adding that he would supply charas at higher prices to Delhi after buying it from Kasauli, HP.Notably, a fire incident was reported in Villa Colony on Tuesday morning in which the police have identified both the accused as Manik Babbar of Basti Bawa Khel and Abhimanyu within a few hours of the incident.The CP stated that as per preliminary investigation the motive behind the incident was found to be personal grudge against the complainant. He said as per investigation, accused Manik Babbar had a close relationship with the complainant’s sister, adding that in a recent development, the relationship between both of them had turned sour resulting in this fire incident. An FIR with the charges of attempt to murder and Arms Act had been registered against both of them at the Bhargo Camp police station on Tuesday.The CP said the accused would be produced in a court and his police remand would be sought to interrogate him about the hideouts of second accused Abhimanyu so that he could be arrested at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-held-in-jalandhars-billa-colony-firing-incident-296566
12-08-2021||---||Manappuram robbery: One accused arrested||Jalandhar, August 11With the arrest of one out of the six accused, the Commissionerate of Police have finally solved the Manappuram gold loan heist case after 19 days.The incident took place in the Urban Estate branch of the gold loan office, in which Rs 2.34 lakh cash and around 5-kg gold was looted on July 24 last month.Disclosing the details, Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police had arrested one accused, identified as Parshant Kumar, a resident of Bilgam village in Samastipur district of Bihar, who along with his cousin Deepak and other aides had committed the robbery and fled from the spot.The investigation teams have also recovered the motorcycle with fake registration number used in the crime. Moreover, the other gang members involved in the incident have also been identified and the city police were in close coordination with Bihar Police to arrest the remaining accused, added Bhullar.He said Deepak along with his accomplices, who were riding three bikes and a car, approached Prashant on July 15 and the former arranged a rented accommodation for them. After that they plotted the robbery and executed their plan.“The police parties traced the clues of a rented accommodation where all the accused persons had stayed on July 15 in Sultanpur Lodhi, which led to tracing of Parshant Kumar, who had arranged that room for the accused. After the robbery, Parshant had fled away with his family, who was later nabbed from Raghbir Nagar in Delhi West,” briefed Bhullar.Parshant was to get his share from the looted gold after it was sold in the market. However, he had received Rs 50,000 as a share from Rs 2.34 lakh.Bhullar further added that the police teams would apprehend the other accused soon. He lauded the teamwork of officials of the Commissionerate Police tasked to solve the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manappuram-robbery-one-accused-arrested-296567
12-08-2021||Our Correspondent||DAV College, Hoshiarpur, gets NAAC accreditation||Hoshiarpur, August 11DAV College has become the first college in the district to get National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation by meeting its test criteria and has achieved the ‘B’ grade.A special team of the NAAC, headed by Dr Narinder Kumar Yadav, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Jharkhand, had visited the college last month.Principal Dr Vinay Kumar said: “There are about 42,443 educational institutions across the country. A revised accreditation framework for the evaluation of various cycles was prepared by the NAAC on July 1, 2017, to assess the institutions from both numerical and qualitative points of view. So far, only 1,816 institutions have registered for their participation in this entire process.“It is a matter of pride that DAV College, Hoshiarpur, accepted the challenge of evaluation for the third cycle and maintained its firm grip on the prescribed parameters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-college-hoshiarpur-gets-naac-accreditation-296568
12-08-2021||Nawanshahr||Samples of Food, milk collected in Nawanshahr||Vajra Corps’ band displayJalandhar: Vajra Corps at Amritsar, Jalandhar Cantt and Ferozepur organised ‘Army Band Display’ to commemorate the 75th Independence Day. The event kindled pride amongst public in general and youth in particular and motivated them to join the Indian Army as a profession of choice to serve the nation. Martial tunes played by the unit bands enthralled the public with their performance and infused patriotic fervour. Sacrifices of the freedom fighters, Army martyrs, veterans and Veer Naris were remembered and martial tunes were played to pay homage to them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/samples-of-food-milk-collected-in-nawanshahr-296571
12-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Cadets of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya clean statue of Shaheed Udham Singh||Video-Making CompetitionMayorites have added yet another feather in the cap of Mayor World School by winning first position in Sahodaya Inter-School Video Making Competition held on August 10. The topic being ‘Lies, propaganda and fake news: A challenge for our age’, Roshni Bhatia and Phurman Sama students of Grade XI did their school proud by winning topmost position and bringing laurels and appreciation from the judges too.Umang Loomba 2nd in BA (Honours)Having already marked an epoch in academic excellence, PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar secures another notch in its belt, yet again. Umang Loomba of BA (Honours) Semester III bagged second position in GNDU and first position in college by securing 79/100 marks in Economics. Unable to contain her joy, Principal Dr Pooja Prashar expressed immense adulation for the student and asserted that these ground-breaking results are indeed testimony to the selfless efforts of our proficient faculty members.Police DAV congratulates Gurjit KaurDr Rashmi Vij, Principal Police DAV Public School, congratulated Pardeep Kaur, the girls’ hockey coach of school on the success of her younger sister Gurjit Kaur at Tokyo Olympics. She is the girl whose goal scripted history in the annals of India women’s hockey and stormed it in the semi-finals at Tokyo Olympics. She got permanent position in Indian Hockey team in 2017 and has been the dominant drag-flicker and the best one for India. In the 2018 Hockey World Cup, she was the most successful goal-scorer for the Indian team with eight goals added to her name. Her performance has been extraordinary in other international tournaments too.Chetna Diwas organisedChetna Diwas was organised by Scouts and Guide Unit of HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School celebrated the birth anniversary of the founder of Indian Scouting Pt Sri Ram Vajpayee by organising Chetna Diwas under the guidance of the Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen. The rally was organised by students in which they exhibited the message of precautionary measures to be taken in Covid like wearing masks, getting vaccinated and maintaining social distancing by presenting their handmade posters and slogans. The tree plantation was also done.Samriti Bhardwaj 2nd in BAJMCSamriti Bhardwaj of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged 2nd position in the University exams of B.A Journalism & Mass Communication Semester-III by getting 359 marks out of 450. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the student and wished her success in life. Dr. Manohar Singh, Head, Department of Computer Science and IT, and Prof. Himanshu were also present on the occasion.Kritika Aggarwal wins Ms Teej titleMela Teeyan Da-2021 was celebrated at CT Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, Maqsudan, with an absolute Punjabi traditional theme in which more than 100 students participated. The chief guest for the occasion remained CT Group’s Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi and the guest of honour was Seema Soni, a media professional.‘Reading month’ observedIvy World School organised “Reading Month” from July 16 to August 16 through a virtual platform. This year the ‘Reading Month’ is being celebrated with various activities and the main objectives behind celebrating the same were: to mark the importance of reading in one’s life and inculcate the reading habit in students. Students engaged in various activities like weave a story, picture description, riddles, rhyme time, loud reading, vocabulary-building, and dialogue delivery, throughout the Reading month.DIPS observes Calligraphy DayCalligraphy day was observed in all schools of DIPS chain to appraise the importance of calligraphy. Various activities were conducted on this day. Students wrote articles and slogans in beautiful handwriting. They wrote in English, Hindi and Punjabi. Teachers told the student about the good handwriting and scripted it as a type of visual art. Teachers gave tips on calligraphy and also ways to improve handwriting. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cadets-of-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-clean-statue-of-shaheed-udham-singh-296575
12-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Chants, beats of dhols welcome hockey players at native village Mithapur||Tribune News ServiceMithapur, August 11Creating history after four decades, the Olympic bronze-winning trio of the Indian hockey team — captain Manpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar — received a hero’s welcome at Mithapur village in Jalandhar today.Also read: Overwhelmed, at loss of words: Mithapur academy’s budding playersNon-stop applause, whistles, cheers, shouts of joy and the beats of the dhol and chants of ‘Jo Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal’ created an electrifying atmosphere as the trio reached their native village. At the very outset, the village was decked up to welcome them. Huge posters of the players and the team dotted the village entrance.The players’ homes had also been lit up with lights. At Manpreet’s home, the entrance was lit with decorative lanterns, lights and the gate was decked up with flowers.Also readFlick it like Mithapur: Mithapur hockey nursery has produced six Olympians so farThe trio arrived in a flower-bedecked open jeep like heroes at Gurdwara Singh Sabha where their relatives were eagerly waiting for them with garlands. It took hours for the players’ caravan to navigate through the markets. Shopkeepers stopped their cavalcade, climbing up their vehicles to catch a glimpse, click a selfie or offer them sweets. At Mithapur, the three players arrived along with their parents and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh who had gone to Amritsar to receive them.At the village, Manpreet’s 80 year-old maternal grandmother Gyan Kaur and Mandeep’s 70-year-old uncle Surinder Pal Singh Ghugga, aunts Jaswinder Kaur and Paramjit Kaur queued up to receive them. While the Indian hockey team has won a medal at the Olympics after 41 years, for Mithapur, it was a 48-year-long wait for a medal-winning Olympian from the village. It was in 1972 that the village’s Kulwant Singh was part of the bronze-winning squad. The trio paid obeisance at the gurdwara and reached the Shaheed Darshan Singh Kaypee Stadium where students and coaches of the Mithapur Hockey Club accorded them a grand welcome.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chants-beats-of-dhols-welcome-hockey-players-at-native-village-mithapur-296339
12-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Overwhelmed, at loss of words: Mithapur academy’s budding players||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 11It was an Olympics like no other and the welcome that bronze medal-winning hockey players received was equally unprecedented. Emotions ran high as the entire Mithapur village eagerly awaited the arrival of its Olympic hockey heroes — captain Manpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar.Excited to accord a rapturous welcome to the Tokyo hockey players, budding players, wearing the Indian hockey team’s jersey, packed the local ground since early morning, even though the medallists reached there in the afternoon.At present, around 40 youngsters are taking training at the Youth Sports Club, Mithapur. Belonging to humble families, the young players from Mithapur village were overwhelmed by the occasion today. Many of them spent a sleepless night, continuously thinking of how they would meet the Olympic players who have brought laurels to the country and what they would say to them. It was a dream-come–true moment for them when they met their hockey heroes. It was a surreal feeling for the young players to rub shoulders with them.Harvinder Singh (17), who has been playing for the past 10 years, said: “For the past two days we had been planning on how we would welcome all the three players.” Singh’s mother, a tailor and a sole earner, works day and night to make both ends meet. “I didn’t know how to react when I met Manpreet paaji whom I admire a lot,” he said.Whenever these hockey stars visit Mithapur village, they always meet budding players and share their knowledge of the game. “One thing I have learnt from him is that you have to have a goal in life and should work continuously towards attaining it without losing the focus,” said Harvinder.Other players, Gurjot Singh and Navjot Singh, both 17, shared the same emotions. They said they felt so proud and fortunate to meet their hockey stars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/overwhelmed-at-loss-of-words-mithapur-academys-budding-players-296341
12-08-2021||Jalandhar||Team stuck together, says hockey captain Manpreet Singh||Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh today said the support of the family and village went a long way in ensuring their victory at the Olympics. Manpreet said, “Togetherness and trust are very important in the team. Even after losing, we stuck together. That’s why we won a bronze medal.”Talking about his experience, he said, “We had gone to Tokyo with the aim of a podium finish. But, unfortunately we lost in the semifinals. However, we were determined not to come back empty-handed.”Also read: Hockey captain Manpreet Singh thanks Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik for his supportGiving credit to the coaches, he said, “Our coaches played a very important role for us.”Speaking on the bonding among the Mithapur trio, Manpreet said, “Actually, there is bonding in the whole team. Most of us are from the Surjit Hockey Academy. We have been playing together for long. So our bonding is very strong. There are many players from Chandigarh too.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/team-stuck-together-says-hockey-captain-manpreet-singh-296342
