13-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Kapurthala: Against all odds, hockey Olympian Krishna B Pathak left his imprint||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, August 12Krishna B Pathak (22), a member of the hockey team that won the Olympic medal after 41 years, was part of the team — an extra goalkeeper. Originally from Nepal, Pathak has been living in Kapurthala since he was very young. He lost his parents early in his life, and now lives with his paternal uncle at the RCF in Kapurthala.Mohd Asim, a hockey coach at the RCF, was the first one to recognise the talent in Pathak.“I have never seen such a hard-working player. Pathak has struggled a lot in his life, but he still stood up and reached this stage at such a young age,” he said.“One day, Pathak’s paternal uncle visited me and asked if I could train him in the sport. I immediately said yes and observed him. I was impressed by his dedication towards the game. He was so pro,” the first coach shared.The proud coach said next time in 2024, he would be the lead goalkeeper. Today, the hockey star was felicitated by the district administration.He studied at the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, and after getting initial training at the academy in the RCF, he received the coaching from Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar, to represent the hockey team as a goalkeeper.While sharing the experience, Pathak said the team had been working tirelessly for the last four years at the Sports Authority of India Centre in Bengaluru. He spent almost two years at the coaching centre due to strict health guidelines issued during the Covid-19, during which only training was given.Pathak, who is currently working in Indian Oil, said these historic moments have come about due to the hard work of the team and the prayers of millions of people.The Deputy Commissioner said the great performance of the country’s athletes in the Olympics has made the whole country proud. This will not only promote sports culture in the country but also help in harnessing the energy of the youth.International coach Ripudaman Singh who was also associated with Pathak since his young age said he has seen the boy grow into a talented goalkeeper.“We had seen a lot of potential in him after which he was enrolled in Surjit Hockey Academy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-against-all-odds-hockey-olympian-krishna-b-pathak-left-his-imprint-297025
13-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dholi who welcomed Indian hockey team was captain Manpreet Singh’s classmate||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12Tirath Singh (32) and Manpreet Singh studied together up to Class V. When Manpreet, along with Mandeep and Varun, returned to the village after winning the bronze medal in hockey at the Tokyo Olympics, Tirath was playing the dhol to cheer for the Indian hockey team captain and his team mates.Friends in school, both studied together up to Class VTirath Singh (32) and Manpreet Singh studied together up to Class V. Both were friends in school. Manpreet later shifted to a private school. Manpreet chose hockey and Tirath music. At Alipur village, he played the dhol for the second time at Mithapur this month, the first was on August 5 - the day the Indian hockey team won the bronze medal. But Tirath could not contain his happiness.As the Olympics bronze medal winning feat was repeated at Mithapur after 49 years, the friendship between captain Manpreet and dholi Tirath Singh was also remembered.Both were friends in school. Manpreet later shifted to a private school. Manpreet chose hockey and Tirath music.At Alipur village, he played the dhol for the second time at Mithapur this month, the first was on August 5 — the day the Indian hockey team won the bronze medal. But Tirath could not contain his happiness.“I cannot tell how happy I am. Pehlan 5 nu pata lagga. Manpreet mere naal school vich parhda si. (I got to know first on August 5 when called to play dhol. He studied with me in school). Mere bhra ne medal jitteya. Mennu bari khushi hai. (My brother won a medal, I’m very happy.)Thirtytwo-year-old Tirath has been playing the dhol at Mithapur on all key occasions. He and his friend Suraj Kalyan (the other dholi) are regularly called. But yesterday was special.Tirath quipped, “I played dhol like I never did. One of the reasons for the happiness is that Manpreet has a wonderful nature. He recognised me and waved at me from the vehicle he was riding. Back in school also, I remember him as a kind, soft-spoken boy who was gentle and polite with everyone and respectful to elders. He played then too. But I never thought he would touch such great heights in hockey.”Tirath adds, “It feels good that friends have achieved such greatness. I wish the team achieves even greater heights during the 2024 Olympics.” Suraj Kalyan said, “I am from Subhanpur. I did not know them personally. But it is an occasion for great happiness. Pind da naa roshan kita ehna ne. (they have brought glory to the village.)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dholi-who-welcomed-indian-hockey-team-was-captain-manpreet-singhs-classmate-297026
13-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district logs six fresh Covid cases, no casualty||The district today logged six fresh Covid cases, with which the tally has gone up to 63,168. Of these, two were from other districts. No Covid death was reported today in the district. The district toll remained at 1,490. As many as 61,626 persons have recovered from Covid in the district so far, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 52.  1 tests +ve in Kapurthala Kapurthala today reported one fresh case, pushing the district tally to 17,776. No-Covid death was reported in the district on Thursday. With fresh cases being reported on schools’ periphery, 3,113 samples were collected from 82 Kapurthala schools today. So far, report of none of these has come out to be positive.  N’shahr sees 1 fresh case The district today reported one fresh case. The district tally now stands at 11,430 and 374 persons have succumbed to the virus so far. The recovery rate in the district is 96.69 per cent. There are five active cases and four are under home isolation. 7 test +ve in Hoshiarpur As many as seven persons tested Covid-positive in the district on Thursday taking the tally to 30,681. No death was reported today and the district toll remained at 977. The number of active cases in Hoshiarpur is 26 whereas 29,677 persons have recovered from the disease so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-six-fresh-covid-cases-no-casualty-297027
13-08-2021||Jalandhar||Special event to honour Indian Olympics men’s hockey team at PAP in Jalandhar||The Punjab Armed Police (PAP) on Thursday organised an event to honour the bronze medal winning players of the Indian Olympics men’s hockey team. Police officials accorded a warm welcome to the players. They were brought on the PAP premises in an open jeep with a line of crisply-dressed bhangra players dancing in front of them.The players were seated on a podium with a huge banner ‘Pride of the Nation’ featuring the four players from Jalandhar — Manpreet, Mandeep, Varun and Hardik. Garlanded by officials, the players, along with their families, were welcomed. Shooting Olympian Anjum Moudgil who also participated in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics was also part of the event.Sports Secretary Bahadur Singh organised the event. He said, “It is a very special occasion for us. Our team has created history. We wanted the best of arrangement for our returning sports heroes. The event was our token of affection for their toil.”Special DG, Arms Battalion, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota; IG Surinder Kalia; SC Battalion Commandant Manjit Singh Dhesi; Ranbir Singh from the 75 Battalion; Kulwant Singh from the 27 Battalion; along with other senior officials were also present.Hockey Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi; Padma Shri Awardee wrestler Kartar Singh; Arjuna Awardee Gurdev Singh; Hockey Olympian Harpreet Singh Mander, among other sportspersons were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-event-to-honour-indian-olympics-mens-hockey-team-at-pap-in-jalandhar-297028
13-08-2021||---||Ahead of I-Day, unclaimed bag creates panic at Jalandhar railway station||Jalandhar, August 12Panic gripped the city railway station on Thursday after an unclaimed bag was spotted by some passersby and security personnel close to the main entry point of the station.On receiving the information, the police rushed to the spot and called a bomb disposal squad. The policemen present at the station asked people to leave the place to allow them to examine the bag. While the whole station was evacuated within minutes, the movement of trains was not discontinued.Later, the bomb disposal squad opened the bag and found nothing suspicious in it, bringing a big relief for local residents, passengers and security agencies.As many as 100 personnel of the city police, the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) reached the spot. An ambulance and a fire tender were rushed to the place. The bomb disposal and dog squads were also brought to the spot after an alarm was raised by security personnel. Passengers, railway staff, porters, and others were quickly directed to vacate the station, leaving only security forces inside the station.SHO, GRP, Dharminder Kalyan said the unclaimed bag was found near the scanning machine at the entrance. The bag was first spotted by security guards who were checking the luggage of passengers and visitors.SHO, Police Division Number 3, said the checking at the station was a mock drill ahead of Independence Day. “The drill was conducted after the recovery of the bag to review security arrangements and availability of fire tenders, bomb squad and ambulances in case of any untoward incident,” added the SHO.Notably after a tiffin box filled with bomb was recovered from Amritsar, there is an atmosphere of concern in the entire state. Following the recovery of the explosives, a high alert was sounded in the city.While presiding over a review meeting with officers at the Police Lines, Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police were making every effort to maintain the law and order situation in the city. Besides, Bhullar also issued a WhatsApp number (9646018201) in this regard so that people could inform the police if any suspicious activity was found around them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ahead-of-i-day-unclaimed-bag-creates-panic-at-jalandhar-railway-station-297029
13-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Getting Aadhaar an uphill task for this 11-year-old Kapurthala village girl||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, August 12Gurcharan Singh of Mansoorwal Dona is badly distraught. All his efforts to get the Aadhaar card of his daughter Shivani (11) have failed as the authorities have not been able to get her fingerprints. She has four fingers in each hand, which are deformed and devoid of any whorls on the tips.I need to check this specific case. There surely will be a way out for her. We will call her on Friday morning and try to help her get the Aadhaar card made. — Deepti Uppal, Kapurthala Deputy CommissionerA student of Class V at Government Primary School, Mansoorwal Dehati, Shivani’s father says that she was unable to receive any scholarship being sent by the government in the bank accounts, which have to be Aadhaar-linked. “I have made several rounds to Suwidha Centres across the district, including those at Shalamar Bagh. Every time that I go, they fill up all the details and take her picture but when it comes to taking fingerprints, they give up saying that the prints are not coming clear,” says Gurcharan, a farmer.Owing to four fingers, Shivani also has little problem in holding things properly. “Though she has a good grip and is able to write well, we have to be little careful in giving her things which are hot, heavy or can spill. Even her toes are a bit deformed since birth, thankfully she does not have any problem in walking or running”, Sonia, her mother, explained.She added that her sons – Karan studying in Class III and Kartar in Class I – have their Aadhaar cards and get the scholarship grants in their accounts from the government, but not Shivani. The experts dealing with Aadhaar card work said that some kind of biometrics will have to be recorded for her, “If we do not get the finger prints, we might be able to take her iris scan. We need to get it all checked”.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said: “I need to get this specific case check. There surely will be a way out for her. We will surely call her tomorrow morning and try to help her get the Aadhaar card made”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/getting-aadhaar-an-uphill-task-for-this-11-year-old-kapurthala-village-girl-297036
13-08-2021||Jalandhar||Students of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus celebrate ‘Hariyali Teej’||Hockey trials at Women's collegeThe hockey trials were conducted in the campus of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women. The girls participated with full zeal as they were aware that the institute provides a lot of facilities such as free hostel. Proudly called as the Golden Girl - Rajbir Kaur - a national-level Hockey player is also a college alumnus. The 'Goal Machine' - Gurjit Kaur - who played in the Women's Hockey team representing India at the Tokyo Olympics-2020, has also been its student. For the trials, Olympian Varinder Singh marked his presence. Parminder Kaur from the Department of Physical Education was also present. Principal Dr Navjot expressed her gratitude towards Varinder and appreciated the efforts of Parminder Kaur.Video-making competitionDelhi Public School here organised a 'Sahodaya Inter-School Video-Making Competition', in which teams from various schools participated enthusiastically. The event aimed to provide the students with a creative medium for video-making to share their ideas and perspectives on the theme 'Lies, propaganda and fake news: A challenge for our age'. In the online event, the participating teams explained the idea behind their video before they were screened for judgment. The first position was bagged by Mayor World School, while Police DAV Public School secured the second position and the third position was bagged by two schools - Swami Sant Dass School, Udasin Ashram, and Kamla Nehru Public School, Phagwara. Principal Ritu Kaul appreciated the efforts put in by all the participating teams and congratulated the winners.Tree plantation driveCambridge International School alongwith Col Yogesh Bharadwaj of NCC 8 Punjabi Battalion and Principal Jorawar Singh successfully planted 100 saplings in Palahi village. The aim of the drive was to motivate students to engage in constructive activities to conserve the environment. Saplings of various plants, including ashoka, neem, mango and other plants, were planted by the students. The students participated enthusiastically in the drive. All important personalities of the village along with the sarpanch were present on the occasion. Col Bhardwaj encouraged the students and the villagers to take care of the planted saplings. Principal Jorawar Singh also encouraged the students and said such steps taken together by the school and the society would surely help not only in conservation of environment but also foster strong mental and social health of the children. Phagwara CIS chairman KS Bassi, Managing Director KS Bains and Vasal Educational Group chairman Sanjeev Vasal also appreciated the efforts made by the school and students.Entrepreneurial SkillsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised various activities to promote entrepreneurial and innovative culture among the students and faculty. The KMV has also been granted the Institutions Innovation Council by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in order to impart education related to start ups and entrepreneurship in their respective fields. The students are being provided utmost care and supreme mentoring by their teachers so that they should be skilfully trained in their fields in order to become empowered and self-reliant. She further maintained that the KMV is working to foster innovative and entrepreneurial culture among students. With the continuous motivation, guidance and support of the departments, many students have started their own ventures, be it a fashion boutique, beauty salon, diet clinic, bakery house, e-retailing, freelance photography and video-editing etc.meritorious students felicitatedTo boost the morale of meritorious students of Class XII, Pyramid College of Business and Technology felicitated them at a prize distribution ceremony organised on in the college premises. All toppers of various schools such as Lord Mahavir Jain Public School, Sant Sarvan Das Model School, GSSS-Phagwara, GSSS-Nangal Majja, SD Model Sr Sec School, Saffron Public School, GSSS for Boys-Phagwara, Arya Model Sr Sec School, Kamla Nehru College, Jain Model Sr Sec School, Divine Public School, etc. attended the event along with their teachers. On the occasion, Prof Jatinder Singh Bedi addressed the participants by highlighting the achievements of the college.international Youth Day observedInnocent Hearts College of Education observed International Youth Day virtually. The theme of the event was “Transforming Food Systems by Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health.” Online poster-making and slogan-writing competitions were organised. An online declamation contest was also conducted on the topics — ‘Eating for planet’, ‘Shift to more sustainable diets’ and ‘Ways to build more sustainable food system by youth participation’. The main objective of organising these activities was to make the youth conscious that as youth of the nation, it should be their endeavour to make the future generation rely on the food systems that they create today, so they should take steps to do their part in living and eating more sustainably. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-of-lyallpur-khalsa-college-technical-campus-celebrate-hariyali-teej-297043
13-08-2021||Jalandhar||Accidental firing near Pakka Bagh, Jalandhar||1 booked for raping minorHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked a youth on the charge of raping a minor girl and blackmailing her by taking her obscene photos. A 17-year-old girl of a village lodged a complaint with the police and said Jasveer Singh of Paddi Sura Singh allegedly raped and blackmailed her, whom she had come in contact with at a wedding ceremony at her relatives’ house. He also threatened her with dire consequences if she complained against him to anyone. OCFormer sarpanch raped, 1 bookedHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have registered a case against an accused on the charge of raping and blackmailing a former sarpanch of a village. The victim in her complaint to the police said she was the sarpanch of a village under the Mahilpur police station in 2013 and during this time she met with Harjit Singh of Padrana. In February 2014, the accused called her to his shop where he offered her tea, on drinking which she went unconscious and on regaining consciousness, she found him and herself naked in a room. She said the accused also took her obscene photos and blackmailed her. OCDacoits loot cash from post officeHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have registered a case against two unidentified accused for robbing cash from a post office. According to information, the postmaster, Kajal, working in the post office located in the Patti village, said the accused on Wednesday, claiming to be from Bohan village came there for some official work but later snatched her mobile phone and escaped with the cashbox that contained about Rs7,000. OCPistol, five live cartridges seizedHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police arrested an accused at a checkpoint in the area and recovered a pistol and five live cartridges from him. According to information, the police on Wednesday night stopped a car at a naka near Argowal and seized a pistol and five live cartridges from the vehicle. The accused has been identified as Prince Bains of Pathankot. OC2 smugglers held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police arrested two smugglers and recovered intoxicants from them on Wednesday night. According to information, the arrested Harpreet Singh, alias Happy of Chautala, and recovered 70-gm intoxicating powder from him. In another case, 25-gm heroin was recovered from a Bala resident, Jasdeepak Singh, alias Billa. A case has been registered against both the accused under the NDPS Act. OC14 Milk samples found adulteratedHoshiarpur: A free of charge milk testing camp was held in Mohalla Hari Nagar by the Dairy Development Department. Giving information, Deputy Director Dairy Harvinder Singh said 23 samples were collected in the camp, out of which 14 were found adulterated with water. Apart from this, urea tests of three samples were done and neutralisers were tested in four samples and harmful substances were found in none of them. The team constituted Gurpreet Singh, Willian conducted tests at the camp and made people aware to use good quality milk. OCTheft of cash, ornamentsHoshiarpur: Unidentified thieves stole foreign and Indian currency and gold and silver ornaments worth lakhs from a house. The Model Town police have registered a case against unidentified thieves. According to information, Parveen Kumari, wife of Harish Kumar of Purheeran, has lodged a complaint with the police. She said she had gone to Hoshiarpur city after locking her house for some work. When she returned home on Tuesday, she saw that the locks of her house were broken and a robbery of around 900 US and Canadian dollars, Rs 70,000, gold, silver ornaments, passport and green card etc was committed. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/accidental-firing-near-pakka-bagh-jalandhar-297044
13-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Mithapur: Hockey players’ families pay for bash with top officials in attendance||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12A grand reception to honour bronze medal-winning hockey Olympians from Mithapur village last night was paid for by players’ families themselves!No instructions to host themWe didn’t receive instructions from the government to host a party or event yesterday, as the CM is already honouring them today. — Ghanshyam Thori, DCAs per information, the players’ families spent around Rs 6 lakh for the event at a private palace to which all key officials of the district administration and police were invited.The administration said it had no instructions from the government to host a party for players. Jalandhar had sent four players to the Indian team, three — Manpreet Singh, Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh — from Mitahpur alone.While Cantt MLA Pargat Singh committed to pay for the venue, the three families pooled in Rs 5.70 lakh for catering and other services at the event. The fourth player — Hardik Singh from Khusropur village — and his family were not part of the event.At the grand welcome of players at Mithapur village yesterday, Pargat was the only district MLA present to receive the team from Amritsar. None of the Jalandhar MLAs or members of the district administration was there to receive them at the village. In the evening, the DC, CP, SSP and other officials attended the party as invitees.Mandeep’s brother Harminder Singh said: “We had planned a party for the three. The event was earlier planned at a local park but factoring in the size of the gathering, the venue was changed. The party was planned a long ago. We are satisfied with what the government is doing for the team and boys.”Manpreet mother Manjit Kaur said: “The three families had decided to throw a bash for the boys. We were asked to change the venue due to inclement weather. We pooled in to host the party. We don’t know who is paying for the venue, but the catering and other services were paid for by us. We did it out of happiness.”Pargat, meanwhile, said: I will bear the cost of the venue.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said: “The SDM-II and District Sports Officer received the players on the way while they were returning home. I had gone to the party yesterday on invitation from the Cantt MLA. When players get free from their hectic schedule, we (administration) plan a dinner for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mithapur-hockey-players-families-pay-for-bash-with-top-officials-in-attendance-296774
