14-08-2021||---||‘Justice in Behbal Kalan case, if AAP forms govt’||Jalandhar, August 13  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said the culprits of the Behbal Kalan firing incident would be brought to justice if the AAP formed government in the state. AAP legal cell state president Justice Zora Singh (retd) said after coming to power, the party would also make public the report of the Justice Zora Singh Commission, probing the case.  Speaking to the mediapersons here on Friday, he said the SITs constituted by the SAD and the Congress to probe the Behbal Kalan incident were mere eyewash. He said all probe committees proved to be unsuccessful and the victims never got justice. He said the Zora Singh Commission Report was against the SAD that is why the Akali government did not allow the report to be made public and now the Congress government was doing the same.  The AAP legal cell also held a meeting at the district bar association, in which several key issues were discussed. While holding the meeting, Justice Zora and Legal Cell state secretary Kashmir Singh Malli said many bar associations in the state were backing the AAP. He also said the AAP would bring reforms in the health and education sectors using legal means. Justice Zora said terrorism in the state was a crisis created by political leadership and the present incapacities were continuing to push the youth towards drugs. He said the AAP would promote the Delhi model in the state and all citizens would be provided with the basic facilities. He also said on the lines of Delhi, lawyers would get various facilities in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/justice-in-behbal-kalan-case-if-aap-forms-govt-297455
14-08-2021||---||‘Creativity key to harness youth potential’||Kapurthala, August 13 Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) organised a webinar to celebrate International Youth Day on Thursday. More than 100 students and teachers  from different educational institutions of the state participated in the event. The theme of  International Youth Day 2021 was “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”. Giving introductory remarks, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Science City, said the event was meant to bring youth issues to the attention of the international community and to celebrate the potential of youth as active partners in society. She emphasised the need to develop inclusive support mechanism to ensure that youth continue to amplify efforts collectively and individually to restore the planet and protect life, while integrating biodiversity in the transformation of food systems.  Further, youth constitute majority of the population in the country, therefore, can play an important role in the progress and development of the nation. The Innovation Hub set up at the PGSC is meant to nurture the creativity and harness the innovative potential of the youth, she added. Manoj Kumar Patel, Principal Scientist, CSIO, was the key speaker. He has the distinction of being a CSIR Young Scientist awardee and six innovations to his credit at a young age of 33. During his address he said energy, creativity, enthusiasm, determination and spirit of youth needs to be strengthened to achieve progress in the field of science and technology.  In his motivational address, he urged the youth to think innovatively and find the scientific solutions to the common issues faced by society in daily life. He also shared his innovations on development of electronic smog-control device to fight pollutants and eco-friendly spray technology to protect agricultural land as well as farmers from excessive use of pesticides. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said youth empowerment could curb the rate of poverty to a large level. “One of the keys to empower the youth is with skill development. When a youth is equipped with essential skills, he or she can utilise them to feed, assist others, and drives a nation towards success and prosperity”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/creativity-key-to-harness-youth-potential-297456
14-08-2021||---||Drive to conduct free mammography tests||Jalandhar, August 13The Inner Wheel Club of Jalandhar West hosted a district assembly at Hotel Regent Park on Sunday. India Inner Wheel Clubs Association president Saroj Katiyar was the chief guest. She installed Guninder Kaur as the district chairman for 2021-22 the Inner Wheel District-307.A drive to conduct free of charge mammography tests for early detection of breast cancer was inaugurated by Katiyar, which will be carried out by the clubs jointly in the coming months.She addressed the delegates and appreciated the working of the clubs and motivated them to work for the welfare of women in the field of health and hygiene, self-defence, financial independence, education and promoting women entrepreneurs to increase their small scale business. She discussed the International Inner Wheel theme i.e. “Pink First” and International Social Projects such as Strong Women Stronger World for 2021-24.Plants and other gifts were distributed among the delegates attending the event. In the business session, district officers read the annual reports and the district chairman talked about the projects to be completed in 2021-22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drive-to-conduct-free-mammography-tests-297457
14-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district sees four fresh cases, no Covid casualty||The district recorded four fresh Covid cases today, with which the district tally went up to 63,172. Of the total cases recorded today, three were from other districts. Also, no Covid-linked death was reported in the district today and the toll remained at 1,490. As many as 61,639 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 43.12 fresh cases in K’thalaAs many as 12 fresh cases of Covid were reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally increased to 17,784. No death due to Covid was reported in the district today.Nawanshahr sees 3 casesThree fresh cases were reported in Nawanshahr on Friday. One of these was from Saroya while two were from Mukandpur block. No death was reported in the district today. The district tally is 11,433.No case in HoshiarpurThe district recorded no fresh Covid case on Friday, keeping the tally at 30,681. The toll too remained at 978 as no new Covid-linked death was reported today. The number of active cases in the district is 22. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-four-fresh-cases-no-covid-casualty-297458
14-08-2021||Garhshankar||Punjab-UT employees slam state govt’s apathy||The Punjab-UT employees and pensioners, under the banner of the United Front, protested against the government at the local SDM office. Hundreds of employees of Garhshankar today held a tehsil-level rally, under the leadership of front state leaders Ram Ji Das Chauhan, Makhan Singh Wahidpuri and Sukhdev Dansiwal and raised slogans against the government.  The speakers said despite the relentless struggle of the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners United Front, the Punjab government was not showing serious concern over the legitimate demands of employees and it was clear from the meetings between the representatives of the Punjab Government and the leaders of the front that the attitude of the government was adamant. Therefore, the front had to resort to the path of struggle.  Various spokespersons alleged that the Congress had promised the employees before coming to power that all kinds of temporary and contract employees would be regularised, old pension would also be restored and vacant posts would be filled. They also promised to pay DA arrears, and said allowances of Anganwadi, mid-day meal workers and ASHA workers will be increased. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-ut-employees-slam-state-govts-apathy-297459
14-08-2021||Jalandhar||Soni to preside over I-Day function in dist||Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni would preside over the Independence Day function to be held at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium here on August 15.  Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday presided over the full dress rehearsal held at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium. Owing to the Covid protocols, school students would not be presenting a cultural programme this year, in a break from the I-Day tradition. The DC hoisted the national flag during the full dress rehearsal and inspected the I-Day parade at the stadium.  Following the inspection, Parade Commander Jasvir Singh Gill took the salute from the march past. Members of the ITBP, Punjab Police, Punjab Police Women’s wing, Punjab Home Guards, NCC (girls and boys) and CRPF bands and battalions were present in the march past. After supervising the dress rehearsal in Jalandhar, the DC issued directions about the necessary steps to be taken during the celebrations on I-Day. The DC said the administration would observe the celebrations amid the strict Covid-19 protocols as per the instructions of the government. He said while Covid warriors and eminent personalities of the district would be honoured during the I-Day celebrations, freedom fighters or their kin, who had major contributions in the independence of the country will be honoured at their homes. The DC said, “Owing to Covid-19, elderly people will not be expected to be present at the event themselves. The elderly and vulnerable freedom fighters and their kin would be felicitated at their homes by the administration in view of the Covid protocols.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soni-to-preside-over-i-day-function-in-dist-297460
14-08-2021||---||2 held with poppy husk, illicit arms||Jalandhar, August 13The police arrested two drug smugglers in separate cases with 100-kg poppy husk, illegal weapons, cash and arms on Friday.In the first case, the Jalandhar rural police party under the supervision of SI Pushap Balli, arrested Amit Kumar of Subhana and seized two pistols, cash and a car from him. The police also seized 13 live cartridges, over Rs7 lakh and a car from the accused. A case under Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered against him and further investigation is on.In the second case, a police party under the supervision of Inspector Jarnail Singh, arrested a drug smuggler with 100-kg poppy husk and a car. The accused has been identified as Jaswinder Singh of Bennapur, Nurmehal.An FIR under Section 15 of the NDPS Act was lodged against him. The police said further investigation was on to establish their links.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-poppy-husk-illicit-arms-297461
14-08-2021||Ajay Joshi
||Nawanshahr’s ‘Hercules’ can pull two tractors with his teeth||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, August 13 Nawanshahr’s Jatinder Singh Hayal is a real life Hercules. He can pull two tractors (weighing 2 tonne each) and a combine machine (weighing 10 tonne) with his teeth.  The 28-year-old boasts several records, including International Book of Record (July 4), India Book of Record (July 5), American Book of Record (July 19) and OMG Book of Records (July 17) this year.  Around 74-kg Jatinder had been working on his exceptionally amazing power for the past two years, it was during the second wave of Covid when he decided to create waves with the strength of his teeth. To get his name registered in various books of records, he pulled two tractors with his teeth for 15 feet in 36 seconds. Later, breaking his own record, he pulled two tractor-trailers for 13 feet in 44 seconds. His strength to lift a 50-kg bag of compost with teeth in 15 seconds and 35-kg bricks and other previous achievements have fetched him the Inspiration of India Award by a Mumbai-based organisation today. He says his power to pull things just with his teeth comes from sipping 250-500-gm desi ghee and having khas khas (poppy seeds) and milk. Apart from attaining this unique feat, Jatinder also holds the eighth rank in the International Powerlifting Federation list. “It’s been 11 years since I have been practicing powerlifting. My father was also a powerlifter and a farmer. After his demise, I took up the sports seriously and being the eldest among four siblings, I wanted to achieve something big to support my family,” said Jatinder of Hayal village. He also works as a manager at a fuel station and a ‘granthi’ at a gurudwara.  Performing similar stunts, his videos pulling two tractors using hands and a rope had gone viral on the social media in 2019 and for the last two years, he had been focusing on developing his present skill that started with lifting bricks and stones with teeth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahrs-hercules-can-pull-two-tractors-with-his-teeth-297462
14-08-2021||---||I-Day: UAVs to keep vigil in Phagwara||Kapurthala, August 13For the first time, Kapurthala police have decided to press into service unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to keep a strict vigil on any sort of anti-social activity in Phagwara in view of the 75th Independence Day celebrations.Besides, Kapurthala police would put in place elaborate security arrangements for the upcoming Independence Day celebrations on August 15.Divulging details, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the UAVs would be used to keep an eagle eye over the entire town.He said the UAVs would be stationed at strategic locations, especially near vulnerable areas, to keep an eye on an emerging situation. He said violations, if any, noticed by the UAV would be dealt with as per the law of the land.The SSP said the move was aimed at ensuring strict security arrangements. These UAVs could cover 2 km in all directions and fly up to a height of 200 metres.Meanwhile, the security had already been beefed up and 1,000 police officers deployed. The SSP also inspected various spots in Phagwara.Khakh said a round-the-clock vigil was being kept in the city for which various patrolling parties of policemen had been formed. Likewise, he said, senior officers were instructed to conduct night domination in the city to keep an eye on the law and order situation.He said if anyone noticed anything suspicious somewhere, he or she must inform the police immediately considering it as his duty towards the nation and society. The police had already published numbers of various officials everywhere in the district or one can call at 112.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-day-uavs-to-keep-vigil-in-phagwara-297463
14-08-2021||---||Horse riders back in the saddle||Jalandhar, August 13Training for horse riding began again at the PAP after more than a year and a half. Like everything else, the pandemic had put a break on horse riding too.The training resumed last month again and around 15 riders are seeking training in horse riding. Six out of 15 are below the age of 14. The training has however started with limitations amid Covid-19 restrictions. A girl named Sukhmani Kaur (10) has been seeking training here for the past four years and has also taken part in several competitions.She will now be trained for advanced competitions. Her trainer said Kaur was among the dedicated ones and loves riding so much that she hardly misses any class.When the training of a budding rider starts, we teach them to be friendly with the horse. “Initially, there is an introduction process and then we teach how to approach the horse and what might irritate it leading to attack the rider,” Sub-Inspector Youngbir Singh looking after the training process said.Such is the curiosity among the young riders, that they also bring jaggery for the horse so that the horse recognises them. “I always tell them that a horse never attacks without any reason. I ask them to not panic while they sit on a horse. If they gets panic, the horse reacts which leads to imbalance followed by a fall,” Youngbir explained.He added that which is why they train the students, giving them full attention and care. This time, because of limited horses, less new riders were allowed. Five young children have joined.Tent-pegging not to be a part of I-Day celebrations this yearIn 2019, during the Independence Day function, a six-horse team had taken part in the tent-pegging sport and 15 horses had escorted CM Capt Amarinder Singh. But due to Covid, tent pegging has not been included as a part of the event. In tent-pegging, a horse, 6ft in height, gallops in from afar towards the target, i.e. peg fixed in the ground. The rider, holding a lance, then carefully takes the peg. One of the office-bearers of the Punjab Equestrian Association explained the history of the event. He said the game originated when the Army personnel would take away the peg with the swords while riding on horses and the tent of enemies would get destroyed. “It used to be an important war tactic,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/horse-riders-back-in-the-saddle-297464
14-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Parents now want their kids to emulate Mithapur heroes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 13The Bronze medal won by the Indian hockey team in the Olympics has made everyone proud and also revived the sport in the district. The stellar contribution of the Surjit Hockey Academy in turning the hockey players into Olympians has been hailed by several parents in the city who now want their kids to seek training for hockey here.All of these players first took their training in the Surjit Hockey Stadium. After the Olympics win, the academy has been getting several calls from the parents wanting their kid to pursue hockey. “Not only Punjab, I have also been receiving calls from other states too,” said Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the society.“At present, 100 budding and young players have been taking training at the stadium. But after the Olympics, it seems that the urge to pursue hockey has increased, both among the parents and kids,” he said, adding that when people see these players who started their journeys from Surjit Hockey Academy, representing their country, winning medal, getting recognition, accolades, prize money and jobs, they feel motivated to involve their kids in sports.Sandhu said until now, he has received over 50 calls from various parts of Punjab and other states. “This is the magic spelled by the Olympics,” said another office-bearer.When the players had got selected for Olympics, Manjit Kaur, mother of the Indian hockey captain Manpreet Singh had also visited the stadium and had said she was very happy to visit the Surjit Hockey Academy as her Manpreet learnt the tricks of hockey here.Sandhu said since the government has also given the approval to start training for girls from the next session, a hostel for the girls near the Surjit Hockey Stadium will also be renovated with an amount of Rs 85 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-now-want-their-kids-to-emulate-mithapur-heroes-297465
14-08-2021||Jalandhar||Green Champion Award||Workshop on pre-primary teachingEklavya School organised an online workshop on pre-primary teaching. In this workshop, speaker Inderpreet Kaur explained about all methods of teaching pre primary classes by using PPT and live presentation on various Montessori teaching aids such as pink tower, cylindrical blocks, brown stairs number rods, jodo cubes and puzzles. She talked about the purpose and importance of these aids by manipulating it in the live session. She explained that by using these teaching aids, students can understand the concept more clearly and deeply. It also makes the teaching learning process interesting, innovative and easier for the students. JK Gupta chairman and Seema Handa director of Eklavya School appreciated the presentation made by the teacher Principal Komal Arora said we should focus on using these kinds of teaching aids to make the teaching easy and effective for the students.Independence Day celebrationsA special assembly was conducted to celebrate Independence Day by students of Cambridge International School (Co-Ed), Jalandhar. The assembly commenced with the chanting of the Gayatri Mantra. The spirit of nationalism was exhibited by the students through a spectrum of performances. The gallant march past by the NCC cadets was a sight to behold. A speech and a patriotic poem, reflecting upon the true spirit of freedom, infused everyone with love for the motherland. The scintillating dance performance by the students on a medley of evergreen patriotic songs left the audience mesmerised. The eco of National Anthem filled every heart, mind and soul with the spirit of patriotism and pride of being an Indian. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/green-champion-award-297485
14-08-2021||Nawanshar||Agriculture employees seek pay parity||DCP Gurmeet to get CM’s MedalJalandhar: Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Gurmeet Singh is among the 15 Punjab Police officers who have been selected for the Chief Minister’s medal for their services. The DCP would be conferred the medal by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during the Independence Day event in Amritsar. He has been selected for the award for displaying consistently excellent level of performance in his duties. Gurmeet had joined the Punjab Police as an Inspector in 1993 in Ferozepur and was posted in various districts across the state as Inspector, DSP and SP before being promoted as an SSP in 2015. TNSNat’l Librarian Day observedHoshiarpur: The Library and Information Literacy Club of the DAV. College of Education here observed National Librarian Day to commemorate the 129th birth anniversary of SR Ranganathan, popularly known as the Father of Indian Libraries. An online quiz on library usage was organised on the occasion, in which 120 students participated. In this competition, Priya Sharma secured the first position, the second rank was bagged by Priya and Shivani secured the third position. Dr Harvinder Kaur made the students aware of the use and benefits of online and printed library resources. OCAutomatic X-Ray machine for CHCJalandhar: Patients from Shahkot will no longer have to go to private hospitals of Jalandhar city or Nakodar to get their X-Ray done. An automatic X-Ray machine worth Rs12 lakh has been installed at the Shahkot Community Health Centre, replacing a 17-year-old machine. Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said with this, patients belonging to the block will be benefitted. TNSPo in a drugs case arrestedGarhshankar: The police have arrested a drug smuggler who was declared a proclaimed offender. Sub-Inspector Parminder Kaur said the arrested accused, Malkit Singh of Chak Gujran village, was wanted in a 2015 case registered under the NDPS Act. He was produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. OCWoman booked for cheatingHoshiarpur: The police have booked a woman on the charge of cheating a person of Rs70 lakh on the pretext of selling a house. According to information, Mintu Makkar of Model Town had lodged a complaint with the police. He told the police that Rekha Sharma of Model Town had made a deal with him for selling an 18 Marla house for Rs70 lakh. He said after taking money, the accused gave her a power of attorney, which she later cancelled and cheated him. After investigating the said complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC. OCIntoxicants seized, 4 heldHoshiarpur: The police arrested four smugglers from various places on Thursday and seized huge quantity of narcotics from them. According to information, the Hariana police have seized 165-gm intoxicating powder from a biker, identified as Karan Kumar of Paharigate, Hariana. During a naka near Sikri village, the police intercepted a car and recovered 105-gm intoxicating powder and arrested Raman Batra of Bhagat Nagar, Hoshiarpur, and seized his vehicle. The Mahilpur police arrested Harjinder Singh of Jandiala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, and recovered 6-kg poppy husk from him. The Tanda police arrested Balwinder Singh of Talwar Mohalla, Tanda, on a tip-off and seized 4,680 sedative pills and 10,500 capsules from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-employees-seek-pay-parity-297488
