15-08-2021||Jalandhar||Independence day celebrations in Jalandhar||Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeIndependence Day was celebrated at Lyallpur Khalsa College with great enthusiasm and patriotism. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra participated in the parade as the flag hoisting ceremony was organised by the Army wing and air wing cadets of college. He encouraged the cadets to serve the country and the nation with dedication. With the slogans of Jai Bharat Mata, the cadets reiterated their commitment to national service. After this a patriotic music and dance programme was organised by the Music Department of the college in which the students performed the patriotic and solo songs. Student artists enthralled the audiences by performing different forms of dance through choreographic performances of group dances. On this occasion, Principal Dr Samra said, “We have paid a huge price for our freedom in terms of sacrifices made by our freedom fighters.” Recognising the value of this freedom, we must fulfill our duty to the country. He said the youth was the power of the nation.Innocent Hearts GroupJashn-e-Azadi was celebrated in all branches of B Ed college and management college. From tiny tots of pre-primary wing to college students, everybody participated zealously in the activities of Independence Day. All activities were organised virtually. Students shared their pictures and videos on the Facebook page of Innocent Hearts group. In Mati ke Geet competition, students expressed their patriotism through poem recitation. Dance, music and role-plays were organised under the theme of ‘My nation my love’ in which students sent their videos. Attractive prizes will be distributed by judges to the winning activities. In role play, students dressed up like freedom fighters, eg, Jhansi Ki Rani, Bhagat Singh and many more. They enacted them confidently. In poem recitation, students displayed charts and flashcards related to poetry.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenPrincipal Dr Navjot hoisted the national flag and gave a speech on the importance of the day. Sargun, a student of Class XI, gave a speech on the freedom fighters depicting their bravery and sacrifices with a poem on the farmer of India and his role and struggle. Marking the celebrations the NCC cadets celebrated the eve by making beautiful and vibrant posters, thus paying their tributes. A rally on the Quit India Movement was also organised by the NCC Department under the guidance of Col Narinder Toor.HMV Collegiate Sr Sec SchoolStudents here celebrated the Independence Day with fervour and enthusiasm in the campus. The students came all dressed in tricolour to express their patriotic feelings. Tricolour badges were put on the Principal Prof Ajay Sareen, School Co-ordinator Meenakshi Syal, Dr Seema Marwaha, Dean Academics, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Dean Innovation and Research, and Nita Malik, Head of Political Science Department. True to the theme of this year’s celebration, ‘Nation First , Always first’ , the patriotic movie was shown to them. Students were also given a detailed lecture on how India gained its freedom. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/independence-day-celebrations-in-jalandhar-297753
15-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Plants on wheels: Now, get moringa saplings for free in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 14A van for free distribution of moringa saplings under the ATMA scheme among farmers and citizens by the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, in collaboration with the Forest Department, was flagged-off by Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Vinay Kumar.Through it, plants will be distributed and planted in various government schools and panchayats.The Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) said the main objective of the campaign of distributing the saplings was to plant high quality plants in the district and make people aware of main health features of these plants. Under the first phase of the campaign, plants are being distributed free of charge.He said moringa plant has the highest number of nutritional properties. Its leaves contain four times more calcium than milk, as many times more vitamin A than carrots, three times more vitamin E than almonds and seven times more vitamin C than oranges.Its leaves, roots and beans are used for the treatment of a variety of ailments. He said in the next phase, medicinal plants such as amla and neem would also be distributed among people of the district to promote health. Project Director (ATMA) Tarwinder Singh, Raman Sharma, Rajiv Ranjan, ATMA Deputy Director Prabhmaninder Kaur, Ravinder Kumar, Piara Singh Darshan Singh etc. were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plants-on-wheels-now-get-moringa-saplings-for-free-in-hoshiarpur-297748
15-08-2021||---||High Commissioner of Bangladesh visits LPU||Jalandhar, August 14The High Commissioner of Bangladesh to India Muhammad Imran visited Lovely Professional University on Saturday. During his visit to various venues of Lovely Group and LPU Campus, he was greeted by Chairman Ramesh Mittal, Vice Chairman Naresh Mittal, and LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal. He also held interactions with top management, faculty, and students from Bangladesh to further strengthen the needed educational endeavours in Bangladesh and for its international students enrolled at the LPU.Discussions were also held to establish a unique chair on the LPU campus in the name of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation of Bangladesh. Ambassador Imran was accompanied by his spouse Dr Zakia Hasnat Imran, Counsellor Shahed Bin Aziz and First Secretary Zakir Ahmed. Aman Mittal, Director, LPU, welcomed the elite guests at the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/high-commissioner-of-bangladesh-visits-lpu-297749
15-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: A Teej dedicated to farmers||Jalandhar, August 14Women of the Istri Jagriti Manch and the Women’s wing of the Kirti Kisan Union today gathered at the Udhowal village to celebrate Teej, in solidarity with the farmers’ protests. Tian Da Tyohar was celebrated with alplomb at the village when women gathered in hordes and chanted folk songs and slogans aligned with the farmers’ movement - in a marked departure from tradition.While the celebrations began with Balveer who works as a labourer, she said the farmers’ movement was championed by women who have toiled in heat and storm, braving the elements to ensure food for the larger populace. A huge number of women sat in huge groups singing bolis, songs and folklore associated with the kisan andolan. Women leaders said while Delhi protests have shaken up the entire country, it has also sustained the contemporary literature, poetry, culture, songs, writings etc.Farmer leaders Paramjit Kaur, Balihar Kaur, Surjit Kaur, Manjit Kaur, Istri Jagriti Manch’s Anita Sandhu, Nirmal, among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-a-teej-dedicated-to-farmers-297737
15-08-2021||---||Independence Day celebrated at GNDU media department||Jalandhar, August 14On the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day, celebrations were held in the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, GNDU Regional Campus at Ladhewali here on Saturday. The event was marked with patriotic fervour. Cake was cut to celebrate the occasion and sweets were distributed among the staff amidst patriotic music.Dr Namarta Joshi, Head of the Department, paid tribute to all the martyrs who made freedom possible and said that we should preserve our freedom and all the values that they fought for. Dr Charan Kamal Walia, Sukriti Bahuguna, Rama Shankar and others were present at the event.Meanwhile, Joshi also announced the updated courses being added to the two-years masters programme of Journalism and Mass Communication degree. As the admissions to the required number of seats are scheduled to be closed by August 20, Joshi said, considering the advancement of technologies,Social Media Journalism, Research, Citizen Journalism, Data analytics, Visual Communication, Corporate Communications, Mobile Journalism, Vlogging and Blogging and Content writing were among the new courses added to the updates syllabus. Besides, in-hand experience on recording and camera handling would professionally train students before entering in their desired fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/independence-day-celebrated-at-gndu-media-department-297750
15-08-2021||---||Will teach a lesson to Congress in Punjab Assembly elections: Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal)||Jalandhar, August 14Members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) on Friday submitted a demand letter to the Phagwara SDM stating they would teach a lesson to the Congress government in the 2022 Assembly elections if it did not fulfill the promises made to the people of the state in the run-up to the 2017 elections.While raising the issues of the promised strict action against those involved in “beadbi” (desecration) of Guru Granth Sahib, debt waiver, proper MSP for crops, employement in every home, freedom from drugs in four months, promised dearness allowance, smart phones to youths, meals worth Rs 5 for poor, pakka houses for poor people, they said the government came to power after assuring the people of the state of keeping these promises once they came to power, but none of them had been fulfilled.Rather, people were facing more problems like inflated power bills, hefty taxes on wood and diesel, negligible smart phones to youth, politicians’ sons being appointed on higher government posts. The farmers said they would not tolerate the wilful avoidance of the promises made to the populace by the government. They said if these issues were not addressed before the 2022 polls, they would teach the government a lesson. They said while the farmers had been awakened, they would pursue the issue as long as the farmers’ protests would continue on Delhi borders.District president Mandeep Singh Samra, Kapurthala district president Barinder Singh, spokesperson Kashmir Singh Jandiala, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-teach-a-lesson-to-congress-in-punjab-assembly-elections-bharti-kisan-union-rajewal-297752
15-08-2021||---||Building scientific temper a must for sustainable growth, says expert||Jalandhar, August 14Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav by organising a webinar on science communication and national development. More than 100 students and teachers from different educational institutions of Punjab participated in the webinar. The event was celebrated to commemorate 75 years of progressive India and the glorious history of its people, culture and achievements.GS Rautela, former DG, NCSM, was the key speaker on the occasion. Delivering his talk, he said the public has increasingly become aware of and interested in scientific development such as medicine, climate change, telecom etc., which directly affected them. However, the perception of some that science and technology are harsh and are the root cause of environmental degradation and other ill effects on our planet, as well as the inadequate science literacy and gap in knowledge of experts and common people still exists. Science communication, therefore, has crucial role of initiating national development efforts by motivating people to embrace science and technology.It also strives to increase understanding and appreciation of science and technology as useful ways of understanding modern world as well as for informed decision making. Another important role of science communication is empowering people with authentic knowledge and skills for sustainable development, he added||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/building-scientific-temper-a-must-for-sustainable-growth-says-expert-297738
15-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Three state-of-the-art projects inaugurated in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 14The state government on Saturday inaugurated three major projects in Hoshiarpur—a double-storey library at Government College, Multipurpose Indoor Sports Complex and Hoshiarpur City Centre—which will cater to the needs of students and sportspersons.Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora got these projects inaugurated by a safai sewak, budding boxing players and divyang women. The library has been built at a cost of Rs 2.41 crore. It’s foundation stone was laid on on March 4, 2019 by CM Capt Amarinder Singh.Arora said the library has been equipped with ultra-modern facilities and two-storey building has e-library and other required facilities. He also announced a grant of Rs 7 lakh for furniture and other infrastructure in the library. The newly-built multipurpose indoor sports complex at Lajwanti Sports Stadium has been constructed at a cost of Rs 6.99 crore and will be named after legendary Flying Sikh Milkha Singh.He said badminton, short tennis, basketball, volleyball, squash, handball, netball and gymnastics, among others would be organised at the indoor scomplex.Arora said the Sports Department would impart training to budding players through coaches to enable them to compete national and international events. The Hoshiarpur City Centre has been constructed at a cost of Rs 6.11 crore.The minister said this centre could be booked by any person at a very reasonable rate. He said one could organise an event for 1,000 persons and book air-conditioned eight guest rooms. He said this project has been designed keeping in view the future needs of people and having 20-ft wide road around it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-state-of-the-art-projects-inaugurated-in-hoshiarpur-297740
15-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accidents in Hoshiarpur||Gang of robbers busted, 5 heldHoshiarpur: The police have busted a gang of robbers by arresting five persons, besides recovering gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 15 lakh, stolen from a house in Arora colony on August 11. The accused have been identified as Gaggi and Kala, their spouses Jannat and Shakku, respectively. The fifth accused has been identified as Asha of Dharamkot in Moga. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said after a theft at Harjinder Kaur’s house, they had constituted a team under SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu. He said the team achieved a major success when four members of the gang were nabbed near Chohal and one member was apprehended from Dharamkot. The police have seized 200-gm gold and 600 gm of silver from them. The SSP said on August 11, Harjinder and her daughter went to Naher colony to get vaccinated. When they came back after half an hour, she found her house ransacked. A case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC was registered against the miscreants. OCFather of three murders wifeJalandhar: A 30-year-old man killed his 28-year-old wife in a fit of anger late last night after the duo had an argument. Mohammed Jasheen, a resident of Mohalla Kasaban in Kapurthala, works at a boutique. When he came on late Friday night, he had a quarrel with his wife Shabiya. After a heated argument, Jasheen strangulated his wife. Married for the past eight years, the duo have three children — a 6-year-old son, a five-year-old girl and another boy who is just six months old. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against Jasheen at the Kapurthala police station and he was arrested on Friday. Shabiya’s body has been sent to the local Civil Hospital for a postmortem. The police said the duo hailed from UP and Bihar and their families also stayed in the same city. They have been living in Kapurthala for the past 20 to 25 years. On the complaint of Sahbiya’s parents, a case was registered. DSP, Kapurthala, Surinder Singh said, “Domestic disputes between the husband and wife seems to be the reason behind the murder. The children have been handed over to their grandparents.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-in-hoshiarpur-297751
15-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district reports 1 case, no death||Jalandhar, August 14No Covid death was reported in the district, however a person tested positive taking the district tally to 63,173 cases on Saturday. The toll remains at 1,490. As many as 61,642 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 41.No case, death in KapurthalaNo new case, nor any positive case was reported in Kapurthala on Saturday. The tally remains at 17,784.One dies, 6 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported six new Covid cases on Saturday. With it, the number of positive patients has increased to 30,687, of which 25 are active cases. So far, 7,64,762 samples have been taken from the district, of which 7,34,840 were found negative and the reports of 1,844 samples were yet to arrive.As many as 29,683 persons have been cured so far, while, with the death of a 70-year-old woman of Mukerian at GMCH, Amritsar, on Saturday, the toll reached 979. As many as 1,249 samples have been found invalid so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-reports-1-case-no-death-297733
15-08-2021||Our Correspondent||A cycle journey dedicated to 75 years of Independence||Hoshiarpur, August 14MP Jose (79), and his companion Gokul, who set out on their cycles from Kerala to Khardung La Pass in Ladakh on July 15, were welcomed by members of the Fit Cycling Life Group led by Paramjit Singh Sachdeva on reaching Hoshiarpur on Saturday.Jose and Gokul said they have dedicated their tour to the 75th Independence Day and sportspersons who participated in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.Sachdeva said Jose was earlier a chain smoker and when he took to cycling, he quit smoking. Jose would reach Khardung La Pass on September 9 and turn 80 on September 10.Sachdeva said that on the occasion of the Independence Day, 200 cyclists would participate in a cycle rally in the city.He said cycle rally would culminate at Nangal Shaheedan toll plaza. Both Jose and Gokul would also participate in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-cycle-journey-dedicated-to-75-years-of-independence-297734
15-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Swarnim Vijay Varsh: Rekindling memories of  1971 Indo-Pak war||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 14Fifty years on, Manjit Kaur (70) of Khurdpur village has all her memories fresh of the pain and trauma that she underwent during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.She was one among the 20 veterans, Veer Naris and family members of the war heroes, who were felicitated by Governor VP Singh Badnore at Swarnim Vijay Varsh anniversary organised by the Vajra Corps.Remembering the brave“I was just 20 then and had got married just a week ago when my husband Lance Naik Harbhajan Singh was called back by the Army. Within days of his departure, there were reports of the war and the excitement of being a newly-wed vanished rather, too, fast. My in-laws sent me to my parents’ place at Bhango Lahna village in Kapurthala. There a neighbourer told my father that my husband had got bullet injuries during the war and that he was under treatment. We were completely helpless as there was no means of communication then,” she recalled.The respite came for the family when days later they received a letter from Lance Naik Harbhajan Singh that he was recuperating. “That was such an emotional moment for me, especially getting to know that he had written the letter with his left hand as he had received two bullets on his right arm. He also received three gunshots on his leg. When his condition stabilised, the Army sent him home on leave for three months. It was like a hero’s homecoming and later he also got selected for the Vir Chakra and got the post as Honorary Captain,” she said adding that her husband passed away just two years ago.Vir Chakra awardee Brig Joginder Singh Jaiswal (74), who, too, was a recipient of the honour today, had a very emotional memory to share. “If I am alive today, it is all because of Sepoy Manjit Singh of Amritsar. I owe everything, including my Vir Chakra to that brave martyr and the Sena Medal winner. Having served in the Navy in 1963 and subsequently in the Airforce (even during 1965 war), I was commissioned in the Army in 1970. I was Second Lieutenant when the 1971 war started, I was deployed at Channanwala border outpost of the BSF. We were guarding this post when Sepoy Surjit, who was just on my backside noted that the enemy had aimed at me. Just as he alerted me, I ducked down and got saved, but he himself got killed by the same bullet. My saviour was also a part of the boxing team of which I was the Captain,” he said. Brig Jaiswal was one among those who was invited to attend the address of ex-PM Lal Bahadur Shastri post the war.Attending the event was also Dr Hargunjot Kaur, niece of Deputy Commandant IS Uppal of the BSF. “My uncle passed away when his son Robin was just 4-month-old. My aunt, who later became an academician, raised the family amid lots of hardships. Since Robin is settled in New Zealand and my aunt is no more, I had come to receive the honour for the family, ” said Dr Hargunjot.The Governor was welcomed by Lieutenant Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC, Vajra Corps. He paid homage to the brave and valiant soldiers of the Indian Army and laid a wreath at Vajra Shaurya Sthal. He also visited the Vajra Museum. He said continuous efforts were required to bring back 54 Prisoners of War from Pakistan. Extending support to the green earth movement, the Governor planted a sapling and encouraged everyone to do the same to reverse the climate change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swarnim-vijay-varsh-rekindling-memories-of-1971-indo-pak-war-297732
15-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||1,500 cops to maintain hawk-eyed vigil on Independence Day in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 14Amid high alert in the state, the city Police Commissionerate has put in place an elaborate security arrangement for the smooth conduct of Independence Day celebrations on Sunday at the Guru Gobind Singh Stadium.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said nearly 1,500 cops along with special operation groups, special commandos and other security personnel would remain deployed at every corner of the city for I-day celebrations.The CP also held a review meeting with the police officials here on Saturday for finalising security arrangements. He said the Police Commissionerate was fully prepared with a foolproof security system for the I-day functions in the city. Top officials also visited the venue of the celebrations and mock drills were also conducted.While Section 144 of the IPC will remain enforced, restrictions on flying drones have also been imposed for August 15.Joint teams of the police and Army officials on the eve of Independence Day also conducted an intensive checking at all prominent places to ensure foolproof security cover in the city.Assistant Commissioner of Police Subash Arora said in the wake of Independence Day, the Police Commissionerate in collaboration with Army officials have checked all prominent points in the city. The anti-sabotage teams are conducting checks at the railway station, bus stand, Guru Gobind Singh Stadium, Circuit House, Rainak Bazaar and Shri Devi Talab Mandir among other places. The Army teams were led by Lieutenant GS Pasricha.The ACP said during checking in public places, the officials also sensitised people and shopkeepers to remain vigilant in case of any suspicious activity and inform the police immediately if they find anything unusual. The teams also urged people to stay away from unclaimed articles and share every suspicious information with the Police Department so that such items could be screened at the earliest.Moreover, apart from the installation of CCTV cameras at the venue for keeping a regular check in and around the stadium, a control room has reportedly been set up at the stadium by the police to regularly monitor the situation.Likewise, as every part of the city has been declared as high-risk area, Bhullar said security has also been enhanced to check any type of anti-social activity. A round-the-clock vigil was being kept for which various police patrolling parties had been set up. Senior officials had been instructed to conduct night domination to keep a vigil on the law and order situation.Hall of famePresident’s Police Medal for Kapurthala SSP Kapurthala: Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh (in pic right) would be conferred with the President’s Police Medal Award for his meritorious service from President of India Ram Nath Kovind. Earlier this year on Republic Day, Khakh had also received the Chief Minister’s Award for displaying commendable work and devotion towards duty during his stint as AIG Counter Intelligence in Jalandhar zone. A decorated police officer, HPS Khakh has played an important role in busting a number of criminal and terrorist modules in the state besides trying to eliminate gang culture from Punjab in the last few years. He is also known for busting several international and inter-state drug rackets. A team led by HPS Khakh at Phagwara in 2009 had seized 50-kg heroin and it is still remembered as the highest recovery in Punjab. Khakh joined the Punjab Police in 1994 as an Inspector and was promoted to the rank of SSP in 2016. Prior to the promotion, he was posted in the rank of inspectors, DSPs and SPs in different districts of Punjab. He was awarded with DGP commendation disc twice. The SSP said he was feeling proud as well as humbled and dedicated this medal to his father Harjit Singh Khakh, who was a brave cop of the Punjab Police and served up to the rank of SP. “I am very happy and grateful to the Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, Dinkar Gupta and Punjab Government for selecting me for this prestigious award.” TNSNawanshahr cop to get medal for meritorious servicesJalandhar: DSP Raj Kumar (in pic left), PBI, Nawanshahr, is among the 12 cops in the state, who have been selected for the Police Medal for Meritorious Services, on the 75th I-Day celebrations. Kumar (51), joined the Punjab Police as ASI in1992. While serving, he did his Masters in Police Administration and later passed his preliminary training and field training with distinction. He served in the state intelligence wing from 1996 to 2006, during which he collected vital intelligence and remained part of various highly secret intelligence operations. He also remained posted in a very sensitive branch of the intelligence wing. The DSP remained posted as SHO in various police stations. During his tenure as SHO, not a single case of blind murder or any other heinous crime was left untraced. As SHO PS city Nawanshahr, he launched CPO scheme in 2008 and implemented it with great success. To create awareness to curb the growing drug menace, he also formed an NGO Sankalp in 2008, which yielded positive results. In 2009, he also cracked two international gangs of counterfeit currency dealers and recovered fake currency of Rs5,87,000 from them and this achievement was highlighted at national level by a special programme. In 2010, he exposed a terrorist gang and arrested five accused for illegal and treasonous activities in Hoshiarpur, he did an extraordinary work while disposing 500 applications in five months along with computerising the entire record. He also busted an inter-state drug smuggling gang and recovered 53 kg intoxicants and 2.8 kg heroin from the Raja Kandola gang. The officer also succeeded in attaching properties of several smugglers. In 2015, when the atmosphere in Punjab was very tense due to the sacrilege incidents of Guru Granth Sahib, this officer handled the situation very sensibly and wisely, for which he was awarded with DGP Commendation Disc. In 2017, he achieved a remarkable task by arresting 22 POs within a month. During the lockdown, Raj Kumar played a pivotal role in mobilising the district NGOs under the umbrella of SBS Nagar Police Helping Hand to launch No One Should Sleep Hungry drive to help the underprivileged section of society. Apart from him, SI Naranjan Das, posted at PAP and Inspector Kulbir Singh, deployed at COD unit, Hoshiarpur, will also receive the award. TNSPolice Medal for Inspector KulvirHoshiarpur: On Independence Day, the ‘Police Medal’ for outstanding services will be conferred upon Kulvir Singh (in pic), posted at Hoshiarpur in Punjab Police Intelligence Department. Inspector Kulvir Singh has received this award for his outstanding services during his duty in the intelligence department and even before this he has received various awards and cash prizes from time to time from the department. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-500-cops-to-maintain-hawk-eyed-vigil-on-independence-day-in-jalandhar-297731
