17-08-2021||Jalandhar||One fresh Covid case reported in Jalandhar district||Two booked for raping womanNawanshahr: A woman was allegedly raped by two of her acquaintances in Nawanshahr. The victim (20), told the police that around 2.40 pm, when she was going back home after attending her class, she was approached by the accused (aged 19 and 23), to accompany them for some snacks. As the victim agreed and went to their house, one of the accused raped her and threatened to kill her, in case she told anyone about the incident. The victim further mentioned in her complaint that the duo then took her to an abandoned place and both raped her again. The accused then sent her to Chandigarh by bus where she met her maternal uncle and then came back to her home with him. Investigating Officer Harjinder Kaur said the girl had earlier mentioned in the complaint that she knew the accused, but later changed her statement saying that they both were not known to her. “The accused have been nabbed,” the Investigating Officer said. A case under Sections 376- D and 506 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused, said the Investigating Officer. TNSNo case, death reported in Kapurthala districtThe health authorities in Kapurthala reported no new case in the district on Monday and the tally remained at 17,786. The health authorities reported no fresh death in the district today. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fresh-covid-case-reported-in-jalandhar-district-298378
17-08-2021||---||Rs 196-crore infra projects announced for Jalandhar on I-Day||Jalandhar, August 16Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni announced a slew of projects for the development of the city on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day.The minister announced projects worth Rs196.47 crore for Jalandhar residents after hoisting the Tricolour at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium.These include Rs 16 crore for NIFT campus at Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, a sewage treatment plant at a cost of Rs 3.14 crore in Shahkot, parks at Lajpat Nagar for Rs 4.13 crore, Kartarpur-Kishangarh road at an outlay of Rs 2.52 crore, foundation stone of approach road of Adampur airport at Rs 1.40 crore, water supply and sewerage projects for villages worth Rs 51.63 crore, Rs 50 crore for upgradation of sewage treatment plant in the city and construction of new treatment plant at Basti Peer Daad for Rs 16.18 crore, among others.Soni said the state government had started plasma banks at three medical colleges of the state and three new medical colleges were being started at an outlay of Rs 1000 crore. He added that in Amritsar a state-of-the-art cancer centre would be set up for Rs 120 crore and an advance virology centre would come up in New Chandigarh worth Rs 550 crore.The minister reminded residents of enormous contribution of Punjabis in the freedom struggle. He said all were proud for this sacred land from where pivotal movements, including Kuka, Pagri Sambhal, Ghadar, Gurudwara Reform and Babbar Akali, were spearheaded.Earlier, he took salute from an impressive parade comprising contingents of the ITBP, Punjab Police, Home Guards, NCC and CRPF band led by Parade Commander Murad Jasvir Singh Gill.The minister also honoured 133 personalities for their performance, especially during the pandemic. He also distributed tricycles, wheel chairs and sewing machines to the needy.Channi seeks repeal of farm laws on Independence DayMinister for Technical Education and Industrial Training Charanjit Singh Channi was the chief guest during the district-level function in Nawanshahr. He also hoisted the national flag during the event.During his speech, the minister congratulated people on the occasion of the Independence Day and said, “We should be thankful to the struggles and sacrifices of various movements and freedom fighters.” He appreciated the Covid warriors and the health workers for their dedicated service during this difficult times. He said the Punjab government had taken many pro-people decisions during the last four years which have been lauded by everyone. “Maximum employment opportunities were being provided to the youth through door-to-door employment schemes,” he claimed.Expressing a strong protest against three anti-farmer laws of the Union government, he said the attitude of the Union Government against the benefactors of the country was highly reprehensible. He said the Centre should immediately withdraw these laws to save the faltering economy of the state and the country. Channi also said these black laws would be repealed in Punjab Vidhan Sabha. He also vowed to eradicate drugs from the state.On this occasion, Channicontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-196-crore-infra-projects-announced-for-jalandhar-on-i-day-298289
17-08-2021||---||Install CCTVs at chemist shops in dist: Jalandhar DC Thori||Jalandhar, August 16Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday directed health and police officials to ensure installation of CCTV cameras at chemist shops across the district to curb sale of psychotropic drugs to minors.Participating in a virtual review meet chaired by Priyank Kanoongo, Chairperson, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, the Deputy Commissioner apprised the commission about the progress made under the joint action plan on prevention of drugs and substances abuse among children and illicit trafficking by the district administration.Thori issued directions to officials concerned to implement this joint action plan scrupulously.He said the sale of scheduled drugs, if any, would be dealt with heavy hands and punitive action would be taken against erring persons. He further asked officials to implement provisions of the Excise Act, which which prohibits sale of liquor to persons below the age of 25 years and added that anyone below the age of 18 cannot be employed at liquor taverns.The District Education Officer (DEO) apprised the Deputy Commissioner about the awareness drive being carried out in schools.The DEO said Buddy trainers were also conducting training sessions among children to sensitise them against drug abuse in schools on a daily basis.Thori directed all the departments concerned to furnish progress reports, which would be submitted to the NCPCR.District Programme Officer GS Randhawa said Anganwadi, ASHA workers and labour officials were being roped in by the administration to create awareness to keep children away from drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/install-cctvs-at-chemist-shops-in-dist-jalandhar-dc-thori-298290
17-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar: Fodder sellers protest Pinjrapole gaushala’s diktat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 16Cattle fodder sellers outside Pinjrapole gaushala in Jalandhar have suddenly found themselves out of business amid the pandemic. The gaushala management has allegedly barred the entry of fodder sold by them inside the gaushala. The fodder sellers have been sitting outside the gaushala on strike for the last 16 to 17 days to oppose the abrupt move by the gaushala.The gaushala has 550 to 600 cattle. The fodder for the cattle was provided by these vendors for the past many years. They allege that about two to three months ago, an announcement was made on loudspeaker at the gaushala directing visitors to buy the fodder only from inside the gaushala. Around 20 days ago, the gaushala deputed bouncers at the entrance who began denying entry to anyone bringing any fodder for cattle from the outside.Gaurav Kumar, one of the fodder sellers on strike, alleged, “I have been selling fodder here for the past 15 years. It is the only means of my livelihood. I have to get my mother operated but in the middle of the pandemic, I lost my livelihood.”Rocky alias Pandit (40), one of the fodder sellers, committed suicide yesterday. Another fodder seller had to sell his bike as he didn’’t have money to pay room rent or buy a gas cylinder.During the lock down, we took great risks to supply fodder to the gaushala. We were beaten up for roaming during the pandemic. Now, the gaushala has abruptly robbed us of our livelihoods.”Gaurav added, “No matter where people get fodder from, they are not allowed to take it inside. Only inside fodder is allowed.”Another fodder seller, Kala, also posted a video on the social media where flies hover around his face and he threatens suicide, saying he had lost his livelihood and won’’t survive if he doesn’’t get his work back.Gaurav said Kala had severe dysentery and had been admitted to the hospital yesterday where he was getting treated.Mandeep Bakshi, national president, Hindu Jagriti Manch, and former president Gau Sewa cell of the BJP, who also visited the fodder sellers said, “No gaushala can bar fodder sellers like this. This is illegal and these men are losing livelihoods. We will be taking the issue up with the DC on Monday.”Both Bakshi and SAD leader Chandan Grewal have visited the men on strike at the gaushala.Ravi Kakkar, president, Pinjrapole Gaushala, said, “I had asked them to meet our senior functionary. But they haven’’t met him. Only he can take a call. One of the reasons for disallowing their fodder is that it is outside all day and rots and they sell the same. We don’’t want them to lose livelihood. But we are looking to resolve the issue if they meet him again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-fodder-sellers-protest-pinjrapole-gaushalas-diktat-298291
17-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: Students don patriotic colours on Independence Day||Jalandhar, August 16Independence Day was celebrated in the city with gusto. Apart from hoisting the Tricolour, several cultural activities also took place in different schools of the region.CT Public SchoolIndependence Day was celebrated here great zeal as students participated in many cultural programmes. The school choir enthralled the audience with their rendition of patriotic songs. The fancy dress show of grade I and II depicted the valour of Rani Laxmi Bai, Indira Gandhi, Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev and paid homage to efforts of the numerous other freedom fighters of India. The highlight of the programme was the dance performances by the students of different Houses portrayed the Indian struggle which urged today’s generation to value the freedom we have secured after the sacrifices of many. Play based on Independence Day was unique accompanied by the National Anthem. CT Group Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh congratulated the students on the occasion of Independence Day. In his address to the students, he said although everyone was free but we should remain in discipline in order to enjoy the freedom.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Independence day and hoisted the National Flag. Principal Prof. Dr. Atima Sharma Dwivedi hoisted the national flag to the chanting of Vande Matram and National Anthem. On the occasion the faculty, students and the hostel staff were present. The NCC cadets of the college saluted the flag after the hoisting. It was followed by a musical tribute in the form of patriotic songs, presented by the Department of Music. In her address to the students, Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi exhorted everyone to remember that many valiant and precious lives had been lost during the freedom struggle. She asked them to protect the sacred national freedom at all cost. Wishing everyone a happy independence day she also cautioned everyone against short intensity wars in the form of evil intention of divisive forces and spread of drug addiction. It was a celebration dedicated to the freedom of our beloved motherland.Cambridge InternationalCambridge International School, Phagwara, celebrated Independence Day with great zeal and zest with a special virtual assembly organised by the class teachers. The students expressed their sentiments and aspiration for the country through their thoughts, poems and dances. They were thrilled with the topic shared by their friend and were deeply moved. A beautiful play was presented by the students marking the importance of this day.Apeejay SchoolApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, commemorated the Indian Independence in a virtual presentation charged with patriotic fervor and national pride and attended by around 250 attendees on the Zoom platform. In a remarkable attempt to join the nation in celebration of ‘Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsava’ the excited bunch of planners , performers and presenters right from classes I- XII rustled up a soulful, thoughtful and engaging show that was a befitting tribute to honour the sacrifices of our freedom fighters and brave soldiers. The celebration was packed with poems, speeches, group song, group dance and theatre. While the young speakers delivered motivational speeches with gusto, the singers gave a soulful rendition of the song, ‘Aae Watan Mere Watan’ recreating patriotic zeal .The confidence of the comperes and the performers as young as first graders, was endearing and impressive. Principal Girish Kumar expressed appreciation for the commendable presentation and urged the young generation to pledge their capabilities and commitment in making India supreme and strong. The program concluded with the rendition of the National Anthem.MLU DAV CollegeA tree plantation drive was held in MLU DAV College, Phagwara, by the Department of NSS under the guidance of Principal Dr. Kiranjeet Randhawa. The main purpose was to save the endangered environment and to beautify our life. On the occasion of the Independence Day, the plantation programme was held in Gandhwan village. The students and teachers actively participated and planted saplings. NSS team explained about the effects of trees on our lives the importance of tree plantation and appealed everyone to take a pledge to protect them. Plants should be grown to keep the environment clean, safe and healthy. Dr. Randhawa addressed the present members that trees are the source for producing the oxygen in environment, they help to reduce the level of carbon dioxide. As we all know that the whole world is facing the problems due to covid 19 and to recover such problems planting the trees has become the most important aspect today.Apeejay RhythmsApeejay Rhythms Kinderworld celebrated I-Day as ‘freedom on wheels’ in the campus. It was a ‘drive through’ celebration where kids were seen dressed in tricolor and arrived in well-decorated cars. Children were seen dancing, singing, reciting beautiful rhymes for their country. All the Covid related protocol was followed strictly. Principal Sinia Sajith congratulated all the parents on the occasion. Also, headmistress Nidhi Ghai thanked the gathering and wished Happy Independence Day to all.DIPS SchoolsDIPS Chain of Schools organised Independence Day programme to commemorate countries Independence Day. During the celebration, staff of all schools got together to hoist the national flag and organised a poster making, speech, dance, song, fancy dress competition for students. Students presented online patriotic poems and dressed up in tricolor to sing ‘Teri miti mein mil javan’, ‘My India is great’ and also danced on one nation one unity theme. Students dressed up as their favourite role model for fancy dress competition as Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Mahatma Gandhi,Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru etc and express their emotions for their motherland. For poster making competition, students drew pictures of historical places forts etc and wrote thoughtful, attractive slogans. Principals and teachers highlighted the significance of freedom and numerous sacrifices of freedom fighters. MD Tarwinder Singh, CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra gave their warm greetings and congratulations on Independence Day.Eklavya SchoolIndependence Day was celebrated in Eklavya School. The event began with the impressive speech by Arshdeep Kaur (9th Std) in which she energetically described about freedom fighters and their lives. A flag hoisted ceremony was performed followed by the singing of National Anthem. Stage was conducted by Lakshita And Muskan Arora (12th Std) and they both were in the position to help audience feel comfortable at the venue. Then they called up Gurneet Kaur (12th) and Anuvinder Kaur (11th) to throw more light on this great day. Fabulous dance performance was given by Ekam Kaur (3rd Std). The school was beautifully decorated with balloons, charts, flags. Students of school took part in the celebration. A tribute was given to them. Director of Eklavya School Seema Handa said, “We should always follow the path of our freedom fighters.”Mahatma Hans Raj DAV Institute of NursingMahatma Hans Raj DAV Institute of Nursing celebrated the Independence Day was celebrated in college auditorium. The day was marked by both academic and cultural plethora of activities and all the college students and staff was dressed beautifully in the Tricolor. The auditorium and the entire campus vibrated and echoed with the songs of freedom. The cultural activities commenced with the honoring of the Indian Olympic winners and congratulating them for their huge success in Tokyo Olympics, 2020. The programme began with prayer dance and songs of India’s freedom sung by the college students. Choreography performance depicting the ‘Life and Journey of Soldiers and their families’, glorifying and praising the efforts they put in to protect our country by guarding and defending the Indian borders from invasion by the enemies. The choreography was so intense that it left many of the audiences in auditorium with teary eyes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-students-don-patriotic-colours-on-independence-day-298292
17-08-2021||---||DC hoists Tricolour in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, August 16Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal hoisted the Tricolour at Guru Nanak Stadium during the Independence Day function held here on Sunday. After the flag hoisting ceremony, she inspected the parade performed by the Punjab Police, Home Guards and NCC cadets. SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and Parade Commander Kamaljit Singh Aulakh accompanied her. In her address, the DC recalled the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters.About development projects to be carried out in the city, she said the state government had allocated a grant of Rs 40 crore for the medical college to be set up in the city.She said Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Management was also being set up at IKGPTU. A museum in the name of Dr Ambedkar is also on the anvil.The administrative officials also visited the places of 24 freedom fighters and presented an honour to them at their doorsteps for their eternal sacrifice. They were presented appreciation letters and commemorative symbols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-hoists-tricolour-in-kapurthala-298294
17-08-2021||---||SAD leader Sarabjeet Makkar fumes as Jagbir Brar gets Jalandhar Cantt ticket||Jalandhar, August 16The joining of ex-MLA Jagbir Brar in the Akali Dal on Monday and announcement of his ticket from Jalandhar Cantonment has caused resentment to ex-MLA Sarabjeet Makkar, who had contested unsuccessfully from the seat in 2017.Also read: Jalandhar Cantt ex-MLA Jagbir Brar back in SADTo show his annoyance, he organised a separate show of strength at Gurdwara Nauvi Patshahi wherein supporters joined him to seek ticket back for him. Even as Makkar’s supporters claimed that they had invited Sukhbir Badal to their programme, the latter feigned ignorance and said, “Makkar may be given any other responsibility in the party.”The entire leadership of the party attended the programme of Jagbir Brar wherein party chief Sukhbir Badal and ex-minister Bikram Majithia was present, no prominent leader of the party sided with Makkar.All three MLAs from the area, including Pawan Tinu, Baldev Khaira and Gurpartap Wadala and party leaders including district president Kulwant S Manan, youth wing general secretary Sarabjot Sabi, district women wing chief Parminder Pannu and Olympian Rajbir Kaur and Gurmail Singh attended the programme of Brar and backed the move of the party.Wadala, who is related to Brar’s wife, recalled the time when Brar and Wadala had contested against each other from Nakodar in 2017.Brar said, “My wife had told me that there should no mud-slinging or passing of personal comments against each other during electioneering. I too attempted that the politics should not spoil the relationship between the two families of Umrao Singh (Brar’s wife’s maternal uncle) and Kuldeep Singh Wadala (Gurpartap Wadala’s father), who remained among the tallest political leaders from the region and are now no more.” Wadala too said he was happy that his brother-in-law was in his party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-leader-sarabjeet-makkar-fumes-as-jagbir-brar-gets-jalandhar-cantt-ticket-298295
17-08-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal appeases Jalandhar ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia, appoints him party vice-president||Jalandhar, August 16Peeved over the appointment of Chandan Grewal as the halqa in-charge of the party from Jalandhar Central seat, ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia was appeased by SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, who visited him at his place this afternoon.Bhatia, who was a claimant from the seat, was upset as the appointment signified that Grewal was the probable candidate from Jalandhar Central constituency.As Sukhbir Badal reached his place, he told him that he would not be able to agree to his demand of seeking the party ticket from the seat. “Your support is much-needed for the party. We want you to come along and stand with the party at every step,” he said announcing his appointment as the vice president of the state unit of the party.As Sukhbir Badal had attempted to play a Valmiki card by appointing ex-safai karamchari Grewal as halqa in-charge from the general Jalandhar Central seat, it had upset the plans of some local leaders who had been eyeing this seat. Not just Bhatia but a protégé of ex-MLA Sarabjeet Makkar, Iqbal Singh Dhindsa, too had become upset as he said his hopes had dashed. Bhatia said, “Nearly, 42 party workers have handed over their signed resignation letters to me saying that they were not interested to work for it if I was not duly rewarded with a ticket,”he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-badal-appeases-jalandhar-ex-senior-deputy-mayor-kamaljit-bhatia-appoints-him-party-vice-president-298296
17-08-2021||---||Jalandhar IMA doctors have a ball at monsoon night!||Jalandhar, August 16Doctors of the Jalandhar IMA celebrated Monsoon Night, a cultural night at Hotel Regent Park on Sunday night.The event was inaugurated by Gurmeet Singh, DCP Jalandhar. Almost 200 doctors and their family members attended the function.A rangoli competition for children was also organised. The function started with Saraswati Vandana and lamp lighting by President Dr Amarjeet Singh, Secretary Dr Naresh Bathla, Secretary Finance Dr MS Bhutani, and Media Advisor Dr SPS Grover. There was group dance by women doctors. Dr JP Singh, Dr Ramesh Anand, Dr AS Cheema, Dr CP Sikka, Dr Amita Sharma, Dr Akshita, Dr Gurpreet Kaur, Dr Gurinder Chawla, Dr Bhutani, Dr Anju Gupta and Dr Minakshi Anand presented beautiful songs.Dr Alok Lalwani, Dr Sushma Chawla, Dr Yash Sharma, Dr Rakesh Vig, Dr Yogeshwar Sood, Dr Navjot Dahiya, Dr Ravneet Kaur, Dr Grover, Dr Puneet Pasricha and Dr Seema Pasricha were also present. Children Sehaj Kaur Grover, Sidak Singh Grover and Avneet Kaur Dang also performed on the stage during the occasion.The stage was conducted by Secretary Dr Naresh Bathla and President Dr Amarjeet Singh presented a vote of thanks and prizes were given to all the doctor participants who participated in various activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ima-doctors-have-a-ball-at-monsoon-night-298297
17-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab Industries Minister hoists Tricolour in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 16Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, after paying homage to martyrs who sacrificed their lives for unity and integrity of the country, hoisted the Tricolour and asserted that citizens were enjoying the warmth of freedom due to the supreme sacrifice of freedom fighters.The minister also announced several significant development projects for Hoshiarpur during a district- level event organised at the Police Lines to mark the 75th Independence Day.Recalling the role of Punjabis in the freedom struggle, Arora said Punjabis had always remained at forefront against the oppression and injustice unleashed by the Britishers.“With cooperation and awareness, Punjab has successfully tackled the first and second wave of Covid-19 and will also curb the anticipated third wave with expertise of health experts,” he said.Announcing development projects for Hoshiarpur, Arora said a hostel with requisite facilities was being constructed at a cost of Rs 4.19.He said construction of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (Rs 27 crore) was being done on a war-footing to facilitate youngsters aspiring to join the Armed Forces.The minister said a state-of-the-art food street would also come up at a cost of Rs 1 crore.The upcoming ‘lake and park’ project would provide a healthy environment to residents, said Arora and added that the project would be completed at a cost of Rs 5 crore. The project would be spread on five acres and feature musical fountain, water body and open air theatre, besides a sports park would also be developed on three acres.Announcing the entry gates on all four sides of the city, Arora said these gates would showcase various cultural and heritage of Hoshiarpur, including timber trade, religious significance, dams and forests.The minister asserted that under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the state witnessed record development in the last four years and the pace of these works would be expedited in time to come.He said the state government had taken historic decisions by increasing the social security pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 and financial assistance under Ashirwad scheme from Rs 21,000 to Rs 51,000.Jalandhar Range IGP Kaustubh Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, ADC (G) Vishesh Sarangal, ADC (Urban Development) Aashika Jain, ADC (D) Darbara Singh, CJM Aprajita Joshi and district Congress chief Dr Kuldeep Nanda were present on the occasion.***99 Personalities honoured for remarkable services in different fieldsIndustries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora honoured 99 personalities from different fields for their immense contribution in social works and administrative functioning, especially during the pandemic.The minister gave a memento and certificate of appreciation to the parade commander DSP Satvir Singh and other contingents, besides students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Railway Mandi road, who sung the national anthem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-industries-minister-hoists-tricolour-in-hoshiarpur-298302
17-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Cantt ex-MLA Jagbir Brar back in SAD||Former Jalandhar Cantonment MLA and Punjab Water Resources Management and Development Corporation Chairman Jagbir Brar today left the Congress to rejoin the SAD here.SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, who visited Brar’s residence, announced him as the candidate from the Cantt seat for the upcoming Assembly polls, besides appointing him as the general secretary of the state unit.Also read: SAD leader Sarabjeet Makkar fumes as Jagbir Brar gets Jalandhar Cantt ticketSukhbir termed his return “ghar wapsi”, saying the Congress had lost an asset, whom the SAD would deploy to strengthen the party. Former minister Bikram Majithia said Brar was known for humility and goodwill among the masses and that his joining would strengthen the party in Doaba. Brar, once CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s loyalist, said: “I was not comfortable in the Congress since it is a bifurcated house — one led by the CM and the other by Navjot Sidhu… I failed to understand how Sidhu can criticise his own government at its fag end.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cantt-ex-mla-jagbir-brar-back-in-sad-298141
17-08-2021||---||Pargat Singh appointed Punjab Congress general secretary||Chandigarh, August 16Strengthening his core team, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday appointed Jalandhar Cantt MLA and his confidant Pargat Singh as party’s general secretary (organisation).Pargat Singh was among the few others who had been vocal about the functioning of the state government and had targeted Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“Sidhu is appointing those who have been critical of the CM. The message is loud and clear. The truce is far from over,” said a senior party leader.The appointment comes close on the heels of selection of Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh, Dr Payare Lal Garg and Malvinder Singh Mali as advisers. Former DGP Mohammed Mustafa had refused to accept the responsibility.After the approval to the appointment of Pargat Singh from the party high command, the next step would be to appoint district-level coordinators and presidents of the district units, besides other office-bearers.Sidhu is learnt to have sent his proposal in this regard to the high command. It is being discussed that barring three MLAs — Kuljit Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Sukhwinder Danny — the party would desist from appointing other MLAs as office-bearers in the PCC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-appointed-punjab-congress-general-secretary-298102
