18-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||75th year of Partition: Saw worst tragedy of his life when he was just 11||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17Rajinder Singh Kumar’s (85) father was a cattle trader at Miranshah in Sahiwal district (formerly called Montgomery). His family owned 142 acres there. But losing all wealth and property in Pakistan during the Partition, he and his brothers had to do all sorts of menial jobs to start all over again and feed the family here.Rajinder shared his hair-raising experiences of the Partition during an interaction organised at Virsa Vihar on Tuesday. At the age of 11, he saw the worst tragedy of his life. “We were still in Pakistan when our family witnessed a horrendous incident. I was the youngest of seven brothers. One of my elder brother—Amar Singh— was brutally killed by Muslims after they trapped him. The attackers took the Partition as an opportunity to settle old issues with my brother. My father was passing by and he stopped over to see what had happened. He saw his son lying before him in a pool of blood,” he said.Rajinder gets emotional on recalling a more tragic incident, “Our family reached India by walking all the way for over two weeks. Enroute, we stopped in gurdwaras. During one such stop at a gurdwara in Mandi Tanjleyanwali in Pakistan, we faced an attack. The attackers killed around 250 people, including my mother (Laxmi), and burnt the premises. We were on other side of the gurdwara and realised what had happened only after hearing cries of people. The Indian Army came to our rescue, but it was too late.” He paused for sipping water and shared how they lost two family members within days.A resident of Seth Hukum Chand colony, he added, “We finally reached Jawahar Camp in Ludhiana without not a penny in our pockets. We had no time to recover from emotional and financial loss. We had to restart our lives and began with whatever work we could find. I got the job and used to wash utensils. Likewise, my brothers also did jobs.”Rajinder said, “As we had no formal education, my father started sending us all to a school in a gurdwara at the camp. So, we changed our jobs and started working in the evening. I started pulling a rickshaw and did this for almost a year. Things started getting better each day. We even got three plots in Sirsa and Fazilka as a compensation for our land in Pakistan.”He said, “I was convinced that only education can pave a better livelihood. I went to GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana, to pursue BA. I did masters in political science from Mohindra College, Patiala. I did BEd from Malwa College, Ludhiana, and MEd from Panjab University. I even pursued LLB from evening college at MGN campus in Jalandhar. Armed with three undergraduate and two postgraduate courses, I got the job of a lecturer at MGN College of Education in Jalandhar. I have served for 33 years, including 11 years as a principal. Later, I also served as a principal at a college in Pathankot.”Despite his age, he walks quite comfortably and narrated the entire episode to the gathering quite well who even quizzed him for more details. Some even suggested that he should pen it all in a book for coming generations to get the firsthand account. The event was organised by vice chairperson of Virsa Vihar Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd). Capt IS Dhami (retd) and Channi GS Takulia among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/75th-year-of-partition-saw-worst-tragedy-of-his-life-when-he-was-just-11-298864
18-08-2021||Jalandhar||7-year-old ‘Karate Kid’ from Phagwara wins gold in taekwondo c'ship in South Korea||Aaniyaa Goyal, a 7-year-old from Phagwara, has won the gold medal in the Open National Taekwondo Poomae and Speed Kicking Championship 2021. The event was organised by Korean Combat Martial Arts Academy, Kokkiwon, South Korea.Aaniyaa, who started learning taekwondo three months ago, particpated in the U-7 sub-junior girls category. The event was held from July 10 to July 13 and the results were declared recently.Aaniyaa’s father Abhineet Goyal, who is as an associate professor, said he has also played taekwondo.The 7-year-old’s curious brain would always find taekwondo very amusing, but it was after watching a movie that she took the sport.“My daughter used to see me practicing some moves at home. After watching ‘The Karate Kid’, she told me that she wanted to learn the sport,” said Abhineet.As this little wonder started learning during the pandemic, her father was her first coach who kept a check on her diet and taught her minute details regarding the game. The event was held online due to the pandemic. Earlier, the championship used to be held in Mumbai. “It is a tough job for the 7-year-old to kick 72 times. By bending the body at a specific angle it’s achievable,” said Abhineet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-year-old-karate-kid-from-phagwara-wins-gold-in-taekwondo-cship-in-south-korea-298865
18-08-2021||---||PM all praise for Jalandhar's para shuttler Palak Kohli||Jalandhar, August 17A city-based para-shuttler, Palak Kohli, who has qualified for Paralympics starting at Tokyo from August 24 won accolades from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual interaction with her ahead of the event on Tuesday.All of 19, she is the youngest of the contingent of 54 players going to Tokyo to represent India. Palak has a deformed left hand. Interacting with Palak, he first heard her whole story of reaching to the level and then told her, “Your age is very less but your resolutions are very big. You have converted your disability to super ability.”The PM even asked her to explain how she came out from her recent ailment, to which Kohli replied, “I suffered bone marrow edema in my left leg calf owing to which I had to stop my training for two months in Lucknow. My coach Gaurav Khanna made me drop some events so that I could recover properly.” Palak will be participating in three events including singles, doubles and mixed doubles at the Paralympics. During the 2019 National Para Badminton Championships, she won three gold medals in women’s singles, women’s doubles and under-19 singles (girls).She even won gold in the women’s doubles in Uganda Para Badminton International, took home a bronze in Japan Para Badminton International.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pm-all-praise-for-jalandhars-para-shuttler-palak-kohli-298866
18-08-2021||---||No new case reported in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17The health authorities reported no fresh Covid-19 case in the district in the last 24 hours. As per the Health Department, zero positive case was reported on Tuesday since the pandemic began.With this, number of active cases dropped to 24. Six persons were discharged from the hospital after recovery and only five patients were there in different hospitals.For the last two fortnights, the fatality rate has also declined as no Covid-19 related death was reported.As many as 15,01,561 sample have been collected in the district so far. In the first and second wave 1,490 persons succumbed to the virus.Three fresh cases surfacein Hoshiarpur districtThe health authorities reported three fresh Covid-19 cases in the district on Tuesday. With this, the tally increased to 30,694. The health authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district. The toll remained at 980. As many as 29,687 people recovered from the virus while number of active cases stood at 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-new-case-reported-in-jalandhar-district-298867
18-08-2021||Jalandhar||e-auction gets good response in Kartarpur||After a prolonged lull, e-auction of six properties by the Kartarpur Improvement Trust, on Tuesday yielded an amount of Rs 5.98 crore.While properties, including five SCOs and a residential property in its scheme area of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar on Kishangarh road went for more than double the reserve price, an SCO also went for three times the base price. While the base price for the five SCOs was Rs 29 lakh, they went for price in the range of Rs 83 lakh to Rs 90.2 lakh. Even the residential plot for which the reserve price was fixed at Rs 62.05 lakh went for Rs 1.27 crore.Chairman of Kartarpur Improvement Trust Rana Randhawa said, “We managed to sell the properties through e-bidding. We have also received 16 per cent earnest money from buyers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-auction-gets-good-response-in-kartarpur-298868
18-08-2021||---||This retired music professor has a rich collection of rare summer blooms||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17Right from her childhood, Prof Paramjit Clair, had a passion for nurturing flowers. Her gardener had explicit instructions not to touch anything other than grass.For the last 30 years, Professor Clair, has planted a verdant garden full of flowers, which blooms even in peak summer. There have been plants in her garden even before her marriage. Professor Clair, who taught vocal music, retired a few years ago. Her love for sound and sight of nature get reflected in her garden.Prof Clair said, “I have been fond of flowers since my childhood. And I love planting and tending to my garden on my own rather than depending on someone. A gardener is a regular to the house, but I try to do as much as I can on my own. It gives me immense satisfaction.”She said, “It’s in full bloom even during summer. My plants calm me and and lounging in my lawn gives me immense peace. It’s my favourite place at my house.”A crepe myrtle (lagestroemia indica) tree greets the visitors to her home with potted flowers adding grace to greenery. Right next to the entrance is a little richly verdant garden with its fresh dew glistening in the morning light and flowers of myriad hues calming the senses.Even during peak summer, her periwinkles, balsams, pentas, dianthus, poinsettias, cardinal creepers (ipomoea quamoclit), pansies and black eyed susans bloom in her garden. In the verandah, bougainvilleas reach out with branches abloom.Her plants have been sourced from places as varied as Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. Flowery hedges and potted flowers form the boundaries of the garden.Potted petunias, areca palms, periwinkles, ferns and a cluster of pentas on an ornamented white stand peek cheerily in the early light of the sun. A happy bunch of evergreens also ornament her backyard. Various ornamental palms, tulsi, monstera, purple setcreasea purpurea, bunch of ferns and zebra plants dot her backyard.Clair quips, “Plants are a cause of immense joy. They provide me comfort through the good and bad times.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-retired-music-professor-has-a-rich-collection-of-rare-summer-blooms-298869
18-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar school principal who taught lessons on gender equality feted for social service||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17‘Knowledge is power and information is liberating. Education is the premise of progress, in every society, in every family,’ believes Anita Nanda (55), who has been running Lala Jagat Narain DAV Model School, Kabir Nagar, for the past 27 years.Brave girl Kusum also from the same schoolLaunched with the prime motive of providing education to children from the underprivileged sections of society, the school, in the past two decades, has produced several gems from the region. Kusum Kumari (16), a braveheart, who made to the headlines last year by fighting against two snatchers who tried to steal her phone, also studies in the same school. Nanda says she tries to get maximum number of girls enrolled in self-defence training.Launched with the prime motive of providing education to children from underprivileged sections of the society, the school, in the past two decades, has produced several gems. Kusum Kumari, (16), a brave heart who made to the headlines last year by fighting against two snatchers who tried to steal her phone, also studies in the same school.While Nanda preaches gender equality when it comes to education and learning, she also makes sure that the girls in her school are capable enough of protecting themselves. The exemplary courage showed by Kusum, who belongs to a humble background was only because of the self-defence training provided to her in her school.Nanda says she tries to get maximum number of girls enrolled in self-defence training, as no extra fees is charged for it, students also enjoy learning the training.“Initially, it was tough to open a school, especially in a backward area, which is a hub of criminals. But, I was determined to open a school for poor kids, especially girls, who do not have access to education. For the few years in the beginning, we provided free education to students. Convincing parents to send their girls to the school was another stumbling block. However, with the support of like-minded people, we overcame everything and gradually increased the strength of the school. Owing to the efforts of the teachers and the performance of the students, we got it affiliated to the CBSE and kept a nominal fee for the students, so that they could indulge in co-curricular activities and sports. This also made several parents realise the importance of studies and more number of students were enrolled in the school,” said Nanda, a resident of Defence Colony.Apart from that, she also provides free-of-cost skill development training to widows or single mothers. Fee concession is also provided to children of such women, who are trained to open their own work.Acknowledging her efforts in social welfare, her work was also recognised by the district administration and on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, she was also given an award of honour by the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-school-principal-who-taught-lessons-on-gender-equality-feted-for-social-service-298871
18-08-2021||---||Lok Adalats ensure speedy justice: Expert||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, August 17CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi presided over a webinar which was attended by law students of Panjab University’s Swami Sarvanandgiri Regional Centre Hoshiarpur. She said the National Lok Adalat would be held on September 11 in the courts at the district-level and sub-divisional level.She said pending and pre-litigation cases would be heard in the Lok Adalat and the cases would be settled by the court in concurrence with both the parties. He said the decision of the case in the Lok Adalat is final, there is no appeal and it saves money and time. The court fees charged in the case are also refunded.During the webinar, Pro-Bono advocate Ravi Kumar Hamrol also briefed the college students of the benefits National Lok Adalat. He said pre-Lok Adalats were being set up in courts even before this National Lok Adalat. Therefore, litigants can take advantage in the ongoing cases. Also, the cases which are not being heard in the court can be placed before the Lok Adalat by giving a simple application to the Judge in the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lok-adalats-ensure-speedy-justice-expert-298872
18-08-2021||---||Tribute to martyred soldiers in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, August 17Dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the country’s independence, a special blood donation drive was launched in Hoshiarpur today in the memory of those who sacrificed their lives for the freedom of the country.During the launch of the drive, renowned blood donation activist Prof Bahadur Singh said under the drive, the youths would also be made aware of the biographies of the great martyrs.The drive was launched under the leadership of Sanjeev Mehra, president, Yuva Jagriti Manch, a youth organisation in Hoshiarpur. The drive was inaugurated by Prof Bahadur Singh Sunet by donating blood and along with him Raj Kumar also donated blood at Bhai Ghaniya Ji Charitable Blood Bank.Prof Sunet, who has been involved in the blood and eye donation drive for the last four decades, congratulated the members of the organisation for coming forward with this great service and said today’s youth was the future of the country.Seeking inspiration from the biographies of the great martyrs of the country, the youth should work for the service of the country, for the progress of the people of the country and for strengthening of the universal communal harmony. He appealed to people to take part in the campaign in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tribute-to-martyred-soldiers-in-hoshiarpur-298873
18-08-2021||---||40 take part in ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ at Jalandhar's Lyallpur Khalsa College||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17NSS Unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College celebrated Swacchhta Pakhwada from August to 15. The campaign was launched by the principal of the college Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra by planting a tree.In his message, he said that in the current times, cleanliness and a green environment have become extremely important.He further motivated volunteers to play an important role in keeping their surroundings clean and go extra miles in conserving it.Chief Programme Officer Professor Satpal Singh said during this campaign, programme officers and about 40 volunteers from all walks of life cleaned their streets, mohallas, villages, playgrounds and crematoriums for a clean surroundings.In addition, the volunteers also presented their innovative models on the efficient use of waste water from ROs, kitchen waste management and use of eco-bricks.In this way, they made people aware of keeping their surroundings clean for a sustainable living.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-take-part-in-swachhta-pakhwada-at-jalandhars-lyallpur-khalsa-college-298874
18-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Activist protests, seeks removal of garbage in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/activist-protests-seeks-removal-of-garbage-in-hoshiarpur-298875
18-08-2021||Jalandhar||Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya declared as Green Champion||NAAC accreditationA seven-day online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) is being conducted by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women from August 16-23 on the topic “NAAC Accreditation Framework: New Guidelines”. The inaugural session began with the welcome speech by Dr. Navdeep, Coordinator IQAC. Principal Dr. Navjot delivered a speech in which she highlighted about the rich heritage of the institution. She said that the college has an eminent historical background as its origin lies in the soil of Lyallpur, the soil that gave birth to Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, a true patriot. She also briefed about the eminent speakers for the FDP including Dr. Ramachandran, Dr Kulwinder Kaur, Dr. Vani Dutt Sharma, Dr Neena Seth Pajni, Dr. Parminder Kaur, Dr Priyadarshi Jaruhar and Prof Anchit Narwadkar.Academic performancesInnocent Hearts College of Education stole the limelight once again. All the student-teachers of the college brought accolades home by achieving 94% first divisions in the result of GNDU B Ed. Examination Sem-III (DEC-2020). This examination was held by GNDU through the offline mode in April 2021 in the college. 45 per cent student-teachers achieved distinctions which substantiates that in the era of Covid-19 the college has worked hard in providing qualitative and digitalized education to the student-teachers at their homes. The student-teachers have also actively participated in the online studies so later they were able to achieve excellent marks through the offline mode. Ria Mahajan and Deepika bagged first position by scoring 78% marks in the college, Palak achieved second position by scoring 77.4% marks in the college and Gagandeep Kaur got third position by scoring 77.1% marks in the college.Know the ‘Art of being disliked’In continuity with the session series of ‘Professional Overthinkers’ workshops being organised by the dynamic counselling cell of Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, two more workshops were held for the students of Classes VI-XII. Titled ‘Art of being Disliked’ and ‘FOMO to JOMO’, the workshops were a not only a breath of fresh air and positivity but also engaging lessons in self- understanding and self- management for DPSites. In the ‘Art of being Disliked’ workshop, students learnt the ways of handling criticism, the art of self- acceptance and the significance of ‘let go’, which any individual needs to practice for mental well being and happy living. In the ‘FOMO to JOMO’ workshop, students developed an understanding of the ‘Monkey Mind’ and the ‘Personality Pillar’. They learnt the techniques and tools of mind management and developed an understanding of enjoying the journey of ‘Fear of Missing Out’ to the ‘Joy of Missing Out’.workshop on Pre-primary teachingEklavya School organised an online workshop on pre-primary teaching under the process of hubs of learning in which the resource person was Inderpreet Kaur. The workshop was held on Google Meet in which teachers from different schools participated. In this workshop, Inderpreet Kaur explained about all the methods of teaching pre-primary by using PPT and by using live presentation on various montessori teaching aids such as pink tower, cylindrical blocks, brownstairs number rods, jodo cubes and puzzles. She explained the purpose and importance of these aids by manipulating it in the live session. She explained that by using these teaching aids students can understand the concept more clearly and deeply.IKGPTU students shineLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus is known for providing quality education to its students. This is proved by the result of MBA IV declared by IKG Punjab Technical University in which students of management have brought laurels to the institute by bringing merit positions in the university with 80 distinctions. Nearly 67% students scored more than 80% marks, 33% students scored more than 70% marks. In MBA IV Sanjay Shandil stood first by scoring 9.00 SGPA, Rahul Dadwal, Ravinder Kaur, Rohit Jassal, Tarun Dadwal and Deepali stood second by scoring 8.85 SGPA, Amandeep Kaur and Priyanka stood third by scoring 8.69 SGPA, Aditya Singh, Gita Devi, Gurpreet Singh, Manjeet Singh, Manpreet Kaur, Parminder Kaur, Ramandeep Kaur, Shivangi Sharma and Sonia stood fourth by scoring 8.54 SGPA. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hans-raj-mahila-maha-vidyalaya-declared-as-green-champion-298876
18-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Evacuate hindus, sikhs from Kabul: Shiv Sena||20-year jail term for raping minorHoshiarpur: The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Neelam Arora, (in the case of raping a minor girl after kidnapping her) convicted the accused and ordered 20 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000. In case of not paying the fine, the accused will have to undergo an additional imprisonment of six months. The vicitm had filed a complaint with the Tanda police on January 16, 2019. She had told the police that she was crossing from near the cremation ground at Jhajji village around 9.30 am when Jasvinder Singh, alias Sorabh, threatened her and made her sit on his bike. The victim told that the accused took her to a place where she was allegedly raped by him. The police had registered a case against Jasvinder under Sections 363, 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section (4) of the POCSO Act. OCDocumentary on performanceNawanshahr: On the completion of one year of the Drug Free India Campaign, Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal, released a special documentary on the performance of the district in presence of all members of the district-level drug free campaign committee. The Deputy Commissioner urged masses to cooperate with the administration and persuade those who are into drugs to shun it. She said free drug de-addiction facilities were being provided at the health centres through OOAT Clinics. The DC appealed to the people to watch and share this film depicting the performance of the district in the field of de-addiction on YouTube. She said this film would be shown in schools, colleges and hospitals. TNS‘Cong activists support Sidhu’Hoshiarpur: Punjab Pradesh Congress Legal Cell co-chairman and member of the Sri Guru Ravidas Foundation, Advocate Pankaj Kripal, on Tuesday said after Navjot Singh Sidhu became the president of the PPCC, a new impetus has been created in Congress. He said Congress workers who had been feeling neglected for the last four years have enthusiastically joined hands to form the government again in 2022. He said Sidhu has taken up various issues, which affect people directly, including sacrilege incidents, high electricity charges and drugs menace. He said Congress activists were standing firm with Sidhu on these issues. OCCollege fares well in surveyHoshiarpur: In a survey conducted by the Outlook magazine, DAV College, Hoshiarpur, has registered its name among the top educational institutes of India. Principal Dr Vinay Kumar, said the magazine, on the basis of quality standards, has ranked the BCA stream of the college at 3rd place in Punjab while the commerce and arts stream is ranked fifth. He said the college was the only institution in the district that has earlier been included in the list of best institutions of the country by 'India Today' and 'Education World' magazines. OCIndependence day celebratedJalandhar: On the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, defence veterans and residents of Jalandhar Heights came together to celebrate it with fervor. The day began with a cycle rally which was aimed to promote a pollution-free environment and make people more health conscious. This was followed by flag hoisting ceremony wherein an army band added color to the event by playing National Anthem. Sukhdev Singh MD AGI INFRA LTD, Shri SV Hans Rotary Club and Col Balbir Singh (Retd) Arjuna Awardee graced the occasion. Shaurya Singh who stood 3rd in district in Class X was the Master of Ceremonies. TNSTricolour hoistedHoshiarpur: In what could be called a true celebration of the 75th Independence Day, Tricolour was hoisted at the Reliance Industries Limited, Chohal, by the company’s senior electrician Pritam Singh. As the chief guest of the day, Singh, performed the flag unfurling ceremony. On this occasion, he said, “Today we are enjoying the freedom that many brave warriors of the country had sacrificed their lives for. We all should work together to realise the dreams of martyrs so that the country can touch new heights of development”. prior to it he was welcomed with full honours by the officials of the RIL. Site Head T Karunanidhi said this day holds special a significance for every Indian. He urged everyone to follow Covid protocols such as maintaining social distancing and wearing masks to stay safe during pandemic. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/evacuate-hindus-sikhs-from-kabul-shiv-sena-298877
18-08-2021||---||Rs 200 cr pending, Punjab cane growers to hold indefinite sit-in on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway||Jalandhar, August 17Demanding fair price for their crop, sugarcane growers under the banner ofthe Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee today announced holding an indefinite protest on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway on August 20.The farmers said growers in Haryana were getting Rs 48 more than what they were getting in Punjab. The farmers also asked the government to clear their pending dues of nearly Rs 200 crore.The leaders said the per quintal price of sugarcane in Haryana was Rs 350 last year and it had now been increased to Rs 358, but in Punjab, the sugarcane growers were still getting a price of Rs 310 per quintal for the past five years.They said Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had failed to meet the demands of farmers despite raising the issue multiple times. “Apart from the inflated production rate, the price of sugar has also crossed Rs 40 per kg in the market, yet farmers are not receiving appropriate price for their crop,” said Jaskaran Singh, a farm leader.The sugarcane growers urged the state government to hike the price by Rs 90 per quintal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-200-cr-pending-punjab-cane-growers-to-hold-indefinite-sit-in-on-jalandhar-amritsar-highway-298612
