19-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Assembly poll: Many claimants from Congress in Nakodar after Jagbir Brar’s exit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 18Post the recent exit of ex-MLA Jagbir Brar from the Congress, the Nakodar Assembly constituency, from where he had contested elections in 2017, is seeing the activities of at least six party leaders.Jagbir Brar had on Monday joined SAD and was announced as the candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment seat, from where he had been MLA earlier. With Brar vacating the seat, many leaders have started eyeing this constituency. Among the frontrunners are ex-minister Avtar Henry, IMA national vice-president and ex-Congress spokesperson Dr Navjot Dahiya, Truck Union Punjab president Happy Sandhu, ex-Nurmahal MLA Gurbinder Atwal, Market Committee Chairman Deepa Thammanwal and realtor and restaurateur Baljit Johal. Avtar Henry’s native village Bilga also falls in Nakodar.Before Brar, ex-minister Amarjit Singh Samra was representing the seat. He had won from the seat for four consecutive terms. But owing to health reasons, Samra has announced not to contest any elections in the future. He also maintains that he will support any candidate that the party announces from the seat.Currently, Avtar Henry has still not been himself much visible in Nakodar but he has already begun mobilising his teams in the area. His recent closeness with the new PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu is already the talk of town. But there are issues with his candidature. Henry’s son Bawa Henry is already an MLA from Jalandhar North and will surely be re-seeking ticket this time. The party had in 2017 had maintained one family-one ticket norm which might be implemented again this time.There is yet another issue. Henry’s vote had been cancelled ahead of 2017 polls and he could not contest that time too. The matter of his dual citizenship still remains pending in the district court. His son from his first wife, Gurjeet Sanghera, had moved a petition that his father held a British passport since 1969. Henry has contested six elections since 1986 from Jalandhar North seat.Asked about his keenness to contest polls from Nakodar, he replied: “It will be the decision of the party higher ups in Chandigarh or Delhi. Whatever task they give me, I will complete it.” On his chance of getting voting right back, he said: “I am hopeful that it will get sorted out”.An orthopaedician by profession, Dr Dahiya has been quite active politically too. He had recently created a sensation pan-India by calling PM Narendra Modi a super spreader during the WB elections just ahead of the second wave of Covid in the country. A close associate of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal whom he had joined in People’s Party of Punjab, he had sought ticket from Shahkot last time. With a void in the party in Nakodar seat, Dr Dahiya will be using all his links to grab it this time.An active Truck Union leader, Happy Sandhu claims that he is the most active leader of the party from the seat. “I have already made two to three rounds in each of the 159 villages of this constituency and have built a good network. I also have a good support from Samra, who has been the tallest leader from here”.Ex-MLA Atwal, who had been in Canada for the past few years, too is back. He had sought ticket from here in the last elections too but was sent to Bholath. He held just a few meetings there after which he announced to give up. He contested as an Independent candidate from Nakodar and got just 1664 votes.Thammanwal and Johal have put their claims for the first time. Johal owns Taj restaurants in the city, besides running a dairy and property business in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/assembly-poll-many-claimants-from-congress-in-nakodar-after-jagbir-brars-exit-299317
19-08-2021||---||Kabaddi tournaments to resume after Covid hiatus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 18After a gap of nearly two years, the Circle Kabaddi games are going to be resumed this year. The kabaddi matches are likely to start from November this year, for which planning has already been started.General Secretary of the Major League Kabaddi Federation Toni Sandhu said, “As the Covid situation normalised in the state, various kabaddi federations have decided to resume kabaddi tournaments, which were earlier started with the purpose of promoting sports among the youngsters in the state. The upcoming season would be kicked off during the winters, after two-three months. The teams from various districts will participate in the matches.”The announcement was made in the felicitation ceremony of Major Kabaddi Federation 2019-2020, in which former DGP Mehal Singh Bhullar distributed prizes among the winning teams and best players.Toni said Bhullar, who has always supported sports among youth, also announced to release the calendar for kabaddi matches. “This year, strict measures will be adopted to shun the use of drugs and high-intensity tablets. To observe Zero Drug Tolerance, dope tests would also be conducted and guilty players would also be banned from further seasons,” added Toni.This year, strict measures will be adopted to shun the use of high-intensity tablets and drugs. To observe a zero drug tolerance, dope tests will also be conducted and guilty players would also be banned from further seasons. — Toni Sandhu, general secretary, Major League Kabaddi FederationThe federation of kabaddi players also appealed to the England Kabaddi Federation, Ontario Kabbadi Federation, Vancover Kabaddi Federation, California Kabaddi Federation and others to form a united federation to schedule the Kabaddi Championships in the state.During the felicitation ceremony, tributes were also paid to the farmers who lost their lives in the farmers’ protest. Notably, kabaddi players from the region participated in large numbers to support the farmers during the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kabaddi-tournaments-to-resume-after-covid-hiatus-299323
19-08-2021||---||18 Covid warriors honoured in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, August 18Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal today honoured 18 Covid warriors for their services to contain the spread of Covid besides making significant contribution to save the precious lives during the first and second waves.These warriors included people from Kapurthala as well as Amritsar and Tarn Taran across disciplines like health dept, drivers, volunteers, lab technicians and data entry operators. Hailing the efforts made by these 18 persons, the DC gave them certificates of appreciation and mementoes.The people who were awarded included Gurbhagh Singh, district data manager, Ritu, Navneet Kaur and Kamaljit Singh, all data entry operators, Gurbir Singh, health inspector, Gurpreet Singh, laboratory assistant, Rajinder Kaur, laboratory technician, Sonam, laboratory technician, Sarwan Singh, driver, Dr Shubra Singh, Rajat Bhatia data entry operator, volunteer Apoorv and Divyanshu, Navpreet Kaur, Dr Ujala Home Isolation Cell, and Aatma Singh, multipurpose health worker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-covid-warriors-honoured-in-kapurthala-299324
19-08-2021||---||Minor raped in Phillaur by father of two||Jalandhar, August 18A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Phillaur by a 35-year-old man, a father of two children. On the intervening night of August 16 and 17, he entered the room of the girl and raped her“The accused used to stalk the victim. The parents of the victim had told him to stop but he didn’t listen. The girl was allegedly rape by him when she was all alone in her room,” one of the police officials said. Both the families were known to each other and the accused used to live in the same area. The accused has been arrested.A case under Section 376 and 506 of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act have been registered against the accused. The police said the investigation was on.One held for killing dogCops at the Police Division No. 2 today registered a case against a man for beating a dog to death. The accused has been identified as Sunil Kumar. A case has been registered under Sections 107 and 151 of the CrPC.A dog was reportedly beaten to death by a tea vendor near Gulab Devi Road. After beating the female dog with an iron rod, the vendor, later strangulated the dog to death. He also dumped its body in a garbage dump. The matter was highlighted after few social activists were informed about the incident. The area residents used to feed the dog.In his statement to the police, Sunil said, he didn’t want to kill the dog. “The dog bit me twice before I hit him with the rod,” stated Sunil to the police. SHO Police Division number-2, Sub-inspector Sewa Singh said the accused was taken to the court today, from where he has been sent to the police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minor-raped-in-phillaur-by-father-of-two-299325
19-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||This Rakhi, why should brothers have all the fun!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 18While Raksha Bandhan has always been synonymous to the trend of tying rakhis to brothers and sisters, a new trend has found its roots in the markets this year.This is of addition of rakhis for bhabhi too. Several stores selling rakhis this time are flooded with a double set of rakhis – a simpler single or double embellished thread for bhaiya and a fancier one with multiple dazzling, hanging threads for bhabhi. The pair of rakhis for the couple has been designed in a way that they perfectly match one another with the main motiff in both the items and the pattern of beads, pearls etc woven in the threads remaining the same.There are several kinds of matching pairs of rakhis for bhaiya-bhabhi, including those with peacock motif, oxidised central piece and those in the kundan work. There are sets with two broad bands in red colour with bhaiya written on one and bhabhi on the other one. The bhabhi’s band is made to look more elegant and feminine.Raman Chawla, a localite shopping at the Meena Bazaar, said, “I was fascinated with this idea. I have bought the peacock set for Rs 250. I used to often find it so odd going to my brother’s place and taking all goodies only for him during rakhi. This set is quite interesting and I am sure that my sister-in-law will like this surprise and both of them will like their wrists being adorned with a matching set.”Further, to go with the rakhis, several gifts have also been merchandised for the sisters to pick to present to their bhaiya-bhabhi couple. There are T-shirts, cushion covers and coffee mugs with bhaiya-bhabhi written on them to go with the rakhi sets. Sneha Sukhija, a shopper at the Model Town, said, “I had already purchased a single rakhi and was searching for a gift when I chanced upon a pair of cushion covers for bhaiya-bhabhi and went for it. It’s a nice and a cool idea”.These rakhi sets and gift items are not just available in the local markets, but can also be purchased from several portals. Arshiya, a collegiate, said, “I found a nice pair of rakhis for my bhaiya-bhabhi on the web and thought it’s a new concept and immediately went for it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-rakhi-why-should-brothers-have-all-the-fun-299326
19-08-2021||---||9 held during I-Day security alert in Jalandhar; weapons, drugs seized||Jalandhar, August 18Remaining on high alert during the past one week owing to I-Day celebrations, the Jalandhar rural police have been able to tighten the noose around criminals, anti-social elements, while also making recoveries of drugs and weapons.Jalandhar SSP Rural Naveen Singla said 1,000 police personnel, including gazetted officers, were on toes and took all the preventive and security measures in the week from August 8 to 16. Appreciating the efforts put in by the police teams, he said that nine persons were arrested with the recoveries in separate cases.The haul included that of 200-kg poppy husk in police station Maqsudan, 100-kg poppy husk in police station Patara, 500-gm opium in Goraya, two pistols including a .30 bore pistol along with three live cartridges and .32 bore pistol along with 10 live cartridges, Rs 7.9 lakh unaccounted money, Breeza car bearing registration no PB 90-4747 at Maqsudan police station and 50-gm gold, two tablets, six mobile phones and three motorcycles/scooty at Lohian.Among those arrested include Lakhwinder Singh of Nurmahal, Mohammad Ayub and Bashir Ahmed of Sambha in J&K, Harinderpal Singh of Goraya, Amit Kumar of Subhana, Lovepreet Singh of Lohian, Rajinder Singh of Shahkot, Jagdev Singh and Rajanpreet Singh of Lohian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-held-during-i-day-security-alert-in-jalandhar-weapons-drugs-seized-299327
19-08-2021||Jalandhar||6 fresh Covid cases in Jalandhar, 2 in Kapurthala||As many as eight new Covid cases were reported on Wednesday from the Doaba region. While six cases were reported from Jalandhar, two were reported from Kapurthala. No new cases were reported from Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr.Today, three patients were discharged in Jalandhar as well as Kapurthala and one in Hoshiarpur. With this, the total number of active cases now stands at 27 in Jalandhar, 18 in Kapurthala, 26 in Hoshiarpur and just seven in Nawanshahr. Ajtana village in Noormahal continues to be a containment zone in Jalandhar.The total number of Covid cases so far in Jalandhar stands at 63,181 in Jalandhar, 17,788 in Kapurthala, 30,694 in Hoshiarpur and 11,436 in Nawanshahr. There also remains a high prevalence of black fungus in these four districts. Though no new case was reported today from the entire Doaba region, Jalandhar still has 26 patients recovering from the disease. There are 15 patients of mucormycosis in Hoshiarpur and seven each in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-fresh-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-2-in-kapurthala-299328
19-08-2021||It is often said that a picture is worth a thousand words and truly so! The events that the photographers capture in their camera become a part of history and are cherished even several decades later. Undoubtedly||World Photography Day: Picture perfect||The World Photography Day brings passionate shutterbugs together, who share their work by way of exhibitions, contests and events. The day was originally chosen to mark the purchase of the patent to the Daguerreotype camera by the French government, who made it free for use to the entire world on August 19, 1839. This type of photographic process was developed by Frenchmen Louis Daguerre and Joseph Nicephore Niépce. In 1975, the first digital camera was created by Eastman KodakNature photographyNature photography is an outdoor photography taken to capture elements of nature such as landscapes, flora and fauna among other things.Using high-shutter speedFor general photography of slower-moving subjects, one can take pictures at 1/200th second, 1/100th second but fast shutter speed is typically required while photographing birds, that may be 1/1000th second or faster.Caught in motionPanning in still photography refers to the technique of opening the camera shutter and then horizontally moving the camera before the shutter closes. Panning is used in panorama photography.Slow-shutter speed photographySlow shutter photography is a technique in which the camera’s shutter is left open for a long time to take advantage of a longer exposure time. It captures moving points of light and helps to show motion in a picture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-photography-day-picture-perfect-299329
19-08-2021||Jalandhar||3-km fit India freedom run organised at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology in Jalandhar||VACCINe CAMP at Lyallpur CollegeJalandhar: Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women organised a Covishield vaccination camp for staff members, including teaching and non-teaching, their families and students, in the college campus on Wednesday. This camp was undertaken in association with the Civil Hospital team, wherein 200 vaccines were administered. This camp was the result of the efforts taken by the NCC and NSS departments of the institute. Dr Shubham and Jyoti and other staff members from Civil Hospital managed the camp to administer the vaccinations. LKCW’s NCC cadets exhibited their zeal towards this camp and performed their duties. TNSwarm send off to principalJalandhar: A farewell party was organised in Guru Amar Dass Public School on the retirement of director principal Harminderjit Kaur Chawla. Chawla has served in the institution for the past 28 years. She was appointed as a biology teacher and now she has retired as the director principal. She has always been a hardworking, determined and punctual during her services. Moreover, she was a role model for the students as well as staff members, said president of the management Ajit Singh Sethi. Those present on the occasion were Mohinderjit Singh, Kawaljeet Singh Kochar, Dr HM Hurria, Kultaran Singh Anand, Tejdeep Singh Sethi and others. They all presented bouquet and wished her for her health and happiness for her future life. TNSDLSA GRANTS compensationJalandhar: District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has distributed compensation worth Rs8 lakh to the families of those killed in various road accidents. Mahesh Kumar Sharma, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, DLSA, said the compensation, given in four untraceable cases, in which the vehicle and driver involved in the accident could not be identified and the families of the deceased in such cases have been referred to the DLSA under Punjab Victim Compensation Scheme 2017. He said Amarinder Singh Grewal, District and Sessions Judge, Kapurthala, has ordered the DLSA to pay a total compensation of Rs 8 lakh to the families of victims. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-km-fit-india-freedom-run-organised-at-dr-br-ambedkar-national-institute-of-technology-in-jalandhar-299330
