20-08-2021||---||Jalandhar girl Simrandeep Kaur takes on bike-borne snatchers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Almost a year later, after Kusum Kumari, a class 9th student, fought off snatchers who tried to snatch her mobile phone in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near Jalandhar-Kapurthala road, another braveheart from the city fought three bike-borne miscreants courageously to save her handbag.Simrandeep Kaur, a resident of Simran Susash Nagar, was heading to her home from her job around 8.45 pm, when the three accused pushed her and snatched her bag. The trio came on a bike from Mehak Cinema Road and snatched her handbag. While they were trying to escape, Simran started chasing them fearlessly.The 20-year-old girl held one of the pillion riders from his shirt and pulled him and kicked the rear tyre of the bike due to which the three miscreants fell down. Following this, the people around also gathered and caught two of them. The third accused managed to escape.Simran works at a gift gallery in Silver Plaza. She said: “I used to participate in running competition during school time. When the miscreants tried to snatch my bag, I did not give up and grabbed one of the accused. I also kicked the rear tyre of the bike with my feet, due to which they fell down from the bike. Soon, the commuters around gathered to help me”.She further stated that she didn’t get afraid on encountering the miscreants. Instead, I wanted to teach them a lesson that girls were not weak.The police at Division No. 8 have registered a case against all three accused. The arrested duo have been identified as Arjun and Ashutosh, both residents of Gadaipur. They have been booked under Sections 389-B and 511 of IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-girl-simrandeep-kaur-takes-on-bike-borne-snatchers-299777
20-08-2021||---||1 more succumbs in Jalandhar district, toll 1,491||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19After a gap of nearly one month, a Covid patient succumbed to the virus on Thursday. The deceased was identified as a 67-year-old man who had co-morbidities. In-addition, a jump was also reported in the daily Covid cases. In the last 24-hours, nine persons were reported positive. With one more death, the total number of Covid casualties in the district rose to 1491.Three +ve in HoshiarpurThree new Covid cases were reported on Thursday from Hoshiarpur district. The total number of Covid cases so far in Hoshiarpur stands at 30,697. Meanwhile, the samples for RTPCR testing were taken by the teams of Health Department in different areas of the district in dhabas, restaurants, confectionery shops etc.3 new cases in NawanshahrThree cases were reported from Nawanshar district on Thursday. Two are from block Muzaffarpur and one from Saroya. At present, there are 12 active cases out of which 11 are under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-more-succumbs-in-jalandhar-district-toll-1-491-299778
20-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmers to block Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 indefinitely from today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Commuters from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Pathankot and other adjoining areas, who are to shuttle across Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 in Dhanowali by road or rail, are likely to face a huge bottleneck on Friday as the farmers are set to block the passage indefinitely. Tough time for commuters?We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic. — Jagmohan Singh, DCP (law and order)The call for bandh had been announced yesterday by the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee over the issue of pending dues of sugarcane from the mills and no enhancement in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of sugarcane for the past four years. Though the state government announced to hike the SAP by Rs 15 per quintal today, it has further agitated the farmers.“The government has played a cruel joke with us. By announcing a meagre Rs 15 per quintal hike, they have ridiculed us. The state government did not have any one of us for representation during finalising this amount. We were expecting the SAP on sugarcane to be hiked to Rs 370 from the existing price of Rs 295 to 310 (varying according to variety). Haryana is already offering Rs 358 per quintal,” fumed Manjit Rai, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba).He added: “We will now have an intensified protest. We had plans to block only the road, but now we will also block the rail passage. Also, all 32 farmer unions of Punjab have offered us support. Our protest tomorrow at the site may have more than 30K farmers and it will go on indefinitely till all our demands are met to our satisfaction. We will also have our meeting at the site tomorrow morning and we may jam the entire state”.The Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee chooses the site at Dhannowali strategically as the NH and the railway crossing here are very close by and both the dharnas can be managed simultaneously. In the past few years, whenever the farmers announce to hold a protest here, the response remains massive and the dharna goes on for hours and even gets extended to the next day.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the police authorities had been directed to make proper security arrangements. The city police have planned diversions to ensure that the public does not suffer much. The diversions have been planned via Pathankot Chowk to Rama Mandi, from Partappura side for those coming via Nakodar Chowk, and via Cantt Road to Phagwara.DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh said: “We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic.”About the plans of the farmers to block rail traffic too, he said: “It will be too early to comment on that. The farmers may not go to that extent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-block-jalandhar-phagwara-stretch-of-nh-1-indefinitely-from-today-299779
20-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Soon, govt school students to get mobile classroom||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, August 19In a first-of-its-kind project, a ‘lab on wheels’ programme for the students of 423 primary, 106 middle and 211 government schools in Nawanshahr, will be launched next week. Since every government school doesn’t have proper infrastructure and labs, this moving bus will prove to be a blessing for the students. Now, they have an opportunity to learn outside the classes.Developing scientific temper among kidsWith an aim to draw maximum number of students towards science and develop a scientific approach among the students by providing them practical training in an interesting manner, this moving computer and science lab has been prepared with a cost of Rs 48 lakh and is well equipped with 12 computers, WiFi facility, LEDs, various science related instruments, microscopes, various models of physics, chemistry and biology giving out a detailed information of concepts such as DNA, heart, skeleton, laws of reflection of light, periodic table etc.Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said the bus would move on a rotational basis in the schools. “In case the schools are closed again due to Covid, the bus will be moved to the villages and the houses of the students and training will be continued,” she said.With an aim to draw maximum number of students towards science and develop a scientific approach among the students by providing them practical training in an interesting manner, this moving computer and science lab has been prepared with a cost of Rs 48 lakh and is well equipped with 12 computers, WiFi facility, LEDs, various science related instruments, microscopes, various models of physics, chemistry and biology giving out a detailed information of concepts such as DNA, heart, skeleton, laws of reflection of light, periodic table etc.The idea behind the initiative is to make the subjects interesting for the students, so that they enjoy while attaining knowledge. The bus will cover all primary, middle and senior secondary schools in the district.Computer and science teachers from the schools will be deputed turn-wise so that they could teach the students with an expertise. The DC further added that good and trained science teachers from government schools have been taken onboard for the project and if there is a need, extra staff on a permanent basis will be deputed.District Education Officer (Secondary) Jagjit Singh said a detailed monthly plan has been made and the bus will stay at a particular school according to the plan after the launch. “The students get attracted to innovations and this will certainly make them curious to learn,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soon-govt-school-students-to-get-mobile-classroom-299780
20-08-2021||---||MLA Pawan Tinu wants Talhan road repaired, gives memo to 
Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, August 19Residents of Adampur area accompanied by Akali Dal MLA Pawan Tinu today submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori demanding that the Talhan road be repaired urgently.Tinu said the road was in a bad condition as it had not been repaired since 2016. “There are deep craters on the road and people have to pass through it to visit Talhan gurdwara. All the commuters on this road end up getting their vehicles knocked out in the process,” he lamented.“I have already written to the PWD officials for getting this road re-laid but nothing is being done. I request you to kindly intervene and come to the rescue of hundreds of passersby on this road and the residents of various adjoining colonies,” he added.Tinu also took up another issue. “It has come to our notice that the food and civil supplies officials have arbitrarily cancelled the number of members of a particular family entitled for subsidised wheat and pulses under the atta-dal scheme. I suspect a foul play and want senior officials to conduct an inquiry into it”, he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-pawan-tinu-wants-talhan-road-repaired-gives-memo-to-jalandhar-dc-299781
20-08-2021||---||Now, call 1100 to register complaint||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19On the sidelines of a state-level launch of unified state helpline ‘1100’ for non-emergency government services and a state admission portal for government colleges, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori dedicated both the facilities to the people of Jalandhar district.Participating in a virtual launch function presided over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the DC said now the citizens can lodge their complaints or raise their grievances against any department on ‘1100’ helpline as one-stop solution where the issues/complaints would be recorded, forwarded, tracked and timely-solved.He added that the helpline would serve as a single platform for non-emergency services related to different departments, which further aimed at strengthening the present grievance redressal system. The DC said the complaint would be transferred through portal www.connect.Punjab.Gov.in to the departments concerned for further process in a time-bound manner and the complaint would be closed only after satisfaction of the complainant.The DC also dedicated the integrated online admission portal for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in government colleges wherein the entire admission process would be completely contactless and further, the verification of applicants would also be contactless as the portal is linked to all state boards as well as CBSE through digi-locker besides facility of auto-verification of caste and domicile certificates at portal.Terming this portal a revolutionary step of the state government, the DC said the students could now avail the admission facilities in any government college by just a click of mouse.While sharing their experiences with the new admission portal Lovepreet Singh and Vaishno Devi, both students of Dr BR Ambedkar Co-Education College, Jalandhar, said having cleared their Class XII exams, they had taken admission in graduation through this new portal. They added that the interface of the portal is user-friendly and the entire admission process was completed without going to college, which was the need of the hour amid this unprecedented global health crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-call-1100-to-register-complaint-299782
20-08-2021||---||Vax camps for teachers in Nawanshahr govt schools||Nawanshahr, August 19Vaccination camps for the teaching and non-teaching staff have started in Nawanshahr after students from a government school in Saroya were tested Covid positive. The camps are being held in the schools and as many as seven camps were held on Thursday.The administration and the Education Department had collected the data from the schools to check the number of teachers and other staff members coming to schools without taking even a single dose. After the data compilation, it came to the fore that 209 teachers from Nawanshahr had not taken even the first dose of Covid vaccine.DEO Jagjit Singh said he had been visiting the camps regularly. “The administration has ordered that everyone working in the school and students who are above 18 above should be vaccinated. The department is following the orders and making sure that everyone gets properly vaccinated,” he said.After the students were tested positive this time, the administration went into a tizzy and several measures were taken after the cases were reported. Tests were conducted rigorously, however, luckily no other case was reported from the schools after that.The DEO had earlier said he would be conducting surprise checking in schools and would send a show-cause notice to the school authorities if students or school employees were found flouting the Covid-19 norms.New cases had become a matter of concern for the Education and Health Departments and have brought back the memories of February when 28 students from one school in the district had tested positive and then scores of them were found positive creating panic among the parents.Officials said the vaccination has now become a campaign because no one wants to take any risk this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vax-camps-for-teachers-in-nawanshahr-govt-schools-299783
20-08-2021||---||Talwara-Mukerian rail route to be revived after 35 years||Our CorrespondentTalwara, August 19After about three and a half decades, train will be again seen running on the Talwara-Mukerian rail route. The Northern Railway started the work for laying the line rapidly. The Centre has also released funds worth Rs 411 crore for this new rail link. This information was shared with reporters by Sandeep Dogra, Senior Section Engineer-cum-Construction Officer, Northern Railway.To be completed in 30 monthsThe Railways have given a green signal for laying the railway line from Mukerian to Talwara. The track was already there at the time of the construction of Pong Dam, so there's no need to acquire the land. A time limit of only 30 months has been fixed to complete the work of laying the railway bridge, raising railway platform and railway staff quarters, etc.He said the Railways have given a green signal for laying the railway line from Mukerian to Talwara. The track was already there at the time of the construction of Pong Dam, so there’s no need to acquire the land. A time limit of only 30 months has been fixed to complete the work of laying the railway bridge, raising railway platform and railway staff quarters, etc. He said the work of cleaning the ground for rail track from Mukerian to Talwara is being done on a war footing.He also made it clear that any bridge built earlier by the Railway Department will not be put to use, keeping in view the traffic needs, bridges will be constructed at the crossings of tracks and roads. Apart from Mukerian, three more state-of-the-art railway stations will be built at Patiala, Hajipur, and Talwara on this 28 km-long railway track. It is worth mentioning that the acquisition of land for the rail link from Daulatpur town of Himachal Pradesh to Talwara is also going on a war footing.It is mentionable that the construction of Pong Dam started in the year 1961 and was completed in the year 1974. At that time, for the officers, employees, labour, and the heavy machinery coming to Pong Dam, the rail line was laid from Talwara- Mukerian to Gamrur village of Jaswan Tehsil, Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh.After the construction work of Pong Dam was completed, the rail services from Mukerian to Talwara stopped, but continued from Talwara to Gamrur, till 1994, as the BBMB administration, at its own level operated the trains to pick and drop the staff. In 2000, the Railways razed the railway line from Mukerian to Gamrur and sold it by auction. If the Railways complete the project within the stipulated time frame, the train will run again in Talwara after about three and a half decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talwara-mukerian-rail-route-to-be-revived-after-35-years-299784
20-08-2021||Jalandhar||Labour secy reviews facilities at ESI Hospital in Jalandhar||Labour Secretary, Department of Labour and Employment, GOI, Apurva Chandra, today took a round of the local ESI Hospital and reviewed various facilities being offered to the patients.He checked records and sought inquiries related to the number of referral cases, major and minor surgeries being conducted, daily and monthly patient load and Covid-related cases coming up at the hospital. Accompanied by Punjab Director Dr Om Parkash Godara, he noted various requirements including equipment for conducting laparoscopic surgeries, ambulance service and electricity back up.Chandra also sought the details of records of five districts regarding the EPF services from the sub-regional office here. He also took details of the dispensary and hospital facilities in the industrial area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-secy-reviews-facilities-at-esi-hospital-in-jalandhar-299785
20-08-2021||---||NEP-2020 is purely a people’s policy, says expert||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19“New Education Policy (NEP) is purely people’s policy. This policy is for society. Each step recorded in policy is based on the practical experience and actual needs of society. Now educationists from all over the country are working together continuously for this benefit to reach the people. The need is now to discuss this policy in the Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) in schools, colleges, universities, to make everyone aware of the effective steps of the policy. Along with this, all educational institutions have to make NEP task force and start work on it with the help of subject experts.”Need to generate more awarenessThis policy is for society. Each step recorded in policy is based on the practical experience and actual needs of society, says educationist Atul Kothari. Now educationists from all over the country are working together continuously for this benefit to reach the people. The need is now to discuss this policy in the Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) in schools, colleges, universities, to make everyone aware of the effective steps of the policy. Along with this, all educational institutions have to make NEP task force and start work on it with the help of subject experts.This message was delivered by eminent educationist Atul Kothari, who is the National Secretary of the Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi. He was the keynote speaker and subject expert on the first day of a five-day webinar series on the implementation of New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU).The university in collaboration with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi, is organising five-day webinar series on ‘Implementation of National Education Policy’ 2020’ from August 18 to August 24. The directors/principals/faculty members of constituent campuses and affiliated institutes of the university were the participants of this webinar.The primary objective of this webinar series is to disseminate the information of NEP 2020 to all stakeholders of the education fraternity. The key resource persons of first day of webinar series, NEP and Vision for India were Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, Jalandhar, and Dr. Atul Kothari, National Secretary, Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi.In the inauguration session, Dr Sharma motivated all stakeholders of the education field to prepare the road map for adoption of this policy in true spirit for the benefit of society. He also talked about immediate steps to be taken, challenges and strategy for adoption of the NEP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nep-2020-is-purely-a-peoples-policy-says-expert-299786
20-08-2021||---||Engg students display projects on latest tech at Lyallpur Khalsa College||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19An open house project display was organised by the Department of Mechanical Engineering of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus here today. Students of mechanical engineering, computer science engineering, civil engineering and electronics and communication engineering participated in this event.The projects displayed were indeed according to latest trends in technology. Mechanical engineering (ME) students prepared a project on increasing the efficiency of solar radiation cell by insuring the maximum time exposure of solar panel to sunlight. This was achieved by fabricating solar tracking system. Further, second group of students of ME prepared a low-cost portable mechanical ventilator, which ensures a continuous supply of oxygen by producing its own breathable air which also included increase and decrease of supply according to requirement.Students of the Civil Engineering (CE) Department made a natural water filter, which ensures the drinkable water using only natural resources and with no supply of energy. The second group made a prototype pavement using recycled plastic, which reduces the amount of bitumen during the process of road carpeting. Furthermore, the third group prepared a prototype of translucent brick, which allows the light to pass through it.Students of electronics and communication engineering (ECE) fabricated a project on automated city, which reflects the cities in future. Second group made an AGV, which is able to detect an obstruction using ultrasonic sensors. Another group made the project on solar tracking system, which is helpful in tracking the sun rays and benefitting from them for the charging of the batteries.Students of computer science engineering constructed a smart home model, which makes use of mobile application. Second group fabricated a digital mirror whose widgets like weather, API index, news and so on were coded in linux using java programming. Another group fabricated a project on IoT-based applications which can find its usage in agriculture.Projects were marked according to utility, application in certain field and their usage. The winners of the projects from different departments were. Best projects from each department were recognised and awarded for the same.The top ranking project on IoT based applications was made by Jatin and Komal of CSE department. The other projects which got awarded were project on automated city made by Jaspreet, Kamal amd Muskan of the ECE Department, project on low-cost portable mechanical ventilator made by Harshit Dhiman and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engg-students-display-projects-on-latest-tech-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-299787
20-08-2021||---||Manju Rana is head of Human Rights Press Club, Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Ex-Chairperson, Permanent Lok Adalat, Kapurthala, and retired Additional Sessions Judge Manju Rana was today felicitated and appointed as the chairperson of Human Rights Press Club, Jalandhar.Having served in the judicial system for 26 years post her retirement from her last positing in Moga in 2015, Manju Rana had served as the Chairman of Permanent Lok Adalat in Kapurthala from 2017 to 2018. She had cleared her LLB in 1987 and qualified in PCS (judicial) in 1991.Members of the club, including president Suket Gupta and vice-president Kamaldeep Singh honoured her on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manju-rana-is-head-of-human-rights-press-club-jalandhar-299788
20-08-2021||---||Google selects LPU student as ‘Community Lead’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Tech-Giant Google has selected BTech CSE student Suraj Mani of LPU as its ‘Community Lead’ from amongst thousands of applicants from across India. In addition to leading ‘Google Developer Student Clubs (GDSC), Suraj will also be a mentor for ‘Google Cloud Career Readiness Student’ programme.With this responsibility just after crossing his teens, Suraj is entrusted with making the fellow student community understand how to bridge the existing gap between theory and practice. He will also have access to community management training, and technical knowledge to be a stronger global leader in due course of time. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal has congratulated the meritorious student on bagging illustrious achievement and outshining various other competing students from across India candidates.Google Developer Student Clubs (GDSCs) are community groups for college and university students interested in Google developer technologies. These help students to bridge the gap existing between theory and practice.Elated Suraj Mani shares, “I will also strive hard as expected and bring name and fame to self, university and the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/google-selects-lpu-student-as-community-lead-299789
20-08-2021||A student of Government Senior Secondary School Smart School||Nawanshahr Diary: Meet Lavita Kumari, an all rounder||Former student donates his salary to schoolOne can never forget their school days and memories of that time always holds a special space in every one’s mind. Balbir Chaudhary (60) of Singhpur village has proved this as he donated Rs 1 lakh to Government Senior Secondary School, Malewal, to overcome the ‘shortage of teachers’ and for development of the school. He is an old student of the school and now a successful businessman. He was very happy to see this institution and wished to help in future also. Notably, the school has less staff and the principal has appointed teachers on a temporary basis. When Chaudhary got to know about this, he donated so that the school management could pay for the salaries of the teachers deputed by the management. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-meet-lavita-kumari-an-all-rounder-299792
20-08-2021||Nakodar||27 Pak balloons found in Nakodar||Panic spread among residents when a Pakistani flag and 27 balloons  were found in a Hundal Dhadhe village near  Nakodar on Thursday. SSP (Rural) Naveen Singla said these were found near a field belonging to Harbhajan Singh. The balloons could have been left in the air by Pakistan on its Independence Day. He said the balloons had “dil dil Pakistan” written on them, adding the police were investigating the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-pak-balloons-found-in-nakodar-299582
20-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Pending cane dues: Farmers set to block NH-1 'indefinitely' on Friday||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Commuters from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Pathankot and other adjoining areas, who are to shuttle across Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 in Dhanowali by road or rail are likely to face a huge bottleneck on Friday as the farmers are likely to block the passage indefinitely.The call for bandh had been announced yesterday by the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee over the issue of pending dues of sugarcane from the mills and no enhancement in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of sugarcane for the past four years.While the state government announced to hike the SAP by Rs 15 per quintal, this has not satisfied the farmers who have got further agitated.“The government has played a cruel joke with us. By announcing a meagre Rs 15 per quintal hike, they have ridiculed us. The state government did not have any one of us for representation during finalising this amount. We were expecting the SAP on sugarcane to be hiked to Rs 370 at least as the existing price of Rs 295 to 310 (varying according to variety). Haryana is already offering Rs 358 per quintal,” fumed Manjit Rai, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba).He added, “We will now have an intensified protest. We had planned to block only the road earlier, but now we will also block the rail passage. Also, all the 32 farmer unions of Punjab have offered us support. Our protest tomorrow at the site may have more than 30,000 farmers and it will go on indefinitely till all our demands are met to our satisfaction. We will also have our meeting at the site tomorrow morning and we may jam the entire Punjab.”The Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee chooses the site at Dhannowali strategically as the NH and the railway crossing here are very closeby and both the dharnas can be managed simultaneously. In the past few years, whenever the farmers announce to hold a protest here, the response remains massive and the dharna goes on for hours and even gets extended to the next day.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the police authorities had been directed to make proper arrangements. The city police have planned diversions to ensure that the public does not suffer much. The diversions have been planned via Pathankot Chowk to Rama Mandi, from Partappura side for those coming via Nakodar Chowk, and via Cantt Road to Phagwara.DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh said, “We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic.”About the plans of the farmers to block rail traffic too, he said, “It will be too early to comment on that. The farmers may not go to that extent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pending-cane-dues-farmers-set-to-block-nh-1-indefinitely-on-friday-299449
