21-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with liquor, heroin||9 NCC cadets get ‘C’ certificatesGarhshankar: Principal Dr Baljit Singh Khaira distributed NCC ‘C’ certificates to passing out NCC cadets of Babbar Akali Memorial Khalsa College. Lt Gurpreet Singh, in-charge of the NCC unit of the college, said this year nine NCC cadets of the college had appeared in the C certificate examination and all cadets have passed the three-year course of NCC ‘C’ certificate. Principal Khaira congratulated the cadets and wished them good luck for their future while handing over the certificates. Kanwar Kulwant Singh, Head of the Department of Commerce, Superintendent Parminder Singh etc. werealso present. OC311 aspirants get jobs at mega fairHoshiarpur: As many as 311 aspirants on Friday were selected during the mega job fair held here under Punjab Government’s flagship Ghar Ghar Rozgar programme. The fair was organised by the District Bureau of Representatives Employment and Entrepreneurship in collaboration with Sonalika Tractors, where 650 candidates were appeared of which 311 got selected while 199 were shortlisted. ADC (Development) Darbara Singh said the youngsters gave enthusiastic response to the fair. The ADC also visited the job fair and handed over appointment letters to selected candidates. District Employment Officer Gurmail Singh and team of DBEE was also present on the occasion. ocVax: Hoshiarpur crosses 1mn markHoshiarpur: The district has administered Covid-19 vaccine doses to over one million people so far. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the feat was the result of concerted efforts of health teams and the enthusiastic response given by people to the vaccination drive. She said so far 10,01,969 doses of Covid vaccine had been administered to beneficiaries across the district with 7,71,245 first dose and 2,30,724 second dose. She said presently, nearly 100 session sites had been established in the district, where teams of the Health Department were getting the beneficiaries vaccinated. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-liquor-heroin-300171
21-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Dasuya ex-MLA Bibi Sukhjit Kaur Sahi quits BJP,  joins SAD||Hoshiarpur, August 20The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered an unexpected blow in the Dasuya Assembly segment after former MLA Bibi Sukhjit Kaur Sahi joined the Shiromani Akali Dal at Chandigarh today. After tasting defeat in Assembly poll in 2017, she had been in passive mode but during 2019 MP elections, the BJP candidate Som Parkash had been successful in earning her support. So, it was being considered that she could be the party’s choice for 2022 Assembly elections for contesting once again from Dasuya but her leaving the party like this has stunned the party leadership. She had inherited the legacy of her MLA husband Amarjit Singh Sahi, after his death in 2012 so she had not to struggle to establish herself. Her son, Dr Harsimrat Singh Sahi, also remained the Dasuya municipal council president and all was not well with BJP on his elevation. Later, he went to USA and is presently settled there. Some of her supporters, requesting anonymity, termed it as a ‘not a wise decision’ as there’s not much left with SAD in Dasuya as in the SAD-BSP alliance, the Dasuya seat is left for BSP.BJP district president Sanjeev Minhas resented her decision to leave the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dasuya-ex-mla-bibi-sukhjit-kaur-sahi-quits-bjp-joins-sad-300170
21-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Muscular dystrophy fails to dent Jalandhar girl's confidence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20The pandemic has proved disastrous for almost everyone. For the family of Randeep Kaur (22), who suffers from muscular dystrophy, the pandemic has increased the problems manifold, as her father lost his job during Covid and had to start a small photostat shop. The family is now suffering from financial problems. This is a tale of the family that is going on despite several setbacks.Randeep, a graduate, has been suffering from muscular dystrophy since her childhood. The problem is so grave that she cannot move even a single body part on her own, except her hands and fingers slowly. Her mother Harpreet Kaur has been doing it all for her child.“We have become one. If she suffers, I suffer with her,” said Harpreet. The mother said she stays up for her daughter all night to make her turn the side, taking care of her neck, moving her arm and setting her back at a particular position, so that she doesn’t feel discomfort while sleeping.Randeep, a topper in academics, wants to clear civil services exams for which she has been working hard. “She has been a great student all her life. Now she wants to take admission in a postgraduate course and also wants to clear the civil services exam. We don’t understand how is she so patient and calm all the time, even when it is not easy for a person to sit without moving for long periods of time, but she does it every day. I believe that the almighty will listen to her wish of clearing the exam and become something in life,” an emotional Harpreet said.“As it is not possible for Randeep to go to Chandigarh to take the examination, we are thinking to modify the car so that the wheelchair could be easily adjusted in the car,” her mother added.“But since my husband lost his job, and now doesn’t earn much, we don’t know where we would get the money from to modify the car. We are left with no option but to ask relatives for help,” she said.“A mother’s love knows no bounds. She can sacrifice everything and be it any problem, a mother stands as a shield in front of her children. My mother has proved it. She is like my soul and I want to do everything for my family who have spent their whole life looking after me,” Randeep concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/muscular-dystrophy-fails-to-dent-jalandhar-girls-confidence-300154
21-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: 3 killed, 10 hurt as SUV overturns at Vidhipur crossing||Three people died and 10 got injured when an SUV (Scorpio) heading towards Baba Bakala overturned after the vehicle suffered a tyre burst at the Vidhipur crossing on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway here on Friday. Fifteen persons were travelling in the vehicle while coming back from Anandpur Sahib.Among those killed included two women and a man, who was driving the car. Those injured also included a 9-year-old boy. At least three persons are said to be serious.The three deceased have been identified as Jasbir Kaur (60), Mahinder Kaur (60) and Kultar Singh, driver, (30). All passengers were from the Chandpur Bela village at Anadpur Sahib.Manjit Singh, SHO, Maqsudan police station, said, “The car overturned after its tyre burst. They were travelling in the vehicle open from the back. The injured have been admitted to hospitals in Jalandhar. ” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-3-killed-10-hurt-as-suv-overturns-at-vidhipur-crossing-300155
21-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Punjab government left us with no choice: Protesting farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20Mounting sugarcane dues and low state advisory prices (SAP) have irked thousands of farmers of the Doaba region. As many as 20,000 farmers staged a protest on the first day of the agitation on the Dhanowali Road on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway on Friday. Many farmers sat on dharna on rail tracks also.They said demand letters were being given to the state government on the issue for the past many years. But the continued lack of response from the state government has forced them to take the step.Farmers sought enhancement of the SAP of sugarcane to at least Rs400/quintal.Kuldip Singh, president, Doaba Kisan Union, said: “The state government left us with no choice. For six years the government hasn’t increased the rates of SAP for sugarcane. The prices of fertilisers, labour, diesel rates are increasing. We have been giving demand letters to the government every year. When the government came in 2017, then there was just a 10 rupee increase in the rate while they had promised 20. Earlier, the Akalis didn’t increase the rate, then the Congress came and promised they will increase the rate by Rs 10 every year. If they increased even that much every year, we wouldn’t have complained. But we need the sugarcane SAP to be at least Rs 400 per quintal.”He added, “The government already owes us Rs 2,000 crore for past five years. They are not clearing our payments. It owes pending dues of Rs 56 crore to sugar mills. We are committed to receive sugarcane SAP rates at least on par with Haryana. The administration met us today. But as long as the CM doesn’t come to the table, a decision can’t possibly be arrived at. The decision has to be taken by the state government.”While 32 farmers unions under the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha back the Jalandhar stir, the five Doaba unions which are primarily involved in the morcha, including Doaba Kisan Union, Bhartiya Kisan Union, Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Majha Kisan Sangharsh Committee.Tony Sandhu, a farmer from Rurka Kalan, said, “Farmers have been forced to hold a protest in Punjab due to the lackadaisical approach of the government. On the one hand the state government shows solidarity with farmers while on the other farmers are not getting sugarcane rates. Farmers spend at least Rs 1 lakh per acre on sugarcane cultivation. A rate of at least Rs400 per quintal is imperative.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-government-left-us-with-no-choice-protesting-farmers-300156
21-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Tough time for commuters as farmers block road, rail traffic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20Nearly eight-km stretch from Jalandhar bus stand to Dhanowali, the site on the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1, which was blocked by the agitating farmers today, had hundreds of vehicles stranded on either side of the road till this evening.People commuting by cars and buses were caught up in the huge traffic jam stretching up to kilometers and were unable to move ahead or backward for hours. Several trucks, oil tankers and containers too were lined up waiting for the traffic to get cleared or the police to guide them to a suitable diversion but to no avail.The entire traffic between Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot on one side and Phagwara, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana and Chandigarh on the other side had got paralysed with the farmers’ protest going for an indefinite period.Diversions of no useAs people started from their places unaware of the likely traffic snarl and the magnitude of the impact it could have, they were made to take very long detours for the whole day. Those coming from Pathankot to Amritsar were told to use Pathankot Chowk, Lamma Pind Chowk and Chugitti Chowk. Those going towards Hoshiarpur were told to follow Dhilwan Road, Ladowali Chowk, PAP Chowk and Rama Mandi. For Phagwara to Jandiala, commuters were asked to use McDonald’s T-Point on GT Road. For Moga-Shahkot-Nakodar, they were asked to follow the usual passage from Partappura, Wadala Chowk and Nakodar Chowk. Since cops were not deployed on alternate routes to guide commuters, they remained confused and used GPS system for tracking alternate route, which too did not come handy to many. Rama Mandi Chowk and PAP Chowk just ahead of the dharna site got much congested for the whole day today that even the bikers found it extremely difficult to find the way ahead.Travelling due to RakhiMany commuters said they were travelling today to celebrate Rakhi in a big way as the weekend had started. Manish Arora, a resident of Chandigarh, said unaware of the rail blockade, he boarded the train from Chandigarh this afternoon to spend two days with his sister in Amritsar but only to get stuck 2km ahead of Ludhiana. “I kept waiting for the train to chug forward but that did not happen for almost 30 minutes. Sensing trouble, I called up some friends in Ludhiana to ask what had happened. Finally, they came to the site where I was stuck. I took a late evening bus to go back to Chandigarh from where I had started as they told me of Jalandhar dharna and its wider impact,” he shared.Weekend spoiled for manyDavinder Pal, who had started from Chandigarh today to pick his daughter studying in Jalandhar for the weekend, said: “It took me six hours to just reach Jalandhar, which was the ideal time for me to return back home. It became dark and we were finding our way through the alleys of the city to reach our daughter near Suranussi. It was around 9 pm that we finally reached our destination. Badly exhausted and in no mood to get into that mess all over again in the thick of night, we too decided to stay put in Jalandhar with her and re-start our journey tomorrow again.”Train passengers worst hitMore than 600 passengers got stuck up in Sri Vaishno Devi Katra Vande Bharat Express near Jalandhar. Ajay Sharma, who works as an operation head with a private company at Jammu, said: “I had started from Jammu paying a ticket of Rs 1,800 till Ambala for the executive class travel. At 6:45 pm, our train got halted at Jalandhar and doors of our train were shut for safety purpose. We kept on requesting the authorities to allow us to move out so that we could at least take a taxi for our journey ahead, but they refused. I finally called up on 100 and asked police for help. I was told to reach the engine side and get out of the door from there. Only five more passengers were allowed to alight while the remaining were still caught up till 9:45 pm, which was nearly three hours. We got a taxi but I term the incident as sheer mismanagement of the authorities and harassment of the passengers when they were supposed to know of the problem well in advance. I will definitely seek for a refund from the IRCTC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tough-time-for-commuters-as-farmers-block-road-rail-traffic-300157
21-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur tops Punjab with Rs 103.91-crore loan waiver||Hoshiarpur, August 20Under the Punjab Government’s debt waiver scheme for landless farmers and labourers, Hoshiarpur district topped the state with loan waiver worth Rs 103.91 crore to 46,468 beneficiaries.Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, MLAs Sangat Singh Gilzian and Indu Bala personally handed over debt relief cheques to 15 beneficiaries in a district level function held at the District Administrative Complex.The minister said the scheme would ensure debt relief for 46,468 beneficiaries in the district worth Rs 103.91 crore while the 2.85 lakh beneficiaries across the state are being covered with amount to the tune of Rs 520 crore. He said Capt Amarinder Singh was first to execute the welfare step which benefited nearly three lakh families. He said the step was yet another promise, which had been fulfilled by the State Government.AAP burns arora’s effigy, stages protestMLA Sangat Singh Gilzian said the state had waived off loans worth Rs 271 crore of farmers in the district, including today’s 104 crore of landless farmers and farm labourers. He said in Tanda Urmur constituency a total of 9,720 beneficiaries had got relief of 22.37 crore and they would be covered in days to come. Mukerian MLA Indu Bala described the initiative of the state government a landmark step to bail out poverty-stricken families from outstanding debts.The minister, both MLAs, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and Deputy Registrar Cooperative Societies Umesh Kumar personally handed over cheques of debt relief to 15 beneficiaries from different areas of the district.Prominent amongst those present on the occasion included Mayor Surinder Kumar, Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Saini, Deputy Mayor Ranjeet Chaudhary and senior officers/officials of cooperative societies and banks in the district.BoxAAP protests against Industries Minister AroraHoshiarpur, August 20Demanding removal of Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora from Cabinet, workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday burnt his effigy and staged a protest before of his house.Addressing the protesters, Brahm Shankar Jimpa alleged that Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora has sold the government property of Mohali-based JCT Company to his accomplices at throwaway prices during the lockdown due to which there was a loss of Rs 125 crore to the exchequer. The loss has also been confirmed by the Advocate General of Punjab, he added. He alleged that the minister has also committed a scam in the allocation of industrial plots, which should be investigated. But instead of protecting the interests of Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was defending him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-tops-punjab-with-rs-103-91-crore-loan-waiver-300159
21-08-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Babri's Debt — A tale of four friends amid tumultuous times||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, August 20“The hiccups life creates are grabbed by a few and lost by the rest,” said Dr Kamiksha Narda Sharma during the launch of her debut novel Babri’s Debt. She said the novel showcases the two scenarios against the backdrop of post Babri Masjid demolition, the Bombay riots of 1992 and the Bombay bomb blasts of 1993. The novel is a story of four friends and a boy Jamaal.A doctor by profession, Dr Kamiksha Narda Sharma, has done her MBBS from MGM Medical College, Navi Mumbai, and is presently working as Senior Medical Officer at Panjab University, SSG Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur.She told The Tribune, “I was doing my graduation in Bombay during the riots and blasts of 1992-93. That dismal scenario lingered in my conscious and left an indelible mark there. The memory has been erased to some extent by scribing the horrible experiences in the form of cathartic novel”.Talking about the publication of the novel, she said, “It took me seven years to finish Babri’s Debt. After endless revisions and rejections, it was first supported by The Book Bakers, the literary agency giving opportunity to debut authors and then published by Book Street Publishers”. She has another travel book to her credit ‘Ladakh’.She said she loves reading, but writing helps her remain peaceful and it was the unending support and love of her husband Rajiv Sharma and two sons which prompted her to carve a niche for herself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/babris-debt-%E2%80%94-a-tale-of-four-friends-amid-tumultuous-times-300163
21-08-2021||---||Councillors: Officials missing, works stalled||Jalandhar, August 20A new issue has arisen between the MC officials and the councillors. The councillors, who are also the part of ad hoc committees, met Mayor Jagdish Raja and told him that the officials are not present in their offices whenever they go to meet them to get the works done.“It has been happening for a long time. We have asked the mayor that the officers of every wing of the Municipal Corporation must remain in their cabins for two hours in the evening so that we can get the works of our wards done,” Balraj Thakur, chairman of the Health and Sanitation Ad hoc Committee, said.They said that if one official was available and the documents were signed by him, another is absent and the whole process gets stalled and gets postponed to the next day.Thakur said even the councillors remain on field in the morning and listen to the problems of the residents of their respective wards and when in the evening, they take the problems to the officers to get some solution, the latter are not found. “The Mayor agreed to our demand to have a meeting with the officials and to advise them to remain in the office,” Thakur said.Another councillor said every work cannot be done on the phone, and some works are only completed after a proper meeting. Works like getting signatures and discussions on files related to estimates on various projects, ward related works etc are suffering. The councillors also said that a work, which should complete within a day, takes more than four to five days to get accomplished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-officials-missing-works-stalled-300165
21-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: St Soldier students celebrate Rakhi with ITBP soldiers||Raksha Bandhan for docsSanskriti KMV School authorities celebrated Raksha Bhandhan with the “special protection pillars” of the society. Principal Rachna Monga, staff and students extended the message of thankfulness symbolically to the medical fraternity by tying rakhi to Dr. S P Gupta, Dr. Pooja Kapoor and Dr. Jashneev Kapoor, renowned medical personalities of the region. The doctors, highly moved with the gesture of the institution, reciprocated with a promise of giving their best for the social care. Students at their end, tied also rakhi to Rachna Monga, Principal, and their teachers, thanking them for holding their hand securely during the rough learning season.Sadbhavana Diwas observedThe NSS Unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar, observed a two- week Swachhta Pakhwara from August 7 to 20 to mark the occasion of Sadbhavana Diwas and the beginning of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. “Clean India, Green India” mission can only be achieved when our country gets freedom from the bondage of pollution, dirt and diseases, said the volunteers of NSS Unit as they participated in various activities. The first three days’ cleanliness of one’s surroundings and the college campus was done adhering to the Covid guidelines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-st-soldier-students-celebrate-rakhi-with-itbp-soldiers-300166
21-08-2021||The Punjab Government launched the loan waiver scheme for landless farmers and labourers on Friday under which 14||Kapurthala diary: 14,597 farmers to get Rs 26.99 cr loan waiver||Avail RTI, NRI services at suvidha kendras nowIn a bid to widen the ambit of government services amid the pandemic, RTI and NRI-related services have been linked with suvidha kendras. Apart from these services, on-the-spot birth and death certificate issuance schemes (for birth and deaths at private hospitals) were also started from suvidha kendras. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal made this declaration here adding that as many as 20 suvidha kendras were being run in Kapurthala at present. At the kendras, over 332 services are being provided to the people. She said with NRI-related services being linked to suvidha kendras, NRIs do not need to go to Chandigarh now. They can deposit their documents at the local suvidha kendras and won’t have to make that extra trip. She said the RTI portal — www.rti.punjab.gov.in — was also being started to implement the Right to Information more effectively. She said now anyone seeking information will only have to apply via online portal and the information would reach them.Kavi darbar in memory of Punjabi poet Charan SeechewalA special kavi darbar (poetry event) will be held at Nirmal Kutiyan on the banks of Kali Bein at Sultanpur Lodhi in the memory of acclaimed Punjabi poet Charan Seechewal, who recently died due to a heart attack. Charan Seechewal, a retired Air Force officer, had penned over a dozen books. The books written by him include Chupp Di Awaaz, Kaveri, Loel Di Kuhoo, Ghuggi Da Virlap, Sacche Paatshah among others. He also penned many children books. He has played a special role in Punjabi literature. The event to be held on August 22 from 10 am to 2 pm shall commemorate his literary legacy while paying tributes to him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-diary-14-597-farmers-to-get-rs-26-99-cr-loan-waiver-300168
21-08-2021||---||Jasbir Singh Rode’s son, aide nabbed with ‘tiffin bomb’, RDX||Jalandhar, August 20The Kapurthala police claimed to have busted a terror module with the arrest of former Akal Takht Jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode’s son Gurmukh Brar from Jalandhar and another accomplice Gagandeep Singh from Phagwara. The arrests came following a raid on Rode’s house here on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.The police also claimed to have recovered a “tiffin bomb”, five hand grenades, a box of detonators, two tubes suspected to contain RDX, a .30 bore pistol, four Glock magazines, a yellow wire, Rs 3.75 lakh, 14 passports and two SUVs.Both Operatives of ISI-backed outfitThe police claimed the two were operatives of the International Sikh Youth Federation (IYSF), backed by the ISI in Pakistan. Rode’s brother Lakhbir Singh, who is settled in Pakistan, is learnt to be heading this outfit.The Kapurthala police have registered case against the two under Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18B and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act; 4 and 5 of the Explosives Substances (Amendment) Act; and 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act at Phagwara Sadar police station.The investigating officials said the Amritsar (Rural) police had on August 8 recovered a similar “tiffin bomb” from Daleke village, falling under the Lopoke police station, indicating a link with this module.More than 20 policemen raided the Hardial Nagar house last midnight, where Rode, recovering from a recent surgery, was present. In the morning, Rode said: “The police scaled our boundary wall around midnight and said they wanted to search the house. After search and they took my son along. They returned after sometime and said they wanted to search the first floor again. They later took away some bags, saying they had made some recoveries. It smells fishy.”Co-accused Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Pura, Phagwara, was reportedly arrested earlier and an illegal pistol was recovered from him.Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said as part of the follow-up investigations, Gagandeep revealed the pistol was part of an arms consignment that had been sent from across the border using drones over the past few months.He claimed a major part of the consignment had been stashed away by his aide Gurmukh Brar, editor of a Punjabi newspaper, in Jalandhar. The police raided Brar’s office and claimed to have recovered three hand grenades, a “tiffin bomb”, four Glock magazines and packaging foam material from the office premises.The SSP said preliminary investigations suggested the arms seized were part of a larger consignment sent by the ISI and Pak-based pro-Khalistan groups to carry out terror attacks in Punjab in a bid to revive militancy and disturb peace and communal harmony in the state.BqBid to revive militancy“The arms were part of a consignment sent by ISI and pro-Khalistan groups to carry out terror attacks in a bid to revive militancy in Punjab”— Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, Kapurthala SSPOperatives of ISI-backed outfit* The two were operatives of the International Sikh Youth Federation, backed by the ISI in Pakistan, claim police* Akal Takht ex-Jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode’s brother Lakhbir Singh, settled in Pakistan, ‘heads’ the outfit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jasbir-singh-rodes-son-aide-nabbed-with-tiffin-bomb-rdx-299934
21-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmers block Jalandhar-Phagwara NH, rail link over SAP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20Thousands of farmers from across Punjab today blocked the rail and road routes between Jalandhar and Phagwara, demanding the release of sugarcane arrears and at least Rs 70 per quintal hike in the state assured price (SAP).Also read: Rs 15 per quintal hike cruel joke: BKU-KadianThe state government had announced an increase of Rs 15 per quintal last evening, prompting the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee to give a call for a protest. All 32 farmer unions from across the state gathered at the site today.The dharna on the NH-I stretch snapped direct link between major cities, including Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot on the one side and Ludhiana on the other for an indefinite period.Weren’t consultedSugarcane growers in Haryana get Rs358/quintal. We were expecting a hike of Rs70. The government didn't consult us before announcing Rs15/quintal hike. — Manjit Rai, BKU (Doaba) presidentThousands of commuters were caught in snarl-ups as they took detours to reach their destinations. While the jam started around 10 am, the railway traffic was curtailed around 4 pm.Also read: Passengers left stranded at Amritsar railway stationAt least eight trains, including Delhi-bound Shan-e-Punjab Express and Sri Vaishno Devi Katra Vande Bharat Express, were affected and passengers remained stranded. Amritsar-bound Chandigarh Amritsar Intercity Express too was halted at Ludhiana. A Singhu-like dharna was witnessed at the protest site with tents, water tankers and meals being arranged from surrounding villages.Leading the dharna, BKU (Doaba) president Manjit Rai said: “Sugarcane growers in neighbouring Haryana get Rs 358 per quintal. When Punjab revised the SAP, it should have at least considered the fact that prices had not been revised for four years and were stuck at Rs 295-Rs 310 per quintal depending upon the variety. We were expecting a hike of at least Rs 70. The government did not consult us before announcing the Rs 15 per quintal hike. Like the BJP, the Congress government too has been playing with farmers’ sentiments.”While the issue pertained to the Congress government’s decision, most farmer leaders were seen raising anti-Modi slogans. Baldev Singh Sirsa of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha maintained: “Both governments are the same. Neither has an iota of feelings for farmers. We are in enough strength and can handle both morchas — one against the Centre in Delhi and the second against the state in Jalandhar.”DC Ghanshyam Thori, CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and SSP Naveen Singla met the protesting farmers in the evening and urged them to lift the dharna. The farmers said they won’t budge until they got a government assurance on hike in SAP. “We are likely to hold a pucca morcha here,” said a union leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-jalandhar-phagwara-nh-rail-link-over-sap-299919
