22-08-2021||Jalandhar||‘Patial behind Sukhmeet’s murder’||Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar today said the police have cracked the high-profile murder of Sukhmeet Singh by identifying the accused in the crime.The CP said the accused had been identified as Gaurav Patial, notorious gangster Vikas Maley, Puneet of Jalandhar and one more youth.Bhullar added that Patial was the kingpin, who hatched the entire conspiracy of murder. Presently, he is lodged in a jail in Armenia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patial-behind-sukhmeets-murder-300415
22-08-2021||Jalandhar||Project to check wastage of water in race for CSIR award||A project on saving water made by two students of Police DAV Public School has been selected among the top 14 proposals from across the country in a competition organised by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Innovation Award for School Children 2021.The project titled ‘SALIL’ is a Smart Water Dispenser created by Prabhnoor Kaur of Class VIII and Jasnoor Kaur of Class X under the guidance of Sanjeev Mahajan, Jatinder Kaur and Cinny Malhotra. Police DAV is the only school from Punjab which has bagged the recognition.Students observed that a lot of water is wasted in school water purifiers, about 3 litre of water for every litre of water purified. So they conceived the idea of a Smart Water Purifier to avoid this wastage of water. Explaining the concept, the students said ‘SALIL’ was designed to dispense right amount of water for a particular purpose. For example, if the user swipes once in front of the sensor, it dispenses lesser amount of water. If the user swipes twice, more water is dispensed. The system is based on Arduino board and IR Sensor. They added, “A prototype was created and tested. The observations were quite promising as it could save gallons of water.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/project-to-check-wastage-of-water-in-race-for-csir-award-300412
22-08-2021||Our Correspondent||DLSA secretary visits old-age home in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 21Aparajita Joshi, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, visited an old-age home in Hoshiarpur on the occasion of World Senior Citizens Day on Saturday. She asked about the well-being of the elderly residing in the old-age home and talked to them about their daily needs and problems.Bank officials were instructed to provide pension to beneficiaries at the old-age home if any senior citizen could not produce Aadhaar Card or visit the bank branch.The secretary, DLSA, took stock of the cleanliness of the kitchen and instructed the higher officials to solve the problem of water and electricity. On this occasion, retainer Advocate Lovepreet Singh, made the senior citizens and officials acquainted with the Senior Citizens Scheme 2016 of NALSA.Joshi with the help of Agya Pal Sahni, District Head, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, Hoshiarpur, also distributed bedsheets to the elderly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dlsa-secretary-visits-old-age-home-in-hoshiarpur-300413
22-08-2021||---||Sweet shops raided in Kapurthala, samples collected||Kapurthala, August 21The food wing of Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) carried out a checking drive in the city on the eve of Raksha Bandhan festival.A team led by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, along with Mukul Gill, Food Safety Officer, inspected sweet shops and directed the owners to prepare khoya and other sweets etc. on their own on the premises instead of getting the work outsourced.Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant CommissionerThe samples seized today have been sent to State Food Laboratory Kharar, Mohali, for analysis and appropriate legal action will be initiated against the violators.He said it is presumed that khoya procured from other districts was of inferior quality. He also asked the shopkeepers to prepare sweets only in the quantity that was likely to get sold, since it had a limited shelf life and it could develop microbial growth due to higher humidity in the atmosphere. He asked the shopkeepers to ensure storage of all articles under strict temperature control conditions.He also suggested the shopkeepers to not use artificial colours in preparation of sweets. Six samples of burfi, kalakand, gulab jamun, milk, paneer and mustard oil were taken by health officials.These samples seized today have been sent to State Food Laboratory Kharar, Mohali, for analysis and legal action will be initiated against the violators, said Harjot Pal.Food shop owners are also directed to observe Covid appropriate behaviour to observe social distance, wear mask, use of hand sanitiser/handwash and other necessary precautions. The officials said that the action had started as per the directions of Kumar Rahul, Commissioner Food & Drug Administration, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sweet-shops-raided-in-kapurthala-samples-collected-300414
22-08-2021||Jalandhar||World Photography Day at Jalandhar's HMV College||Students tie Rakhis to Principal, staffKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated festival of Raksha Bandhan with much full zeal and enthusiasm. The celebrations were organised by the Department of Student Welfare. On this occasion, various activities namely rakhi making, thali decoration and poster-making were organised and it witnessed an overwhelming participation of the students as they were enthusiastic to make rakhis. KMVites expressed their gratitude and respect towards their Principal and teachers by tying rakhis on their wrists. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated everyone on the festival of Raksha Bandhan and also lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Dean Student Welfare, for the programme. All the students who participated in all these activities were also provided with the certificates.Simran wins Rangoli competitionHindu Kanya Collegiate School, Kapurthala, organised inter-class competitions dedicated to the 75th year of education in which 145 students of the school participated in 11 competitions. Director of Hindu Kanya College Dr Satish Kapoor was the chief guest and felicitated the winning students with trophies. The Rangoli competition was won by Class XI student Simran Kaur. The face painting competition was won by Class XII student Manpreet Kaur. The board decoration competition was won by the Class XI team which included Amarpreet Kaur, Vanshpreet Kaur and Kirti. The song singing competition was won by Class XII Soniya Kaur and XI student Prachi won poetical recitation. Kavita finished first in the singing competition. Rajveer of Class XI won the item decoration competition in three colours painting. Video making competition won by Class X Simranpreet Kaur. Gurpreet Kaur of Class XI finished first in the nail art competition. Class XII student Gurleen Kaur finished first in the mehndi competition. Veena of Class XII won the Rakhi making event. Sukhmanjit Kaur of Class XII secured the first position in the paper-reading competition. Students who secured first position in stream wise results of Class XII announced by PSEB recently were also felicitated on the occasion. These included Arts Sanjivanie Bhalla from Arts, Jaskaranjit Kaur from Medical and Amanpreet Kaur from Commerce. The event was compeered by Diksha Sabharwal of Class XII Medical and Prabhnoor of Class XII Commerce led by Inderjit Kaur. Academic Incharge of Collegiate School, Sanjeev Bhalla, Mamta Bhasin, Reena Malhi, Jaspreet Kaur and other staff of the school were present on the occasion.World Photography Day celebratedGNA University celebrated the World Photography Day. The Faculty of Animations and Multimedia arranged multifarious activities as well as a photo walk for the students to explore the skills of photography. In photo walk- the communal activity, many camera enthusiasts gathered in a group to walk around with a camera. During the Photo walk, the participants took pictures of things that interested them. The photo walk was executed in two locations - Doraha Fort and Lodhi Fort (Purana Qila) near Ludhiana. Amazing pictures were clicked at both the locations followed by the celebration of the main event. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, the Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, inaugurated the event with photo exhibition and sculpture made by the creative students of the department. Bhindder Burj, Director and Producer, and Arundeep Teji, Cinematographer, were the chief guests of the event.Fit India Freedom Run 2.0At Ivy World School, Jalandhar, Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 campaign was conducted during the sports classes. The students exuberantly participated in this campaign to step towards a more physically active lifestyle. Principal S Chauhan acknowledged the efforts of the students, parents and teachers. She also threw light on the importance of the campaign and its goal to promote fitness. The campaign aimed to encourage the students to take up fitness activities such as running and sports in their daily lives and get freedom from obesity, laziness, stress, anxiety and various diseases. She added that the campaign was a rejuvenating activity. The teachers emphasised on the significance of fitness activities as they reduce the stiffness and rigidity in a student’s life. They motivated the students to be a part of such campaigns and keep themselves healthy. The students were elated to be a part of such an enjoyable campaign. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-photography-day-at-jalandhars-hmv-college-300419
22-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||One booked for raping minor in Hoshiarpur||3 booked for dowry murderHoshiarpur: Talwara police have booked three persons, including the husband of the deceased, for pushing a woman into a canal as she failed to meet their demand for more dowry. The police have registered a case against the husband, mother-in-law and grandmother-in-law for dowry murder. According to information, Sushma Devi, wife of Tarsem Lal, a resident of Hariala village under Mamoon Cantt in Pathankot district, had lodged a complaint with the police that his sister Radha was married to Satnam Singh of Roli village on October 21 last year. After marriage, her sister’s husband, mother-in-law Ram Pyari and grandmother-in-law Kanson started harassing her sister, demanding more dowry. According to him, his sister had come to her maternal house about two weeks ago. When she went to drop her sister Radha to her in-laws’ house, Radha’s husband Satnam Singh started quarrelling with her on the canal bridge. In anger, Satnam Singh pushed Radha into the canal and she died of a head injury. The police have registered a case. OC10 booked for murder bidHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case by nominating 10 persons for alleged assault with intent to kill. According to information, Khushwant Singh, a resident of Badial village, had lodged a complaint with the police that Balveer Singh, a resident of the same village, planted poplar trees in his land for which a panchayat meeting was underway. According to him, Harpreet Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Balwinder Singh, Balveer Singh and Harman Singh, all residents of Badial, and Harjinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Garhdiwala, Amritpal Singh, a resident of Babak, Rock Dhami, a resident of Piplanwala, and Jaskaran Singh of Singriwala attacked him with the intention of killing him. He was seriously injured and was admitted to hospital. The police have registered a case. OCMan’s body found in villageHoshiarpur: The body of an unidentified person was found at Badowal village here. Harjinder Singh, sarpanch of Badowal village, said in the evening some women were going to the fields when they saw the body lying on the wayside. The sarpanch informed the Nasrala police post. A police party reached the spot and started a probe. OCSecond job fair on August 24Jalandhar: The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), Hoshiarpur, under the door-to-door employment campaign of the Government of Punjab, will be organising the second mega job fair on August 24 for the recruitment in Sonalika International Tractors Limited at the DBEE office. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said the company would be appointing 100 posts of diesel mechanic, motor vehicle mechanic, tractor mechanic, fitter, auto electrician and paint shop (Auto Body Repair) on the company’s payroll. The DC said only males in the age group of 18-35 years would be eligible to participate in the mega employment fair to be held at 10 am on August 24 at the DBEE Hoshiarpur office. For more information, the helpline number 62801-97708 can be contacted from 9 am to 5 pm on working days. TNSVirtual alumni meet organisedHoshiarpur: DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised a virtual alumni meet- “Anusmaran 2021” to celebrate the success stories of all the former students. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla welcomed the alumni from 1975 batch to present one residing in India and overseas. She said the motive of the meet was to provide a platform to all the alumni of this glorious institution to share their success stories with each other and motivated others to follow the path of success. In this meet members of the Alumni Association-2021 were elected. Director Dr SS Sharma said Harish Chander Sharma was elected as chief patron, Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla as patron; Gautam Mehta as president, among others. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-raping-minor-in-hoshiarpur-300421
22-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Youth dies in road mishap in Hoshiarpur||A youth was killed and two others were injured in a head-on collision between a private transport company’s bus and a motorcycle here on Friday evening. Bullowal police have registered a case against the accused bus driver.In the complaint lodged with the police, Nandachaur resident Ipinder Singh said he was going to Khadiala Sainian village with his friends Dalveer Singh and Karanjit when a bus (PB07 BV-6531) hit their motorcycle resulting into their fall. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, where Bullowal resident Karanjit Singh died. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-dies-in-road-mishap-in-hoshiarpur-300418
22-08-2021||---||Rs 5-lakh assistance for Rotary Health Centre||Jalandhar, August 21Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh on Saturday doled out a grant of Rs 5 lakh for the Rotary Health Club at Thapran Baghichi-Sodhal.He was invited for the installation meet of the Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, at a hotel here. The outgoing president, Manjit Singh Robin, briefed the attending members about the various projects undertaken during his tenure. He counted the cancer detection van as the biggest achievement during his tenure as this van was going to far-flung areas to provide facilities to rural masses.The installing officers, Dr SPS Grover and GS Bawa, went ahead to exchange the ‘collar’ between the outgoing and incoming president Mandeep Kaur Juneja. The new incumbent president later delivered her acceptance speech. She also thanked the members and other dignitaries by assuring everybody of her willingness to serve the club and community with full dedication and assertion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-5-lakh-assistance-for-rotary-health-centre-300411
22-08-2021||Even as the Covid cases have been on a decline||My Covid Experience: ‘Proper diet, Yoga vital for recovery’||Dr Vandana GoelWhen I tested positive, I was only concerned about my family. Without wasting time, I immediately isolated myself in a separate room and it took us three weeks to recover. In the meantime, I tried to stay positive and read a lot of books."When I tested positive, I was only concerned about my family. Without wasting time, I immediately isolated myself in a separate room and it took us three weeks to recover. In the meantime, I tried to stay positive and read a lot of books. As my husband, Sameer Goel is also a doctor; he took care of the needs of my family. My activities during the quarantine period included; Yoga, meditation, reading books, talking to friends and extended family and others. Besides, I made sure I was taking a proper diet," said Vandana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/my-covid-experience-proper-diet-yoga-vital-for-recovery-300416
22-08-2021||Jalandhar||School student contracts virus in Jalandhar||A student of Government Senior Secondary School at Jamsher was reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday.While the Health Department has been sampling 700 to 800 school students every day, this is the first case of school child testing positive this season. Sampling of all staff and students of the Jamsher school has been conducted by the department. The school was also sanitised by teams of the department.Dr Ramesh Gupta, District Family Welfare Officer, said, “Only one school child has tested positive for the virus in the district. This is the first case of a school child. Intensive testing of the contacts and staff has also been done. Barring this, 700 to 800 kids are being tested every day in the district.”Dist sees 1 fresh caseMeanwhile, one more Covid-19 case was on Saturday reported in the district taking the total district tally to 63,194 cases. The single case belongs to another district. No Covid-19 death was reported in the district. The death toll remained at 1,491. As many as 61,674 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar stands at 29.No case in KapurthalaNo cases of Covid-19 or death due to it were reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally stood at 17,791.No new case in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported in the district on Saturday. So far, the total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 30,697. The number of active cases is 17. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-student-contracts-virus-in-jalandhar-300410
22-08-2021||---||Cop arrested for molesting 14-year-old deaf-mute girl in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 21The police have arrested a cop for reportedly molesting a 14-year-old deaf and mute girl.The incident was reported on Friday when the accused entered the house of the victim in the absence of her parents. After beating up the girl, he tore her clothes. Luckily, on hearing her noise, her neighbours gathered outside the victim’s house and rescued her. While the accused managed to flee from the spot, the victim’s parents lodged a complaint against him.In his complaint to the police, the girl’s father stated that on Friday morning, he had gone to work along with his wife. After some time, an employee posted as a driver in the police department entered his house. His daughter was alone in the house. The cop not only misbehaved with her daughter, but also tried to rape her by tearing her clothes. When people raised an alarm, the police personnel left the girl and ran away.Though some people chased him after seeing the condition of the girl, the accused managed to escape. People informed the family of the girl about the incident.Meanwhile, the SHO, police division-8, said the accused had been identified as Balwinder Singh (45) of Santokhpura. He was posted at the Police Lines. A case under Sections 376 and 511, IPC, has been registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cop-arrested-for-molesting-14-year-old-deaf-mute-girl-in-jalandhar-300409
22-08-2021||---||Sugarcane growers’ protest enters Day 2 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 21Demanding a fair price for their crop, the protest by sugarcane growers entered the second day here on Saturday. They were protesting under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway near the Dhanowali railway tracks. While they had announced to continue the protest for an indefinite period if the government did not fulfil their demands, help poured in from various quarters to support the farmers.Villagers from across the district are helping out those who have come from far-off areas. Langar is being served by nearby gurdwaras, including Talhan gurdwara, at the protest site. As farmers and their supporters are staying put at the morcha site day and night, community mattresses and water tanks have also been supplied from villages.Having participated in the farmers’ protest at the Singhu and Tikri border points, the farmers said now they were skilled to keep a protest going. The food, lodging and personal hygiene would not trouble them now. They were only focused on safeguarding their rights.“The government remains unmoved until the farmers hit the roads. Hence, we do not have any other option left other than blocking the roads. To feed the agitators, ration was collected from each house in our villages. We are bringing essential items on a rotation basis supplies,” added 23-year-old farmer Surinder Singh, who had come from Bhogpur along with 50 other farmers from his village.Members of the Edu Youth Foundation, who have been supplying goods and ration to Singhu border for the last six months, also brought two water tankers of 10,000 litre capacity each. Kanwar Sartaj Singh, a member of the foundation, said there were nearly 2,000 farmers at the morcha site, therefore, we brought the tankers accordingly. Moreover, tankers of 5000-20000-litre capacities were also brought in from adjacent villages.Ranbir Singh, a member of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said farmers from the Doaba, Malwa and Majha regions were participating in the protest and arrangements had already been made to keep the squatters at the highway. “If the government remains adamant on its stance, the Singhu border-like constructions will be created here,” added Ranbir.Comparing the disparity in per quintal price, the farmers in the state are demanding a hike of Rs 90 for sugarcane. At present, they are getting per quintal price of Rs 310, which is even lesser than that in Haryana (Rs 358).Makeshift lavatories set upTo avoid open defecation by the agitators, the administration installed makeshift washrooms adjacent the Dhannowali railway tracks. Vijay Kumar, Junior Engineer of the Water and Sanitation Department, Vijay Kumar, said around 27 toilets for both men and women and four set of urinals had been installed at the site. Considering the possibility of women joining the protest, 10 toilets had been reserved for them. Besides, medical camps near the protest site were set up by Johal Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sugarcane-growers-protest-enters-day-2-in-jalandhar-300408
22-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmers’ protest in Jalandhar spoils Rakhi eve||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21The farmers’ protest at Dhanowali and the snapping of rail and road links between Jalandhar and Phagwara led to chaos just a day ahead of Raksha Bandhan here. Commuters had to face a lot of convenience in reaching their destinations.Since over a 100 trains were cancelled or re-routed, the local bus stand witnessed a swarm of people, especially women, waiting for a bus to reach their brother’s place. Women seemed adamant on travelling despite knowing that buses had been re-routed and that they could face a lot of harassment and delay in the process.As the Punjab Roadways has provided free travel facility to women of the state, most buses remained off the road. “It will not be viable for us to run buses through villages, spend more on fuel and still offer free rides. Since buses have to be taken through villages, there would be a lot of wear and tear. So we have fewer buses on road till tomorrow,” shared a union leader of the Punjab Roadways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-in-jalandhar-spoils-rakhi-eve-300407
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest hits train movement, road traffic in Jalandhar for second day||Farmers seeking hike in sugarcane prices blocked rail tracks and a national highway in Jalandhar on Saturday, impacting movement of trains and vehicular traffic.According to railway officials of Ferozepur division, 50 trains have been cancelled, while 54 have either been diverted or short-terminated.Scores of farmers had on Friday launched an agitation for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices.On Saturday, they refused to lift the blockade till their demands were met.Emergency vehicles had, however, been allowed to ply, they added.Protesters have blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway near Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district.The blockade affected traffic to and from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot, though the administration diverted traffic through alternative routes.Farmers sitting on the Jalandhar-Chaheru section have blocked the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar, affecting several trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi and the Amritsar-New Delhi Shane-e-Punjab.They are demanding that the Punjab government raise the state assured price (SAP) of sugarcane and clear payment of arrears of Rs 200 crore-250 crore. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-hits-train-movement-road-traffic-in-jalandhar-for-second-day-300198
