23-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Intoxicants seized, 5 held||Elderly man hit by car, diesHoshiarpur: An elderly man was killed in an accident after being hit by a car. The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against unidentified accused. The complainant, Gurbinder Singh, a resident of Nai Abadi Galowal, said his father-in-law Balkar Singh was going towards his village from Dasarka riding his scooty. When he reached near the Khurda turn, a car passing by hit him. He said his father-in-law died due to severe head injury. The police have registered a case. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-seized-5-held-300954
23-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar: No relief for commuters as trains stay cancelled||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22Unable to get any positive response to their demands, the sugarcane farmers announced to continue with their protest on the Dhanowali railway tracks and the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway here on Sunday. Even heavy transport vehicles like trucks remain stranded on the highway on the third consecutive day. From the Maqsudan bypass flyover to the PAP (connecting Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana) chowk, truck drivers parked their trucks on the highway.The sit-in on the Dhanowali railway track also forced the Railways to cancel trains. The Railways on Sunday officially communicated the cancellation of 51 trains, including Shatabdi, diversion of 12 trains and short-termination of around 23 trains. Routes of over 100 trains have been affected due to the ongoing stir, which the farmers declared to be indefinite unless their demands were not met.Besides, the Punjab Roadways and the PRTC also kept their buses off the roads on August 20, buses were plied on diverted routes today. Owing to the huge rush of passengers at the local bus stand, buses were operated via villages.The cancellation of several long-route and other passenger trains continued to give tough time to passengers. The worst affected were those passengers who had come from other parts of the state. Salwinder Singh, who had come from Chandigarh to visit his relatives in Kartarpur, said, “I was aware of the protest, but I thought I would reach Chandigarh before 11 am after boarding a bus from Kartarpur around 8 am. However, the bus took nearly an hour to reach even the Jalandhar bus stand. Later, the bus could not cross Jalandhar.”Similarly, Manoj Kumar, a migrant, was stranded near Rama Mandi after he failed to find a bus for his destination later. He had to pay hefty fare to an auto-rickshaw driver to cross Phagwara.Roadways staff said they were struggling to get passengers on various routes, including Delhi, Jaipur, Ludhiana and others.Ramandeep Kaur, a student, who had come from Amritsar, kept waiting for a bus to reach Chandigarh till 2 pm. All national and state highways across the district were blocked by the protesting farmers.The Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi, Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express, Howrah Mail, Amritsar- Haridwar Intercity, Delhi-Pathankot Express, Amritsar-Chandigarh, Nanded Sahib, Katihar Express, Amritsar-Lal Kuan, Begumpura Express, Amritsar- Bandra Terminal and others are some of the trains which remain cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-no-relief-for-commuters-as-trains-stay-cancelled-300955
23-08-2021||---||Ambulance stuck on flooded road in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 22Incessant rain on Saturday midnight that continued till Sunday evening exposed the miserable conditions of the city roads. Moreover, the unpreparedness of the civic authorities during monsoon was also revealed today after an ambulance got stuck in a pool of water on Damoria underbridge road.Severe waterlogging on roads in different parts of the city also troubled pedestrians and motorists. The ambulance coming from Doaba Chowk got stuck on the Damoria underbridge road for over 30 minutes. All tyres of the ambulance got inundated in the waterlogged road. Lastly, the vehicle was pulled out with the help of a truck. Fortunately, there was no patient inside the ambulance.The service road on the Maqsudan bypass to Sarb Multiplex and the Pathankot bypass chowk stretch also troubled transporters and labours working in factories. While the rain lasted throughout the day, traffic snarls irked residents.The street vendors claimed that even the sewer water remains stagnant on the road as the drainage system is lying defunct. Apart from the vehicular rush, the commuters said the stagnant water was another lurking danger.Amid relief from the scorching heat, residents demanded attention for the damaged roads. Phagwara Gate, Transport Nagar, Old Railway Road, Ladowali Road and others remained inundated with rainwater.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ambulance-stuck-on-flooded-road-in-jalandhar-300957
23-08-2021||---||Free online coaching for unemployed Punjab youth||Jalandhar, August 22The district administration is all set to provide free online coaching to jobless youth for competitive exams under Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the state government had decided to impart online training for several competitive exams ranging from SSC, banks PO/clerical, RRB, CET, PPSC, PSSSB, and to other departmental exams to at least one lakh youths.He said the first batch for online coaching for the post of police constable and clerical posts was expected to begin from the first week of September. The candidates must have completed their graduation for registering themselves for clerical batch while Class XII passed aspirants could apply for the batch of police constable recruitment.The DC further added that the aspirant candidates could apply for these classes by login the website https://www.eduzphere.com/freegovtexams to avail the benefit. He said graduates of all streams can apply for these classes, adding that undergraduates may enrol themselves for the classes.Thori also mentioned that the coaching will be provided by a subject-specialist teacher who is capable of teaching in English, Hindi, and Punjabi as per the syllabus of the competitive exam. The coaching will be provided through an online platform which will be streamed live all over the state and candidates can access the lectures through desktops/laptops, and smartphones, he added.The DC said candidates can have access to live recorded lectures for revision for one year and eight months after the completion of their coaching. Further, the candidates will be provided with content, videos, notes, and other study material followed by regular practice and mock tests.He said the duration of a batch will be of minimum four months and coaching would be conducted in two sessions of 1.30 hours six days a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-online-coaching-for-unemployed-punjab-youth-300958
23-08-2021||Jalandhar||Government dissolves Kewal Vihar housing society in Jalandhar||Taking strict action against the management committee of the Kewal Vihar Colony in Jalandhar, the Cooperative Societies, Punjab, has dissolved the Kewal Vihar Housing Cooperative Maintenance Society.The Cooperative Societies, Punjab, held that members of the colony’s management committee had encroached upon the common land and as per the bylaws of the society and the encroachers are barred from holding any post in the management committee. It also held that they are not eligible to contest the elections of the society.The probe report said it is clear the present commitee members have encroached upon common land. Thereby declaring the members inelegible of conetsing elections for the societies.The Registrar Cooperative Societies Punjab, issued orders on August 7 dissolving the committee and dismissing their election as committee members in agreement with the March probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-dissolves-kewal-vihar-housing-society-in-jalandhar-300959
23-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Little Singhu in the middle of Jalandhar city!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22Pathharan te sauna gijjhe, sannu minh naal ki farak painda (We are used to sleeping on stones, how can rain affect us).The farmers, sitting on a dharna 24x7 in Jalandhar on the lines of the Singhu morcha, say that they are prepared to camp here for a long time in case the state government fails to meet their demands. With a long line of vehicles supporting flags reading “Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zinadabad” on the highway, a makeshift stage has been set up on a tractor from where blares booming speeches of farmers all day long. Besides, a line of parked trolleys and trucks, some serving langars, chabeel and water to farmers at a morcha — all these activities on the Jalandhar-Phawara highway resemble a mini-Singhu.Even as rain lashed the city last night, the farmers stuck to their protesting site on the national highway. They remained in high spirits though their mattreses and beddings were drenched making them scurry for cover in the wee hours. As it rained in parts of the district in the wee hours in the morning, farmers, who have had ample practice of braving heavy showers on the Delhi border protests, hurriedly put up tarpaulins on trucks and shifted to these places to protect themselves from rain.While the meeting with the government remained inconclusive today, farmers continued squatting at the highway and the rail tracks with spirits high. The service lane was opened for the rakhi festival and spirits remained upbeat even as women farmers tied rakhis to farmers.Amrik Singh, district president, Bharti Kisan Union (Kadian), said, “We have seen similar storms and rain in Delhi. We know how to deal with them. Farmers knew there could be chances of inclement weather, they came armed with tarpaulins. After rain everyone shifted to their tractor and remained covered with four tarpaulins. At villages, we have deputed families turn by turn to come to the dharna. On our one call, lakhs can gather here in an hour. Delhi is still far, but this is our own state.”Satnam Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur who has been camping since day one, said, “We have slept on stones, the first night we slept on rail tracks. Mosquitoes bit us. But we are used to all this. Last night after rain we pegged tents with polythene and tarpaulin. It is almost like a mini room once you stick up a tent. We have already to camp a long time. This dharna is staying put for now. Although we have hoped the state government will respond to our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/little-singhu-in-the-middle-of-jalandhar-city-300960
23-08-2021||Jalandhar||2 test positive in Jalandhar district||The district reported two more Covid-19 cases On Sunday, taking the tally to 63,196 cases. None of these cases belong to other districts. However, no death due to the virus was reported. The death toll stood at 1,491. As many as 61,678 patients have recovered from the disease while the number of active cases stood at 27 in Jalandhar.Two infected in KapurthalaThe district recorded two cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the tally to 17,794. However, no death due to the virus was reported. One more case of Covid-19 was also reported in Nawanshar, taking the tally to 11,440. No death was reported in Nawanshahr.No new case in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported in the district on Sunday. So far, the total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 30,697. The number of active cases is 16 while those have cured are 29,701. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-300962
23-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Now, sisters in BSF protecting brothers: Vijay Sampla||Hoshiarpur, August 22Since ancient times, we have been reading and listening to stories of the goddesses putting an end to the evil. Similarly, women in the Border Security Force (BSF) are safeguarding the borders of the country from enemies. This was stated by Vijay Sampla, Chairman, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, while getting rakhis tied on his wrist by trainee recruits of the BSF at the Sub Training Centre at Kharkan Camp here on Sunday.He said they braved not only freezing cold in winter but also scorching heat in summer to guard the borders of the country day and night. He was participating in the programme to celebrate Raksha Bandhan with BSF jawans. The event was held under the leadership of state Bharatiya Janata Party Mahila Morcha (Punjab) vice-president Niti Talwar. Members of the morcha tied rakhis to BSF jawans. Sampla said, “On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, brothers promise to protect their sisters, but today we are feeling proud that in the BSF, sisters are protecting their brothers.”Former Youth Development Board (Punjab) vice-chairman Sanjeev Talwar said in view of the internal situation in a country like Afghanistan, we felt proud of our countrymen and the forces that were protecting not only the borders but also were ensuring internal peace.Niti Talwar said every sister wanted to contribute towards the security of the country, so through this festival, she gave proof of patriotism by wishing for the long life of these ‘ranbankuras’ (brave souls).Thanking all, SS Mand, Commandant (Training), said this love of the countrymen made us more loyal to the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-sisters-in-bsf-protecting-brothers-vijay-sampla-300963
23-08-2021||Open House||Identify, groom and prepare potential medal prospects||Govt should enhance budgetary allocationThough our players have won the highest number of medals at Tokyo Olympics and have brought the lost glory to the nation, the overall performance is far from satisfactory considering the population size and potential of our country. At the onset, the Centre and states/ UTs are required to enhance their budgetary allocations to the sports to keep pace with infrastructure as presently existing in sports advanced countries. Secondly, all national sports organisations endowed with government support should be headed by distinguished sportspersons in their respective fields and not by any politicians to keep the sports away from dirty politics. The principle of ‘Catch them young’ needs to be adopted at schools levels so that sports talent and potential in children is recognised earlier and channelised through specialised training. Sports oriented schools and colleges with world class infrastructure and latest technology should be opened at each district level for providing all the facilities free of cost to the probables selected purely on merit only. Frequent international tours are required to be held for all national level players in every sports field to gain exposure and experience needed to be competitive to face international tournaments.Jagdish ChanderCreate infra, promote media coverageThe historic performance of India at Tokyo Olympics has made the nation proud. While bagging seven medals and missing a few more by narrow margins, in the absence of an integral sports policy is no small achievement by any measure, yet we have to increase our appetite. We are a nation with 1.35 billion population but placed at 48th position in this tournament. A consistent monetary support and facilitation should be guaranteed to players during training as well as participation at various national and international high pressure sporting events. Besides, an adequate provision for creation of proper infrastructure, promoting media attention and creating mass spectators by incentivising corporate sponsorship is utmost essential. Nothing is more significant than nation’ pride. The governments must join to formulate a transparent and comprehensive National Sports Policy. World class Centres of Excellence be developed in different parts of the country for sportspersons to acquire modern technical skills of the game. Alongside, career planning of players of repute ought to be ensured so that they fully concentrate on sports to improve our medal tally. In our vast nation, there is no dearth of skill and will to perform and Tokyo 2020 Olympics has provided us an excellent ray of hope. We must accelerate the momentum to glorify our position among top-10 in 2024 Paris Olympics as well as other sporting line- ups of global fame.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathFuture holds good for the countryYes. The union and state governments are leaving no stone unturned to boost the sentiments of the youth towards various games. The implementation of “Khelo India” project has proved to be a big success in motivating the youth towards sports. Athletes from Haryana have proved their mettle in the games. Similarly, in badminton, boxing, polo, shooting players have proved their talent. The honour, rewards, cash incentives announced to the Olympic Players after returning back will certainly boost the youth to prove their talent, especially to youngsters residing in rural and remote areas. The need of time is to boost the sentiments of the youths in rural areas by providing cash incentives, talented coaches, proper items for games and more focus on inter district, district, inter-state, state, and national competitions in rural areas. As the focus of youths towards games will certainly pave way towards sideling drugs and their keen interest towards games. If all goes well Indian’s will certainly prove their talent in 2024 Olympics and certainly win more medals then expectation if the focus of the Union and State Government remain on boosting various sports games.Rajat Kumar MohindruHike budget, create better facilitiesSince the inception of the Olympic Games in 1894, with two misses during world wars, India has got just 34 odd medals whereas the US has got over 2600 medals. To even think that India can advance to top ten positions in the next Olympic is like living in a fool’s paradise and a pipe dream. In the Tokyo Olympics, India stood at 48th position with one gold, two silver and four bronze medals. It is nearly impossible that India will come in top ten positions. To be honest, we Indians lack sporting culture. The rich and super rich hardly take any interest in sports except shooting or golf. Only the middle and lower middle class youth take interest in different games and that too because they feel they will get government jobs to help their families. The government ministers and functionaries hardly talk any interest in sports. Navin Patnaik, CM, Odisha, is an exception here. The Centre slashed the budget for education and sports by Rs 230 crore this fiscal. It is only 0.01 % of the budget. Countries like the US, China, Japan and European countries invest huge heavily in their sportsmen and sports. That is why they are on the top of the table-medal wise. We need to invest likewise on human resources to our youth and also well equipped training centres. That is how we will come in top ten positions in Olympics.Dr JS WadhwaNo dearth of talent in the countryIndian players made the country proud by their performances at Tokyo Olympics by winning gold, silver and bronze and brought laurels to the nation. The central and state governments announced crores of rupees for the players and the result is that they start enjoying their luxuries and forget about their next Olympic mission. Money should be kept to enhance their performances, their costly kits. There is no dearth of talent in the country. Athletes who brought laurels for the nation are languishing in poverty. They have to earn for their livelihood and not focusing on their games and sometimes demoralise. Mere announcing of cash prizes doesn’t help. Nurturing talent at micro level, training and international exposure is must. Proper equipments and proper infrastructure for training is must. Best coaches and high calibre physical education teachers should be employed at school level. Big companies should also come forward to sponsor an athlete. There should be grit and determination to win. It will overcome all challenges and we are fully hopeful about more medals in the next Olympics.Shashi KiranPPP model reason for good performanceIndia capped off its best-ever performance in the Olympics 2020 with a haul of seven medals, including a gold. Indian Men’s hockey team finally ended their quest to earn an Olympic medal in Tokyo, as the young side claimed a bronze medal, defeating Germany in a tense battle. The manner, in which the players carried themselves on the pitch, shows us that the best of Indian hockey is yet to come. Public/private partnership is responsible for India’s seven medals and India’s medal quest was supported by corporates. The Target Olympic Podium Scheme or TOPS was launched in 2014 under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. The chief objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance and other help to athletes in their pursuit of medals in the Olympics and other international sporting events. Under this scheme, athletes and sportspersons will get customised training from top coaches at modern and well-equipped sports facilities and institutions. The sportspersons are also given assistance for buying sport-specific equipment. They are also provided with help in participating in international sporting events and also for the appointment of their support staff such as physiotherapists, sports psychologists, physical trainers, etc. All these efforts by government would pave a way towards biggest win in upcoming 2024 Paris Olympics.Parampreet KaurLong-term strategy needed to bag medalsChange mindset towards sportsIndia has scripted history in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics winning seven medals, including its first-ever gold in athletics and a bronze in men’s hockey after a long hiatus that marks the resurgence in popularity of our national game. But as a fast developing country, India’s low world ranking is unfortunate. Indians are more interested in cricket than other sports as it has been greatly popularised by the BCCI, the mainstream media and advertisement coverage. After the Beijing Olympics in 2008, the Central Government took many noble initiatives under the aegis of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to promote youth participation in other games at all levels. India has a tremendous sports potential that needs be channelised through proper planning, scouting and training. The government should enhance its budgetary allocation, which at present is only 0.01 per cent of the GDP, to provide sophisticated infrastructure and technology, training by qualified professional coaches, nutritious diet, proper medical assistance, clothing, etc. Change of conservative mindset and attitude towards sports, transparent and unbiased selection process, respectable job avenues, efficient sports management, patronisation by private players of newer sports disciplines apart from cricket and emphasis on sporting excellence or sporting nationalism will make India a popular sporting nation. Increased coverage of sports events on television and their free and easy access will give a boost to sports industry. It will create a mass movement on sports and impact the country’s socio-economic development.Tajpreet S KangWe must Make sports a compulsory subjectOur sportspersons have done the country proud by earning the biggest-ever haul of seven medals at the Tokyo Olympics. Despite its excellent economic and demographic profile, India finished 48th in the final tally. There are reasons galore for this poor world ranking. We have no dearth of sports talent in the country but its full potential is not recognised and detected. Despite the Central and state governments’ various programmes and schemes, we are not recognised as sports nation. The poor performance in major sports events can be attributed to political, administrative and organisational apathy and incompetence, corruption and nepotism. Moreover, we lack a synergised sports culture. Sporting as a profession is not accepted by society though the trend is gradually undergoing a transformation. Parents motivate their children to climb the social ladder through academics and sports are regarded as an “extra-curricular activities”. Sports should be a compulsory subject in the school and college curriculum.DS KangQUESTIONWith over 100 trains cancelled and a large number of people stranded in Jammu due to the farmers’ indefinite protest in Jalandhar, shouldn’t the farmers think of alternative ways to air their dissent without making the public suffer?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 26)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/identify-groom-and-prepare-potential-medal-prospects-300964
23-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Women join hands with protesters in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22Raksha Bandhan was celebrated on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway near Dhanowali railway tracks today, with scores of women tying rakhis to agitators and joining the protest.For the past two days, women have been extending their support by supplying cooked food. Now they will also lead from the front.Satnam Kaur, a farmer leaderTime to amplify our voice in unisonWe are ready to join our male counterparts. If we can raise our voice against the Centre at the Singhu border, we can also do the same here. Now is the time to amplify our voice in unison. Satnam Kaur (45), a woman farmer leader from Bhogpur, said: “We are ready to join our male counterparts. If we can raise our voice against the central government at the Singhu border, we can also do the same here.”Jeevan Singh, a BKU (Doaba) leader, said for over nine months, women farmers had been at the forefront in raising their voice against the three farm laws. They knew how to conduct a protest and speak up for their rights. We celebrated the fact that how women of all age groups had lent their support to the farmers’ protest. Like other crops, women equally participated in cultivating sugarcane.On the occasion of Rakhsha Bandhan, farmer leaders said women contributed to nearly 70 per cent of all agricultural activities. It’s in fact a return gift for us that they were taking the baton for leading the protest. Gurmail Singh, a farmer under the banner of Doaba Kisan Union, at Dhanowali railway tracks, said: “It comes a little surprise for us if women are joining the protest. We also want our daughters and women to understand what it takes to safeguard our rights.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-join-hands-with-protesters-in-punjab-300695
23-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||No consensus on input cost, panel to meet Punjab farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22As the meeting with the state government on demands regarding the state agreed price (SAP) for sugarcane remained inconclusive, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today announced continuation of the blockade of the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway and rail tracks here.Balwinder Singh Raju, President, Majha Kisan Sangharsh CommitteeGovt figure too lowOnce there is a consensus on cost of production, talks can move further. Government's Rs350 figure is too low. Things will be clearer after meeting with experts.With the government and farmers failing to arrive at a consensus over the cost of production of sugarcane despite a two-and-a-half-hour meeting, the farmers decided to continue with the agitation and intensify it, if need be.An 11-member SKM delegation met Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as well as Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh in Chandigarh along with a panel of agricultural experts and bureaucrats.An expert panel will now meet the farmers in Jalandhar again on Monday to hold deliberations. Meanwhile, farmers also anticipate a meeting with the Chief Minister on Tuesday, failing which they will hold a protest at toll plazas in the state. While farmers have pegged the cost of production of sugarcane at Rs 392.50, the government puts it at Rs 350 per quintal.Manjit Singh Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba), said: “We have made it clear we can’t settle for a rate below our input cost. While we haven’t been able to arrive at a consensus on the issue at the meeting today, deliberations will continue tomorrow.” Meanwhile, farmers stayed put at the Jalandhar dharna site, which is slowly emerging into a Singhu-like protest.The highway and rail blockade at Jalandhar continued as usual. In view of the Rakhi today, the service lanes were opened for passage of vehicles. “We opened the service lanes but these will be closed on Monday. Only schoolchildren and emergency vehicles will be given passage,” a union leader said.Both sides differWhile farmers have pegged production cost of sugarcane at Rs392.50, the government puts it at Rs350/quintal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-consensus-on-input-cost-panel-to-meet-punjab-farmers-300693
