24-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Alternate routes posing big trouble for commuters||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 23The commuters shuttling between Jalandhar and Phagwara since the farmers’ protest at Dhanowali for the past four days are a harassed lot, especially those following the Dhina village stretch or the main Deep Nagar road.Both roads, which can be used to reach Jalandhar via Cantonment, are completely tattered. The rainfall since yesterday has made both the stretches completely muddy and marshy making the drive risky. While the main Deep Nagar road has not been relaid for the past many years, work of laying sewerage pipes is on at Dhina village ahead of Sansarpur, owing to which half of the road is lying dug up to create underground septic tanks.Hoshiarpur route to ASR also congestedA government official posted in Jalandhar said: “I was coming to work from Nawanshahr this morning and chose Dhina route instead of Deep Nagar route. But to my horror, it was worse. There was bumper to bumper traffic and muck due to yesterday’s rain flying all around. There were no sign boards or danger signals installed around the deep trenches dug up for laying sewerage. Covering just 2km distance was a hell for me. Reaching office, I immediately sounded the city police and asked the officials concerned to at least dissuade the people from using this route as an alternate passage”.Sachin Sharma, a city-based youth who had gone to Delhi to appear for a job interview and returned today, also shared his experience of using this route, “I had a train ticket for last evening but the train arrival time got put off by four hours. I immediately rushed to the ISBT. The bus halted at Phagwara bus stand in the wee hours today. I asked my father in Jalandhar to pick me by his car. He started from home via Sansarpur-Dhina route. His car broke on the way and he got stuck up there. I managed a taxi from Phagwara to reach him and it took me 40 minutes to reach him from Phagwara. We finally tied up the car with the taxi and reached home at 5 am today. It was such a horrendous time. A barely 20 minutes of distance became a nightmare for our family as everyone remained tense and was up the whole night.”While the farmers had yesterday announced that the service lane along the main dharna site had been kept open, the commuters said the barricades kept by the Punjab Police along all flyovers on the stretch between Jalandhar and Phagwara prevented them from closing in near the dharna site.“It was so annoying to see the barricades being installed on all flyovers for no reason. While the stretch from atop the flyovers could be covered in one to 1.5 minutes, the same distance was being covered via the congested service lanes in 10-15 minutes. The only reason I could figure out of keeping the flyovers closed was to encourage the commuters to start taking alternate routes available on the left and right sides of the service lane so as to reduce the traffic flow towards Jalandhar,” said Arshdeep Singh, a city-based businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/alternate-routes-posing-big-trouble-for-commuters-301388
24-08-2021||---||Graffiti no more adding to Jalandhar city’s beauty||Jalandhar, August 23Done very tastefully to enhance the beauty of the city’s best intersections, the graffiti work in the city is being covered by illegal banners put up by various political and social groups in the city.The worst affected are the pillars of the BMC Chowk flyover, all of which also carry a message for the residents. A painted graffiti depicting two messages of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ and ‘Conserving nature’ which was put up by the administration through the Jalandhar Welfare Council, too, is lying covered with a congratulatory message for Navjot Singh Sidhu upon his appointment as the PPCC chief.Likewise, the graffiti on the other side of the pillar which carries the caricatures of the popular musicians and singers from Jalandhar has also been covered by another congratulatory hoarding of appointment of vice-chairperson of the Khatri-Arora Welfare Board. The city residents have raised strong objection to the MC’s inaction over such illegal banners and hoardings, especially those covering the graffiti.“What is the whole idea of putting up the graffiti when such banners are to be allowed to be put up over them and cover them completely? The graffiti had been put up with a purpose to dissuade people from indulging in the defacement of the walls of the pillars of the flyover and also to beautify the city’s intersections and send across good messages to anyone entering the city through these areas. But the MC by not acting against such wrong doers has defeated the whole purpose,” said Sahib Singh, a collegiate.Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Banti said he would ask the teams of the MC to remove all such banners and hoardings from around the BMC Chowk. “This issue is coming to us repeatedly. We need to act upon it properly”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/graffiti-no-more-adding-to-jalandhar-citys-beauty-301389
24-08-2021||---||Rousing welcome greets hockey stars at RCF, Kapurthala||Kapurthala, August 23Three women hockey players of Rail Coach Factory — Olympian Navjot Kaur, Lalresiami and Reena Khokhar — who represented India at Tokyo Olympics, and goalkeeper Krishan Pathak, who was raised and trained at RCF and was a part of the bronze medal winning men’s hockey team, were given a rousing welcome on their return to RCF today.On reaching RCF, they were garlanded at the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Stadium by principal chief mechanical engineer and RCF Sports Association president RK Mangla, principal chief engineer and association vice-president SC Meena, chief project manager and association honorary general secretary Nitin Choudhary, and other officials of the RCF Sports Association.RCF General Manager Ravinder Gupta met the three women players at his office and honoured them. Navjot and Lalresiami were promoted as gazetted officers. Each player shared their experiences at the Tokyo Olympics. Congratulating them, Gupta said their performance in the Olympics was no less than a gold medal and he hoped that the players would work hard to give the team a gold medal in the upcoming Hockey World Cup and many more players from the RCF will represent India in the coming international fixtures.The Tokyo Olympic star players were welcomed on their way to the hockey stadium by the players of men’s hockey, football, athletics, basketball and wrestling teams.All three women hockey players are regular members of the RCF and Indian Railways team. Navjot has played 180 matches for Indian team so far while Lalresiami has played 72 matches with the national team and Reena Khokhar has played 45 matches. Reena was with the team as a standby. Krishna Pathak, who was born in Kapurthala, lives with his uncle, who works in RCF. He received training in goalkeeping from Yogita Bali, a senior goal keeper of the RCF. Pathak was a part of the Indian junior hockey team that won the Men’s Hockey Junior World Cup in 2016, since then has been a regular member of the Indian team and has played 50 matches with the Indian team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rousing-welcome-greets-hockey-stars-at-rcf-kapurthala-301390
24-08-2021||Jalandhar||Gurdas Maan lands in fresh controversy||Popular Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan landed in a new controversy as members of the Satkar Committee lodged a police complaint after his video went viral wherein he is heard saying that the chief of a dera and Nakodar Sain Laddi Shah is from the descendants of third Sikh master, Guru Amar Dass.Also read: Gurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyEarlier, the committee members lodged a complaint with Nakodar police and later in the evening with the SSP, Jalandhar. The committee demanded a case be lodged against the singer or else they would lodge a demonstration on the issue across Punjab. The members raised slogans against the singer outside the SSP office and threatened to even gherao the SSP office if the officials did not take action against Maan.The singer had reportedly made the statement during an ongoing mela at Nakodar. The members of the committee alleged that the speech of Maan could be a part of his pre-planned strategy and aimed at hurting the sentiments of the Sikh. — TNSWhen Gurdas Maan and Mika Singh travelled ticketless to Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurdas-maan-lands-in-fresh-controversy-301391
24-08-2021||Jalandhar||Candidates miss SSC exam due to traffic jam on Jalandhar-Phagwara highway||At least seven to eight students were unable to appear for their Staff Selection Commission (SSC) exam this morning due to traffic jam on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, owing to the farmers’ protest here. Students said the exam centre staff didn’t let them enter the centre despite a delay of only few minutes in reaching the venue. While the exam was to take place at a mall on the highway, they remained stuck in traffic for hours and were not allowed entry once they reached. Chaotic scenes were witnessed as they tried to convince cops that they be allowed entry inside. Meanwhile, ASI Gurwinder Singh who was present on the spot on duty, said: “The reporting time for examinees was from 10.30 to 11.30 am. The gates were closed exactly at 11.30 am. The staff did everything while abiding by the rules. There is an exam tomorrow as well. We have asked the candidates to write to the SSC and let them appear for the exam on Tuesday.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candidates-miss-ssc-exam-due-to-traffic-jam-on-jalandhar-phagwara-highway-301392
24-08-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports four new cases||Jalandhar, August 23The district today reported four fresh Covid cases taking the total tally to 63,200. One of these belongs to another district. No Covid-related death was reported in the district on Monday.The district toll remained at 1,491. A total of 61,682 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27.Kapurthala sees 1 fresh caseKapurthala district on Monday reported one fresh case and no new Covid-related casualty. The district tally has increased to 17,795. The person who tested positive for the virus today has been identified as a 40-year-old person from Kapurthala.3 fresh cases in HoshiarpurWith three fresh Covid cases, the Hoshiarpur district tally increased to 30,700 on Monday. The district did not report any new Covid-related casualty today and the toll stands at 980. The number of active cases in the district is nine, while the number of recovered patients is 29,711.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-four-new-cases-301393
24-08-2021||---||Green cover boost: 16,000 saplings to be planted in Jalandhar today||Jalandhar, August 23The district administration will observe Van Mahotsav on Tuesday by planting 16,140 saplings. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said while the Chief Minister would launch the mega plantation drive during state-level events, similar drives would be started in the districts simultaneously. He added that the Forest Department had selected 30 locations in the district, where over 16,000 saplings would be planted in a single day. These places include Muthada Kalan village, Phillaur city, Goraya, Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, Phillaur Civil Hospital, Phillaur DAV Public School, Noormahal Police Station, Noormahal city, KV-II, KV-III, Jodhe village, Eidgah, Phase 1 Urban Estate and Dhina, CRPF campus, 91 Sub-Area in Cantt, ITBP, various schools and parks in the city, PAP Ground, area opposite Jalandhar DAV College, NIT campus, Adampur, Bhogpur and Birpind Sidhwa station.The DC said the drive would be carried out with the help of local NGOs and government establishments.Divisional Forest Officer Vikram Kundra said under the drive, trees of native species such as shisham, arjuna, drek, neem, kadam, ornamental species, flowering plants and others would be planted. The DFO said the main thrust of the drive was to make younger generations an active partner of the campaign for planting more trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/green-cover-boost-16-000-saplings-to-be-planted-in-jalandhar-today-301394
24-08-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 19.56L fine for power thefts in Jalandhar||State-level mega job fair in SeptKapurthala: With an aim to provide the employment opportunities to the youth as well as to facilitate them for setting up the own units, the Punjab Government will organise the mega state-level job fair in Kapurthala district on September 23. Selected candidates from the state will get appointment letters during this job fair. The Kapurthala district administration has started the preparations for this mega event as ADC G Aditya Uppal and ADC (D) SP Angra have presided over a meeting of officials from various departments. They both asked the officials to submit the availability of vacancies at various commercial and industrial units till August 27 so that the interviews can be arranged for the applicants. They added that the district would also organise four job fairs next month — on September 9, 14, 16 and 17. TNSRoadways staff form new panelJalandhar: A state-level meeting of the Punjab Roadways Ministerial Staff was organised at the district roadways depot-1 office on Monday. Organised under the chairman of Gurcharan Singh Dugga, staff of 13 roadways depot from across the state participated in the meeting. Apart from withdrawing the old State Roadways Committee, the members formed a new committee and appointed its members, which include state president Gurjit Singh Gill, senior vice-president Gurkirpal Singh, vice-president Harmandeep , joint secretary Angrej Singh, general secretary Gurtej Singh, legal adviser Harwinder Singh, propoganda secretary Sukhwinder Singh and cashier Amarjot Singh. TNSComputer course at Sainik instituteHoshiarpur: District Defence Services Welfare Officer Colonel (retd) Dalwinder Singh said the Sainik Institute of Management and Technology was starting a short-term computer course. He said in this course, basic knowledge of computer and Internet would be imparted to the students. Children of ex-servicemen, paramilitary, SC, economically weaker sections, dependants of soldiers and civilians will be given training under the course. He said for admission, candidates should contact the District Sainik Welfare Office with their original certificates from Tuesday to Thursday between 10 am to 3 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-19-56l-fine-for-power-thefts-in-jalandhar-301396
24-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Punjab farmers to insist on Rs 400 per quintal SAP for surgarcane||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 23Protesting farmers under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will meet Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday to decide the final rate of the state advised price (SAP) for surgarcane.The decision was taken after a marathon meeting of SKM leaders with agricultural experts and bureaucrats here.The dharna on the Jalandhar highway would continue, and both highway and railway tracks would remain blocked. However, the “Punjab bandh” call given for Tuesday had been postponed in view of the meeting with the CM.As farm groups led by 13 leaders met the state Cane Commissioner, state Agricultural Director and Chief Agricultural Officer here today, they pegged the cost of production of sugarcane at Rs 470 per quintal. But, the farmers said they would seek SAP of Rs 400 per quintal from the government.Amarinder to announce rateOur demand for SAP remains Rs 400. As we have been asked to meet the CM on Tuesday, the final rate will be announced by him. — Manjit Singh Rai, President, BKU (doaba)This is the second meeting farmers have had with the state government panel ever since the protest at the Jalandhar highway began last week. The first meeting yesterday remained inconclusive.Manjit Singh Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba), speaking after a two-hour meeting, said: “We have pegged the cost of production at Rs 470 per quintal and have been successful in convincing the panel of this rate. But our demand for SAP remains Rs 400. As we have been asked to meet the CM at 3 pm tomorrow (Tuesday), the final rate will be announced by him.”Rai said: “The next call on bandh would be taken after tomorrow’s meeting. The service lanes will be opened only for students and emergency vehicles such ambulances and fire brigade. The rest of the dharna will stay put until our demands are met.”Speaking on the cost of production of Rs 392.50 pegged by farmers yesterday, Rai said: “We had cited it as per the UP rates, but after detailed analysis, the cost incurred by us came out to Rs 470.50. Based on this, we have revised the cost of production and convinced the panel.”Farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal said: “Apart from input cost, there has been a considerable difference between our and government rates. We have cited the input cost on the basis of ground reality and the actual cost being incurred by farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-farmers-to-insist-on-rs-400-per-quintal-sap-for-surgarcane-301075
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||NRI absconding after killing mother-in-law; wife injured||Hoshiarpur, August 22An NRI, who came from the US to his in-laws’ house at Jhungian (Jandoli) village under the Chabbewal police station, shot dead his mother-in-law who was a former sarpanch here on Sunday. She had come to the rescue after the accused had an argument with his wife. He fired three bullets at his mother-in-law and the wife and fled the spot. His mother-in-law died while wife was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, from where owing to her critical condition, she was referred to a specialty hospital in Jalandhar.Getting information, a police party from PS Chabbewal reached the spot and registered a case against the accused. According to the information, Shavdeep Kaur, alias Rano, a resident of Jhungian (Jandoli) village, was married about four years ago with Mandeep Singh of Bharsinghpura under Phillaur police station in the US. Mandeep Singh had come to his in-laws’ house on Saturday and in the morning he had an argument with his wife and during this he started strangling Shavdeep Kaur.On it, her mother Balveer Kaur tried to intervene. Enraged over it, Mandeep Singh shot his mother-in-law in the neck and she fell there. In the meantime, Mandeep Singh shot at Shavdeep Kaur and escaped from there. While leaving the house, he fixed the latch from outside so that no one could come out of the house. Hearing the screams of Shavdeep, those living in nearby houses came and opened the door. They found Balveer Kaur lying dead on the ground in a pool of blood while Shavdeep was seriously injured. She was rushed to Hoshiarpur hospital from where the doctors referred her to Jalandhar in view of her serious condition. DSP Satveer Singh said the body of the deceased Balveer Kaur has been sent for a postmortem.He said on the complaint of the victim Shavdeep Kaur, a case has been registered against the accused under Sections 302 and 307, Arms Act and 25, 54, 59 of the IPC. He told that a wireless message has been issued in this regard so that Mandeep Singh could not flee abroad. Apart from this, various police parties have been dispatched to arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-absconding-after-killing-mother-in-law-wife-injured-300956
