25-08-2021||---||Sugarcane farmers' dharna lifted, residents heave a sigh of relief||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24As the five-day road/rail blockade organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha over the issue of sugarcane prices ended today, the residents from across the region finally heaved a sigh of relief. Road, rail services restored“It was a tormentous experience, which no government should allow to let it repeat,” most residents have been fuming adding that if the state government was to agree to increase the sugarcane State Assured Price (SAP) to Rs 360 per quintal, it should have been done on first itself.“What was the point of ruining our lives for five days? While it was a fight between the farmers and the state government, it were the common people who bore the brunt. We had to daily waste money on more fuel and spend extra 45 minutes on travelling via the longer route,” say many daily commuters from Phagwara to Jalandhar, who have had to struggle daily to reach their work places.Doaba has seen protests of sugarcane farmers at the same site but most of the time, these used to end by the evening of the same day. Five-day protest on NH-1 has been the longest protest so far in the past nearly two decades. While those commuting by cars or bikes only had to bear with the problem of heavy traffic and bad roads, those whose train or bus journey ended abruptly midway at unknown locations and had to walk with their luggage at odd hours to find a cab or some other means of transport were the worst lot.The ending of the dharna has caused a major relief to the students, who were worried over the conduct of their fourth round of JEE (Main) slated from August 26 onwards. The main examination centre for the students in Jalandhar and around falls on the same stretch of road just along the site, which was blocked by the farmers for five days.Anju Marwaha, whose son is to appear for the examination on August 27, said: “We had planned to leave for the examination centre two hours prior to the scheduled time to keep a same margin of time. Thankfully, there should not be a problem now. I was praying for the issue to get resolved in today’s talks.”Even those running showrooms on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, who did not get any customers for the past five days, were feeling easy. “While the eateries like McDonalds and Burger King falling close to the dharna site still managed to do a good business, those running showrooms of automobiles, branded items etc were the major sufferers,” said the owner of an apparel store.The ending of the dharna also brought a huge respite for the transporters whose trucks got caught up in the stretch along the various connected highways, including those leading towards Ludhiana, Amritsar or Pathankot. “We had no issue with meals as we partook langar at the dharna site, but getting caught up midway like this for five days made us lose patience. We will finally push off after 10 pm today when the traffic all around gets cleared,” said Gopal Nath, a truck driver from Jammu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sugarcane-farmers-dharna-lifted-residents-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-301830
25-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers: People must know our side of story||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24“People only see that we hold dharnas, block roads and highways and they complain of having trouble in commuting. But nobody understands why we do so,” said farmers who were protesting in Jalandhar for meagre hike in sugarcane SAP.Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, said the private mills owe Rs 10 lakh to him and most of his works were stalled because of no money. “If you don’t receive a salary for even a month, you become uneasy. So, why can’t people think about what problems we go through? They should empathise with us to understand the ground realities,” he said.Another farmer, Kirpal Singh from Jalandhar, said farmers take loans from the lenders, arhtiyas and wait for their payments so that they could repay. “In such a condition, when our loaned money is also exhausted, who would help us again? I have also taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh and because of non-payment, I have not been able to pay the money back. I get calls from the lenders daily, but can’t do anything for it,” he said.He also shared that one of the farmers from Majha had to sell his 5 acres of land to repay the loan that he had taken from the lenders. “The situation is grave, one cannot understand,” he said.The cane growers in December 2018 also held a massive protest and the protesting sugarcane farmers had said that they were left with no option but to leave their families and hold dharnas. After the government had promised to give their dues, the farmers had lifted the protest, but had to wait for their payment for long.This time, too, the CM has assured that the pending amount would be given to the farmers in 15 days. This has certainly brought cheers for the farmers but there is a little suspicion too.“We have heard umpteen promises, held many meetings and protests, but we will have to see what happens this time. We really hope that the government fulfils its promise,” this is how cane growers express their worry. It should not keep bragging about the crop diversification scheme in speeches and also must stop showing ‘fake sympathy’ towards them, the farmers had earlier said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-people-must-know-our-side-of-story-301831
25-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district reports 8 fresh cases, no casualty||The district health authorities reported eight fresh Covid cases on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 63,208. The number of active cases in the district is 33 now. However, no new Covid-related death was reported in the district, with which the district toll remained at 1,491.Kapurthala sees 2 casesThe Kapurthala health authorities today reported two fresh Covid cases. One patient also recovered from the virus. With this, the district now has 10 active cases. Kapurthala has so far reported 17,796 cases. The positivity rate in the district at present is 0.21 per cent.1 tests +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr today reported a single fresh case today. Four patients from the district got discharged and the number of active cases now stands at seven. The district has seen 11,442 infections and 379 deaths. The positivity rate in Nawanshahr remains low at 0.06 per cent.2 +ve cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With two fresh Covid cases, the Hoshiarpur district tally increased to 30,702 on Tuesday. The district did not report any new Covid-related casualty today and the toll remained at 980. The number of active cases in the district is eight, while the number of recovered patients is 29,714. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-8-fresh-cases-no-casualty-301832
25-08-2021||---||35-event badminton tourney begins in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24The Jalandhar District Badminton Championship, being organised by the Jalandhar Badminton Association at the Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium, kick-started on Tuesday morning.The championship was inaugurated by Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri. During the event, MLA Beri met the players and also took stock of the works done by the interim committee.Lauding the personal efforts made by the members of the committee for the work done for the development of stadium and players in the stadium, he increased the amount of Rs 5 lakh as announced by him for sports canteen to Rs 10 lakh in the stadium.Meanwhile, committee member Ritin Khanna said around 500 players would participate in 35 events, being held in the championship. He said the competitions were being organised for under-11 to 65-plus veteran players.As many as 64 matches of the pre-quarterfinal level were held today, which included 10 matches for U-15 boys singles, 15 matches for U-13 boys singles and 11 in U-17 boys singles category. In U-17 girls singles, Prisha Kapoor beat Dhruvika. In another match in the same category, Manya Ralhan beat Ritika Sharma. Seven matches were also held in the veterans’ categories.He said attractive prizes of Rs 2.5 lakh would be given to the players. He said the final matches would be held on August 29, besides all players were being given free refreshments by the association and every player would be rewarded with prizes, trophies and certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/35-event-badminton-tourney-begins-in-jalandhar-301833
25-08-2021||---||In Hoshiarpur district, women at the helm of affairs||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur, August 24Already holding a tag of being the most literate city of Punjab, Hoshiarpur has emerged as the leading district in the state as far as women empowerment is concerned. Many women officers are occupying key posts in the district. While civil administration of the district was already in the hands of woman IAS officer and Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, now the responsibility of handling police administration, too, has been given to woman IPS officer Amneet Kondal. With the joining of Kondal as the SSP, the district has become a symbol of rising women power.With women holding important posts in judiciary, civil and police administration in the district, we hope that sensitivity towards women issues and problems of women will increase and a lot more can be done for their betterment. This would inspire the younger generation, especially girls, that if they determine to do something, they can achieve anything. So, the girls should make their goals and try hard to achieve them.—  Apneet Riyait, Deputy Commissioner, HoshiarpurIt's an inspiring situation for the girls of Hoshiarpur that the key posts are held by the women officers. We are from Punjab and have studied here and we have succeeded in achieving our goals with our determination, so they too can do it. What's required is: fix the right target, have the strong determination to achieve it, and strive hard. If girls need any kind of guidance regarding the competition exams, they are always welcome. I am always ready to help them —  Amneet Kondal, SSP, HoshiarpurIt is noteworthy that Amarjot Bhatti is holding the post of District and Sessions Judge, while the post of Secretary of District Legal Services Authority-cum-CJM is also held by a woman judicial officer, Aparajita Joshi. Similarly, young IAS officer Aashika Jain is the Commissioner of the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation, while Rajneesh Kaur is posted as District Food and Supplies Controller.Women officers also hold key posts of other important departments in the district. Dr Seema Garg is District Immunisation Officer under whose leadership more than 10 lakh Covid vaccines were administered in the district. Similarly, Dr Swati is rendering important services as the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) in the Civil Hospital. Also, Avinash Kaur is holding the post of District Language Officer. Apart from this, women officers holding other senior positions are also discharging their duties very well.Inderjit Kaur Nandan, winner of the National Award for the Empowerment of PwDs, says: “The selection of women on these crucial posts has proven that a woman with her hard work, insight, courage and determination can excel in every field and achieve remarkable achievements. Girls can set their goals and follow the path of success in life by making such officers their role models. Such officers are playing a major role in strengthening the social and economic status of women by their ability, skill, efficiency, capability, etc. They are an inspiration for today’s generation.”With the steps taken by women officers towards women empowerment, Hoshiarpur is the first district in the state, which on the initiative of Cabinet minister Sunder Sham Arora, has started helping the helpless, PwDs and needy women by providing them with free e-rickshaws and enabling them to stand on their feet.As a yet another feather on its cap, Hoshiarpur resident DSP Manish Sharma’s daughter Pratishtha Deveshwar is the first Indian girl who was not only enrolled in Oxford University despite being in a wheelchair, but also received the coveted Diana Award from England for the first time in the history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-hoshiarpur-district-women-at-the-helm-of-affairs-301834
25-08-2021||---||Gardening is a passion for him||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24Simranjeet Singh Bains, an associate professor of economics at Lyallpur Khalsa College here, knows so much about the plants and has a good knowledge of the topics revolving around it that anyone can easily think of him as someone who teaches botany.He got this incredible admiration for the greens from his parents who used to bring in plethora of plants and then decorate the house with the same.“I have grown up watching them loving plants. Then in my college, we started participating in inter-college GNDU flower show competitions. That was the time when I started analysing the plants minutely, starting from their health, height etc. I used to take a look at the plants of the winners too. That was my learning in the field of plants,” Bains shared.The associate professor has dedicated huge chunk of his land to the greens. Enter his house and one can find a vibrant garden covered with plants, trees and brightly coloured flowers. There are several varieties of palm trees, Dracena plants, ferns, asparagus grass, cactus along with several colourful and bright coloured seasonal flowering plants.In the bedroom, and drawing room, indoor plants enhance the beauty of interior. “These plants provide oxygen, need minimum light and don’t require much water,” Bains shared.Ask him what importance the plants have in his life. The reply comes promptly that the green area in his home is everything for him. “Gardening adds years to life and life to years. I wake up at 5 am and spend my morning around them. I have my tea and study newspapers here and remain here till 8.30 am,” he said. Structures of animals like deer and aquatic animals like fishes are also kept to give it a natural and aesthetic look.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gardening-is-a-passion-for-him-301835
25-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Development charge hike irks Hoshiarpur residents||Hoshiarpur, August 24Rana PK, a leader of Rashtriya Awami Manch along with members of the manch, met Hoshiarpur Mayor Surinder Shinda and demanded withdrawal of the hike in development charge. In a press release issued here, Rana said the Mayor said residents of Jalandhar, Ludhiana, and Bathinda are already paying the charges and the government has asked Hoshiarpur to do the same.He said the delegation pleaded that these are big cities and rich people live there, whereas Hoshiarpur is a backward area with majority of the people belonging to middle income group, who are already facing financial difficulties due to Covid.After discussing the matter with Mayor, Rana said he assured that soon after convening a meeting of the house, he will present a proposal to cancel the charges.Rana PK said if the hike was not cancelled , a mass movement will be started taking along residents of the city and Rashtriya Awami Manch will campaign against the state government.Mayor’s associate councillor Mohit Saini and members of the Rashtriya Awami Manch namely Vipan Thakur, Rishi Thakur, Ishant Sethi, Surjit Singh, Narinder Singh, Navdeep Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Balveer Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/development-charge-hike-irks-hoshiarpur-residents-301836
25-08-2021||---||IMA Jalandhar gives cycles to needy girls||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24As a part of its social service project, IMA Jalandhar distributed cycles to the needy girls, attending school and colleges today. This project was undertaken in collaboration with AIDS India Phoenic (USA). The money was collected by the students of Phoenix out of their pocket money.Taking into consideration Covid 19 pandemic, N95 masks and sanitisers were also distributed along with cycles. The first group of 30 girls was given cycles today. MLA Rajinder Beri inaugurated the function.Dr Amarjeet Singh, president, IMA, led the project and welcomed Dr SPS Grover. He also gave a detailed outline about the project. Dr Naresh Bathla, secretary, IMA, and Dr MS Bhutani, secretary, finance, also worked for the project along with other dignitaries who present including Dr Sushma Chawla, Dr Raman Chawla, Dr Tavleen A Singh, Dr Harvinderjit Kaur Grover, Dr Paramjit Kaur Bhutani and Guninder Kaur, chairman of Inner Wheel Club, who helped to bring needy children.Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV School and the members of Inner Wheel Club Jalandhar West also participated in the process of finding the suitable recipients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-jalandhar-gives-cycles-to-needy-girls-301837
25-08-2021||---||Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, honours Olympics bronze medalist Hardik Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24Police DAV Public School welcomed its alumnus Olympics bronze medalist Hardik Singh along with his parents in its campus. The school bhangra team lead the procession. He was escorted by Dr Rashmi Vij, Principal, Rajkumar, Dr Cinny Malhotra, Anju, Manmeet Mann, Savita Sharma, Supervisory Heads of all the wings, Vinod Sharma, Sports Incharge, and coaches of various sports teams of school.A loud and noisy ovation was accorded by students who had lined up in corridors and waved excitedly to their hero. Hardik Singh was felicitated by retired DGP MS Bhullar, Founder Chairman of school, along with Padma Shree awardee Bahadur Singh, SP, Sports Secretary, PAP, and Principal Dr Rashmi Vij. His father Virinderpal Singh, SP, Batala, who was also an Olympian hockey player and mother Kamaljit Kaur were also honoured on the occasion.An interactive session was held with the sports students of school and Hardik Singh told them that they had not gone to Tokyo just only for participation but for the medal. He gave them the message to play whatever sport they were playing with perseverance and persistence. The alumnus hockey players of school Harsimranveer Singh, Luvnoor Singh, and Ajay Pal Singh who are getting training at PIS Mohalli and Surjit Hockey Academy respectively were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-dav-public-school-jalandhar-honours-olympics-bronze-medalist-hardik-singh-301838
25-08-2021||Jalandhar||International Programmes at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar||‘Shining Stars’ CT Group Class XIITo celebrate top performers of Class XII from Jalandhar, CT Group of Institutions, organised ‘Shining Stars’- a felicitation ceremony on its premises. In the felicitation ceremony, more than 200 students who have achieved first division were honoured for their relentless hard work and efforts. These students came from 67 schools namely Dayanand Model School; Government Senor Secondary School, Model House; KV Suranussi; St. Thomas; Sri Guru Arjan Dev Public Senior Secondary School; Akal Galaxy School; CT Public School and Sain Dass Senior Secondary School etc. The students were honoured with certificates and mementoes.Jasleen gets 1st rank in B.DesignStudents of B.Design (Sem VII) of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have garnered glory in results of Guru Nanak Dev University by bagging top positions. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and wished them to work hard in future too. She appreciated Rajni Gupta, HoD - Department of Design,. Rajni Kumar and Dr Gagan Gambhir, Department of Design for guiding these students to a sparkling success. Jasleen Kaur got the first rank with 594 marks out of 600, Navleen got 589 and stands fourth. Tanavpreet Batra and Deepali Rana got the seventh rank with 578 marks.Medical Camp for Police OfficersGNA University organised a medical camp for the police officers over long duty hours in Rawalpindi Police Station. The objective of the campaign was staying fit and healthy. The main resource person for the camp was Dr. Anna specialised in Orthopaedic field at GNA University. There were almost 30 officers present at the time of the campaign. In this event a brief description about posture, Ergonomics and correction of daily living activities, guidance about dietary intake or correct time and ways of water intake was described by the resource person. Regular blood tests were done by the MLT Department under the guidance of Dr. Steffy, Assistant Prof at GNA University.23 students get job lettersThe School of Engineering of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus had participated in various recruitment drives through online mode in which 23 students of CSE department got placed. CSE department of LKCTC has been continuously organising capsule programmes/boot camp trainings for students to make them industry ready. This approach of progressive learning that focuses on student’s ability to identify and solve real life practical problems rather than focusing on theoretical concepts only has made them capable enough for placements. The students placed are Mamta Kumari, Hitesh, Barun, Rosy, Gurkirat Singh, Lovish Joshi, Kamalpreet Singh, Harish, Ramanjot Singh, Markas, Sumandeep Kaur, Aman Ratti, Sahil Kesar, Varinder Athwal, Mamta, Navita, Pooja, Avneet, Jyoti, Ramandeep, Satwinder Kaur and Dinesh Badhan.Online Faculty programmeA seven-day online Faculty Development Programme (FDP), was organised by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, from August 16 to August 23 on the topic “NAAC Accreditation Framework: New Guidelines”. On the seventh day, Dr Anchit Narwadkar, founder and CEO, Rubrics Softcon Private Limited from Pune, enlightened the participants on Criterion VII of NAAC – Institutional Values and Best Practices. His lecture was informative and well organised, which was completely in sync with the required presentation.Women EmpowermentHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya is working towards “Women Empowerment” by making bags from old clothes in collaboration with Ajit Singh Foundation (NGO) under Green Sparrow Mission. Under this campaign, students and teachers of HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School gave old sarees, bedsheets etc. for this mission. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said that college always work for benefit of country and welfare of girls that the society can be made skilled. The girls should be capable enough to take self decisions and can manage their families as well.Grandparents’ Day celebratedPhagwara:Grandparents’ day was celebrated in Cambridge International School, Phagwara. Little hearts of kindergarten were so excited to perform for their grandparents, that they outgrew their inhibitions too. Even the grandparents performed brilliantly in fun filled talent hunt contest organised exclusively for them in the online class. The energetic performances of grandparents were astounding. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-programmes-at-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-jalandhar-301839
25-08-2021||On the 36th National Eye Donation awareness fortnight being organised from August 25 to September 8||Phagwara diary: Campaign against corneal-blindness||Celebrating Rakhi with visually-impairedIn a noble gesture, the Phagwara Sarwa Naujawan Sabha celebrated the Raksha Bandhan with visually-impaired women inmates of Guru Nanak Mission Old-Age Home for blind people. President of the organization, Sukhwinder Singh, said they had been celebrating the festival with the women inmates of the home for the past few years. Gifts, clothes and pizza were served among the inmates by Good Samaritans. Both, the administration and police officials, joined hands with the sabha and participated in the event.Youths to the aid of needy at Civil HospitalThe district-based Youth Voice Foundation is providing free food at the Phagwara Civil Hospital to nearly 150 needy patients and their kin. The members said the foundation would carry on with other social works for the needy in the coming days. Gagandeep Singh Dhatt, president of the foundation, appreciated the efforts of all contributors and volunteers. “It is due to the selfless efforts of everyone that we have come so far,” said Dhatt.Stranded truckers offered foodWhile farmers from across the region didn’t allow truck-drivers and transporters to cross the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, as part of their protest against less SAP on sugarcane, pictures of farmers offering food to stranded truck drivers and commuter melted hearts of many on the Social Media. The inter-state truck drivers, who were stuck on the highway, were also offered space to rest at the farmers’ tents erected on the highway. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-campaign-against-corneal-blindness-301840
25-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Punjab farmers hail increase in sugarcane SAP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24Farmers today welcomed the increase in the SAP of sugarcane by Rs 50 per quintal, terming it a historic achievement of their collective struggle. The protest at Dhannowali railway tracks and Jalandhar-Phagwara highway finally ended with the distribution of sweets.SAD promises Rs380/qtlSAD chief and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the SAD-BSP government would raise the sugarcane’s state advised price (SAP) to at least Rs380 per quintal if voted to power.“With the cost of production of sugarcane pegged at around Rs 470 per quintal, the SAP of Rs 310 a quintal was unjustified. We fought a collective battle and succeeded in getting the price hiked to at least Rs 360 per quintal,” said another farm leader.With the protest in Jalandhar over, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) now aims to further intensify the protest on the Delhi-Haryana borders. Farmer leaders urged all protesters to head to Delhi morchas and strengthen the movement there.Thousands of farmers from various states are ready to assemble for two important events of the SKM. The registration is on for a national convention on August 26 and 27 at the Singhu border. The organising committee of SKM stated there would be three sessions on August 26 and two on August 27 to further intensify the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-farmers-hail-increase-in-sugarcane-sap-301563
25-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fled Kabul after attack, man longs to see kith||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24“Ashraf Ghani’s policies destroyed us. We were happy before that,” says 54-year-old Chhabol Singh, an Afghan Sikh who awaits the return of his counterparts from the war-torn country.Grant citizenship to evacuees: SirsaDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa has approached Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah urging him to grant citizenship to Sikhs and Hindus who have been evacuated from Afghanistan. “We have urged the Centre to make amendments to the Citizenship Act,” he said.As the three ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were brought back from Afghanistan yesterday, Chhabol said the collective mood was of brooding as all earnings and properties of Aghan Sikhs and Hindus had been left behind. A resident of Karte Parwan in Kabul, he was a seventh-generation Sikh who came to India on September 5 last year after a terror attack at a gurdwara there. At the airport to receive his counterparts, Chhabol said, “It’s a heartbreaking moment. I spent my life visiting the gurdwara. Around 150 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, including women, are still stuck at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara. In all, 26 returned today. We await the return of the rest.”Overwhelmed by memories of Afghanistan, he says, “The last time the Taliban took over, they did not say anything to us. We lived comfortably. But this Taliban is different. They include Pakistanis, Arabs, Baghdadis and Iranianas. They don’t recognise or value us. Ghani’s policies brought our downfall. After the Kabul gurdwara attack last year, we began receiving threats from the Mujahideen, Al Qaeda and Daesh. Staying there wasn’t feasible anymore. So we came to India.” Chhabol, who ran a cosemetics business in Afghanistan, added, “There was love there. We are strangers here. We lived life to the fullest there.”Chhabol, along with other refugees from Pakistan, lives in the Tilak Nagar locality in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fled-kabul-after-attack-man-longs-to-see-kith-301574
