26-08-2021||---||As BJP state chief leaves after Jalandhar meeting, farmers lift over 20-hour-long dharna||Jalandhar, August 26Farmers camping outside the Circuit House here for the past 20 hours lifted their dharna after BJP state chief Ashwini Sharma left Jalandhar on Thursday morning after a marathon state-level meeting with party members at the Circuit House. While Sharma is believed to have left at about 9.30 am, farmers continued their dharna into the afternoon leaving the spot hours after Sharma had left. Though there was an attempt to remove the barricades at one point in the morning, the departure of the BJP leader remained peaceful. Farmer leaders raised slogans against Sharma and continued protesting at the spot and finally ended their dharna at the BMC Chowk. Farmer leader Amrik Singh, who had been camping the night outside the Circuit House, said, "We were here to protest against state BJP chief Ashwini Sharma. But we want to ask why leaders hide from us. He has left the place without meeting us. By holding meetings, leaders only create problems for people. We have already said we will protest. If the state leaders convince the Centre to repeal the three farm laws we would not have to protest like this. We will continue to protest against BJP leaders as long as farm laws are not withdrawn." Kashmira Singh, spokesperson of the BKU (Rajewal), said, "Wherever a BJP leader arrives we will hold protest against him. Any leader from the party intending on holding a meeting or programme in the coming times should expect this. We are planning similar action for various upcoming events of the party."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-bjp-state-chief-leaves-after-jalandhar-meeting-farmers-lift-over-20-hour-long-dharna-302362
26-08-2021||Love of NRIs for their native villages and their urge to provide better amenities for the villagers is a known fact. With the support of NRIs||NRIs shower love on native village school||Vaccination done, but no update on websiteAlthough, vaccination of teachers has started in the district at full pace and as per the information, the maximum number of teachers and non-teaching staff have also been inoculated, but the actual data is not getting updated on the official website of the Education Department. Sources have said that there was a problem that has arisen with the update at the website, and it is being shown that still a large number of teachers in the district have not taken the vaccination shot. The Education Secretary has already given the instructions to complete the process at the earliest. Notably, after the data compilation, it had come to the fore that 209 teachers from Nawanshahr had not taken even the first dose of Covid vaccine.Vax to protect kids from pneumonia launched‘Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV)’ vaccine to protect children from dangerous diseases like pneumonia was launched on Wednesday in the district. PCV vaccine was administered to the children during a district-level function at Community Health Centre, Sujjon. Pneumococcal pneumonia is a form of severe respiratory infection that causes irritation and fluid in the lungs which makes it difficult to breathe and limits the amount of oxygen. It is a serious respiratory infection in which children have difficulty breathing, fever, cough, etc. and spread from person to person through coughing and sneezing. This vaccine will protect against 10 types of pneumococcal bacteria.— Contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-shower-love-on-native-village-school-302121
26-08-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on teaching methods at Jalandhar's Eklavya School||Guided tours for new entrantsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised guided tours for the new entrants. This programme was organised by the Department of Student Welfare. It was designed for acquainting the new entrants with the rich legacy of KMV and the various innovative student-oriented programmes run by the college. The tour was organised in such a manner that students were segregated into different small groups keeping in mind the Covid protocol. Students were shown the Hall of Fame of KMV. They were also given a tour of different highly equipped laboratories, departments, KMV hostel, heritage building of KMV, world class library, health club, gymnasium, auditorium, playgrounds and botanical garden etc.GNA Group celebrate Abhaar-75GNA University under the lineage of GNA Group celebrate its Abhaar- 75 glorious years at the lush green sprawling campus of the university. The auspicious day was celebrated by Gursaran Singh Sihra, Chairman GNA Group and the Chancellor GNA University. The success story of GNA Group was also witnessed by Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Phagwara MLA, and Sukhdev Raj, CMD, Victor Forgings. Present in the celebrations were the principals from various schools of the town. The event was well staged by Dr Disha Khanna, Dean Faculty of Liberal Arts, GNA University, who commenced with her welcome address followed by the lamp lighting ceremony by all the dignitaries. Dr Monika Hanspal, Dean Academics and Systems and Operations, in a real deft manner took the gathering into a deeper understanding of NEP 2020.Shivani Mehta first in B.EdIn the examination of B.Ed (Sem III) conducted by GNDU, DIPS College of Education, Dhilwan, performed well. All the students passed the examination in the first division. Principal Dr Mukesh gave the good news in which Shivani Mehta secured the first position in the college with 77.4 per cent marks, Rashwinder Kaur second with 76.5 percent marks, Sumeet Bagga got the third position with 76.3 per cent marks. Principal Dr Mukesh applauded the efforts of teachers and students and encouraged them to work hard for the upcoming semester. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated the students, teachers and parents for excellent result.Akshay Urja Diwas organisedTo explore and celebrate the power of renewable sources of energy-Akshay Urja Diwas was organised in HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School. The day commemorates the birthday of former PM Rajiv Gandhi and the objective of this event is to generate mass awareness and popularisation of need, benefits and uses of renewable energy devices and systems in all spheres of life. The event was commenced with lighting of the lamp to spread divine grace. The Green Champion Awardee Dr Ajay Sareen conveyed her felicitation of Akshay Urja Diwas to the young learners and motivated them to be considerate towards environment. She put forth the catchword “Save Energy and Make the Earth Greener” and emphasised to be highly conscious while using energy resources.Spell Bee competition organisedCambridge International School organised ‘Spell Bee’ competition for the students of Classes I to II. The objective of the activity was to help students improve their spellings, increase their vocabulary, learn concepts, and develop the use of correct English. Children participated earnestly in the activity and had an enjoyable learning experience. Their efforts and initiative was appreciated by one and all. School Principal Jorawar Singh, Chairman of the School KS Bassi and Chairman of Vasal Educational Group Sanjeev Vasal congratulated the teachers, students for their efforts and their parents for their active involvement to make this event successful. Winners are rewarded with e-certificate by Principal Jorawar Singh and appreciated for their outstanding performance in the competition.DAV students get jobsStudents from DAV University Jalandhar grabbed rank holding packages from reputed US based Multinational companies. Madhav Sharma from B. Tech CSE got placed at ‘Interview kickstart’ with a pay package of CTC 17 LPA and Ayan Chawla from B Tech CSE got placed at ‘Microsoft’ with a pay package of CTC 12.50 LPA making DAV University proud. DAV University Chancellor and Padma Shri Dr Punam Suri congratulated the students for their achievements. He said, the aim of DAV University has always been to see its students grow globally and to achieve top most positions. Vice chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi sent her best wishes to the students. She said that the DAV University always aims at the best placement and growth of its students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-teaching-methods-at-jalandhars-eklavya-school-302123
26-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Staff, pensioners stage dharna in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 25The Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front led by Kulwaran Singh, Kulwant Singh Saini, Onkar Singh, Inderjit Virdi and Anirudh staged a demonstration at the district administrative complex. On the occasion, the state convener of the front, Satish Rana, said the struggle against the ‘anti-employee and anti-pensioner policies’ of the government should be joined by all.He said as a part of the struggle, the entire state would be paralysed by a pen-down/tool-down strike from September 4 to 12. On the second day of the Assembly session, a state-level rally would be held in Chandigarh, he added. Speaking on the occasion, Manjit Singh Saini, Shamsher Singh Dhami, Jatinder Singh Soni, Mukesh Gujarati, and Jasveer Singh Raja demanded that the report of the 6th Pay Commission should be amended and dearness allowance installments be released.They demanded that the old pension should be extended to the employees recruited from January 2004 and the services of temporary employees should be regularised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/staff-pensioners-stage-dharna-in-hoshiarpur-302122
26-08-2021||---||Stamp duty: Revenue officials told to speed up recovery||Jalandhar, August 25Taking a serious note of pending recovery worth Rs 19.93 crore against defaulters under Section 48 of Indian Stamp Act, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday directed the revenue officers to speed up the recovery from the wilful defaulters while laying thrust that any type of laxity in this task will not be tolerated at any cost.Presiding over a meeting with revenue officers to review the collection of recovery, revenue records, e-Court Management system, entering of mutations within stipulated timeline here at District Administrative Complex today, Thori said the revenue officers must give topmost priority to the collection of all recoveries of stamp duty for enhancing the revenue of the state government.The DC also asked SDMs to personally monitor the cases about recoveries so that the process could be expedited. He also said that the recovery of pending arrears from the wilful defaulters needs to be ensured at the earliest.Meanwhile, he reviewed progress on the e-Court Management system and pendency in revenue courts and directed the officials to ensure timely disposal of revenue cases pending in their courts besides submitting a report to his office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stamp-duty-revenue-officials-told-to-speed-up-recovery-302124
26-08-2021||Jalandhar||All govt school teachers got 1 vaccine dose: Jalandhar DC||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday said all government teachers in the district had been administered at least a single dose of the vaccine against Covid, while most of them had been fully vaccinated.Presiding over at a review meeting, the DC asked officials to submit an undertaking that no teacher was left without the first dose so that a detailed compliance report could be sent to the state government. Laying thrust on complete vaccination of the teaching and non-teaching staff in the district, the DC accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh told the officials that negligence would not be tolerated. He added that as per the government directives, all teachers needed to be vaccinated before returning to their duty at schools as a measure to ensure safety of children in educational institutions.Meanwhile, the DC also reviewed the progress made under various schemes such as the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (AB-SSBY) and the Unique Disability Identity scheme, and measures being taken in the fight against Covid pandemic. He said a new PSA-based oxygen generation plant was coming up soon at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, along with similar plants in Basti Guzan and Nakodar hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-govt-school-teachers-got-1-vaccine-dose-jalandhar-dc-302129
26-08-2021||---||Over 2 lakh households get tap water connection in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 25With an aim to provide potable water to all rural households, as many as 2,16,812 houses have been covered with functional tap water connections in Jalandhar district. Presiding over a review meeting, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said Jalandhar has a total of 2,30,385 households in rural area and it has already covered 2,16,812 households under Har Ghar Pani programme with 94.11 per cent coverage.The DC said the regular review of the programme and concerted efforts by the executive engineers and junior engineers of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department have made this mission a success in the district.Meanwhile, he also lauded the efforts of the department for completing 100 per cent toilets by constructing as many as 19,809 toilets in the district. He mentioned that a total of 6,931 toilets were provided in Rurka Kalan, Jalandhar East, Phillaur, Nurmahal, followed by 6,324 in Adampur, Bhogpur, and Jalandhar West blocks and 6,554 in Nakodar, Lohian and Shahkot blocks.Likewise, the DC also reviewed progress of all three phases of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme and stated that 296 development works would soon be started in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-2-lakh-households-get-tap-water-connection-in-jalandhar-302116
26-08-2021||---||Kapurthala RCF holds vendors’ meet||Kapurthala, August 25Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, on Wednesday organised a vendors’ meet as a part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ commemorating the 75th year of Indian Independence. It focused to expand the supplier base of high technology coach items with special emphasis on indigenisation under the policies of ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’.Emphasis was laid on development of the MSE sector at the meet. Around 70 entrepreneurs from different parts of the region participated in the vendors’ meet. Ravinder Gupta, General Manager/RCF, senior officers and guest delegates were welcomed by Rajiv Kad, Chief Material Manager/HSQ.The meeting was conducted by Lalit Kumar, Deputy CMM/M. LS Choudhary, Chief Materials Manager/ Estt., apprised vendors about present and future requirements of Indian Railways and items likely to be procured by the RCF elaborating on the requirements on quality and other aspects.The meet was also addressed by RK Mangla, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, CV Raman, Principal Chief Materials Manager, and Sukhpal Singh Verka, Director, District Industries Centre. Discussions were held wherein speakers acquainted the vendors with railway procurement system and future activities of the RCF. They said that quality was very vital in indigenisation.Addressing the meet, the GM said the meet was a part of Indian Railways larger vision of creating a robust environment for development sector in the country. This vision is in line with the nation’s goals of achieving self-reliance across important sectors critical to the economic development of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-rcf-holds-vendors-meet-302115
26-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Their love for stray dogs knows no bounds||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 25For over seven years, Malhotra sisters are feeding and taking care of hundreds of street dogs in the city. On a daily basis they feed around 250 dogs across the city and have also adopted 16 stray dogs, who stay with them inside their house. During the lockdown, they fed around 500 stray canines. Dimple and Meera Malhotra developed the attachment for street dogs around six years ago when they rescued three puppies, abandoned outside their house.“After one of the three dogs couldn’t survive. It pained us a lot. We wanted to help, but we didn’t know how. However, we realised that nothing could be better than feed the mute animals. After a few days of the death of the puppy, we started feeding street dogs in our area. Gradually the area expanded further”, said Dimple.Quoting a Delhi High Court order, her sister Meera adds, street dogs have right to food and citizens have the right to feed them. We are just contributing our share. Also it effects us, when a dog dies of hunger. We can’t digest the fact that someone has to die of hunger that a mute creature.A resident of Naya Bazar, near Pucca Bagh, both the animal lovers faced opposition and threat from the area residents several times, but they maintained their stand and kept the dogs in their house.From cleaning to making arrangement for food, they do every thing on their own. Apart from feeding they take dogs for medication as well and take care of their timely sterilisation. IELTS trainers by profession, they say they spend over Rs 50,000 on street dogs every month on food and medication.“On routine days, we need 10 litre milk, 100 chapatis,10-15 kg buns and 40-60 boiled eggs to feed 250 dogs every day, which costs Rs 1,300-1,500 per day. We cover areas around Jyoti Chowk, Dana Mandi, Milap Chowk, Ladowali Road, Company Bagh Chowk, Sodhal and others. Beside, the feeding starts in the night when most of the street dogs come out in the roads. It takes 4-5 hours to offer food to all dogs. Sometimes our close friends also sponsor the food for dogs. Now, we have developed special attachment with the dogs, they understand us and we can’t see them in pain. We have dedicated the second floor of house for dogs only and throughout the day they live with us, “ says Meera.Notably their father, late Desh Raj Malhotra, was also a social work. Ever since they started feeding dogs, most of their time gets occupied with dogs only. “While we have left going out for shopping or watching movies, this is what satisfies us the most and we have devotes our lives to dogs only”, said Meera.Addressing the locals, Dimple said people should not hate dogs. “The problem of stray dogs can be resolved only when all people will take responsibility of these creatures at least in their areas. If you give food to the dogs or other animals they will always remain loyal to you, so start loving them”, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/their-love-for-stray-dogs-knows-no-bounds-302114
26-08-2021||Jalandhar||105 badminton matches held on Day 2 in Raizada Hansraj Stadium, Jalandhar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/105-badminton-matches-held-on-day-2-in-raizada-hansraj-stadium-jalandhar-302127
26-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Fit India Freedom 2.0 run organised in Hoshiarpur||Sharma takes over as IG STCHoshiarpur: Madhu Sudan Sharma, IG, BSF, took over the charge as Inspector General Sub Training Centre, Border Security Force, Kharkan camp, which is the premier training centre for BSF in Punjab and nodal centre for women training in western theatre of BSF. Sharma, a BSF cadre officer, had joined the force as a direct entry officer in 1986. He had held sensitive assignments at various headquarters. During his illustrious career, he had served in the elite NSG and represented the country in the prestigious United Nation Mission. Before joining STC BSF, Kharkan, Sharma was commanding the highly sensitive Special Operation Frontier in Odisha where he galvanised the under-command sectors and units to gain laudable achievements against Maoists/Naxals despite challenges. OCRepair martyr’s gate: Cong leaderHoshiarpur: Congress leader Raman Kapoor wrote a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh demanding repair of the main gate of Roshan Ground, Hoshiarpur, built in the memory of martyr Captain Roshan Lal and the ground also named after him. The memorial gate of the ground has been broken for the past over four years. In his letter, Kapoor wrote that he has been requesting the district administration and the MC many a times but in vain. He said the gates made in the name of martyrs should be taken care of on priority basis so that our future generations can get information about those who sacrificed their lives for the country. OC2 youths killed in road accidentGarhshankar: Two youths were killed in an mishap after being hit by a car. According to information, Mahipal (30) and Sukhdev (28), both residents of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, had been working as vegetables venders in Bilron village. They were carrying pumpkins in the tempo. Near Sumandra, both were changing the tyre of the vehicle after it got punctured. Suddenly, a car hit them from behind killing both of them. The police were investigating the case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fit-india-freedom-2-0-run-organised-in-hoshiarpur-302126
26-08-2021||---||ATM robbers’ gang busted, four arrested in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 25The police claimed to have busted a gang involved in ATM thefts with the arrest of its four members. The robbers were nabbed from Amritsar by special teams constituted by the Jalandhar rural police.The accused have been identified as Daljit SIngh alias Sonu (40) a resident of Teki vala Mohalla, Harike Pattan, Tarn Taran; Charanjeet Singh alias Nand (32), a resident of Taran Taran; Savinder Singh alias Titu (46), a resident of Guru Nanakpura, Amritsar; and Jaspal Singh alias Bagga (38), a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, Amritsar.Naveen Singla, SSP (Rural), Jalandhar, said the gang was on the police radar after the robbers looted a local State Bank of India ATM at the Daroli Kalan village in Jalandhar by breaking the lock and the ATM machine using gas cutters on August 21. They looted Rs 6,44,100 from the machine.An FIR in this regard was lodged at the Adampur police station on August 21 under Sections 457, 380 and 327 of the IPC. The SSP said the police have recovered cash of Rs 3,88,000, a Swift Desire car (PB-01-A-0721), Ertiga car (PB02-CB-1734) and a gas cutter from them.The SSP said, “The robbers were traced to Amritsar with the help of CCTV footage and human intelligence. They were involved in several robberies in the past. A total of five teams were constituted which worked day and night to crack the case.”The gang have previously robbed an ATM at Sidhwa village in Gurdaspur where they looted Rs 2,36,000; an ATM at Dala village in Moga where they looted Rs 2,12,000 and also attempted to loot an ATM at Pathankot Chowk, Jalandhar, but were unsuccessful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/atm-robbers-gang-busted-four-arrested-in-jalandhar-302128
26-08-2021||Our Correspondent||18-year-old gang-raped, uncle-nephew duo held in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 25The Sadar police have arrested an uncle-nephew duo for allegedly gang-raping an 18-year-old girl. The accused have been sent to two-day police remand by a local court. Two more accused involved in the case are still on the run.Inspector Kamlesh Rani said the victim, a student of Class X, had lodged a complaint with the Sadar police station in this regard.She alleged that Yashdeep, a resident of Mohalla Ravidas Nagar, had introduced her to Aman. On August 23 at 7:45 am, the accused took her to a marriage palace on Chandigarh Road on an Activa. Aman allegedly committed physical relations with her in a room in the marriage palace and took away her clothes. Later, Yashdeep, his uncle, and another accused allegedly raped her.Inspector Kamlesh said a case against the accused under Sections 376B and 506 of the IPC has been registered. She said the police teams are conducting raids at probable hideouts to arrest the absconding accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-year-old-gang-raped-uncle-nephew-duo-held-in-hoshiarpur-302125
26-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district sees just 1 +ve case, no death||Jalandhar, August 25The district reported one new Covid case on Wednesday, taking the total district tally to 63,209 cases. No Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,491. As many as 61,687 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 31.3 +ve cases in HoshiarpurWith three fresh Covid cases reported on Wednesday, the district tally increased to 30,705. The district did not report any new Covid-related death today and the toll remained at 980. The number of active cases in the district is 11, while the number of recovered patients is 29,714.All well KapurthalaNo fresh Covid case or death was reported from Kapurthala today, keeping the Covid tally at 17,796.1 case in KapurthalaOne case from Nawanshahr was reported on Wednesday. The positive cases in the district are 11,443 and the death toll stood at 379. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-sees-just-1-ve-case-no-death-302118
26-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||At 88, this national badminton champion Narinder Syal shares his journey||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 25At 88 and having recently undergone surgery of both his knees, Narinder Syal is still quite agile. Climbing up the high steps of the Raizada Hansraj Stadium, where the District Badminton Tournament is underway, Syal was quite comfortable. The fitness level that he maintained at the age of 16 when he went on to become the first shuttler from Punjab to win the National Junior Championship held at Kanpur in 1951 is still visible. He was the contemporary and a good friend of Nandu Natekar, the badminton superstar, who passed away last month.Narinder SyalWhen I won the national tourney, my father became so angry that he broke my racket and told me that I will not play in future. Actually, at that time I failed in Class X and he was angry. I too ran away from home and went to Mumbai.Syal, who is more popularly known as ‘Daddy Syal’, is a resident of Cantonment area here and hails from the family of film distributors. Watching the students play at the stadium today, Syal says that unlike the present days when the parents encourage the students to go in for sports, his experience was just the opposite. He laughed as he shared: “When I won the national tourney, my father became so angry that he broke my racket and told me that I will not play in future. Actually, at that time I failed in Class X and he was angry. I too ran away from home and went to Mumbai.”Later, Syal returned to Delhi and his father told him to handle the family business in Delhi. “I did not pursue my studies ever again but in 1956, I returned to my passion, badminton, again. In 1960, I became the state champion of Delhi which I considered as my comeback. Seeing my achievements, a college in Jalandhar gave me temporary admission and I played inter-university for them and brought them medals. I also went on to play an international event in Denmark. My forte in game was that no one, including the world top ranking players, could win from me in the first set. Since I never worked on my stamina, I used to get beaten in the second or the third set,” he shared.Syal compared the present times with his days. “We had no coaches and no indoor stadium in those days and I still excelled just by practising on my own in the grounds of colleges. Even our state championships used to be held outdoors in the grounds. There was no indoor stadium at that time in Punjab. Kapurthala perhaps was one among the first few districts to have an indoor stadium. No one taught us the finer nuances of the game. We were self-learners and self-motivated players.”Syal wished all the students good luck and especially remarked that the work being undertaken by the District Badminton Association for the betterment of players was helping them groom well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-88-this-national-badminton-champion-narinder-syal-shares-his-journey-302113
26-08-2021||---||No end to commuters’ woes in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 25Even as the lifting of dharna by the farmers since last evening after five days of blockade between Jalandhar and Phagwara was expected to bring relief for the daily commuters, the two-hour strike by the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union and the 10-hour barricading done in the city to ward off farmers from protesting against the BJP leaders once again put spanner in the smooth traffic movement.The city residents, who were to barely start enjoying the normal traffic in the city from today, were once again disillusioned. “It is getting too much and the government must deal with such issues with a tough positioning,” was a common refrain of the residents.All routes leading to Circuit House, where the BJP state leadership under Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma was to hold marathon meetings, were closed for the common commuters. All main intersections, including Skylark Chowk, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and Namdev Chowk, were shut to keep the agitating farmers at a distance but it all came as a rude shock for the residents who once again were forced to take longer detours to reach their destinations.All alternate passages, including those via Nakodar Road and Company Bagh Chowk, had an unusually heavy flow of traffic throughout the day as the traffic was closed down at 11 am to over 9 pm. A DCP rank official, when asked to comment, said: “Our hands are tied or else we would not have allowed the farmers to stage dharna for even a minute. We have all the respect for the farmers but even we feel that taking the entire city for a ride for the sixth day, that too a day after the dharna got called off, is not justified.”The PRTC and PUNBUS buses also remained off road for two hours between 10 am to 12 noon owing to the strike. The agitators threatened to intensify their protest on September 6, if their demands were not fulfilled. The PUNBUS, PRTC and Punjab Roadways buses would not ply until their demands were accepted, warned the roadways workers.The agitators further stated that they would continue the protest and move to the CM’s residence in coming days. The union member stated that the protest was observed across all the roadways depots of the state and different PRTC depots. Even as the government has justified the demands of PUNBUS employees at various occasions, yet nothing has been done to implement the demands, said the drivers and conductors.The major demands include regularisation of workers, addition of a fleet of 10,000 new buses in the roadways, implementation of Supreme Courts of equal wages for equal work, and the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders regarding the cancellation of driving permit of private buses.“A worker said, as per the law, a contractual worker has to be made permanent within 240 days of his/her job. However, they have not been regularised even after so many years of their services. They have been working on meagre salaries but the government isn’t taking any action in our favour,” said Gurjit Singh, general secretary of the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, adding that the demands had also been made for covering workers under the Punjab Pension Scheme, loan waiver of Punbus and DA to be given to all the drivers and conductors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-commuters-woes-in-jalandhar-302130
26-08-2021||---||Farmers camp outside BJP meeting venue in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 25State BJP chief Ashwini Sharma today faced protest from farmers who blocked various throughfares and gheraoed a local circuit house where saffron leaders held a meeting. As the standoff intensified, protesters camped on the heavily barricaded road, expressing their intention not to leave.Earlier, traffic snarls were witnessed at various places in the district as farmers held protests and sit-ins against the BJP. Farmers scuffled with the police as they attempted to cross over barricades to reach the circuit house. The protesters’ presence at the circuit house increased by the evening as more farmers reached there.BKU (Rajewal) leader Amarjot Singh said: “We are not leaving the spot unless leaders come out.” BJP sources said though the party meeting was over, the state chief would be staying at the circuit house for the night.Nearly 300 police personnel have been rushed in from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Amritsar districts to keep things under control. DCP Naresh Dogra said: “We have tried to convince farmers but they continue to stay put. The force will remain at the spot until the situation normalises.”Will raise cane sap to Rs 450: Ashwini Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-camp-outside-bjp-meeting-venue-in-jalandhar-302055
26-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Evacuated by US military, Hoshiarpur village youth returns from Afghanistan||Kuldeep Singh of the district’s Shahabuddin village has returned home after being evacuated by the US military from Kabul. He was taken to Doha, Qatar, from where he came to Delhi and now his hometown.Working as a plumber at the US Embassy in Kabul, he said: “After the Taliban takeover, the governments of the countries concerned are repatriating people who had gone to work in Afghanistan.” “Locals told us the situation in the country was critical, but Kabul, in particular, was considered to be the safest. Since the Taliban has taken over Kabul now, people have been living in fear,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/evacuated-by-us-military-hoshiarpur-village-youth-returns-from-afghanistan-302058
