27-08-2021||---||Jalandhar’s Nikku Park gets new look with mesmerising wall portraits||Jalandhar, August 26With the completion of another round of beautification and renovation works, children’s favourite amusement destination Nikku Park has worn a new look with mesmerising portraits painted on its walls. Likewise, the park is all set to offer much-awaited break dance swing and cricket bowling game to visitors from upcoming Sunday as the district administration has accomplished both the projects.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said theme-based paintings have been carried out in the park, which would further become attraction point for the children. He stated that break dance ride was lying shut due to lack of maintenance while cricket bowling machine was newly set up in the park adding that both the new rides would be opened for visitors from Sunday.Notably, the district administration had initiated a special drive to give Nikku Park a new look as a part of its measure to boost the entertainment activities at the city’s one of the prominent amusement parks.Spread in 4.5 acres of land, Nikku Park is located at the heart of the city and was in dilapidated conditions due to lack of maintenance as it remained shut due to Covid pandemic for almost a year. The DC had issued financial assistance worth Rs 12 lakh for this park after taking stock of its condition a few months ago. The DC reiterated his commitment to restoring the glory of this park and said there would be no paucity of funds to further ensure development works in the park.Nikku Park manager SS Sidhu said all main swings and rides in the park that include amusement bus, fountain, train, music fountains, flood lights, and many more have been made operational lately. Now, the break dance swing and cricket bowling facility was also ready for children, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-nikku-park-gets-new-look-with-mesmerising-wall-portraits-302768
27-08-2021||---||No end to Jalandhar city residents’ ordeal on roads||Jalandhar, August 26There seems to be no end to commuters’ woes in the city. It was for the seventh consecutive day today that city residents faced a major road jam.Members of various Sikh organisations gathered on NH-1 near Dakoha, near the same site where the farmers had held a sit-in for five days demanding an increase in sugarcane prices. For nearly two hours (between 3 pm and 5 pm), they blocked the road leading to traffic jam without any prior announcement. They were demanding the registration of a case against Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan over his recent viral video in which he was heard saying that Sain Laddi Shah of Nakodar dera was from the descendants of third Sikh master Guru Amar Dass.Also read: Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityThough an FIR was finally registered to calm the protesters, residents condemned the role of the police in allowing everyone to block the highway anytime, anywhere.The city residents were angry as they had seen a nearly 24-hour barricading of important city intersections due to the dharna by farmers around Circuit House, which was started at 10 am on Wednesday and ended after 9.30 am this morning after the BJP leaders left the venue.Commuters were a harassed lot as they got stuck in a jam caused by the dharna. Such was the situation that commuters could neither move forward nor reverse their vehicles. There was no space left for any vehicle to take a U-turn to get out of this difficult situation.Many commuters had no alternative, but to wait for the protesters to lift their dharna and let them move. Vehicular movement on all roads, including the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway and the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, was severely hit.The agitators, including members of the Satkar Committee and various Nihang organisations, were demanding that they would not lift their dharna till they would be provided with a copy of the FIR against Maan. Maan had already apologised on a video saying that he did not intend to hurt religious feelings of the Sikh community that he did not compare Sain Laddi Shah with the guru and only meant to say that both were Bhallas. But the Sikh bodies were adamant on seeking police action against Maan. They held a dharna outside the SSP office even after the apology and continued to seek registration of an FIR.During the protest on the highway at Dakoha, which falls near Rama Mandi, Balbir Singh Muchhal, head of the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, Tejinder Singh Pardesi and Harpreet Singh, heads of the Sikh Coordination Committee, said there was a deliberate delay in registering the FIR against the singer. Balbir said the religious sentiments of Sikh sangat in the country and abroad had been hurt due to the remarks made about the guru.Singer booked by Nakodar policeThe Nakodar Police have registered a case against Gurdas Maan under Section 295-A of the IPC for hurting religious sentiments of the Sikh community. Nakodar City Police Station SHO said following the directions of the SSP, an FIR was registered against the singer on Thursday evening||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-jalandhar-city-residents-ordeal-on-roads-302769
27-08-2021||---||Rat found roaming on Haveli’s food counter||Jalandhar, August 26In a shocking incident, a rat was found roaming on a food counter at Haveli theme restaurant near Phagwara early this morning. A video of the rat running around on the shelves, which had pastry, sandwiches, muffins, burgers, etc, was posted by some visitors there. They pointed out that already people were suffering from Covid-19 and any such carelessness could lead to spread of more infections.Making the video, the visitors apprised the management of the carelessness of staff. The authorities finally destroyed all the food items kept in the counter and got it properly fumigated.A manager of Haveli confirmed that the incident occurred this morning. He said since the counter was lying outside, a rat perhaps entered it when someone opened its shutter. “But it surely was a big negligence on the part of the staff. On our part, we have taken all the safety measures after the matter came to our knowledge. We have reprimanded the staff and told them to be very alert about hygiene and safety of the food in future,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rat-found-roaming-on-havelis-food-counter-302770
27-08-2021||---||124-year-old Basant Kaur passes away in Jalandhar village||Jalandhar, August 26Basant Kaur (pic), the oldest women in the district, breathed her last on Tuesday night. She was 124.A resident of Sabuwal village near Lohian, she had seen three centuries happily. Nearly a month ago, her family members had sought world record on her name as the oldest woman in the world.Five of her nine children, her husband and brothers and sisters have already died. Apart from her children, she is survived by 12 grandsons and 13 granddaughters, five great-grandsons and three great-granddaughters. She had lost her eyesight, quite a few years ago.Her family members claimed that Kaur had never been to a doctor. Although the family members claim her age to be 132 years, her official age was 124 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/124-year-old-basant-kaur-passes-away-in-jalandhar-village-302771
27-08-2021||---||5 fresh Covid cases, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 26A total of five new Covid cases were reported on Thursday from the district, taking the district tally to 63,214 cases. No Covid death was reported today. The deceased tally remained at 1,491. As many as 61,687 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases are 36.One dies in KapurthalaAs many as four persons were tested positive for Covid from Kapurthala on Thursday, taking the tally to 17,799. One death from Covid was also reported. The deceased was a 60-year-old woman from Phagwara.4 +ve cases in HoshiarpurWith four fresh Covid cases reported on Thursday, the district tally increased to 30,709. The district did not report any new Covid death today. The number of active cases in the district are 15.No case in NawanshahrNo case was reported from Nawanshahr on Thursday. The tally of infected patients stood at 11,443. The death toll is 380. There are seven active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-302772
27-08-2021||---||Minor’s rape: Police yet to trace accused||Jalandhar, August 26The police have failed to arrest so far the rape accused who had allegedly physically assaulted the 16-year-old daughter of his friend six days ago here.The incident took place at a village near the Jandiala police chowki on August 21. The victim was reportedly alone in her house when the incident took place.ASI Surinder Pal Singh, in-charge, said the accused, identified a Kulwinder Singh (42), alias Kaka, a resident of Thabalke village entered the house of the victim when her family members had gone out. Before raping the minor, the accused thrashed her brutally. After committing the crime, he fled from the spot. A student of Class XI, the victim narrated her ordeal to her family and the police. The victim’s father told the police that the accused used to visit the house on occasions. He had been keeping a bad eye on the girl, the family members added.After verifying the footage of CCTVs of the entire village, the police could not trace the accused. A case under the POCSO Act has been registered against Kulwinder at the Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minors-rape-police-yet-to-trace-accused-302774
27-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Five booked for bank fraud||2 robbers held, valuables seizedHoshiarpur: The police have arrested two persons for snatching Rs 2.20 lakh in cash and gold-silver jewellery. During a press conference, SSP Amneet Kondal said a special drive has been initiated in the district under the supervision of Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, SP (Investigation), Hoshiarpur. They arrested two robbers on August 25 and recovered gold-silver jewellery, mobile phones and a bike used in snatching incidents from them. The SSP said on August 10, a teacher Navneet Kaur was returning home from Dashmesh Public School, Mukerian. At about 3:30pm she was going to Jeeya Natha village. When she reached near Ram Lal of Kudda’s motor, two unknown bike-borne persons snatched her gold chain, gold earrings, gold ring, mobile phone and handbag containing Rs 2,20,000 and sped away. An FIR was registered at the Tanda police station in this regard. OC28-year-old man found deadJalandhar: A youth was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Lamba Pind Chowk. An injection along with intoxicants was also found near the body of the deceased. The police took the body in their possession and sent it for post-mortem. The deceased had injury marks around his neck as well. The deceased has been identified as Hussain (28). Inspector Kamaljit Singh, SHO, Ramamandi police station, said a case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered. TNSAttack on asi: no clue of culpritsGarhshankar: The Mahilpur police have booked unidentified persons in a case wherein an ASI of traffic police was attacked and one of his legs was amputated. Makhan Singh, a resident of Aiman Jattan village, had spotted the ASI, identified as Amrik Singh, lying critically injured on the tracks of the Bist Doab canal and informed the village sarpanch about it. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, for treatment from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, in critical condition. The police have started a probe. OCTwo arrested with liquor, intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and recovered huge quantity of narcotics from them. According to information, the Garhdiwala police station have arrested Ranjha, a resident of Chohka village and recovered 44 gram of intoxicating powder from him. Meanwhile. the police of Bullowal have arrested Kotla Nodh Singh village resident Kewal Ram, and recovered 11 bottles of liquor from him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-five-booked-for-bank-fraud-302775
