28-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: Govt teachers receive cash awards, appreciation letters||Jalandhar, August 27The School Education Department District Level Teachers’ Festival which began on Thursday continued today. The festival was being observed in the form of a series of events regarding the research inclinations and teaching activities of teachers.The festival was held under District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal and Deputy District Education Officer Rajiv Joshi at the Meritorious School in Jalandhar.The duo said the various contests being held on the occasion under the SCERT, saw the participation of subject-wise teachers who won the block-level contests.On its second day today, the contests in maths, science, drawing and vocational subjects were witnessed. Notably, the block level contests of all these subjects have already been held and district level contests are being conducted now.Reeti Sharma from Government Model Senior Secondary School PAP Campus won the first position in maths; Harpreet Kaur from Senior Secondary School, Nurmahal, and Deepak Kumar from Senior Secondary School, Nurpur, won the second position. In science subject, Amanjot Kaur from Government High School, Raipur, Rasoolpur, won the first position.In the drawing contest, Gurvinder Singh from Government Senior Secondary School, Tihang, won the first position. The winners will get a chance to compete in the state-level teacher test to be held at Amritsar. Principal Kuldip Kaur said the teachers bagging the first three positions were awarded with appreciation letters which those getting the first position in the contests were rewarded with Rs 2,100.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-govt-teachers-receive-cash-awards-appreciation-letters-303203
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur University of Law, Tarn Taran, to create job opportunities for youth’||Hoshiarpur, August 27Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday said the Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur University of Law being set up at Kairon village in Tarn Taran district would prove to be a milestone in the education sector in general and particular in the field of legal studies.Joining the online foundation stone laying ceremony, the minister, who was participating from Hoshiarpur, said the Punjab Government’s first law university would open new vistas for students aspiring for legal studies.Lauding the initiative, Arora said the government would also inaugurate 18 new degree colleges and 25 ITIs in the state. He said the Industries Department had made requisite arrangements with MMTC for the purpose of designing and fabrication of the commemorative medallions, to mark the 400th Prakash Purb celebrations of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur, minted and made available at all Phulkari Emporiums in Punjab for the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sri-guru-tegh-bahadur-university-of-law-tarn-taran-to-create-job-opportunities-for-youth-303204
28-08-2021||Jalandhar||Hockey academy distributes kits among budding players||The RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy launched the Jeetega Punjab initiative, under which it distributed hockey kits to a total of 580 young players at ten of its development centres in five districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Ropar, Tarn Taran, and Amritsar — across Punjab.The campaign was launched earlier in August. Coach Varinder Singh distributed 100 hockey kits among kids to mark the launch.Singh said, “The Indian hockey team dominated the sport in the past and that glory is slowly coming back as evident from our performances at Tokyo. It’s time the youth of Punjab pick up hockey sticks again and convert the bronze into gold at Paris. There is no better time for such an initiative that provides young players the freedom to play a sport of their choice and chase their dreams.”The campaign is aimed at nurturing young talent in Punjab by giving them the opportunity and necessary equipment to play hockey.Commenting on India’s recent Olympics success, Sunny (Gurpreet) Singh, Founder, RoundGlass, said, “Punjab has always been known for its sportsmanship and winnng mindset. Given India’s recent performance at Tokyo, there is no doubt that the state can produce sports legends”The kits include training equipment such as stack suit, hockey stick, shoes, stockings, shin pad, polo T-shirt, water bottle, mouth guard, and more. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-academy-distributes-kits-among-budding-players-303205
28-08-2021||Jalandhar||Bizmen rue rising prices of chemicals||Rubber manufacturers have been irked over skyrocketing prices of chemicals and raw materials used in the manufacturing of rubber products. They said in the last 15-20 days, prices have increased up to 30-35 per cent.Neeraj Arora, a manufacturer said: “With increase in prices, the industry will get destroyed and there will be no coming back.” The manufacturers also released a list showing increased prices. The manufacturers said all this was happening because of shortage of material in the market. The manufacturers have also sent the memorandum to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.The rubber industrialists had earlier also raised several issues with the government. “The industry is already going through several problems and this new issue has only proved double whammy for the manufacturers,” they said.Punjab’s rubber industry is concentrated in Jalandhar, which has over 300 units of rubber footwear industry. These have now been reduced to around 100 as per members of the Rubber Footwear Manufacturer Association.While earlier highlighting issues of the industry, the industrialists had said non-refund of VAT and GST on rubber have jeopardised the future of industrialists as they were facing a huge shortage of working capital.The members had been writing to every minister and officials of the Industry Department at local, state and Central-level, but to no avail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bizmen-rue-rising-prices-of-chemicals-303206
28-08-2021||Jalandhar||Youngest researcher award for Pharmacy student of CT Group, Jalandhar||Women’s Equality Day celebratedWomen’s Equality Day commemorates 26th August 1920 when votes to women officially became part of the US Constitution. This day marks a turning point in the history of the struggle for equal treatment of women and women’s rights. Women’s Equality Day was celebrated at the Eklavya School by discussing the history of first female Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi. Educator Gurpreet Kaur shared the information about World Equality Day with the students of Eklavya School. The middle school students were told the story of Rani Laxmi Bai and primary students made posters of Rani Laxmi Bai, Indra Gandhi and Kalpana Chawla. The Principal Komal Arora encouraged the students to protect this constitutional right. Teachers also shared the biography of Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams with the senior school students. Director Seema Handa pledged to continue fighting for equality for women. It was dicussed that women of the world deserve an equal future free from stigma, stereotypes and violence; a future that’s sustainable, peaceful, with equal rights and opportunities for all. Chairperson of Eklavya School JK Gupta shared his views on Women Equality Day with the students and also appreciated the posters made by the primary students. The Administrator, Dimpal Malhotra said such kinds of days should be observed among youngsters in order to make them fully aware.Awareness session on Domestic WasteAn awareness programme on ‘Disposal of Hazardous Domestic Waste’ was organised by Unnat Bharat Abhiyan team of Hans Raj Mhila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, under Principal, Dr Ajay Sareen. Ramanpreet Kaur, Community Facilitator, briefed about the theme of the awareness programme and explained about the different types of domestic hazardous waste. Krishan Sharma, Health Officer, explained that it is very important to segregate the domestic waste into different categories by putting them into dustbins of different colours. He also explained that during the Covid times there is need to have good immunity which can be attained if we keep our surroundings clean by disposing off the waste properly. Suman from Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, said any change in the system can be made with joint efforts of the villagers and Municipal Corporation.Janmashtami celebratedJanmashtami was celebrated at Sanskriti KMV School, Jalandhar, with fervour. The fragrance of flowers, soothing aroma of camphor and jingles of bells filled the air. The premises was decorated beautifully signifying excitement, euphoria and joyous spirit of enthrallment. Images of Krishna’s infancy were placed in a cradle. Students attired as Lord Krishna and Radha, wearing wonderful smiles on their faces, complete with flutes, peacock feathers and ‘matkas’. The life history of Lord Krishna was beautifully depicted by scintillating dance performance. There was a ‘Bhajan’ recital as well. Rachna Monga, Principal, blessed all the students on this auspicious day and gave them the message of looking ahead instead of reminiscing in the past and reminded the students of Lord Krishna’s teachings. Her words truly summed up the efficacy of celebrating festivals of devotion and obedience towards parents and teachers.SD Model Class X resultsJalandhar: Results of SD Model School, Jalandhar Cantt, in ICSE Class X exams cheered all staff and students. All students of the school achieved first division in Class X ICSE board examinations. Principal, teachers and all staff congratulated students and parents and conveyed best wishes for their upcoming career. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youngest-researcher-award-for-pharmacy-student-of-ct-group-jalandhar-303207
28-08-2021||---||39 girl students get job offers||Nawanshahr, August 27A placement camp was organised in Nawanshahr that was attended by 67 girls, out of which 39 candidates were selected by a private company after conducting walk in interview. Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasbir Singh congratulated the selected girls and wished them a bright future. District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Officer, Sanjeev Kumar said the placement camps are conducted every Tuesday and Thursday. He said that for any information regarding the camps, the helpline number of the bureau can be contacted on 88727-59915 during office hours on working days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/39-girl-students-get-job-offers-303208
28-08-2021||---||Disability activist seeks legal aid for minor victim in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 27Disability activist Amarjit Singh Anand has written to the State Disability Commissioner on the issue of a molestation of a 14-year-old speech and hearing impaired girl in the district.In his complaint to the disability commissioner sent on August 23, Anand sought counselling and follow-up in the case by the DCPO. He also sought proper diet provision and compensation for the girl. He demanded a proper legal aid in the case from the District Legal Service Authority for the girl’s family.A constable in the Police Department had been arrested for trying to rape a speech and hearing impaired minor on August 20 . She is a resident of Santokhpura area in Jalandhar.Daughter of a factory worker, the girl was molested by a resident of the same colony where she lives on rent. The accused is an acquaintance of the family. He works as a driver with the Police Department. The accused has been nabbed. The police said an FIR was lodged under Sections 376 and 511 of the IPC, Section 8 of the POCSO Act, Section 3 of SC Act. The girl’s victim’s grandmother said, “The man misbehaved with my granddaughter when her brother went out to play. The girl’s clothes were unbuttoned and ripped.”The officiating SHO Nirmal Singh said, “The accused tried to molest her while her family was away. He has been arrested. Further due process of investigation is being followed in the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disability-activist-seeks-legal-aid-for-minor-victim-in-jalandhar-303209
28-08-2021||---||Health team collects two food samples from Haveli||Jalandhar, August 27A day after a video went viral showing rat roaming at Haveli restaurant’s food counter, health teams today raided the famous eatery and took food samples.Also read: Rat found roaming on Haveli’s food counterThe team of food wing of the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Kapurthala, led by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, FDA, along with Mukul Gill, Food Safety Officer, Kapurthala inspected the restaurant. In the video a rat moving in a glass cabinet could be witnessed. While acting on the video, Haveli management had already destroyed the contents of the cabinet.The team took two food samples of paneer and dal prepared from the outlet.These samples seized today have been sent to the State Food Laboratory Kharar, Mohali for analysis and report. The teams said as per report of the analysis, legal action will be initiated against the violators.The restaurant management informed the team that they had tied up with Pest Management of India, Rama Mandi Jalandhar, as far as pest control of the unit is concerned.Team of the food wing inspected the premises of the establishment thoroughly. Health teams said nothing objectionable was found during the course of the inspection. The teams strictly directed the management of the outlet to take necessary precautions and such other steps in order to ensure that such kind of incidents don’t occur in time to come.The team issued directions to ensure proper hygiene of the premises, to install mesh work, glass showcase and such other suitable devices/measures, as are feasible to cover the food so that the same is not exposed to insects, rodents etc. they also directed to ensure proper personal hygiene of the workers especially food handlers (those who come in direct contact with food) to wear cap, gloves etc..They were also instructed that there should be separate facility of water for drinking purposes and for cleaning the utensils and utensils meant to be used for the preparation of the food items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-team-collects-two-food-samples-from-haveli-303210
28-08-2021||Jalandhar||5 catch virus in Jalandhar district||The health authorities reported five new cases on Friday, thus taking the tally to 63,219. Of these, two cases were from other districts.The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death today in the district. The toll stood at 1,491. As many as 61,691 people recovered from the virus in the district so far while the district has 37 active casesNo case reported in K’thalaNo positive case was reported in Kapurthala district by the health authorities today. The remained at 17,799. No death was reported in Kapurthala.1 test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported one case on Friday. The case was reported from Mukandpur block. The positive cases are 11,444 and active cases are eight, all of them under home isolation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-catch-virus-in-jalandhar-district-303211
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Man booked for rape, cheating||Hoshiarpur, August 27The city police have booked a person for allegedly raping a woman and duping her of Rs43 lakh. A woman from local Hoshiarpur locality has complained in this regard to the city police that Maninder Singh Shergill, a resident of Jawaharpur village under police station Dera Bassi, District SAS Nagar, physically exploited her and duped her of Rs43 lakh. An enquiry over the complaint was conducted by DSP Jagdish Raj and on the basis of the enquiry report the city police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-rape-cheating-303213
28-08-2021||---||Schools open in Nawanshahr, staff yet to be jabbed||Jalandhar, August 27As per the latest report by the district Education Department, as many as 246 teaching and non-teaching staff of government senior secondary schools in Nawanshahr have their second dose of vaccine pending whereas 40 staff members from the school have not got even a single dose of vaccine.The reason why these 40 staff members have not got inoculated is because they are not eligible as they suffer from various medical problems.In Aur block, five staff members have not got any dose of vaccine whereas in Balachaur-1 and Balachaur-2 blocks, six and seven staff members have not got themselves inoculated. Nine members (teaching and non-teaching staff) have not taken the jab in Banga, whereas in Mukandpur, Nawanshahr-1 and Saroya, the number is two, 10 and three, respectively.As many as 1,683 employees have taken their first dose of Covishield and 60 have taken their first dose of Covaxin.Jalandhar Tribune had highlighted that the vaccination of teachers was going on at full pace and that the maximum number of teachers and non-teaching staff was also inoculated, but the actual data was not getting updated on the official website of the Education Department.Sources said there was a problem that arose with the update at the website, and it was being shown that still a large number of teachers in the district had not taken the vaccination shot. The Education Secretary had already given the instructions to complete the process at the earliest.The problem still persists. An official of the Education Department said there was a technical problem that is troubling. “There are several teachers who got transferred from other districts to Nawanshahr and have got inoculated here, but on the website, their names are not being updated under Nawanshahr column,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-open-in-nawanshahr-staff-yet-to-be-jabbed-303214
28-08-2021||Jalandhar||Govt to recruit retired patwaris, kanungos in Jalandhar||The state government has decided to recruit retired patwaris and kanungos on a contract basis for 221 posts vacant in the district.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said as per the approval received from the Finance Department, this recruitment would be carried out till July 31, 2022.He said a committee has been constituted at the district level to fill up 221 vacant posts. The committee comprises the Additional Deputy Commissioner (G), SDM and District Revenue Officer.Retired patwaris/kanungos would get a fixed salary of Rs 25,000 per month. Those applying for the posts should not be more than 64 years of age and no criminal case or departmental investigation conducted against them.The Deputy Commissioner said applications for recruitment can be submitted from September 1 to September 15 with the District Revenue Office at the District Administrative Complex. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-to-recruit-retired-patwaris-kanungos-in-jalandhar-303215
28-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with intoxicants||Man robbed of mobile, cashHoshiarpur: Three unidentified masked robbers looted Rs10,000 in cash and a mobile phone from a vegetable seller. Khullu, a resident of Kukkran village under police station Mahilpur has complained to police in this regard. He said he was going to Mahilpur vegetable market to buy vegetables on his mobile motorcycle vend to purchase the vegetables. When he reached near the Baddoyan village, three bike-borne masked robbers stop him and started beating him. They took out the key of his motorcycle and snatched his mobile phone along with Rs 10,000 in cash from his pocket and fled. The Mahilpur police have registered an FIR against three unidentified persons under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code. The police said they would soon arrest the miscreants. OCThieves decamp with liquor, Rs8kHoshiarpur: The Model Town Police have lodged an FIR against unidentified thieves for stealing 14 boxes of liquor worth Rs1 lakh and 8,000 in cash from a liquor vend at Piplanwala. Shammi Pathania, the salesman of the liquor vend told the police that on Thursday late night some unidentified thieves broke into the vend and decamped with 14 boxes of liquor worth rupees one lakh and Rs 8,000 in cash lying in the cash box of the vend. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-intoxicants-303216
28-08-2021||---||Hoshiarpur: Eco-tourism projects to come up at Chohal, Saleran dams||Hoshiarpur, August 27In a bid to boost eco-tourism in the foothills of Shivaliks, the state government is all set to establish two significant projects directly linked with nature and unprecedented beauty. These ‘Nature awareness camps’ will be set up at Chohal and Saleran dams situated in the vicinity of Hoshiarpur city.In the first phase, the ‘Nature awareness camp’ will be established at Chohal Dam, which would be developed at a cost of Rs 60 lakh.Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday asserted that these projects would not only boost eco-tourism in the area, but also generate awareness among masses for preservation of nature and resources.Green leap“The proposals submitted by the Forest Department regarding these projects have been approved and requisite funds for the first phase will be released shortly,” said the minister.He said these spots would further create awareness of biodiversity conservation and environmental issues, besides disseminating the message of clean, green and pollution-free Punjab.Arora pointed out that tourists would get exposure to the local flora and fauna as well as variety of tree species and wildlife under nature awareness camp project.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, emphasised that Hoshiarpur had great potential of eco-tourism as it was full of scenic beauty of nature and its resources.Dr Sanjeev Tiwari, Conservator, North Zone (Hoshiarpur), informed that the nature camp site at Chohal would be equipped with various activities for visitors, including living in tents, nature walk in the forest, bonfire, star gazing, boating, observation of flora and fauna, exposure to rural ways of life and culture of people living around.He said awareness session through documentaries and cultural shows would also be the part of activities, besides educational visits for kids, where various competitions to be held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-eco-tourism-projects-to-come-up-at-chohal-saleran-dams-303219
28-08-2021||---||Sports College to get synthetic track after 24 yrs||Jalandhar, August 27After an endless wait of more than 24 years, the city will finally get a new synthetic track at the Sports College, before August 29 (National Sports Day). It was a long pending demand of athletes and coaches in the city.Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi would be visiting the city on August 28 and inaugurate the new synthetic track at the Sports College on Kapurthala road.As per information, the track was last laid in 1996, which had a shelf life of 10 years. “When a track is laid, it gives a bounce to players and over the years, it loses its bounciness. Now, the track is just like a road on which players are running,” said a coach.Last year, athletes had protested against the state government, over the dilapidated track. ‘Track banao, bhavishya bachao’, ‘Kheda val dhyan wadhaoge, fir hi nashe ghataoge’ and ‘Sharam naal sir jhuk jaanda hai, jad Punjab kheda vich piche aunda hai’, were some of the campaigns.The city-based athletes who had won silver medals in the South Asian Games had also protested as they were forced to practice on a 24-year-old damaged athletics track. They had rued that they managed to win medals by practising on the track, which was not fit for players.Athlete Tanya Chaudhary (23), who got injured in 2018, had also participated in the protest and said she had got injured due to the poor condition of the track.“To recover from an injury, a big amount is spent on treatment. What about our valuable time? Due to the injury, I could not take part in this year’s competitions,” she said.Tanya had won a gold medal in the Federation Cup and participated in the Asian Championship. She had won medals during the inter-university games as well.Apart from the synthetic track, inauguration of table Tennis Hall will be done by the minister. A swimming pool would also be upgraded to conduct water polo. Even hockey AstroTurf would be laid at Lyallpur Khalsa College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-college-to-get-synthetic-track-after-24-yrs-303220
28-08-2021||---||Dedicated to Olympians: Jalandhar's Mithapur village to get 3-acre park||Jalandhar, August 27Indian hockey team’s podium finish after 41 years is still on everyone’s mind in the state. And Mithapur, the village in Jalandhar from which three players — Manpreet Singh (captain), Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh — represented India in Tokyo Olympics, has come to the limelight after this victory.Now, as per the orders from the state government, a park in Mithapur village will be dedicated to the Olympians, for which a land of three acres is being taken into consideration. Mithapur comes under the ward of councillor Balraj Thakur. He has been planning and making proposal on the project. The estimate on the project will be up to Rs 2 crore.“We have received a message from the Punjab Government that a park will be dedicated to the three hockey stars of Mithapur. So, I have been discussing it with the MC Commissioner and the Mayor. The talks are still at early stage and we are planning a proposal on the same,” he said.“It’s a panchayati land on outskirts of the village. We will be giving proposal at next General House meeting. We have estimated that Rs 50 lakh to Rs 2 crore might be spent on the project,” said Thakur.A track will be constructed around the park, where people will be able to walk and do exercise and there will be a lawn too. “There are several ideas that we are discussing and the proposal will take a proper shape in coming days,” he said.Earlier, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, had said the state government has renamed 10 schools after the Olympic medal-winning hockey team players from the state. Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Mithapur, Jalandhar, has been named after captain Manpreet Singh. The school will now be known as Olympian Manpreet Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Mithapur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dedicated-to-olympians-jalandhars-mithapur-village-to-get-3-acre-park-303221
28-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Punjab farmers to attend UP mahapanchayat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 27A day after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called for a huge protest on the first day of its All-India Convention at Singhu, preparations have begun for participation of Punjab farmers at the mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on September 5.The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat is being held as part of the ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ against the BJP, ahead of the UP Assembly elections next year.It is the first UP mahapanchayat to witness the presence of such a huge number of Punjab farmers. A decision regarding this was taken at the second day of the All-India Convention at Singhu today. In Doaba, mobilisation for the mahapanchayat has begun at the ground level.Largest ‘jatha’Our union alone will take 100 to 200 vehicles to Muzaffarnagar. This is the largest ‘jatha’ we are taking for a mahapanchayat in another state. —Balwinder Singh Raju, Farmer leaderFarmer leader Onkar Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal), said, “During the convention, it has been decided that farmers in large numbers will gather at the UP mahapanchayat. It has been nine months and over 600 farmers have died. The Muzaffarnagar rally is an extended call to all farmers of the country.”He said it was also decided during the convention that the SKM should have units in each state and district of the country. Balwinder Singh Raju, president, Majha Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Our union alone will take 100 to 200 vehicles at the panchayat. We will start on September 3 or 4 and a huge cavalcade will head to Muzaffarnagar. This is the largest jatha we are taking for a mahapanchayat in another state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-farmers-to-attend-up-mahapanchayat-302887
