29-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Intoxicants, liquor seized in Hoshiarpur||Saplings planted at DAV schoolHoshiarpur: A van mahotsav was organised at DAV Senior Secondary School on Saturday. On the occasion, saplings were planted on the school premises under the leadership of Dr Anoop Kumar, president, DAV College managing committee, Hoshiarpur. Manoj Kapoor, director of Triple M, and Manoj Gupta, Pathankot Vibhag Sampark Pramukh of RSS, were present as special guests. School principal Monika Sood welcomed the guests and apprised the students of the importance of forests in protecting the environment. Special guests Manoj Kapoor, Manoj Gupta and Dr Anoop started the van mahotsav by planting saplings. Members of DAV CMC, Principal Gautam Mehta, Prof Sharanjit, Swaran Kumar, YP Joshi, Director of DAV College of Education Dr Shyam Sunder Sharma along with staff members and students also planted saplings. Dr Anoop said only trees could ensure a clean and healthy environment, so we all should not only plant saplings but also take care of them. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-liquor-seized-in-hoshiarpur-303698
29-08-2021||Jalandhar||Lathicharge on farmers flayed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lathicharge-on-farmers-flayed-303697
29-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Fit India Freedom Run flagged off in Hoshiarpur||Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora flagged off Fit India Freedom Run on Saturday as a part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahaotsav organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra on the occasion of 75th Independence Day.The minister himself took part in the Freedom Run and conveyed the message to be more health conscious. The run which started from War Memorial Hoshiarpur ended at Government College Hoshiarpur. Before this, Arora paid homage to the martyrs and urged people to exercise for half an hour daily and administered the oath for it.Rakesh Kumar, District Youth Coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, Hoshiarpur, said after the Freedom Run at the district headquarters, the Freedom Run would be organised in 75 more villages of the district till October 2. He said a short programme would be held in the end of the programme to discuss the achievements of India from freedom struggle to the development of the country.Rakesh Kumar said video messages from eminent gentlemen of the society would be recorded and uploaded on the website of the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. This will make the views of influential people of the society as well as important people of the society, far and wide accessible on the national stage. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fit-india-freedom-run-flagged-off-in-hoshiarpur-303696
29-08-2021||Jalandhar||Sports infra in Jalandhar gets boost worth Rs7.75 cr||Punjab Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of three local sports infrastructure projects worth Rs7.75 crore, besides inaugurating an AstroTurf at the Lyallpur Khalsa College. Accompanied by MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Rajinder Beri, Avtar Henry Junior, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, MC councillor Sunita Rinku, the minister first laid the foundation stone of the project of renovating table tennis hall in the Hansraj Stadium which would cost Rs1 crore. He said under the project, LED lighting, new wooden floor, washrooms and changing rooms along with new roof inside the hall would be ensured within the next few months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-infra-in-jalandhar-gets-boost-worth-rs7-75-cr-303695
29-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Chabbewal MLA apprises CM of SC issues||Hoshiarpur, August 28MLA Chabbewal and Chairman of Scheduled Castes wing of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, Dr Raj Kumar held a special meeting with the officers and members of the SC Department at the Congress Bhawan on Friday.Suresh Kumar, national coordinator, SC Department, also participated in the meeting. After the meeting, Suresh Kumar and Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal held a special meeting with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and apprised him of the SC issues.Dr Raj Kumar thanked Captain Amarinder for waiving the loans of landless farmers and labourers and giving grants for broken roofs of houses. Lauding the state government’s decision of raising the amount of the Shagun Scheme, old age pension and widow pension, Dr Raj said these schemes have benefitted the SC and poor families.Apart from thanking him, Dr Raj Kumar also briefed the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh of other expectations and demands related to the deprived sections of society. He demanded an early implementation of the Scheduled Castes Sub Plan Act which has been announced recently and re-looks at the rejected cases of Shagun Scheme, to waive pending bills of water and sewerage, and also to issue more smart cards. He also appealed to the Chief Minister to fill the pending positions of the SC quota in different boards and corporations. He hoped that on the demand letter given by the SC Department, Captain Amarinder Singh would definitely accept his request by providing his consent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-apprises-cm-of-sc-issues-303694
29-08-2021||---||58% beneficiaries inoculated in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 28As many as 58.01 per cent of the population (12,73, 840 persons) has been vaccinated in Jalandhar district to tackle the pandemic. The district has a total population of 21,93,590.Jalandhar ranked fourth among all districts in the state. SAS Nagar (with whopping 91.775 per cent), Hoshiarpur (67.488 per cent) and Pathankot (62.455 per cent) fared better than Jalandhar.Those in the age group of 45 to 59 years were among the most vaccinated and healthcare workers were among the least inoculated in Jalandhar district.In the age group of 45 to 59 years, as many as 4,03,582 persons have been vaccinated. From 18 to 44 years, 3,96,675 beneficiaries, have been jabbed. In 60 plus category, 3,13,948 residents, have been inoculated.Among frontline workers, 1,25,554 have been vaccinated, and only 34,081 healthcare workers have been administered the dose in the district.Till June, 30.4 per cent persons, were vaccinated in the district. In the last two months, the authorities inoculated 28 per cent beneficiaries.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “With supply more or less normalised, the pace of vaccination has picked up. Barring a couple, no vaccination camps were held on Saturday, but regular drives were being held on weekdays.”While 10 million people were jabbed in the country on August 27, 45.8 per cent beneficiaries were vaccinated in the state till August 26.Dist reports one death, 1 +ve caseJalandhar: One new Covid case was reported in the district on Saturday taking the total district tally to 63,220 cases. A Covid death was also reported in the district. The toll has reached 1,492. As many as 61,701 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27.One case, no death in KapurthalaA 25-year-old resident of Banga tested positive in Kapurthala on Saturday, taking the tally to 17,800 cases. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala.4 cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The health authorities reported four new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 30,719.The authorities reported no Covid-related death on Saturday in the district. The toll stood at 980. As many as 29,717 people recovered from the virus in the district so far while the district has 22 active cases. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/58-beneficiaries-inoculated-in-jalandhar-district-303692
29-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar cops still groping in the dark||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 28After over one-and-a-half months of investigation, the rural police are still groping in the dark regarding the murder of two women.The police could neither identify the two women, nor nab the accused. The bodies of the deceased were spotted by some locals at Raipur-Ballan and Raipur-Rusulpur village, near Pathankot Chowk, respectively.While the pictures of the bodies, which were found half naked, were circulated in the area, the police couldn’t trace them down. As per sources, various suspects were called in for questioning based on their mobile networks located near the bodies but the police couldn’t retrieve any concrete evidence.People under suspicion have also been directed not to leave the place until the blind murder mysteries were solved. The area police said further developments would only be established after the identification of the victims.In the first incident, a woman in her early 20s was reportedly shot dead in broad daylight on July 14. Her body was found abandoned near a canal in Raipur Ballan village, near Pathankot Chowk Road.Prima facie, there was a deep bullet injury inflicted on her forehead. While the investigation is on, neither the girl was traced nor the accused. As per sources, the girl appeared to be a migrant from Nepal. A 7.65 mm bullet shell was also recovered near her body.Similarly in the second incidence, another body of a woman was found abandoned at a canal in Raipur-Rusulpur village on the same road on August 3. The deceased was also spotted in a half-naked state. In her late 30s, the woman appeared to be a local resident. There were deep cuts and injury marks on her body and the head was smashed with a stone. The Maqsudan police had then stated that the body was lying there for nearly 4-5 days.Meanwhile, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Naveen Singhla said, the police were on their toes to solve the murder mysteries.“Apart from verifying the CCTV footages, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed, comprising the CIA staff police, SP and DSP Kartarpur. They have been tracking down the identities of the two women. As part of the extensive exercise, in the first case, the finger prints of the deceased were taken to check her Aadhaar identity, however, due to technical glitches, the SIT couldn’t succeed. Apart from that, the first-hand information of the girl and her picture was also published in local publications, but to no avail. One of the key clues that the police are now investigating about is a Christ locket.Besides in the second case, patrolling teams have been deployed in the village to locate the whereabouts of the woman. She was attacked with a sharp weapon. Locals around were also being approached to identify the victim, the SSP said. Initial probe under Section 174 of the CrPC were initiated at Maqsudan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cops-still-groping-in-the-dark-303691
29-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Football sensation, Adampur boy Anwar Ali gets his birthday gift||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 28The two-year wait of this Gujjar family living at Chumo village in Adampur here to see their son and football sensation Anwar Ali back in the mainstream game finally got over after the All-India Football Federation last evening cleared him to play the game. The decision also came as a birthday gift for the star player who turned 20 today (Saturday).Diagnosed with a congenital heart defect, he (the U-17 World Cup Indian defender of 2017) had been debarred by the AIFF’s medical committee from playing competitive football. He got training from Minerva Academy in Mohali, and had won accolades and a huge fan following after having represented India in the U-15, U-17 and U-19 events internationally when he was diagnosed with the problem at a Mumbai-based hospital during a medical examination.Razaak Ali, father of Anwar, says he had never lost hope all these years. “I had always believed that he is God’s child. Allah ne usko janam din ka tohfa diya hai. I knew that He will take care of him and that he will surely be back in the game to represent the country at the highest level. The executive committee of the AIFF has asked Anwar Ali to submit an affidavit taking all responsibility and medical precautions to make him eligible for competitive football, for which he was always ready.”Notably, all this while, Ali never looked back and continued with his fitness regimen and the game as he had challenged the decision of the AIFF in the Delhi High Court which in October last year had allowed him to continue playing till the AIFF arrived at a final decision. He had then joined Techtro Swades United Club and was once again seen in the grounds.Razaak Ali maintained, “I had always said that there was no point in stopping him from pursuing his passion and livelihood especially when he showed no signs of fatigue or loss of stamina. All the recent setbacks have rather made him gain more physical and mental strength and he is set to return stronger now.”Popularly known as ‘Billa’ for his light brown eyes, residents of his village too are celebrating his return to the mainstream game. “We now hope to see back our boy in full form the way he emerged in the U-17 FIFA team in 2017 that won 2-0 against Italy and in the U-20 COTIF Cup in 2018 against Argentina.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/football-sensation-adampur-boy-anwar-ali-gets-his-birthday-gift-303690
29-08-2021||Fazilka||Surjit Kumar Jyani seeks more trains for Fazilka||Former Health Minister Surjit Kumar Jyani yesterday met Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in New Delhi and demanded more trains for Fazilka.In a memorandum submitted to the Railway Minister, Jyani demanded extending the Chandigarh-Ferozepur train to Fazilka. He pleaded that the Mumbai-Ferozepur Punjab mail train should be extended to Sriganganagar via Fazilka-Abohar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-kumar-jyani-seeks-more-trains-for-fazilka-303488
29-08-2021||Jalandhar||BSP to hold rally in Phagwara today||The BSP is set to hold a mammoth state-level ‘Alakh Jagao Rally’ tomorrow at Phagwara grain market and is likely to announce its state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi as the candidate from here.His candidature is expected to be announced in the presence of BSP national vice-president Anand Kumar, national coordinator of the party Akash Anand and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsp-to-hold-rally-in-phagwara-today-303487
29-08-2021||---||Tech vigil must during festive season, says DGP||Jalandhar, August 28Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta today directed all CPs/SSPs to launch preventive, precautionary and operational security measures to ensure peace and communal harmony in the state.“Intelligent and smart policing, which involves use of technology and tradecraft, needs to be implemented at the ground level,” said DGP Gupta, while addressing a state-level crime review meeting at the Punjab Armed Police (PAP) campus here. The meeting took place at a time when the state has been witnessing a huge influx of grenades and RDX-laden tiffin boxes besides recovery of other arms and ammunition, signalling major attempts being made by anti-national elements to disturb peace and communal harmony in the border state. With festival season also around the corner, DGP Gupta directed the CPs/SSPs to keep vigil at all sensitive places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tech-vigil-must-during-festive-season-says-dgp-303356
