30-08-2021||Jalandhar||Acid attack leaves 47-year-old Jalandhar woman with 35-40% burns||Acid attack on a 47-year-old woman left her critically injured, police said on Monday.A fellow factory worker whom police identified as Sohal Lal (50) was arrested.The victim, Raj Rani, suffered 35-40 per cent burns, police said, and was admitted to the district civil hospital. The burns were primarily on her face, hands and knees, police said.Both the suspect and the victim worked at Vijay Factory, a hardware manufacturing unit near Focal Point. The victim’s 20-year-old son, who also works at the same factory as his mother, said, said that the victim and the suspect had an argument."I took my mother to the hospital on my bike. She was in unbearable pain. After a verbal spat with my mother, the suspect threw nearly 50 ML acid at her,” he said.Police said that co-workers caught hold of the suspect and handed him in to law enforcement authorities.The victim’s 19-year-old daughter Maneesha quoted doctors as saying that the acid had damaged her vision.Assistant Sub Inspector Madan Singh, a cop at the Focal Point Police station who was investigating the case, said they were still investigating the case and had yet to know what prompted the attack.“We’re checking security cameras in the factory,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/acid-attack-leaves-47-year-old-jalandhar-woman-with-35-40-burns-304186
30-08-2021||---||Remembering the wizard with a golden hockey stick||Jalandhar, August 29Surjit Hockey Society and Surjit Hockey Academy, that gained much prominence after Tokyo Olympics, jointly celebrated National Sports Day and the birth anniversary of the great hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand. Hockey Captain Mandeep Singh and players Manpreet Singh, Varun Kumar and others started their hockey journey from Surjit Hockey Society only.Ever since, the hockey team won silver medal in the Olympics, a large number of budding hockey players registered themselves to take admission in the hockey society.National Sports Day: History & significanceAddressing the players and their parents at the function held at the local Guru Gobind Singh Stadium today, Punjab chief hockey coach Olympian Rajinder Singh (Dronacharya Awardee) highlighted the history and significance of National Sports Day. He stressed on the importance of sports in the physical and mental health of human beings and said, people who play sports stay healthy.Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Surjit Hockey Society and Academy while congratulating the players on National Sports Day and the birthday of the hockey player Major Dhyan Chand, briefed the players about the sporting achievements of Dhyan Chand.On this occasion, chief PRO Surinder Singh Bhapa, coach Davinder Singh, coach Parmjit, Naresh Kumar, Gurmeet Singh etc., were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-the-wizard-with-a-golden-hockey-stick-304101
30-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Stay healthy: You can ride across Hoshiarpur on a smart bike now||Hoshiarpur, August 29Under the Mission Tandarust Punjab, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Sunday kick-started the Hoshiarpur Smart Bikes Project on the occasion of National Sports Day.Launching the project, the minister said the project had been commenced to promote cycling in the area, which would certainly facilitate all those persons interested in cycling.A cycle rally was also organised on the occasion, in which the Cabinet Minister, the Mayor, the Deputy Commissioner and other officials also took part. A video highlighting different features of smart bikes was also shown to people.How to avail the facility?Interacting with mediapersons, the minister said the project was a gift to the people of Hoshiarpur on National Sports Day. As the city and its surroundings had enough space for cycling, the minister said cyclists from other districts too came here for this purpose. The Punjab Government was always committed to encouraging youngsters towards their health and sports to build a healthy society, he added.Sunder Sham Arora said the project would provide an opportunity to those people who wanted to start cycling by getting these smart bikes at affordable prices.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait mentioned that three cycle stands for these smart bikes had been made in front of the main gate of the Zila Parishad Office. She said a special YAANA app had been created, which could be downloaded on all smart phones and people could take these bikes after scanning the QR code by making the requisite payment online. There were different membership plans for smart bikes as the project was all set to start in September.The cycle track, which starts from the Zila Parishad Office gate, pass Sadar Police Station Chowk, Kheti Bhawan, Indira Colony Chowk, Ring Road By-Pass to the Radha Soami Satsang centre T-point to Bullanwari Chowk to Services Club and then ends at the starting point.Prominent among those present on the occasion were Mayor Surinder Kumar, Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Saini, Deputy Mayor Ranjit Chaudhary, Improvement Trust Chairman Rakesh Marwaha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stay-healthy-you-can-ride-across-hoshiarpur-on-a-smart-bike-now-304102
30-08-2021||---||Khalsa College students keep date with National Sports Day||Jalandhar, August 29To mark the birth anniversary of hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand, National Sports Day was celebrated today at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. “As part of the holistic development of students, Lyallpur Khalsa College is devoted to provide opportunities for students in the field of sports as well as academics”, said Principal Gurpinder Singh Samra.The District Sports Officer, Gurpreet Singh, was the chief guest at the event. Speaking on the occasion, Samra elaborated the contribution of the college in the field of sports and future goals. He said our institute was committed to providing world-class facilities to the players, provided the students play their game with full dedication to the game with unity and concentration of mind, body, and soul.He said a separate sports wing has also been opened for girls in the college. “The response from the girls is overwhelming. The students playing with the spirit of dedication and determination to win would be given concession in fee besides food, coaching, and hostel facilities,” added Samra.On the occasion, cross country races were conducted in which 15 boys and five girls got prizes. Apart from this, 100m and 800m races, long jump, high jump etc. were conducted. Members of the Morning Walk Club, including MLA Rajinder Beri, attended the event. The chief guest of the function Gurpreet Singh encouraged students to participate in sports with honesty, loyalty, and true sportsmanship. He said that discipline plays a vital role in the achievements of the players. Dr SS Bains, Dean, Sports, apprised the students about the contribution made by hockey wizard Dhyan Chand in sports and asked him to take inspiration from him in his life.‘Encourage students to take part in sports activities’Hoshiarpur: On the occasion of National Sports Day, the Department of Physical Education and Sports, DAV College, Hoshiarpur, organised a webinar dedicated to the birth anniversary of hockey Olympian Major Dhyan Chand. During the webinar, keynote speaker Dr Baljinder Singh, assistant professor Guru Hargobind Khalsa College, Gurusar Sudhar, shared his views. Principal Dr Vinay said the purpose of the day was to introduce the young generation to the excellent performance of Indian players in various competitions and to encourage them to take part in sports with great enthusiasm. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khalsa-college-students-keep-date-with-national-sports-day-304103
30-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||NCC cadets run for fitness awareness||Fit India Freedom Run was organised by the NCC on Saturday under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. A large number of JD, JW, SD and SW cadets from various schools and colleges, under the direction of Colonel Deepak Sharma, Commanding Officer, 12 Punjab Battalion NCC, Hoshiarpur, participated in the event.NCC cadets from various schools/colleges affiliated to the battalion across the district participated in the Freedom Run, ranging from 1 to 4 km. During this, ANOs, CTOs, PI staff members and NCC cadets participated in the event organised in various villages and towns along with Hoshiarpur city. NCC officers told the cadets about the Amrit Mahotsav. NCC cadets of DAV Senior Secondary School participated in the Fit India Freedom Run under the supervision of NCC Officer Sanjiv Kumar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-cadets-run-for-fitness-awareness-304104
30-08-2021||---||Symbolism reigns supreme as SAD-BSP hold maiden rally||Jalandhar, August 29While the spotless white tents and drones, surveying every inch of a pandal, are steady fixtures of political rallies nowadays in the state ahead of elections, a new symbolism reigned supreme in the first joint SAD-BSP rally, after the recent alliance ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections. Dalit symbolism reigned supreme as blue-coloured tents and blue iconography dotted the stage.A huge flex set as the background for the stage featured the faces of Dalit icons — Jyotiba Phule, Narayan Guru, Dr BR Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram — was flanked by portraits of Akali and BSP leaders on both sides. A marked departure from previous Akali stages where Parkash and Sukhbir Badal’s portraits used to be the most prominent thing. The gathering also featured a large number of Dalit supporters, a siginificant change from previous times, where a large number of turbaned people comprise majority of the gathering at an Akali rally.While traditionally blue and saffron and traditional colours adorning Akali Dal’s rallies and paraphrenilia, the BSP has always been marked by blue. Barring SAD flags, which were still saffron, a new yellow replaced the former saffron coloured iconography of the Akali Dal on most of the fixtures.The stage platform was marked by a panel bearing elephant, BSP election symbol, and the takri (election symbol of SAD) turn by turn on yellow-blue backgrounds. The tents were in the same blue and yellow colours. The entire pandal featured huge photographs of Dr BR Ambedkar and BSP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/symbolism-reigns-supreme-as-sad-bsp-hold-maiden-rally-304105
30-08-2021||Jalandhar||Three Covid positive cases in Jalandhar district, no death||Three new Covid cases were reported today in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,223. No Covid death was reported in the district on Sunday. The deceased tally remained at 1,492. As many as 61,705 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 26.All well in KapurthalaNo Covid case was reported in Kapurthala today and the Covid tally remained 17,800. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala today.Nawanshahr logs 1 caseIn Nawanshahr, one case of Covid was reported today. The district’s total positive cases reached 11,446. No death was reported in Nawanshahr on Sunday.Six cases in HoshiarpurAs many as six new cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the tally to 30,725. The authorities reported no Covid-related death on Saturday in the district. The toll stood at 980. As many as 29,718 people recovered from the virus in the district so far while the district has 27 active cases. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-covid-positive-cases-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-304107
30-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Common man bears the brunt of rail, road blockades||Worst sufferer is the common manBlocking highways and rail tracks is the new strategy of protesters without giving a thought to the inconvenience to travellers and masses. Due to blockades, the worst sufferers are the common man, daily bread earners and all those who are travelling from one place to another. Recently, the farmers blocked the national highway and rail traffic near Rama Mandi, Jalandhar, creating an atmosphere of uncertainty, especially for the rail passengers due to cancellation of number of trains to get their demands of hike in sugarcane price fulfilled. The Northern Railway should have diverted the trains on Udhampur –Jammu – Chakki Bank -Amritsar-Jalandhar –Nakodar, Lohian –Phillaur – Ferozepur Route and rescheduled the timings of long distance trains up to Ambala Cantt. The cancellation of trains has really put the masses in a dilemma, specially the stranded persons at Udhampur, Jammu, Pathankot Cantt, and Mukerian. The suspension of trains from Amritsar, Jammu, and Udhampur has caused a heavy loss to the railways and inconvenience to the travellers who were to travel in these trains which were cancelled. Till a few years ago, the ways of agitation were really different from what farmers have resorted to now. The protest was usually in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s or the police chief’s office. There was no such thing as blocking the roads as decided by the administration. Agitations and protests have always been a part and parcel of the Democracy. Inconveniencing the commuters is not a right concept in a democratic set up.Rajat Kumar MohindruFind other ways of voicing dissentSince the time immemorial, the hardworking and dedicated farming community has been playing in the hands of the manipulative and corrupt political fraternity. No governments have been able to solve their age-old issues and cater to their needs. Every time during elections, farmers are being promised moon. But all false and lofty commitments fall flat with the passage of time. This has caused the helpless farmers to raise their voice and resort to protests and strikes which cripple the economy of a nation. The ongoing demonstrations in Jalandhar and on the outskirts of Delhi bear testimony to this fact. The moot point here is that the corruption-ridden executives and bureaucrats have hardly addressed their concerns. Perhaps, they are working on the directions of crony corporate barons who provided them with loads of money during electioneering to secure sweeping victories. In the end, farmers are left with no option but to raise slogans against the regime. But, I strongly believe that the sons and daughters of the soil should not get carried away and instead of resorting to ferocious and vigorous protests causing inconvenience to their own brethren, should choose some innovative ways to air their dissenting voice. Instead of resorting to violent ways, they should aim at following silent ways of protest such as carrying out cleanliness drives, organising awareness camps, highlighting false policies run by the governments, silent sit-ins, planting saplings and taking due care of them. I think these are some of the creative alternatives which our farmers must adopt to strengthen the social fabric and compel the tyrannical rulers to address their concerns on a priority basis.Simranjeet Singh SainiGovernments need to act promptlyDue to the ongoing farmers’ protests on railway tracks in Jalandhar, several trains have either been cancelled, diverted, re-scheduled or short-terminated, leaving thousands of passengers stranded at various places in the state and in Jammu. Farmers refused to lift the blockade till their demands of an increase in sugarcane prices were met. In case their talks with the government fail to yield the desired results, they have even threatened to give a call for the Punjab Bandh.Thankfully, succumbing to the pressure exerted by the farmers’ unions, the Punjab Government has conceded both of their current demands. It should fulfill its commitment within the given time frame to satisfy the agitating farmers. The agriculture sector in Punjab has been in dire straits since long and needs a proper roadmap for its improvement. Because of the rising input costs, vagaries of weather and rigged market system, farming is no more a viable occupation. As a result, a majority of small and marginalised farmers live a life of penury, are debt-ridden and commit suicides. To safeguard their rights, they have been holding regular peaceful protests from time to time across the state but the successive central and state dispensations have always turned a deaf ear to their concerns. Rather than pleasing big corporate houses and promoting the interests of the alleged mill mafia, it is time to appease the lot of distressed farmers. It will be an act of grace if the current stalemate between the Centre and the protesting farmers on the three farm laws also comes to an end at the earliest.Tajpreet S KangCausing disruption will hurt their imageThe resistance and blockade led by the farmers against the farm laws continue to upset and disturb the social fabric. The farmers undisputedly contribute to the well-being, welfare and prosperity of people at large but definitely cannot strangulate the flow of public activities by being so defiant and confrontational in promotion of their benign cause. Uprising need not necessarily follow an act to subvert and usurp the orderly conditions of public discourse which can have wide ramifications and can seriously jeoparadise the system as a whole. Dissent is a hallmark of judgment and reasoning and must inherently commensurate with the suggestive idea of acting with peace, harmony and tranquility without any serious disruption, interruption or disturbance to the channels of civic actions be it on any front. Cancellation of about hundred trains besides a large number of people grounded in Jammu in the name of farmer’s unrest will cause irreparable damage to the image of farmers as unscrupulous elements may try to take advantage of the situation mischievously by impersonating themselves to be one amongst the aggrieved. The government however must take a prompt notice of the situation and address the concerns of the peasants at the earliest.Sameer BhatiaCallousness of govt to blame for messAt a time when farmers are venting their ire against three controversial agricultural laws at the Delhi borders, several farmer groups and unions have been forced to launch yet another indefinite agitation in Punjab. They are demanding an enhanced state assured price (SAP) for sugarcane and clearance of their long-pending dues. They have blocked the national highways and railway tracks at some vantage places in Jalandhar, disrupting train and bus services in the state. But they have opened service lanes for school children and emergency vehicles and for those travelling on the Raksha Bandhan. The ongoing demonstrations have inconvenienced daily commuters, traders, transporters, pilgrims visiting Mata Vaishno Devi shrine and troops going to and coming from Amritsar, Pathankot and Jammu. The cancellation, diversion or short-termination of passenger and goods trains has caused huge loss to the Indian Railways. In the past too, farmers have been holding peaceful protests from time to time to press successive state governments to accept their genuine demands. But these have produced no positive results, courtesy — apathetic and callous attitude of our elected representatives and bureaucrats. Farmers have now taken this extreme step after exhausting all other alternatives of protest. In the beginning, the fresh rounds of talks between farmers, government officials and agriculture experts first ended in a stalemate. In the given situation, the farmers had warned of a Punjab bandh if nothing fructuous came out of those negotiations. It is gratifying that in view the ongoing scenario and the upcoming Assembly elections early next year, the state government has immediately found an amicable solution in the favour of the farming community.DS KangFarmers not doing this out of choiceFarmers launched an indefinite agitation in Jalandhar and blocked the train and bus movement on the Ludhiana-Amritsar and Ludhiana-Jammu rail routes to pressurise the Punjab Government to accept their demands of increasing sugarcane prices and clear pending dues. Several stranded in Jammu due to cancellation of trains and non-availability of alternate transport due to the ongoing agitation in Punjab. Some went there for a religious trip and for personal visit but got stuck there. Farmers are doing this not out of choice but there is no one to listen to them. They were only exercising their fundamental right by protesting peacefully. No damage was done as it was totally non-violent. Though Raksha Bandhan festival and the farmers’ protest did coincide, and people had to face inconvenience, they did not have any choice. But all is well that ends well. Now, their demands have been met, dharna has been lifted and all services have also been restored.Shashi KiranDeal with farmers’ issue empatheticallyOur Constitution gives the right of peaceful protest to its nationals to air their grievances in legitimate ways against any kind of exploitation, undue repression or harassment. Although an appropriate mechanism has been inscribed to deal with the contentious issues and grievances in a democratic way, yet many a times, the problems are either not taken seriously or allowed to precipitate by the rigid attitude, apathy of officials or vested political interests, which leads to unwanted confrontations. The ongoing farmers’ struggle at Delhi borders for more than nine months against the contentious farm laws is one such conspicuous example of this dogma. Another instance is that of the recent dharna by sugarcane farmers in Jalandhar to seek the release of pending payment of their produce from sugar mills and rise in state government announced the state assured price. National Highway-1 and rail tracks were blocked by the protestors and consequently, around 100 trains were cancelled, due to which commuters and traders had to bear the brunt. Passengers were stranded at different stations, causing a lot of inconvenience to inter-state traffic, besides huge revenue loss and instability to the region. Movement on roads and public places is often hampered by the protestors at many places and the general public is made to suffer endlessly. Sadly, all this falls on dumb ears. Due to the severe blow of Covid-19, the economy of the country is out of gear. Our trade and industry too is badly affected by the pandemic. While some agitators have fair amount of logic, others are just thriving their point looking at the vulnerability of elected representatives to the forthcoming elections. It is therefore vital that prompt action be taken on issues of common interest expressing sincerity and spontaneity to ensure public order and social security. Owing to rampant protests and blockades, not only the peaceful atmosphere is vitiated but the nation also suffers huge revenue losses. The government machinery must remain proactive to address the issues with a great deal of empathy and fairness. Any kind of confrontation disturbs peace and harmonious relationships which obviously is suicidal for the inclusive growth of the country.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathGovernment to blame for sordid state of affairs QUESTIONAn expert panel has predicted that the third Covid-19 wave will hit the country anytime between September and October coinciding with the festival season in India, which witnesses a huge rush at public places. What steps the district administration must take in advance to make people aware of this impending threat?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 2)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/common-man-bears-the-brunt-of-rail-road-blockades-304108
30-08-2021||Jalandhar||National Sports Day observed||Cambridge International SchoolPhagwara: Cambridge International School, Phagwara, organised a special assembly to mark the National Sports Day. The virtual assembly was organised on Microsoft teams by the class teachers. To mark this special day, a one-week long sports battleground was organised by the sports department where students of Classes III to IV participated. Students shared their videos performing the games like cricket, football, basketball, skating and badminton with the respective coaches and winners were selected. Winners were applauded in the special assembly and e-certificates were given to them. Winners of skating were Angadjot Singh, Aaradhya and Rudhraksha. Winner of basketball were Radesh Kochar, Taranjot Singh and Harleen Kaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-sports-day-observed-304109
30-08-2021||---||Jalandhar: Manya, Divyam emerge winners in badminton championship||Jalandhar, August 29The District Badminton Championship concluded at Raizada Hansraj Stadium today with 35 events held in various categories of boys, girls, men, women and veterans in the six-day event.Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh was invited to preside over at the prize distribution function. He appreciated the District Badminton Association for promoting the talent by giving away prize money and gifts to the tune of Rs 2.5 lakh to the winners. He stressed on the fact that the state and the Centre governments need to give financial and infrastructural support to the district and state associations of all games so that they could groom the players well from the ground level.In boys’ singles U-11 final, Zorawar beat Aarav 21-13, 21-9. Saanvi beat Manseerat 21-8, 21-8 in U-11 girls’ singles. In boys’ singles U-13 final, Viraj beat Geetansh 21-14, 17-21, 21-11. In U-13 girls’ singles, Unnati beat Saanvi 21-12, 21-9.In boys’ singles U-15 final, Divyam beat Ishan 21-18, 22-20. In girls’ single U-15, Samridhi beat Unnati 21-7, 21-8. In boys’ singles U-17 final, Mridul beat Hemang 21-10, 21-9.In girls’ doubles U-11 final, Aaradhya and Shivali beat Grazia and Jaishan 21-12, 21-6. In girls’ doubles U-13, Janya and Unnati beat Manya and Saanvi 21-11, 21-11. In boys’ doubles U-13 final, Viren and Zorawar beat Prathamnoor and Geetansh 19-21, 21-16, 21-9. In boys’ doubles U-15 final, Divyam and Samrath beat Ishaan and Shivansh 21-16, 21-17. In girls’ doubles U-19 final, Khushman and Manya beat Jasmine and Liza 21-7, 21-11.In the men singles’ held on the last day today, Madhav Kanojia emerged as the winner and Manik Sharma as the runners up. In the women’s category, Manya Ralhan won the title in singles for the second consecutive year. Liza Tank became the runner’s up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-manya-divyam-emerge-winners-in-badminton-championship-304110
30-08-2021||---||Traffic mess in Jalandhar: Farmers protest Karnal lathicharge||Jalandhar, August 29In protest against the lathicharge against farmers in Karnal (Haryana) on Saturday, farmers in Jalandhar blocked the PAP highway for two hours. Farmers of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) held up traffic at the PAP Chowk from 12 to 2 pm. A two-hour blockade at the PAP Chowk caused traffic to be routed from alternate routes.The farmers raised sloagns against the Central Government and said such violent action against farmers would not be tolerated. A huge blockade on the highway created a traffic jam which lasted hours. Farmers gathered in huge numbers and raised slogans against the Central Government.At 12.30pm, a huge cavalcade of vehicles was routed through Jalandhar Cantt where a huge number of vehicles queued up to be cleared into the main entrance to the cantonment.With the PAP Chowk blocked, the only alternate route — through Cantt — to the main highway through Cantt hence faced traffic congestion for the larger part of the afternoon lasting both before and after the dharna. Many students who had to appear for exams for head constable and jail warden as well as exams of the co-opertave department also remained harried. Students had to appear for exams at centres as varied as Lyallpur Khalsa College, PAP and Lovely Professional University. With roads blocked, some students reached the centres walking.Farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also held a protest against the action against the farmers in Karnal on Sunday by the Haryana police. At a protest in Lohian, they burnt effigies of CM Manohar Lal Khattar as well as the Modi government at the centre.The highway blocakde at the PAP Chowk also caused inconvenience to other commuters who went about their daily business. It also resulted in a traffic bottleneck at the Jalandhar Cantt entry point.Condemning the action by the Haryana police, farmer leaders said the police personnel guilty of acting against farmers should be booked. They also demanded that the arrested farmers should be released. Farmers said the government had tried its best to disrupt the farmers’ protest, but had been unsuccessful. They said the action against farmers yesterday was also an attempt to demorialise them. They said rather than that, the incident will act as further impetus to intensify their agitation.They said they will not relent until the three farm laws are withdrawn. From BKU rajewal, state president Mandeep Singh Samra, spokesperon Kashmir Singh Jandiala, secretary Abinder Singh Sansarpur, advisor Amarjit Singh Shergill, Youth President Amarjot Singh Jandiala among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traffic-mess-in-jalandhar-farmers-protest-karnal-lathicharge-304111
30-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||One booked for culpable homicide||26-yr-old hit by vehicle, diesGarhshankar: A 26-year-old youth was seriously injured after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Darapur on the Garhshankar-Nawanshahr road on Friday. Later, the victim died. In the statement given to the police, Narinder Kumar, a resident of Garhimansowal, said he was going from Garhimansowal to Nawanshahr on Friday evening when he saw a young man lying in a pool of blood, who was injured after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Darapur village. When he had a second look at the injured person, he found that it was his nephew Sahil Aery, son of Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Dashmesh Colony, Begumpur, and Nawanshahr. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, with the help of people where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have started investigation by registering a case against unidentified driver. OCTwo held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two persons in separate cases and seized smuggled liquor. In the first case, the Talwara police searched a bike-borne person at the turn near Roli village on Saturday night and seized 6,750 ml of illicit liquor. The accused has been identified as Manish Chand, a resident of village Khatigarh, Hajipur. Meanwhile, the Garhdiwala police arrested Rinku, a resident of Mahashian Mohalla, Garhdiwala, and recovered 27,000 ml of smuggled liquor from him. A case under Excise Act has been registered. OCBiker, cyclist killed in mishapHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against a truck driver, identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of village Begumpur Kamluh, in a case of road accident. The complainant, Davinder Singh, a resident of Taggad Khurd village, said his uncle Nirmal Singh (62) was going from Gahaldian village to his village on his motorcycle on Saturday night at 9:45 pm. On the way, a speeding truck hit his bike near Thakur Timber, and then collided with Rohit Kumar (26), a resident of Gopalpur, Lakhi Sarai, Bihar, who was riding a bicycle. Both Nirmal and Rohit were taken to the hospital where both succumbed. The police have registered a case against the truck driver. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-culpable-homicide-304112
