31-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Six booked for sodomising boy||Three booked for assaultHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have booked three persons for attacking a Mahidipur village resident and forcibly putting intoxicating medicine in his mouth. The victim, Gurjit Singh, alleged that his wife, Manjeet Kaur, father-in-law and wife’s aunt attacked him when he went to his laws’ house on August 29 to collect his cheque book. His father-in-law allegedly hit him on the head with a stick. After that, his wife and her aunt allegedly caught hold of him and his father-in-law allegedly put a vial of intoxicating medicine into his mouth. OCIllicit liquor seized, 2 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two persons, including a woman, and seized a huge quantity of illicit liquor. According to information, during a naka in the area, the Dasuya police seized 24,750 ml of liquor from Balwinder Kaur, a resident Himmatpur. The Mukerian police have arrested Chak Kalan resident Balwinder and recovered 15,000 ml liquor from him. OCSmall Industries Day celebratedHoshiarpur: On the occasion of Small and Cottage Industries Day, a poster-making contest was organised at DAV College, Hoshiarpur, in association with National Small-Scale Industries Corporation, Jalandhar. In the event, students prepared posters on the theme ‘Importance of small-scale industries’. Parminder Singh, CEO, Handicraft Centre, Chhawni Kalan, were present on the occasion. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-booked-for-sodomising-boy-304530
31-08-2021||---||Katoch Shield Tourney: Hoshiarpur beats Nawanshahr, earns 3 points||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, August 30The Hoshiarpur team earned three points by defeating Nawanshahr in the league math of Senior Katoch Shield Tournament match. Dr Raman Ghai, secretary, District Cricket Association, said batting first the Hoshiarpur team elected to bat first and scored 188 runs. Kulveer Happy scored 59 runs, Raman Arora (40), Arjun Kumar (36) and Rahul Kashyap (32).Bowling for Nawanshahr, Ujjwal dismissed six players for 64 runs. Batting in the first innings, Nawanshahr’s team got all out for 126 runs. Rishabh Sharma scored 24 and Jatin scored 19 runs. While bowling for Hoshiarpur, Karan Saini took three wickets for 35 runs and Ashish Ghai, Rajat Sharma and Rahul Kashyap took 2-2 wickets.The Hoshiarpur team, after taking a 63-run lead on the basis of the first innings, made 194 runs for the loss of 10 wickets while batting in the second innings. In which Arjun Kumar scored 98 runs, Kulveer Happy 26 and Maninjar scored 26 runs.While bowling in the second innings for Nawanshahr, Harpreet Singh took five wickets for 55 runs. Nawanshahr’s team scored 121 runs for the loss of four wickets before the end of the match in the second innings. In which Amandeep Singh scored 43 runs, Shubham scored 32 runs, Jatin scored 21 and Jatinder Prince scored three runs. Hoshiarpur won on the basis of first innings lead and earned three points. The next match will be played on August 31 and September 1 at the Railway Mandi ground between Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/katoch-shield-tourney-hoshiarpur-beats-nawanshahr-earns-3-points-304529
31-08-2021||The SC/BC wing of Phagwara rural block||Phagwara Diary: Akali Dal’s SC/BC wing forms 21-member panel||Social worker seeks repair of roadsTroubled over damaged road in city, Dr Jasjeet Singh Virk, president, Citizens Rights Forum, Phagwara, has written a letter to the project managers of the NHAI against waterlogging on roads at various underpasses of Phagwara. Virk, a social worker, also appealed to the NHAI to install directions boards at the turn of Chandigarh traffic near Konica Resorts and another at the turning traffic at Phagwara near Sugar mill and on the courts side.Neeraj Chopra and men’s hockey team players to visit alma materOlympics medal winners — Neeraj Chopra and men’s hockey team players — are scheduled to visit Lovely Professional University, their alma mater. The university is hosting a gala ceremony to felicitate its students and celebrate their victory in the Tokyo Olympics 2020. At the onset of the Tokyo Olympics 2020, LPU had announced cash rewards for its students who would win a medal at the sports event, which included Rs50 lakh to gold medal winners, Rs25 lakh to silver and Rs10 lakh for bronze. The university will felicitate its Olympic champions in the presence of Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, who will be grace the ceremony as the chief guest on August 31 in a gala event where Neeraj Chopra and ten members of the National hockey team will be rewarded with cash prizes. The university will bestow cash awards of Rs 1.75 Crores to all its Olympic medal winning students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-akali-dals-sc-bc-wing-forms-21-member-panel-304528
31-08-2021||Jalandhar||Janmashtami celebrations at DPS, Jalandhar||Journalism students bring laurelsStudents of journalism from Doaba College have excelled in GNDU semester exams. BAJMC V semester students - Meetali secured 363 out of 450 marks and bagged 4th position, Nikita secured 355 and bagged 8th position, Anchal secured 354 and bagged 10th position and Shivalika and Rashi both secured 353 and jointly bagged 12th position in university. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari congratulated meritorious students, their parents , faculty and Dr Simran Sidhu- Head for this achievement. He said that college journalism students are excelling in different print and electronic media in the region over the years as they are given training in audio, video TV studio equipped with latest equipments and they are also doing programmes for radio Rabtaa 90.8MHz, which is fully functional.National Sports Day celebratedEklavya School Jalandhar celebrated National Sports Day. The school organised different sports events on three days for different classes. JK Gupta, Chairman, and Seema Handa, Managing Director, inaugurated the event. The objective of organising these events is to raise awareness about the value of sports and daily activities among students. Rahul, sports and physical education teacher, said that the National Sports Day in India is celebrated on August 29, on the birth anniversary of hockey player Major Dhyan Chand.Poster-making competition at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a poster-making competition on the role of biotechnology in defence. The activity was organised by the Department of Biotechnology. Students of different classes of the department participated in this event.Expressing their creativity, students narrated the set topic in their posters by presenting bioweapons, biofibers, biosensors, artificial intelligence, pharmaceuticals & vaccination etc. Principal Prof. Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students for presenting the importance, need and role of Biotechnology through posters. She averred that such activities prove to be effective in providing practical knowledge of the subject to the students.Mehr Chand Polytechnic CollegeStudents of Mehr Chand Polytechnic College, Jalandhar, excelled in the sixth semester results declared by the State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training, Chandigarh, by bagging 100% results in mechanical, electronics, computer science and automobile engineering. Students of civil engineering bagged 97.7% and electrical engineering bagged 98.38% results. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh, congratulated staff and students for this achievement. Last year, overall 157 state academic positions were achieved by the students in 2018-19 State Board results.Cleanliness Survey conductedCommunity Facilitator-cum-Programme Coordinator and State Awardee Saroj Kapoor, MC councillor Rajinder Mintu and social worker Ashwini Sharma celebrated “Desh Ka Har Ravivar Vishesh” and “Gandagi Se Aazadi “ under Swachh Survekshan 2021-22 survey at Mayor World School. The theme of the programme was “Swacchta Sankalp Desh Ka Campaign”. During the programme, they raised a concern about the environment and stated that it is the collective responsibility of all the citizens to take care of the environment and resuscitate the ailing planet with our earnest endeavours.Sapling plantation driveState Public School, Jalandhar Cantonment, took one step forward again to save the environment and humankind. Students of the school with their co-mentors planted trees of hope and prosperity in Police Chowki, Paragpur, in the presence of authorities there. This was done simply and clearly to save the trees, increase its number and ultimately making the atmosphere a clean breathable place to live. President Dr Narotam Singh along with Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated the efforts of the police authorities and students.Quiz contest at phagwara collegePhagwara: National Sports Day was celebrated at Mohan Lal Uppal DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college. A quiz competition was organised with the title “Importance of games/sports in study”. The main purpose of the quiz was to aware and motivate students towards games because sports has power to change the world. Before quiz competition Dr Randhawa addressed students and talked about history and significance of the day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/janmashtami-celebrations-at-dps-jalandhar-304526
31-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Lawn love: A luscious ‘haven’ looked after by 3 generations!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 30A Punjab Avenue-based Minhas family (in Ladhewali) is a proud owner of a well-manicured garden. They also call it a ‘green haven’ where all parties and family get-togethers are held. The lawn has been so lovingly maintained that it exudes a green velvety look right from a distance. Try walking on the tender grass barefoot and one is likely to have a healing experience.Gurbani, a law graduate, holds the charge of the garden in the palatial house, “Since all are mornings and evenings are centred on this lawn, we can’t afford to ignore this space. The grass is mowed regularly. Repeated cutting of grass ensures that softer tuft of grass keeps coming which is fresh, tender, light green and livens up the whole area.”Besides being assisted by her mother-in-law Inderdeep Minhas and grandmother Prabhjit Minhas, she also keeps taking expert help from a gardener. I also started developing bonsais.” She showed bonsais readied by her out of banyan, peepal, cheeku, jade and other trees.Nicely-done entranceA decked-up entrance to the lawn and tiled steps lead one inside the garden. The iron gate with hanging creepers welcomes one to the house. There are small sculptors nicely placed here and there, including those in the shape of bells, chimes, lamps, Zen pottery.Right in the opposite corner of the lawn is a huge waterfall and a water channel. “We are not currently using this channel as there are numerous snakes and mongoose around this area who get disturbed. They have their home among the crevices and gaps in the rocks of the waterfall. Neither they do any harm to us nor do we try to disturb their peace. It is a peaceful co-existence for all the birds, flora and fauna in our garden,” she explains as she points to a continuous chirping of birds in the garden area.A fruity affairGurbani’s garden has a variety of fruit trees, including mangoes, litchis, cheekus, crab apple, oranges and lemon. The house has at least 20 varieties of palm trees, including cycas, date palm and traveller’s palm. It has some unique trees and shrubs as well – gardenia giving out fragrant flowers, tamarix with its beautiful pink cascade, rudraksh, passion flower, bleeding heart plant, birds of paradise and calla lilies to name a few.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lawn-love-a-luscious-haven-looked-after-by-3-generations-304524
31-08-2021||---||Farmers stage protest outside BJP’s office in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 30On a call given by the various farmer unions, members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) today organised a demonstration outside the city office of the BJP over the recent lathicharge of the farmers in Karnal. The farmers raised slogans against the party and the Union Government and also burnt an effigy as a mark of the protest. There was no one present in the party office when the protest was held. The demonstration was held for nearly 30 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stage-protest-outside-bjps-office-in-jalandhar-304523
31-08-2021||---||Surjit Patar releases special edition of magazine ‘Apnee Awaaz’ devoted to farmers||Jalandhar, August 30Popular poet Dr Surjit Patar today released the special edition of a monthly Punjabi magazine ‘Apnee Awaaz’ dedicated exclusively to the farmers’ agitation. Releasing the edition, the poet said the magazine has poems, songs and articles penned by renowned litterateurs and activists dedicated to the ongoing agitation of the farmers on the Delhi borders.Academician Dr Jaspal Singh Randhawa, renowned journalist Satnam Singh Manak and Punjab Press Club president Dr Lakhvinder Johal were among those who released the special edition of the magazine. The magazine also carries a recent poem ‘Eh mela hai’ penned by Patar on the farmers’ protest. NRI and chief editor of the magazine Surinder Singh Sunner appealed to litterateurs to contribute for his monthly magazine. He said every year a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh would be announced for one person with commendable contribution to Punjabi literature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-patar-releases-special-edition-of-magazine-apnee-awaaz-devoted-to-farmers-304522
31-08-2021||---||2 found positive in Jalandhar district, no death reported||Jalandhar, August 30As many as two new Covid cases were reported today from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,225 cases. No Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,492. A total of 61,707 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar are 26.2 cases in KapurthalaTwo cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala today, taking the Covid tally to 17,802. No death from Covid was reported today.One dies in HoshiarpurAs many as three new cases of Covid were reported from the district on Monday, taking the total tally to 30,728. The authorities reported one Covid-related death on Monday in the district, taking the toll to 981. As many as 29,719 people recovered from the virus in the district so far while the district has 28 active cases.No case in NawanshahrNo case of Covid was reported from the district on Monday. At present, there are seven active cases in Nawanshahr and all of them are under home isolation. The tally stands at 11,446 (3.82 per cent), of which 11,058 have already been recovered. The death toll is 381 (3.32 per cent). — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-found-positive-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-reported-304521
31-08-2021||---||Youth booked for abducting 14-yr-old girl||Jalandhar, August 30A brother of a 14-year-old girl has lodged a complaint with the police that a 20-year-old youth has abducted his sister on the pretext of marriage.Both the complainant and the accused are natives of Uttar Pradesh and have been working as labourers at Rahon in Nawanshahr. The police said the girl, whose parents have died, was living with her brothers. She is the youngest of her siblings (four brothers and three sisters).“The family had an inkling of the relationship between the girl and the accused. Both fled three days ago, but the complaint was launched only on Sunday,” the police said.In the complaint, the brother stated that they tried to look out for both on their own for two days, but when they failed, they informed the police about the incident.The police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the IPC.The police have started searching for them, but until now, no information has been received on the whereabouts of the girl and the accused. “It seems that they have gone to UP, but investigation is on and we will soon nab the accused,” said the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-booked-for-abducting-14-yr-old-girl-304520
31-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fading frescos, crumbling havelis of Rurka Kalan to get a new life||Tribune News ServiceRurka Kalan, August 30A 300-year-old banyan tree in the middle of Rurka Kalan village stands majestically near a newly built sath (a common area for villagers) in the middle of the village. Saths provide a shelter for travelers and village folks looking for a quiet place to take rest. The Rurka Kalan village plans to develop 12 such saths, all in Nankshahi style.Replete with old buildings, abandoned ornamental kothis and beautiful frescoed homes, the Rurka Kalan village is planning to preserve its legacy in order to get a facelift as a heritage village. The red bare-bricked structures emulated to look like old sarais (inns) and saths have already begun to give the village a vintage look. Five of the saths have already been constructed. In the evenings, they are lit up for effect.In the heart of the village is a rare frescoed house which has survived the ravages of time. Built in 1962, the house as ornamental mesh (jali) walls with Guru Nanak and his disciple Bhai Mardana with a Rabab and Bhai Bala with a fan in their hands. Villagers say earlier, beautiful fairies were built on the roof, but the statues were demolished by one of the owners. What managed to survive are beautiful walls bearing frescos of Guru Nanak Dev with his disciples.The fresco at the entrance bears Nanak with Bhai Mardana, a Hindu child ascetic and another disciple with folded hands and a Muslim follower looking on.Further up in the village is a haveli which was built by Nathu Ram, a British patron who was rewarded with 100 fields, over 100 years ago. It is built in small bricks and a wrought iron flag on top of the entrance gate which villagers say is a weather vane. Another building built in 1937 called Relu da Chubara - is now used to store grains. It belonged to a Muslim family which left in 1947.Gurmangal Dass, village resident and founder of Rurka Kalan’s Youth Footbal Club said, “Jalandhar had a lot of frescoed buildings. They defaced with time. The saths were an idea to save villagers from scroching heat and provide a place of rest and gathering. We have plans to save the village’s historical legacy and build it as a tourist village. We have at least two 300-year-old banyans. We have many old havelis. The Relu Da Chubara was built in 1937. The date is imprinted on its floor. All older buildings will be preserved. As many as 12 saths are being built. They are constructed out of raw bricks with a polish. The idea is to recreate the lost legacy of Punjab. The saths are already a hit with village folk.”Gurmangal added, “An old pond of the village, which is also 100 years old will also be retained as a stadium. Its walls will be left as it is.”Kulwinder Kaur, village sarpanch, said: “The glory of the erstwhile havelis is almost lost. People have built their homes over older structures. But we want to preserve whatever is left.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fading-frescos-crumbling-havelis-of-rurka-kalan-to-get-a-new-life-304519
31-08-2021||---||Cowshed operator attempts suicide in Jalandhar, live streams on FB||Jalandhar, August 30A cowshed operator attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance live on Facebook here on Monday. Dharamaveer Dhamma, operator of the Govind Dham Gaushala, Lambra, posted pictures live streaming his suicide attempt and named several people for causing harassment to him. He named a Congress MLA, a police officer and several other persons saying they had made his life miserable by repeatedly threatening him and asking him to close his gaushala.In his FB live, Dharamveer alleged that after getting fed up with them, he was going to commit suicide. He also stated he had already consumed poison. The allegations that Dharamveer made during his FB live, were directed at a Congress MLA, a police officer among others who he named during his live stream.Responding to the attempted suicide case, Lambra police said since doctors had declared Dharamveer unfit to make a statement, they had not yet got his statement on the issue. The police said any action could be taken only after the statement was taken.Notably, Dharamveer is brother of a senior BJP leader, Mandeep Bakshi.Dharamveer has been admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, Mandeep Bakshi could not be contacted despite repeated calls on his phone.SHO, Lambra, Sukhdev Singh said, “We have not been able to take the statement of Dharamaveer since doctors have declared him unfit to give a statement right now. An FIR has also not been registered against him yet because we cannot initiate any action until a statement is made. The allegations made by him have been noted but we can only take further action after we record his statement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cowshed-operator-attempts-suicide-in-jalandhar-live-streams-on-fb-304518
31-08-2021||---||Man attacks woman with acid after heated argument in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 30A minor argument between a man and a woman turned ugly as the man threw acid on the woman here on Monday. The 47-year-old victim suffered 35-40 per cent burn injuries and was admitted to the Civil Hospital. Having suffered 30 per cent burns on the face and the rest on the knees and the hands, the woman was in a critical condition, briefed doctors at the hospital.Both the victim and the accused work in the same factory that manufactures nut and bolt. Identified as Raj Rani (47), the victim was rushed to a nearby private hospital with melting skin. The doctors there referred her to the Civil Hospital.Her son Monu (20), a resident of Sanjay Colony, Gandhi Nagar, said the incident took place at around 10.30am at Vijay Factory situated near the Focal Point when his mother got into an argument with the accused.“I took my mother to the hospital on my bike. She was having an unbearable pain. After a verbal spat with my mother, the accused attacked her with acid. He threw nearly 50 ml of acid on her face,” said Monu, who also works in the same factory.Maneesha (19), daughter-in-law of the victim, further added that the doctors told us that the acid also damaged her eyes and she was facing difficulty in opening her eyes. Her vision had also blurred.Meanwhile, the accused, identified as Sohal Lal (50), a resident of Ramnagar, was immediately grabbed by his co-workers who called the police. The police reached the factory and arrested the accused. ASI Madan Singh, investigating officer in the case, said while the exact reason of the attack was yet to be established, CCTVs on the factory premises were being checked.A case under Section 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at Police Division number 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-attacks-woman-with-acid-after-heated-argument-in-jalandhar-304516
31-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Asked to undergo Covid test by police, man bangs his head on road in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 30High drama was on Monday witnessed near Nakodar Chowk after a man, identified as Mahinder Rawat, banged his head over five times on the road after being asked to undergo Covid test.The incident was reported at around 12 noon near Lal Ratan Cinema at Nakodar Chowk in the district when a joint team of the police and the Health Department stopped a man and asked him go for an RT-PCR test before crossing the checkpoint.However, the man, a factory worker, insisted on not giving his sample as he had already been fully vaccinated. As per eyewitnesses, the police pressurised him to submit his swab sample to the health team. Upset over the behaviour of the police, the man banged his head on the road and injured himself in anger. The daily wage labour was riding a bicycle when the police stopped him.Later, he sat on the road, daring the policemen to move him from the spot. Mahinder Rawat, a resident of Avtar Nagar here, said he was heading to work when the policemen stopped him and asked him to undergo Covid test. However, he urged them to spare him as he had taken both the doses of vaccine. He also implored them that he did not have any symptoms. Besides, he was getting late for work.“Despite that the officials asked me to give my sample and took me to the health workers after pulling me off from my bicycle,” added Rawat, a native of Uttar Pradesh. Commuters said after a minor scuffle with the Health Department team and the policemen, the migrant worker hit his head on the road.As he started bleeding, the police team took him to the Civil Hospital. Meanwhile, a video of the whole incident went viral on social media, blaming the policemen for the development and forcing a migrant worker to undergo Covid test on the road.While giving clarifications on the issue, SHO, Police Division-4, Inspector Rajesh Kumar said the man hit himself on his own. The policemen did not cause any injury to him. However, the police would investigate the matter if anyone misbehaved with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asked-to-undergo-covid-test-by-police-man-bangs-his-head-on-road-in-jalandhar-304497
