01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 1,609 fresh COVID-19 cases, 9 deaths||Haryana recorded 1,609 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday that took its tally to 2,92,409, while nine more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,164, a health department bulletin said.Of the latest deaths, two each were reported from Kaithal and Hisar districts, and one each from Gurgaon, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad.Among the districts that reported a big spike in daily cases are Gurgaon (381), Karnal (214) and Panchkula (159).The number of active cases in Haryana stands at 10,362. The state has a recovery rate of 95.37 percent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-1-609-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-233256
01-04-2021||Hisar||Farmers protest against Dushyant Chautala in Hisar; traffic affected on National Highway||Farmers on Thursday held a protest against Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala outside the Hisar airport and demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's new agricultural laws.Dushyant arrived at the airport to attend a meeting and other programmes.After farmers, who have been protesting in Hisar against the agricultural laws for the past few months, learned about his visit, they gathered outside the airport in large numbers.The farmers, including women, carried black flags and raised slogans against him and the government on the main road outside the airport. They demanded the withdrawal of the three farm laws.Police personnel were deployed to prevent any untoward incident, officials said.Traffic on the Hisar-Delhi national highway was also affected due to the protest.Chautala, whose Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is the coalition partner of the ruling BJP in Haryana, has faced repeated protests from farmers over the past few months for supporting the agricultural laws.The Centre has said the new farm laws will benefit farmers by freeing them from the clutches of middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector.Traffic on the Hisar-Delhi national highway was also affected due to the protest. — Tribune PhotoHowever, farmers say these legislations will remove the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP) and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-against-dushyant-chautala-in-hisar-traffic-affected-on-national-highway-233225
01-04-2021||New Delhi||Farmers to block KMP e-way on April 10, hold march to Parliament in May||In a move to boost the ongoing protest against the new agricultural laws, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced that farmers will block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway on April 10 for 24 hours and also hold a march to Parliament in May.Unveiling its plan for the next two months, the SKM, an umbrella body of 32 farmer groups, said that it will organise 'FCI (Food Corporation of India) Bachao Diwas' on April 5 that will be marked by the 'gherao of FCI offices across the country.The foot march will be joined not just by farmers, but also by women, unemployed individuals and labourers who have been supporting the protest, the SKM has said.It further said that the farmers will celebrate the Baisakhi festival at the Delhi borders on April 13, and on the next day, which is the birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Samvidan Bachao Divas (Save Constitution Day) will be observed.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-block-kmp-e-way-on-april-10-hold-march-to-parliament-in-may-233130
01-04-2021||---||‘Activist’ judge Dhonchak retires||Chandigarh, March 31 Gurugram District and Sessions Judge Man Mohan Dhonchak today retired after attaining the age of superannuation post serving the judiciary for more than three decades. He will be replaced by District and Sessions Judge Surya Pratap Singh, who was earlier posted as the Registrar Judicial in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Serving as the District and Sessions Judge for nearly six years in three districts of Haryana, Dhonchak was known for his judicial activism and vehemently protecting individual liberties. He had paved the way for computerisation at the level of subordinate judiciary.  He and another judicial officer had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court some 19 years ago for the provision of ‘personal computers’ with all accessories to the subordinate judiciary. Taking up their plea, the Bench had ruled: “Society had moved from bullock carts to `Balenos’. Still, we are not willing to dispense with the old typewrites.”  Dhonchak was known for his expeditious disposal of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/activist-judge-dhonchak-retires-232801
01-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala man duped of Rs 23 lakh alleges police ‘inaction’||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, March 31A Railway employee, who was allegedly duped of Rs 23 lakh during the Covid-induced lockdown last year, has alleged police inaction in recovering the money from the accused.Shobha Singh, who works in the electrical department of the Railways, said a woman called him on April 23 last year and demanded money on the pretext of her mother’s treatment. “She introduced herself as Simran and claimed to be the daughter of a businessman, who, she said, owned a showroom in Chandigarh. She sought Rs 10,000 for her mother’s treatment in Mumbai hospital. She claimed that her cash, ATM card, clothes and other stuff had been stolen and that she was in dire need of money. Moved by her plight, I decided to help her. She shared the bank account number of driver Sonu, a resident of Jind, to transfer the money,” said Shobha Singh.A few days later, Simran called Singh again and demanded more money on the pretext that her mother’s condition had worsened. “On April 29, she called to inform me that her mother had died and that she needed money to bring the body from Mumbai,” he said. Out of compassion, Singh continued to give her money, ending up giving Rs 23 lakh. “I had taken Rs 20 lakh loan to give her money,” he said. “Every time, Simran would say she would return the money soon, but never did so. At last, I got a case registered against her in August last year at the Parao police station. I am not the only victim. She has duped several persons in the same manner,” said the Railway employee. He has written to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, asking him to form a special investigation team to probe such cases. ASI Krishan Pal said: “The driver, in whose account the money was deposited, was arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-man-duped-of-rs-23-lakh-alleges-police-inaction-232803
01-04-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri---||Purchased 4 months ago by Haryana Government, emergency response vehicles gather dust||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 31 It has  been nearly four months that 630 seven-seater SUVs that the Haryana Government had bought for the ambitious Dial 112 project have been gathering dust at the Police Lines in Panchkula. Though the trial run for the Centralised Emergency Response and Support System (CSERC) was conducted in Gurugram and Panchkula in February, the Dial 112 project which integrates helpline for fire, ambulance and police services will be launched by April-end. These emergency response vehicles purchased at a cost of Rs 94 crore will be despatched to police stations by mid-April.“The project is on track. A few issues need to be fixed. The SUVs will undergo a complete makeover to cater to the emergency calls. In all, 22 modifications have been identified. These days, gadgets and machines are being installed in the SUVs. This will be done in a fortnight and later the SUVs will be sent to districts whenever the state government gives the nod,” said Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Arshinder Chawla, who heads the Dial 112 project. Each SUV will have a multi-display terminal which will receive messages concerning where to report and a voice pack of the victim’s call received on the helpline. “By the time the vehicle and the police team reach the spot, they will know what is expected of them,” said Chawla. It has been decided that all vehicles under the Dial 112 project will be allocated a particular series of HR-99, and embossed with a logo and a flash bar so that these are identified from a distance. “On an average, two vehicles will be allocated to every police station after having tested all hardware and software modules and having imparted training to personnel,” the ADGP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/purchased-4-months-ago-by-haryana-government-emergency-response-vehicles-gather-dust-232804
01-04-2021||---||Holi assault: Youth dies, brother battles for life||Karnal, March 31Twentythree-year-old Saroj Kumar, who along with his brother was attacked by four to five persons on Holi, succumbed to his injuries at a hospital on Wednesday.His brother Gobind, however, is still battling for his life.Demanding the arrest of the accused, family members and the residents of the colony blocked the Kalandri Gate road by placing the deceased’s body there. They alleged police inaction in the case. However, after getting assurance that the accused would be arrested the family members lifted the body after an hour.A native of Bihar, Saroj was living with his family members in Kalandri Gate and was a rickshaw-puller. Sunita, a family member, alleged that on the day of Holi, some people attacked Saroj and Gobind due to some old enmity that led to serious injuries to them. They were taken to a government hospital, from where Saroj was referred to a private hospital, where he succumbed on Wednesday.SHO City Sandeep Kumar assured the family members that the police teams were out to nab the accused, who would be arrested soon. After his assurance, they lifted the body and opened the blockade. “Earlier, we registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC against four persons. After Saroj’s death, we have added the Section of 302 of the IPC in this case,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/holi-assault-youth-dies-brother-battles-for-life-232806
01-04-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Covid curbs in 15 zones||With a sudden surge in Covid cases and to check the virus transmission, the district administration has declared 15 areas as micro-containment zones. The restrictions have been imposed on public movement in these areas. In the meantime, door-to-door surveillance is being conducted by the Health Department, — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-covid-curbs-in-15-zones-232807
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||HALSA launches Covid awareness campaign||Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA) executive chairman and Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Justice Rajan Gupta launched a Covid awareness drive titled, “Arrest the disease, wear a mask; don’t go close, cover your nose”.The HALSA also made public its initiatives taken since the Covid lockdown was imposed. The legal services authority revealed that it extended help to 3.5 lakh migrants by arranging for their transit and food. It also distributed 2 lakh masks and sanitisers. Another 2,700 migrants were given medical help and 8,121 were provided shelter. In more than 4,000 awareness programmes, 4.4 lakh persons were sensitised. The drive is aimed at inculcating mask etiquette and ensuring the proper implementation of SOPs. Justice Gupta said awareness drives would be launched in schools and colleges as well through the legal literacy clubs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/halsa-launches-covid-awareness-campaign-232808
01-04-2021||Sonepat/Rohtak||Government lied to Baroda voters, says Hooda||Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said today that the announcements made by the BJP-JJP government during the Baroda byelection had proved to be a lie and it had lost the confidence of people. “The present government has betrayed not only Baroda but also the whole of Haryana,” said Hooda while addressing mediapersons at Gohana.He said that the government made announcements to get votes in the Baroda bypoll but had not implemented any of these so far. The government made big announcements such as to set up colleges, universities and an IMT but the work on none of the project had started yet, he added.Hooda said the government should start talks with the farmer leaders once again to resolve the issue. “We have given a financial help of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased farmers through the Congress Legislature Party,” he added.In Rohtak, Hooda reached out to protesting farmers at the Makdauli toll plaza. He reiterated his whole-hearted support to the agitating farmers saying their demands were justified. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-lied-to-baroda-voters-says-hooda-232812
01-04-2021||Gurugram||Roll back toll hike: Gurugram residents||City residents, primarily those living in new Gurugram, are up in arms against the increase in toll at the Kherki Daula plaza from tomorrow.The NHAI has approved an increase of Rs 5, raising the toll to Rs 70 for private vehicles plying on the Delhi-Jaipur expressway. For heavy transport and multi-axle vehicles, the toll from Wednesday midnight increases to Rs 205. There is, however, no increase for light commercial vehicles (LCVs).Around 75,000 vehicles cross the toll plaza every day.The decision has upset more than 20,000 families residing in Sectors 82 to 95, called new Gurugram. They have to cross the toll plaza every day to go to office or market.Residents have long been demanding the removal of the Kherki Daula toll plaza and were hopeful of some action after having received assurances from the authorities. But the increase in the toll has left them aghast. They have started social media campaigns, demanding rollback of the hike.“Residents of new Gurugram shell out Rs 4,000 every month on toll,” said Praveen Malik, a representative of the RWAs of new Gurugram.An NHAI official said the increase in the toll was in consonance with the terms of the contract with the concessionaire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roll-back-toll-hike-gurugram-residents-232816
01-04-2021||Karnal||Virtual annual function||Online exams at YMCA varsityFaridabad: Keeping in view the current situation, JC Bose University and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has decided to conduct end semester examination of first year students of various programmes scheduled to be held from April 8 online. Earlier, the examinations of the first year students were held offline. The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar to review the various precautionary steps taken by the university. Further, it was also decided that Culmyca, the annual technical festival of the university, will also be conducted online. He has also directed the officials concerned to arrange RT-PCR testing and Covid-19 vaccination drive in the university.Schedule for exam forms releasedFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has issued the schedule for filling examination forms for the end-semester regular and re-appear examination of all UG and PG courses to be held in May and July. Also, the schedule for improvement of theory and sessional examinations has also been issued. As per the schedule, April 8, will be the last date for submission of examination form for all UG and PG examinations of the fourth, sixth and eighth semester for which the portal will be opened from April 1. Similarly, May 8 will be the last date for the submission of examination forms for all UG and PG examinations for the second semester for which the portal will be opened from May 1. Thereafter, the examination forms will only be accepted with a late fee upto Rs1,000 till April 28 for the fourth, sixth and eighth semester and May 28, for the second semester. Students of affiliated institutions will have to submit their examination forms on the portal through their respective institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-annual-function-232818
01-04-2021||The issue of five ponds system in Batur village of Panchkula district. The idea and objective of the panchayat is beneficial||Five ponds system needs  more attention||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityShift Horticulture varsity from Anjanthali villageReferring to "Horticulture varsity gets wings", in the columns of The Tribune March 26 edition, which proposed the campus at remote Anjanthali village in Karnal district. It is suggested that the proposed under construction main campus and college be shifted to 70-acre farm already owned by Maharana Pratap Horticulture University (MPHU) at Uchani, adjacent to the ISBT, Karnal. Otherwise, it may meet the same fate as HAU College of Agriculture at Kaul, which despite of having excellent campus facilities, lacks proper faculty and facilities.Dr Virender Singh Lather, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-ponds-system-needs-more-attention-232822
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Former bureaucrats, ex-Army men join hands||To amplify the voice of farmers against the three agro-market laws, a group of former bureaucrats, including two Padam Shri awardees, and former Army persons, have come together to form Kirti Kisan Forum in the city.So far, the group has written a letter in connection with farmers protest to the President of India and organised a seminar on the three farm laws at Punjab Kala Bhawan auditorium this month in the city, apart from donating beds and books at the Sighu border in January.“We even met farmer leaders and members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha on January 31. They didn’t ask us for anything, except to spread awareness about the three laws and the adverse affect they will have on country’s farmers,” says Padam Shri SS Boparai, former Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala.“The forum’s main concern are farmers, who have been battling financial adversities and are mostly in debt already,” he adds.“You must be wondering how we ‘ji janaabs’ got together to form this forum,” says IAS (retd) Kulbir Singh. “I had posted a viral video of my brother, who is paralysed and was waving the Kisan Union flag to show support to farmers, who are protesting at the Delhi border. That started the conversation about farmer protests on our WhatsApp group,” he adds.Padam Shri awardee RI Singh, who is also the former Chief Secretary, Punjab, explains, “We, retired bureaucrats have a WhatsApp group where we keep expressing our views on issues, policies and decisions that impact economy and society. It’s a freelance commentary, but for farmers we thought of going beyond just commenting. To build public opinion it was important to have a forum that allows debate and discussion, formulate a firm opinion and then project it.”Formed originally, through conversations on WhatsApp, Kirti Kisan Forum was conceptualised on December 20, last year.“We had a meeting on February 9, which was attended by many former IPS, IAS officers and were also joined by ex-Army men along with many influential people at Kisan Bhawan. At first we were analysing what farmers needed at Singhu border and other protest points near Delhi, So, we took books in January. Then, we took beds for farmers,” says Boparai.Pained by the events of January 26, the forum has also written to the President of India. “We wrote a long letter to the President of India, but have not received any response yet,” he adds.The group also organised a seminar on the farm laws this month. On its panel was agriculture expert Devinder Sharma.“In our country, there are 86 per cent small farmers with less than five acres and out of these 68 per cent are marginal farmers, who have less than two acres. These Bills will push them to depths of poverty,” says Sharma.The group plans to hold more seminars and discussions in future. Kisan Kirti Forum includes former Chief Secretary, Punjab, Rajan Kashyap, former DGPs of Punjab MPS Aulakh, and MS Bhullar, former DGP, Haryana, MS Malik, along with former IPS Surinder Kumar, and former IG, Punjab Police, Amar Singh Chahal.The forum counts over 15 former senior IAS officers, including former member of Human Rights Commission, MS Chahal, former Principal Secretary to CM, Punjab, SK Sandhu, and former Additional Chief Secretary, Punjab, DS Bains.Among ex-Army men, the group has Brig Kuldip Singh Kahlon, Brig Harwant Singh, Brig RPS Maan and Brig Inder Mohan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-former-bureaucrats-ex-army-men-join-hands-232797
01-04-2021||---||District-level control room to be set up in Karnal||Karnal, March 31The authorities have decided to establish a district-level control room to monitor the procurement, lifting and transportation of rabi crops from Thursday. Besides, they have set up 25 purchase centres in the district. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by DC Nishant Kumar Yadav with all SDMs and officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board here on Wednesday. “A district-level control room is being established at Karnal to ensure the smooth procurement process this season. CEO, Zila Parishad, Gaurav Kumar has been appointed as the nodal officer of the control room,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/district-level-control-room-to-be-set-up-in-karnal-232825
01-04-2021||---||Make plans on millet use in food items, Haryana CM tells firms||Chandigarh, March 31Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today directed the officers concerned to explore the possibility of increasing the utilisation of millet in food products.He discussed the utilisation of millet with representatives of well-known companies such as Parle-G, ITC, Om Sweets, Harish Bakery, Kakaji Bakery and Bikaner through video-conferencing.He said that in the next two to three months, they should make a plan on how millet could be utilised in food products. When told that biscuits made of millet are becoming popular among people, the Chief Minister directed the officials to increase its production and rope in self-help groups for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-plans-on-millet-use-in-food-items-haryana-cm-tells-firms-232826
01-04-2021||---||Dushyant Chautala shown black flags in Panipat||Panipat, March 31Protesting farmers showed black flags to Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala during his visit here on Wednesday. He was here to preside over a District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee meeting held at the mini-secretariat.Scores of farmers under the banner of the BKU gathered outside the mini-secretariat after getting information about Dushyant’s visit. They raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government and also burnt an effigy of Dushyant.While interacting with mediapersons later, he said, “Everyone has the right to protest in a democracy. The government is ready for talks. The protesting farmers should come forward for talks, as it is the only way to resolve the issue.”He said that the government’s aim was to make the farmers prosperous. The procurement of wheat and mustard would commence tomorrow and six crops were being procured at the MSP in the state. This wheat season, 100 per cent payment to the farmers would be made directly in the bank accounts, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-shown-black-flags-in-panipat-232813
01-04-2021||---||Unique ID for land in Karnal village, Manesar||Chandigarh, March 31Manesar tehsil of Gurugram and Sirsi village of Karnal have been selected for the implementation of the Digital India Land Record Modernisation Programme, which will assign a unique land parcel (ID) identification number to every plot.Launching the pilot project through videoconferencing on Wednesday, Financial Commissioner, Revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal said the main objective of the project was to create an online land information system with open standards of APIs (Application Programming Interface). Ajay Tirkey, Secretary, Department of Land Resources, was also present.Based on the GIS, the system will be OGC-compliant to enable other stakeholders to use it to generate further value. It will also provide comprehensive information on land and properties, consisting of textual and spatial data besides maintaining the consistency of the core data across all departments and agencies of governments. It will also help cross-validate land records related data across various departments. Besides, standardisation at data and application level will bring in effective integration and interoperability across departments.Kaushal said the project would spell many advantages. Single source of truth on land will stand as authoritative reference to authenticate the ownership and other parameters of the record. Unique categorisation of the government lands will benefit instant identification and the prevention of transfer of such lands to individuals during transactions such as registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unique-id-for-land-in-karnal-village-manesar-232814
01-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers' protest: SKM plans march to Parliament in May||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, March 31The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today announced that farmers would march on foot to Parliament in the first fortnight of May. However, the final date for the march would be decided soon and no vehicle would be allowed.Besides, the SKM also decided at a meeting yesterday to block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Western Peripheral Expressway for 24 hours on April 10.The representatives of the morcha, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, Prem Singh Bhangu, Satnam Singh Ajnala, Buta Singh Burjgil, Ravinder Kaur, Joginder Nain, Santokh Singh and Pradeep Dhankar, announced the programmes for the next one month to intensify the protest.Strategy to counter new Bill tomorrowThe SKM has convened a convention in Rohtak on April 2 to deliberate on the strategy to counter the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021Representatives of various trade unions, employee organisations, lawyers, traders, women and youth associations will participate in the conventionSKM state unit leaders Inderjit Singh, Prem Singh Gahlawat, Jai Karan Dalal and Sumit termed the Bill as “a colonial-style draconian step taken to stifle democracy”“Besides farmers, women, unemployed people, labourers and all those who have been supporting the agitation will also join the Parliament march in a large number,” said Charuni.The march would be held peacefully and no vehicle would be allowed. Special care would be taken that what happened on January 26 was not repeated.“A committee would be formed to plan the march and control the protesters if the police take action against them,” said Charuni.Besides, the SKM would mark FCI Bachao Diwas on April 5 and gherao FCI offices in all districts in the country from 11 am to 5 pm. The SKM has already announced to block the KMP Expressway for 24 hours from 11 am on April 10 to 11 am on April 11 and celebrate Baisakhi on the Delhi borders on April 13.The SKM also announced to mark the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar as Save Constitution-Save Farmers Day on April 14 and celebrate May Day on the Delhi borders as Kisan-Mazdoor Ekta Diwas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-skm-plans-march-to-parliament-in-may-232815
01-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Wheat purchase kick-starts in Haryana today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31A bumper crop of wheat is expected in Haryana this time, as the authorities prepare to start the procurement process from tomorrow. As per estimates, the wheat production in the state is expected to cross 121 lakh MT, higher than 118 lakh MT of production last year.“The area under wheat crop in the state this year is 63,01,500 acres (25.2 lakh hectares). We are expecting a yield of 1,928.7 kg per acre and hence 121.53 lakh MT production,” said Dr Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Haryana.During 2019-20, the area under wheat crop was 25.34 lakh hectares and the production was 118.77 lakh MT. The wheat production was 125.73 lakh MT during 2018-19, 122.65 lakh MT (2017-18), 123.10 lakh MT (2016-17) and 113.50 lakh MT (2015-16).Dr Gyanendra Pratap Singh, Director of Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, Karnal, said that due to the early winter, a bumper production of wheat in the region as well as in the country was expected this time. He said the grain size was good and the crop had no disease.“The yield is good this time and we are expecting a production of 112 million tonnes of wheat in the country this time. Last year, the production was 107 million tonnes,” he said. The area under wheat in the country this time is 31.6 million hectares.Gurjeet Singh Mann, a progressive farmer of Sirsa, said that the wheat crop was standing good, as of now. “Farmers were worried due to the sudden rise in temperatures in the first half of March, but widespread rain caused the mercury to dip. Most of wheat fields today are free from disease and pest. A colder March could have definitely delayed the ripening of late sown wheat grains and a bumper crop, but even now we expect a good harvest,” said Mann.Meanwhile, Sirsa is likely to contribute the maximum 15.37 lakh MT to the wheat production in the state, followed by Hisar (10.90 lakh MT), Jind (10.78 lakh MT), Fatehabad (9.94 lakh MT), Karnal (8.94 lakh MT) and Kaithal (8.52 lakh MT), according to the government estimates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-purchase-kick-starts-in-haryana-today-232809
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Relief to arhtiyas in Haryana on interest payment||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced a major relief for arhtiyas in the outstanding payment of interest and penalties just a day ahead of the start of the rabi procurement season tomorrow.BeneficiariesBenefits to be given to those who till the land“There are plot holders owning plots in grain markets and vegetable mandis of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), who are unable to pay their installments on time due to different reasons. Now, the state government has decided to give 40 per cent interest waiver on the default amount and 100 per cent waiver on penal interest, provided that the plot holder clears the entire balance amount by June 15,” said Khattar.He said that at present, there were 2,421 allottees on the defaulters’ list of the HSAMB and about Rs 1,131 crore was outstanding against them. After today’s announcement, these plot holders would get a benefit of Rs 370 crore.The Chief Minister clarified that farmers would be paid directly during the procurement season. “If there are issues related to money lending between the farmers and the arhtiyas, they have to sort these out themselves,” he said. “If there is a delay of more than 72 hours in payment to farmers, they will get interest at the rate of 9 per cent,” he added.“The preparations for procurement have been made and the Standard Operating Procedure to be followed have been issued,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-to-arhtiyas-in-haryana-on-interest-payment-232810
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchayat monetary transactions in Haryana to go digital: CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that all monetary transactions at the panchayat level will be done online. Besides, an audit report should be prepared for every district and detailed discussions be held, he added.He stated this while presiding over a meeting with regard to the planning of Budget and Financial Management of Panchayati Raj Institutions and Local Bodies held here today. Chairman of the Sixth State Finance Commission P Raghavendra Rao attended the meeting through video-conferencing.Khattar directed the panchayats to implement e-panchayats to ensure transparency. The meeting was informed that 2,713 panchayats in the state were at present making online payments. So far, 55,000 vendors had registered on the e-Gram Swaraj portal.The Chief Minister said that a mechanism was being developed where anyone could give suggestions related to the development of a village to the government. The suggestions could be uploaded by visiting the Gram Darshan portal and these would be immediately visible to the MP, MLA, Zila Parishad member, Panchayat Samiti member and the sarpanch. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchayat-monetary-transactions-in-haryana-to-go-digital-cm-khattar-232811
01-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Men can’t step into the shoes of women sarpanches: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Haryana Financial Commissioner-cum-Secretary, Department of Development and Panchayats, to ensure that men did not step into the shoes of women sarpanches.The direction came as Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan rapped the Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner for his failure to check the common belief in rural areas that a woman sarpanch could not be a good leader. Justice Sangwan was hearing a petition alleging that a man was permitted to work as a sarpanch in place of his daughter-in-law.The Judge also made it clear that the Deputy Commissioners in the state, being the heads of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), were required to keep a check that “de jure election of the lady sarpanch was not taken over by de-facto male members of her family”.“The Financial Commissioner-cum-Secretary to Government of Haryana, Department of Development and Panchayats, is directed to ensure and circulate among all the Deputy Commissioners of the Haryana that no such permission be granted to a male person, who is neither a member of the panchayat nor a sarpanch to act on behalf of the lady sarpanch,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The directions were also issued to forward information to the High Court Registrar General after sending the communication to all DCs. For the purpose, Justice Sangwan set a month’s deadline.The Judge asserted that in Haryana, the gender ratio was the poorest in the country.The women in rural areas were subjected to domestic violence, faced social and cultural barriers and were prevented from socialisation.Deprecating the Deputy Commissioner’s causal approach in not ensuring women’s empowerment in the panchayati raj system, Justice Sangwan added he also failed to check the widespread impression in rural Haryana that the male members of the sarpanch’s family could suo motu assume her powers in a self-styled notion that only male member could work in her place.He was also directed to personally verify the facts before filing any affidavit in the HC in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/men-cant-step-into-the-shoes-of-women-sarpanches-hc-232805
01-04-2021||---||Karnal’s busy markets to be ‘no traffic zone’ from today||Karnal, March 31The district authorities have chalked out a traffic plan to make busy markets of the city congestion free. Under the plan, the busy markets will be made ‘no traffic zone’ from tomorrow. No vehicle will be allowed to ply in these markets between 10 am and 9 pm.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav announced this after a visit to the market areas and an interaction with the market associations in the city. Yadav along with SP Ganga Ram Punia assured traders that they would resolve all issues after the implementation of the plan.In the first phase, the administration will implement the plan at the Karan Gate Market, Gur Mandi, Dupatta Market, and Dyalpura Gate Market while in the coming days it will also be implemented in the Kunjpura road market, said Yadav.“We will install barricades at four different entry points of the Karan Gate market so that nobody violates the traffic plan,” he said, adding that one barricade will be installed near the Committee Chowk towards Karan Gate, the second barricade near Gur Mandi, third near Sachdeva Sweets, and fourth near the traffic police booth. The police will be there for the strictly implementation of the rules.The DC said they had also developed parking sites on both sides of the markets, one at the old subzi mandi with a capacity of 300 vehicles, and another parking in the old MC building with a capacity of 100 vehicles, where the commuters have to park their vehicles and have to come to the market on foot. Parking contractors will provide e-rickshaws to commuters free of cost, which will ply in the no traffic zone markets. These e-rickshwas are of yellow colour. Only ambulance, fire brigade, and other emergency vehicles will be allowed to commute in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnals-busy-markets-to-be-no-traffic-zone-from-today-232802
01-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Nikita Tomar murder: Court ruling makes no mention of ‘love jihad’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31The judgment pronounced in the Nikita Tomar case concludes that convict Tausif’s infatuation for the victim led to the killing. It makes no mention of “love jihad”.However, Home Minister Anil Vij as well as president of the Haryana State Commission for Women Preeti Bhardwaj had cited “love jihad” as the reason for the 20-year-old Faridabad student’s murder to press for a law against “conversion” in the state.Addl Sessions JudgeWhat the court saidThis is a case where interest of society and justice shall be served by imposing life imprisonment than putting the accused to death. The case does not fall in “rarest of rare” category.“It is clearly established that Tausif had a liking for victim Nikita Tomar… and tried to abduct Nikita Tomar, showing a pistol. When she valiantly resisted his attempts, he shot her,” Additional Sessions Judge, Faridabad, Sartaj Baswana, concluded in the judgment which was made public today.After Tausif and his friend Rihan were sentenced to life imprisonment on March 26, Vij had stated that the state would approach the high court to seek death sentence for the duo. Bhardwaj too had said had there been a law on conversion, the punishment would have been more severe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-tomar-murder-court-ruling-makes-no-mention-of-love-jihad-232873
01-04-2021||---||Supreme Court panel submits report on agriculture laws||New Delhi, March 31As agitating farmers refuse to let go of their demand for withdrawal of the three farm laws, a Supreme Court-appointed three-member panel has submitted its report to the court in a sealed cover on measures to end the deadlock.9 internal meetingsThe panel comprising Pramod Kumar Joshi (Director, South Asia international Food Policy), Shetkari Sanghatana president Anil Ghanwat and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices Ashok Gulati submitted the report on March 19, sources said.The fourth member of the panel, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, had recused himself.The panel was asked to study the three farm laws, consult all stakeholders and submit its report in two months. A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde – which had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a panel to suggest measures to end the stalemate – is expected to take up the matter on April 5.The panel held 12 rounds of consultations with various stakeholders, including farmers’ groups, farmer producer organisations (FPOs), procurement agencies, professionals, academicians and private as well as state agriculture marketing boards.The panel is said to have held consultations with 85 farmers’ organisations and other stakeholders to end the stalemate that has continued since November last year when thousands of agitating farmers blocked key entry points to the Capital.It also held nine internal meetings before submitting its report. The government too has held several rounds of talks with farm leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-panel-submits-report-on-agriculture-laws-232789
