03-04-2021||Ravi S Singh||Enact health welfare scheme for lawyers, ex-BCI member urges Haryana govt||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 3Espousing concerns of lawyers’ fraternity in Haryana, former Member of the Bar Council of India Jagdev on Saturday urged the state government to enact a health welfare scheme for it on the pattern of policy being implemented by the government of National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi.Jagdev said the government of NCT of Delhi has put in place Chief Minister’s Advocates’ Welfare Scheme which provides insurance cover of medi-claim of rupees 5 lakh for each practising lawyer and his family members.The eligibility to avail the scheme is that the prospective beneficiary has to be enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi and a resident of Delhi.Jagdev said the possibility of a delegation of legal fraternity meeting Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar in the matter cannot be ruled out.He said that about a large number of lawyers who are natives of Haryana are enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi.“There is a growing view among the fraternity that the Haryana government should also frame a health and other welfare schemes for the lawyers practising in the state,” Jagdev said.Also a member Bar Council of Delhi, Jagdev urged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to relax the eligibility norms of the Chief Minister’s Advocate’s Welfare Scheme to cover lawyers of Haryana and other parts of NCR who are enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi, but do not reside in Delhi.A large number of lawyers hailing from NCR are members of Bar Council of Delhi and practise in different courts here by commuting to and fro from their native places. Lawyers from Haryana account for a good chunk of them.Pitching for lawyer’s welfare, he said the legal profession is most respected in advanced countries and democracies around the world. Lawyers, individually and collectively, are symbols of a vibrant democracy. Hence, their welfare must be ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enact-health-welfare-scheme-for-lawyers-ex-bci-member-urges-haryana-govt-234175
03-04-2021||Rohtak||Farmers protesting CM Khattar’s visit clash with cops in Rohtak, 3 hurt||Two elderly farmers and a policeman were injured in a clash between protesting farmers and police personnel deployed near Baba Mastnath Matth on the outskirts of Rohtak city ahead of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit on Saturday afternoon.The Chief Minister was slated to come to Rohtak to attend a condolence meeting of local BJP MP Arvind Sharma’s father and his helicopter was supposed to land at the helipad on the matth premises.However, the Chief Minister’s helicopter landed at the local Police Lines instead in view of the farmers’ aggressive protest. Khattar was taken to the condolence meeting by a different route amidst tight security.READ: Angry over Rohtak police action, Jind farmers block highwaysA number of farmers carrying black flags marched towards the Mastnath Matth shortly before the scheduled landing of Khattar’s chopper and the police personnel deployed there tried to stop them.Some youths among the protesters threw stones at the police personnel, which triggered the clash. Two elderly farmers and a policeman were injured in the clash. A number of women protesters also participated in the protest.     Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma denied any lathi-charge or use of force by the police, maintaining that a policeman and a farmer were injured in stone-pelting by the protesters.On the other hand, the injured farmers, including Raj Singh (73) of Sanghi village and Ishwar (80) of Basantpur village in Rohtak district, asserted before the reporters that they had been injured in police lathi-charge.Protesting farmers alleged that several protesters had been rounded up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protesting-cm-khattars-visit-clash-with-cops-in-rohtak-3-hurt-234148
03-04-2021||New Delhi||Bishnoi-Jathedi gang members arrested in Delhi||The Delhi Police have arrested five criminals of the Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Jathedi gang, officials said on Friday.The accused have been identified as Kapil Nehra (23), Yashpal alias Sarpanch (28), Rajeev alias Raju Basai (25), Rahul Mehalawat (23), residents of Haryana, and Gagandeep alias Guni (35), hailing from Punjab.“The police got a tip-off regarding the movement of the accused in the national Capital. Later, a police team laid a trap near Chandgi Ram Akhara red light at Ring Road on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and apprehended them,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said. Loaded firearms, including two zigana and one taurus pistols, and over 70 cartridges were recovered from their possession, the police said, adding that a case under the Arms Act has been registered.The accused were wanted in several cases, including triple and double murders committed in broad daylight, attempts to murder, extortion, encounter with police and Arms Act in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttarakhand, the police said.They had committed a series of crimes in the recent past, acting as a bridge between Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Jathedi and another infamous wanted gangster of Gurgaon, Sube Gurjar, who is carrying a reward of Rs 7 lakh on his arrest, police said.After escaping from the custody of the Haryana Police in February 2020, gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi has been working to expend his network in Delhi and adjoining states, they said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bishnoi-jathedi-gang-members-arrested-in-delhi-234073
03-04-2021||Parveen Arora||In Karnal, 54% govt schools without heads||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 2Amid claims of the state government about providing excellent education in its schools, nearly 54 per cent of the schools in Karnal district are functioning without principals or headmasters. As many as 95 higher and senior secondary schools in the district are without heads.48% posts vacant across state headmaster unfilledOf the 176 posts of principals or headmasters sanctioned in the district, only 81 are filled. In the absence of heads, senior-most teachers have been given additional charge. In addition to holding classes, they have to look after administrative work and education-related policies of the government, hampering the study of students, said sources. The in-charge has to visit district headquarters too for administrative work.In Karnal, the maximum vacancies are in Assandh block, where 27 of the 30 sanctioned posts are yet to be filled.Teachers’ associations want the government to promote senior teachers to meet the shortfall. Ajit Chandeliya, press secretary of the Haryana School Lecturers Association, said the government must appoint regular heads as studies suffer when teachers are given additional charge.Deepak Goswami, convener, Rajkiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, Haryana, said only regular principals and headmasters could lead the team efficiently as they were not burdened with teaching duties. District Education Officer Rajpal said in the absence of regular heads, teachers were given the charge to look after the school. “The department fills posts as per availability.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-54-govt-schools-without-heads-234030
03-04-2021||Naina Mishra||Tele-consultation appointments add to agony of patients at Chandigarh's PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2As coronavirus cases surge in the city, the non-Covid services at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research are getting affected with a number of patients finding it difficult to get tele-consultation.Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, who has been trying to book an appointment with the Blood Cancer Department from last two days, told Chandigarh Tribune, “I have been trying to book an appointment for tele-consultation from the last two days, but every time the route is busy.”Another patient, Sushil, said he was unable to get an appointment for the neuro OPD as nobody responded on the given phone number.Sushil claimed that he had been trying for an appointment for the last three months.In pre-Covid times, on a routine day, over 10,000 people visited PGIMER OPDs, with over 5,000 reaching out through tele-consultation.The OPDs were shut on March 19 last year, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the city.Tele-consultation thus remains the initial point of contact between patients and doctors. Patients are evaluated first through tele-consultation and only those requiring further evaluation and examination are called to the OPD by appointment.Dr Naveen Pandey, in-charge of the OPD Administration at PGI said, “The tele-consultation is open between 8 am and 9.40 am. We have one tele-consultation number with 21 lines. The institute registers over 2,500 patients through telephone. This means, one patient is registered through telephone every minute.”“Those patients who face difficulty in registering through telephone can also register online, which is available 24X7,” said Dr Pandey.On expanding OPD services, he said tele-consultation was time consuming in comparison to physical OPDs as doctors spend around 10 minutes on each patient. This includes sharing of reports over WhatsApp, etc.The doctors are calling patients till 5-6 pm in the evening, and expanding OPD services seems difficult at the moment, he said.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “In days prior to Covid, OPDs at PGI witnessed a daily footfall of 10,000 to12,000. Catering to this mammoth load through tele-consultation is very tough, but we are trying our level best and reaching out to almost 50 per cent of our patient load, considering that over 4,500 to 5,000 patients are either given consultation over phone or through physical examination.”“Though we have tried to increase the number of lines to facilitate patients, still there is a long way to go.”“At times patients with routine health issues also want consultation at PGI. However, this being a tertiary care hospital, ideally, only those patients requiring tertiary care should be catered to. All this leads to patient load much beyond the expectations and hence any facilitation or service falls short of the demand,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tele-consultation-appointments-add-to-agony-of-patients-at-chandigarhs-pgi-233868
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker forms 4 more panels||Close on the heels of seven House committees that were formed on Tuesday, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand constituted four more committees on Thursday.The Committee on Education, Technical Education, Vocational Education, Medical Education and Health Services will have Seema Trikha as chairperson, while Jagdish Nayar, Naina Chautala, Nirmal Rani, Shamsher Singh Gogi, Shaily, Shishpal Singh, Nayan Pal Rawat and Indu Raj have been nominated as its members.The Committee on Government Assurances will have Mohd Ilyas as chairperson, while MLAs Bishan Lal Saini, Rajinder Singh Joon, Gopal Kanda, Mahipal Dhanda, Nirmal Rani, Subhash Gangoli, Amarjeet Dhanda and Dura Ram will be its members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-forms-4-more-panels-233735
03-04-2021||Palwal||One held for selling DAP at higher price in Palwal||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-held-for-selling-dap-at-higher-price-in-palwal-233736
03-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Don't leave horses with legs tied on roads||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Don't leave horses with legs tied on roadsTo leave horses on city roads with two legs tied is being unkind to animals, if not cruel. May be, it is necessary for break-in of horses. Still the animals should be trained in open fields, not left roaming on the roads. Cows and oxen that become unproductive are left on the roads. This often leads to traffic hazards. Animal rights warrant that beasts of burden and utility must be treated in a kind way. Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraUnique property IDs should be linked to PAN, AadhaarTo eliminate property disputes in Haryana, the government should give permanent unique ID numbers to all types of property - residential houses and plots, commercial and industrial showrooms, shops and plots or agricultural land under the leadership of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Along with this, the government should also make it mandatory linking of unique ID number of all these types of properties with their owners' Aadhaar card and PAN. Doing so will curb corruption. The process of division of all types of fixed assets should be simplified and its time period also be fixed. Shakti Singh, KarnalAuto debiting of fine not a good ideaThis refers to 'Haryana mulling automatic challan system for overspeeding' (The Tribune, April 1). While the Haryana government's proposed plan to put an automatic challan system in place for overspeeding in the state deserves full appreciation, its simultaneous move to an 'auto debit' of the fine from the account of the violator may give rise to several hiccups and other operational constraints. One wishes that better sense eventually prevails upon the state government and it sheds this ill-conceived idea of 'auto-debiting' the fine, which also goes against the spirit of natural justice. Kumar Gupt, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-leave-horses-with-legs-tied-on-roads-233744
03-04-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University's registration page for admissions||Workshop on research methodologyRohtak: Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Prof Rajbir Singh said innovative research in humanities and arts with an inter-disciplinary approach, could help in solving society’s problems and facilitate human welfare. While inaugurating the online research methodology workshop being organised by the faculty of humanities and arts and Ch Ranbir Singh Institute of Social and Economic Change (CRSIS&EC), Singh said the university was committed to facilitating capacity building of research scholars of the university. Dean, faculty of humanities and arts Prof Harish Kumar said literature, visual arts, music and mass communication are inter-connected. “Need of the hour is to search the linkages, and research the cultural sociological aspects,” he added.Vaccination drive at YMCA varsityFaridabad: To encourage employees to take Covid vaccination, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, held a special vaccination drive on the university campus recently. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar who took the first shot of Covishield appealed to the employees and staff of the university to take the vaccination doses immediately. Claiming that India-made vaccines are safe and effective on safety standards, he said one should not believe in rumours. “The vaccination will increase immunity against Covid infection and help in fighting the pandemic’’, he said. He also urged students to follow the Standard operating procedures (SOPs) including wearing a face mask and maintaining social distancing. The camp was organised by the health centre of university in collaboration with Civil Hospital and ESIC Hospital, Faridabad. The university had set the target of administering 300 vaccines so as to encourage more people to take advantage of it. However, over 200 eligible employees successfully administered the first dose of Covishield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guru-jambheshwar-universitys-registration-page-for-admissions-233738
03-04-2021||Karnal||Five held for pilfering oil in Kaithal||The Kaithal police have arrested five men in connection with pilferage from the Panipat-Bathinda oil pipeline of the IOCL refinery in Panipat.The accused have been identified as Rohit Kumar, his brother Mohit Kumar, Sandeep, all residents of Jalandhar, Kulwinder Singh of Kaithal and Kranti of UP.All are scrap dealers. They were sen to three days’ remand. “The accused stole oil thrice by drilling the main pipeline. In the past two months, they stole around 3,000 litres of diesel,” said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-held-for-pilfering-oil-in-kaithal-233739
03-04-2021||Ambala||Mind your words: Kumari Selja to BJP leaders||State Congress chief Kumari Selja has said BJP leaders have been facing people’s anger because of, what she described as, their “wrong policies and statements”.“They should mind their words instead of blaming the Congress for everything,” she told the media here today.Kumari Selja, State Cong ChiefDon’t provokeBJP leaders have been provoking protesters. And when they face protest, they blame the Congress for it.“BJP leaders have been provoking protesters by using wrong words. And when they face protest, they blame the Congress for it. We are against the violence but, at the same time, you should not provoke them. The Centre imposed the three farm laws on farmers without consulting them. If you don’t listen to them (farmers) and try to suppress their voice, they will react,” Selja added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mind-your-words-kumari-selja-to-bjp-leaders-233740
03-04-2021||---||Panipat factory worker shot dead||Panipat, April 2A 28-year-old youth, supervisor with a contractor company of the AMRUT scheme, was shot dead in broad daylight in Bharat Nagar here today. The assailants also stabbed the supervisor after shooting him.Family members of the victim rushed him to the general hospital and doctors referred him to the PGIMS Rohtak, but the family members shifted him to a private hospital, where he died.The deceased was identified as Shiv Kumar Mohri of Sitamai village in Kaithal. He was living in Nanakpur Colony of Karnal. He was working as a supervisor in a contractor company Bhoomi Infrastructure.Eight persons on three two-wheelers came there and started firing at him due to which he fell on road. Not only this, the assailants also attacked him with some sharp-edged weapon 8-10 times.The assailants fled from the spot as they saw people gathering there. The assailants left there scooty at the spot.A police team reached the spot and recovered a scooty, which belonged to the assailants and seized three used cartridges from the spot.Sources said the reason behind the murder was some old dispute with Bhaskar Sharma of Dhoop Singh Nagar over a sewerage connection on March 11. Bhaskar and Shiv Kumar got injured in the feud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-factory-worker-shot-dead-233741
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM to review progress of transfer policy||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will review the progress of the online transfer policy for government departments having a sanctioned cadre strength of 300 and above at a high-level meeting on April 6.Sources said the meeting would deliberate on various issues regarding the implementation of the online transfer policy for departments, including boards and corporations.Earlier, the government had implemented the policy for the departments having a sanctioned strength of over 500. Last year, the government had directed 10 departments, including agriculture, development, excise and taxation, education, PWD, transport, women and child development, animal husbandry and industrial training, to implement the transfer policy.The issue of the extension of the current policy to other departments would also be taken up at the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-to-review-progress-of-transfer-policy-233737
03-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Don’t dither to act against erring official: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2In a significant judgment liable to change the way drug cases are investigated by the police, the High Court has made it clear that appropriate action was required to be taken against the erring investigating officer (IO) for not complying with the provisions of the NDPS Act.Directions on sensitising the investigating and other officials to comply with the provisions of the Act were also reiterated.Justice Manjari Nehru KaulNon-compliance of NDPS Act provisionsCompliance with the provisions of the NDPS Act, in letter and spirit, was all the more critical in the present-day scenario when cases were on the rise across the length and breadth of the country and had been wreaking havoc on society, particularly in younger generation. Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul also made it clear that the directions were required to be complied with by Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, by ordering the forwarding of the order’s copy to the Chief Secretaries of the two States and Adviser to the UT Administrator. The directions came after Justice Kaul took note of the rising number of drug cases in the country.Taking up a regular bail petition filed in a drugs case filed against the State of Haryana, Justice Kaul asserted that compliance with the provisions of the NDPS Act, in letter and spirit, was all the more critical in the present-day scenario, when cases were on the rise across the length and breadth of the country and had been wreaking havoc on society, particularly in younger generation.Justice Kaul asserted that it was crucial so that advertently or inadvertently lapses on the investigating agency’s part or even by unscrupulous elements in some cases did not benefit the accused, who might also be involved in a large number of other cases under the Act.Referring to law laid down by a Division Bench of the HC in the case of “Ajit Singh alias Jeeta and another versus the State of Punjab” decided on November 30, 2018, Justice Kaul asserted that the State was required to take effective steps to sensitise investigating and other officials to comply with Section 36A (4) of the NDPS Act, if for some reasons they were unable to present the challan along with the FSL report within the stipulated time of 180 days.The HC, in Ajit Singh’s case, had ruled that a petitioner was entitled to be released on bail on the premise that the challan, without the report, would be treated to be incomplete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-dither-to-act-against-erring-official-high-court-233745
03-04-2021||---||Follow norms or face action, Covid-hit warned||Ambala, April 2Following a surge in Covid cases in the district, the Health Department has warned the home isolated Covid patients and suspected patients, who do not isolate themselves even after giving their samples for testing, to follow guidelines or face action.The Health Department has constituted 15 teams to conduct surprise checks at the residents of patients in the district. There are 1,229 active cases in Ambala of which 1,133 are home isolated.As per the health official, it has been observed that suspected patients have been roaming freely while as per the norms they should get isolated and wait for the test results. Covid patients who have been given the facility of home isolation have been violating the guidelines. It has been decided to book such violators under the epidemic Disease Act, Disaster Management Act, and sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, Ambala, said, “Violation of guidelines are being observed following which we have decided to initiate action against them under the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Disease Act. There have been complaints that home isolated patients are not following the guidelines. They are coming in contact with other people and sometime going out of their house too.”“Educated people and those who belong to the elite class have been violating the guidelines more than the people who live in slum areas,” he added.State logs 1,861 cases, 10 deathsChandigarh: With 1,861 fresh Covid cases and 10 deaths, the tally in the state reached 2.94 lakh on Friday. Two deaths each were reported from Jind and Karnal while one death each was recorded from Gurugram, Hisar, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Kaithal. Also, 1,191 patients got cured in the last 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-norms-or-face-action-covid-hit-warned-233746
03-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Poor response: 15 pleas received for regularising Faridabad colonies||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 2The drive regarding the invitation of applications for registration from unauthorised colonies for regularisation has evoked a poor response here.Sources said only 15 applications had been received from around 460 such colonies identified last year. The last date of applying online had been March 31.Stating that the process of invitation of applications from the residents of unregularised residential colonies was launched from March 1, an official of the Town and Country Planning Department said while 15 applications had been filed by nine RWAs and six developers, the status report had been submitted with the higher authorities in Chandigarh and the next move would depend on the directions from the higher authorities. Though the number of unauthorised colonies within or out of the civic limits could be over 500, a survey carried out last year had detected around 460 colonies which had occupancy of plots or houses between 50 and 100 per cent, the primary condition for lodging an application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-response-15-pleas-received-for-regularising-faridabad-colonies-233742
03-04-2021||---||Farmers get restive, refuse to follow mandi schedule system in Karnal||Karnal, April 2Enraged over the scheduling system for bringing wheat crop in the grain markets, scores of farmers protested outside the Karnal market committee office and staged a dharna here today.They even dumped a trolley of wheat crop outside the office after a farmer was denied entry inside the grain market with his crop as he did not had the schedule message.The protesting farmers threatened not to follow any kind of scheduling system, but to bring their crop when it matured. They said they could not wait for any schedule as the crop does not mature with the schedule. The farmers also announced to dump their produce at the Mini-Secretariat from Saturday if they were not allowed without schedule. Later, the farmer was allowed to sell his crop and a manual gate pass was issued to him.The state government has made the registration of crop mandatory on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal and, accordingly, a schedule for the procurement is fixed. Farmers will bring their crop as per the schedule, information of which is given through SMS.Bhupinder Singh, a farmer of Bijna village, came to the market committee gate, but was not allowed to go inside as he came without schedule. “I got my crop registered on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal and harvested my crop two days ago. I approached my arhtiya, who further met officials of the market committee, but no message was delivered to me. I could not keep my crop in the fields as the fear of fire looms in summer harvesting,” he added.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said wheat crop had matured in almost all fields and the threat of firing incidents looms as around 12 acres of wheat crop were gutted in Munak village yesterday.Veena Hooda, ADC, reached there and tried to pacify them. She assured the protesters to find a solution to the issue. She also appealed to arhtiyas associations to come forward in issuance of schedule to those farmers whose crop was either harvested or ready to harvest.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said the farmer was allowed to sell his crop through manual gate pass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-get-restive-refuse-to-follow-mandi-schedule-system-in-karnal-233743
03-04-2021||---||Mining revenue rises by 31% in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 2Haryana Mines and Geology Minister Mool Chand Sharma today said that despite Covid, the government received revenue of Rs 1,022.63 crore from mining operations during FY 2020-21, which was 31 per cent more than the previous financial year.In a statement issued here today, Sharma said just as the pandemic had affected the entire world, it had also affected the mining activities. However, though no mining was done for 26 days due to the lockdown last year, getting revenue of Rs 1,022.63 crore was commendable.He said this was the first time in the history of the department, when the revenue from mining works had crossed Rs 1,000-crore mark.During the year 2019-20, the revenue from mining works was Rs 702.25 crore, whereas during 2018-19, it was Rs 583.21 crore.The Minister of Mines and Geology said the state government aimed to ensure the availability of construction material at reasonable prices for the common man in the state, and also to curb illegal mining. The government had taken stringent steps to bring illegal mining to zero level so as to prevent the loss of revenue to the exchequer. He said the monitoring and survey system had been enhanced at every level in the department. The disposal of pending appeals at the government level had been expedited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-revenue-rises-by-31-in-haryana-233724
03-04-2021||---||Charges framed against Bihar man in 2019 hoax bomb call at Delhi Airport||Panchkula, April 2The special NIA court in Panchkula on Friday framed charges against a Bihar man in a case pertaining to hoax bomb call at the Delhi Airport in August 2019 to stop his girlfriend from flying abroad for work.Nasrudeen has been charged under Section 3 read with Section 4 of the Anti-Hijacking Act,2016. The next date of hearing in the case is July 6.The NIA had filed the chargesheet against the accused in July last year.The accused from Sitamarhi in Bihar, who used to work in Chennai, had allegedly made a call at the Delhi International Airport Limited’s call centre in Gurugram on August 8, 2019 that a woman named Zabina had reached the airport and could cause a blast on a Kuwait-bound flight.Following the call, the Bomb Threat Assessment Committee had raised their security checks and offloaded Zabina, but allowed her to travel two days later after they found out the call was a hoax. Nasrudeen was later arrested.According to the NIA, Nasrudeen had met Zabina in Chennai in May 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charges-framed-against-bihar-man-in-2019-hoax-bomb-call-at-delhi-airport-233747
03-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Five booked on murder charge in Yamunanagar||The police have booked five persons in connection with the alleged murder of their colleague.On the complaint of Surender Kumar, father of victim Vikram, alias Vikki, Vinod Kumar, Gautam Kumar, Abhishek, Govind and one other person have been booked under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC.In his police complaint, Surender Kumar said that his son Vikram used to work in a private company. On March 29, he didn’t return home after duty. He said that they checked CCTV footages of the company and Vikram was seen playing Holi with these persons outside the gate of the firm. His body was recovered from the Augmentation canal canal at Bahadarpur village on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-booked-on-murder-charge-in-yamunanagar-233748
03-04-2021||---||Five youths arrested on extortion charge in Faridabad||Faridabad, April 2A crime branch team on Thursday arrested five youths for allegedly trying to extort Rs 5 lakh from a local shopkeeper.The accused have been identified as Sonu, alias Stephen; Rahul, alias Tulla; Navin, Abhishek and Rohit, All of them are in the age group of 18-20 years.According to information, the accused had earlier looted Rs 50,000 from Rajender, who runs a shop in the Old Faridabad market. Now, they were allegedly trying to extort Rs 5 lakh from him.The police said the key accused, Rahul, used to work at the victim’s shop and had left the job a few weeks ago.As Rahul was aware that Rajender takes cash home daily, he along with four other persons stopped him midway on March 22 evening and took away his two-wheeler. The victim had kept a bag containing cash in the scooter dickey.The victim alleged that the accused were now demanding Rs 5 lakh from him and also threatened to kill his children if their demand was not met.The police have arrested the accused and recovered the motorcycle, a cellphone and Rs 16,000 in cash from their possession. The accused are in judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-youths-arrested-on-extortion-charge-in-faridabad-233749
03-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala opens flyover on Gurugram-Faridabad stretch||Gurugram, April 2Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala inaugurated the newly constructed four-lane flyover near Bandwadi village on the Gurugram-Faridabad road on Friday.The Deputy Chief Minister said, “This flyover will help reduce traffic pressure and improve connectivity between the two major districts (Gurugram-Faridabad) of Haryana. Not only this, it will also prevent accidents. In future aspects, this stretch will also play a major role to reach the Jewar airport in a short span of time.”The flyover, which has been constructed at a cost of Rs 11.5 crore, is 514 metre in length and 21 metre in width.“The construction of the flyover started in June 14, 2019, and was completed in a short span in March 31, 2021. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the PWD took only 21 months for the complication of this project, which is very appreciative,” Chautala told the media.To a query regarding the collapse of two slabs of an under-construction flyover on the Dwarka Expressway, the Deputy Chief Minister said a 10-member committee had been formed by the NHAI, which would submit its report in about 10 days. If irregularities were found, action would be taken against the person concerned.The Deputy Chief Minister said the state government was working on a project to start the Metro Rail service between Faridabad and Gurugram. He also announced a grant of Rs 21 lakh from his personal funds for the beautification of a historic chaupal of the village.On a law for 75 per cent reservation in private jobs to the local youth, the The Deputy Chief Minister said that the state government would consider suggestions for introducing amendments to this law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautala-opens-flyover-on-gurugram-faridabad-stretch-233750
03-04-2021||Jhajjar||Jhajjar shopkeepers block road against rising crime||The rising incidents of crime in the district have not only caused a sense of insecurity among locals but also put the functioning of the district police in the dock.On Friday, the body of a middle-aged man, identified as Ramdhari, was recovered from Ukhalchana Kot village, while burglars struck at a mobile shop at Palika Bazar in the city, forcing traders and shopkeepers to hold a demonstration against the police.The protesters also blocked the old bus stand road for over an hour and demanded the police authorities to ensure their security and to intensify patrolling in main markets. They shouted slogans against the police.“Anti-social elements have persistently been committing crime, while the police are proving unsuccessful in nabbing them. Three days ago, miscreants looted Rs 2 lakh from an online service provider at pistol point, but the looters are yet to be arrested. At that time too, we demanded security arrangements at the markets, but nothing was done,” said a protester.The protesters lifted the blockade following assurance by SP Rajesh Duggal that security arrangements would be strengthened in the markets and the criminals would be nabbed soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-shopkeepers-block-road-against-rising-crime-233751
03-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Dividers removed on highways, guilty to be booked||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 2Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar has ordered the registration of FIRs against those who have made illegal cuts at national highways passing through the district.He has also asked officials of the NHAI to identify those indulging in this unlawful activity so that police action could be taken against them.Danger loomsSources said that the order was issued after NHAI officials raised the issue at a meeting of district officials held here on Tuesday. They said that owners of private schools had made illegal cuts at the highways at some places, causing mishaps. Even petrol stations and other business establishments had also made such cuts.The Deputy Commissioner directed all departments and agencies associated with the Road Safety Programme to get a safety audit done at the earliest so as to find out the causes of the mishap.The sources said that the Road Safety Association with the help of the Police Department had identified 20 accident-prone places in the district, including the Lakhanmajra Chowk, Kharainti-Rohtak road, Bhagwatipur, Jalebi Chowk, Baba Mastnath University, and the Hanuman Temple at Kharawar village. The officials were directed to make temporary arrangements to check mishaps till the issue of illegal cuts was resolved permanently.Meanwhile, the DC has sought an explanation from Public Works Department (PWD) officials as to why they did not apply for the removal of trees from the road before initiating the work to widen it near Bhalauth village. He has also directed them to file a permission application for tree cutting immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dividers-removed-on-highways-guilty-to-be-booked-233752
03-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Revenue from unipoles: Gurugram Mayor seeks probe into ‘financial scam’||Gurugram, April 2Following complaint by a local councillor of Gurugram, the Mayor has sought a probe in the alleged financial scam of advertisement revenue generation from Municipal Corporation (MC) unipoles. The Mayor taking cognizance of the issue raised it at the House meeting and wrote to Additional Commissioner asking him to probe charges of alleged connivance of MC officials in the illegal hoarding menace.The Mayor has sought probe and report on the issue.The advertisement in-charge SDO Kuldeep has been directed to submit the report till April 5. According to the complaint, hoarding unipoles are illegally engaged in Gurugram and rent is not being deposited to the MC.“A majority of illegal hoardings are put up in the MC zone 3, especially on the MG road and the Golf course road. The MC has no record of these unipoles while the hoarding mafia makes easy money with the connivance of the MCG officials, “read complaint by Dharmbeer, Councillor of Ward 21. He not just raised the issue in the House meeting, but also submitted the details of illegal hoarding unipoles with the pictures.Among several civic issues plaguing the city, defacement is emerging as a major challenge. While the city has only 80 legit spots earmarked for hoardings, the MC has so far identified over 600 illegal hoardings, a majority in the new Gurugram area, Dwarka expressway, Delhi-Jaipur expressway, Sohna road, Pataudi road, Badshahpur and the Kherki Daula toll plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revenue-from-unipoles-gurugram-mayor-seeks-probe-into-financial-scam-233753
03-04-2021||---||STF to be strengthened: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, April 2Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, while reviewing organised crime scenario here today, said that the Special Task Force (STF) of the police would be strengthened further so that criminal activities of interstate gangsters could be monitored and effectively dealt with.The Home Minister gave in-principle approval for modern vehicles, latest technology equipment and software.Anil Vij, State Home MinisterNo crime is smallAll crimes are linked to each other. No crime is small or big. If efforts are made to stop it at the initial level, then it gives better results later. Immediate action be taken against criminals and those disturbing law and order.It was informed at the meeting that the Haryana Assembly had passed a stringent Haryana Control of Organised Crime (HRCOC) Bill to check organised crime. It had been sent to the Centre for the President’s assent and would be implemented in the entire state as soon as it was approved.Vij said, “All crimes are linked to each other. No crime is small or big. If efforts are made to stop it at the initial level, then it gives better results later.”Giving clear instructions to police officials, the Home Minister said immediate action be taken against criminals and those disturbing law and order, and be cordial and sensitive towards the public which wanted to live in peace.The Home Minister said many a time, the police were not able to solve public grievances on time, which was a matter of concern.He directed officials to make a mechanism for the timely redressal of grievances and resolve them within the prescribed time limit.The SPs of those districts that have a high number of pending criminal cases were also asked to improve their performance.It was informed that 800 personnel retire from the Police Department every year. This year, the recruitment process for about 7,500 vacancies is to be done through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission.Vij said that the emergency response and support system-112 would be launched in the state soon. For this, 630 new Innova vehicles had been purchased, which would soon be dedicated to the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stf-to-be-strengthened-anil-vij-233754
03-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||Will return water tanker sent by Dushyant Chautala: Hisar village||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 2A day after Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala donated a water tanker to the district’s Badhawar village, its residents today decided to return it in support of protesting farmers.The decision taken at a meeting held in the village. Villagers said they wanted to send out a strong message to Dushyant.Satyawan, Badhawar village sarpanch Water shortage looms: SarpanchSome BKU activists have decided to return the tanker, but panches and I are trying to calm them down. The tanker is still in the village. I hope that it will be used as the village might face water shortage. The Deputy Chief Minister had yesterday flagged off water tankers to 45 villages donated by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. All tankers bear the names of Dushyant and HPCL.Chander Singh, a villager resident, said: “Villagers held a meeting today and unanimously decided to return the tanker.”He added, “Youths, who had brought the tanker after having received a call from the authorities, said they regretted their decision of bringing the tanker. They said if villagers have objection, they would support them.”The village has another tanker also donated by Dushyant when he was a Lok Sabha member for water supply. That too had Dushyant’s name painted on it, but villagers painted it black.Badhawar village sarpanch Satyawan said, “Some BKU activists decided to return the tanker, but panches and I are trying to calm them down. The tanker is still in the village. I hope that it will be used as the village might face water shortage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-return-water-tanker-sent-by-dushyant-chautala-hisar-village-233755
