04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government’s new guidelines to check COVID-19 case surge limit number of people at functions||The Haryana Government on Sunday issued fresh guidelines putting a ceiling on the number of people permitted at functions in open spaces and indoors, and at funerals in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in the state.While at the most 200 people would be allowed at events indoor, the crowd capacity outdoors has been put at 500. At funerals, a maximum of 50 people would be allowed to attend, the new guidelines stated.Earlier, the limit on gatherings was implemented in Gurgaon and Faridabad.Under the new standard operating procedure (SOPs), organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political gatherings must take permission from district magistrates, the state government stated.The district magistrates will issue permission for the gatherings only after seeking necessary no-objection certificates from the departments concerned.The new SOPs also permit action against violators after extensive checking under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as under Sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Haryana had reported 10 COVID-19 fatalities on Saturday taking the death toll to 3,184. The coronavirus case tally rose to 2,96,229 with 1,959 fresh instances of the infection.The districts which report a big spike in cases included Gurgaon (606), Karnal (274), Faridabad (138), Ambala (138) and Kurukshetra (124). The state now has 11,787 active cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governments-new-guidelines-to-check-covid-19-case-surge-limit-number-of-people-at-functions-234588
04-04-2021||Gurugram||One held for issuing fake verification certificates||1,959 Covid cases, 10 deaths Chandigarh: As many as 1,959 Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the tally to 2.96 lakh. Besides, 10 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Ambala, two in Kurukshetra, while one person each died in Gurugram, Panipat, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Kaithal. TNSPatwari held taking bribe Karnal: A team of the State VB caught a patwari Ashok Kumar red-handed in Kaithal while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000. Amit Kumar of Sisla village had filed a complaint with the bureau that the patwari was demanding bribe from him for the mutation (intkal) of seven kanals and 11.64 marlas of agricultural land. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-held-for-issuing-fake-verification-certificates-234291
04-04-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Privileges Committee to deal with denial of courtesy to MLA cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3The alleged failure of officials to extend proper respect and courtesy to MLAs will now come under the scanner of the Privileges Committee of the Haryana Assembly, with new Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business coming into effect.“Any violation of the instructions of the state and Central governments or any direction of the Speaker of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on the observance of protocol and courtesies in dealing with the MLAs shall be taken up by the Privileges Committee for examination and report,” the newly added Rule 297-A, among a slew of Rules notified on the directions of Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, said. The new rule seeks to put in place an institutional mechanism in checking officials’ alleged high-handedness in dealing with people’s representatives. Earlier, on the complaint of some MLAs, Gupta had brought the matter to the notice of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Meanwhile, the addition of new rules to the existing ones seeks to clarify the existing provisions for the smooth conduct of the sittings of the Assembly. For instance, in case of no sitting on Thursday, the new rule said the Speaker might decide to allot the last two hours on any other day of the week for Private Member’s Business.According to the new rules, “The question shall not contain more than 150 words in any case”. The presence of at least two ministers would be must during the sitting of the House. Now, every department would have to submit quarterly progress report to the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat.After the definition of the Leader of the House, an elaborate definition of the Leader of the Opposition has been added to the rules to avoid any legal complications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/privileges-committee-to-deal-with-denial-of-courtesy-to-mla-cases-234292
04-04-2021||---||BDPO facing fraud charge suspended||Faridabad, April 3The state government has suspended Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Tigaon block, Pooja Sharma, who along with three others was booked under Sections 409, 120- B and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act recently.According to the order issued by the office of the Additional Chief Secretary, Development and Panchayats, Pooja Sharma would remain attached to the BDPO office, Faridabad, and would be entitled to subsistence allowance equal to leave salary and DA on half pay basis.Besides the BDPO, three others— former Mujheri village sarpanch Rani, gram sachiv Vijay and contractor Lalit Mohan Sharma — have been facing charges of financial irregularities.It is alleged that Rs 2.32 crore was withdrawn from the account of the Mujheri gram panchayat between January and May last year without the permission or knowledge of any competent authority.A complaint in this regard was lodged by the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bdpo-facing-fraud-charge-suspended-234294
04-04-2021||Rohtak||Farmers protest Haryana CM Khattar’s visit, clash with cops||Two elderly farmers and a policeman were injured in a clash between protesting farmers and police personnel deployed near Baba Mastnath Math on the outskirts of the city here ahead of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit this afternoon.Roads blocked in jindVillagers blocked roads at various points in Jind district to protest the police action on farmers in Rohtak.The Chief Minister was slated to visit Rohtak to attend a condolence meeting of local BJP MP Arvind Sharma’s father and his helicopter was supposed to land at the helipad on the math premises.BJP MP puts off visitSirsa MP Sunita Duggal was forced to cancel visit to Fatehabad as farmers carrying black flags assembled at BJP office.However, the helicopter landed at the local Police Lines instead of the math in view of the farmers’ aggressive protest. Khattar was taken to the condolence meeting via a different route amid tight security.A number of farmers carrying black flags marched towards the math shortly before the scheduled landing of Khattar’s chopper and the police personnel deployed there tried to stop them.Some youths among the protesters threw stones at the police personnel, which triggered the clash.A number of women protesters also participated in the protest.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma denied any lathicharge or use of force by the police, maintaining the policeman and the farmers were injured in “stone-pelting by the protesters”.On the other hand, the injured farmers, Raj Singh (73) of Sanghi village and Ishwar (80) of Basantpur village in Rohtak district, alleged before the media that they were injured in police lathicharge. The farmers also alleged that several protesters had been rounded up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-haryana-cm-khattars-visit-clash-with-cops-234260
04-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ---||New power tariff for advocate chambers & crematoriums||Tribune News Service   Chandigarh, April 3   The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has introduced a new tariff structure for electric vehicles charging stations, crematoriums, burial grounds and advocate chambers on court premises. It had earlier agreed not to change the power rates for  2021-22 despite a projection of a revenue gap of over Rs 3,000 crore by  DISCOMs.   The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) have projected a revenue gap of Rs 3,041.32 crore for 2021-22, after considering agriculture power subsidy of Rs 6,649.93 crore and domestic and other subsidies of Rs 1,181.88 crore in their aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) petition before the commission.  The commission has said that despite the revenue gap, the DISCOMS have not proposed “any methodology” to bridge it. For electric vehicle charging stations, the HERC has approved a concessional rate of Rs 5.55 per unit. The fixed charges will be Rs 100 per kW per month.   For crematoriums and burial grounds, the energy charges for low tension supply or high tension supply categories will be the lowest rate of the tariff structure but there will no fixed charges. The advocate chambers will be charged Rs 6.90 per unit.   To give relief to the bulk (domestic supply) consumers category, the fixed charges have been reduced from Rs 100 per kW per month to Rs 90 per kW per month. The incentive of Rs 1 per unit has been discontinued for those having solar power projects.  The commission has approved a flat rate of Rs 6.90 per unit for the places of worship for providing support during Covid-19 and playing a role in “cultural reformation”. Earlier, the tariff of Rs 2 per unit for cowsheds was approved.   The commission has noted that neither the DISCOMS nor the state government has intimated it regarding the payment of Rs 2,498.27 crore subsidy on account of agriculture power and domestic supply consumers for the first three quarters of 2020-21.  It has directed the DISCOMs to reduce aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses of all urban feeders below 25 per cent and that of rural feeders below 50 per cent in 2021-22, and also bring down the distribution transformer damage rate.  “We have considerably reduced thefts and improved collection from consumers. Prepaid connections will also be introduced soon,” said Shashank Anand, MD UHBVN.  The commission has also asked the DISCOMS to submit a justification for the increase in the number of electro-mechanical meters shown in March 2020 while there are directions to replace them with smart meters. From May 2019 to March 2020, under the UHBVN, the number of single-phase meters increased from 2.13 lakh to 2.33 lakh whereas the number of three-phase meters jumped from nil to 5,371.  In case of the DHBVN, the count of three-phase meters also jumped from 23,295 to 32,343 for the same period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-power-tariff-for-advocate-chambers-crematoriums-234268
04-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||327 preschools running sans registration in Rewari district||Tribune News ServiceRewari, April 3At least 327 play/preschools in the district are running without the mandatory registration. The district administration has taken serious view of the issue and directed the school owners to apply online for registration, failing which action will be initiated against them.Sources say a majority of these play or preschools do not fulfil the minimum conditions and standards set by the authorities. They neither have adequate safety arrangements in place nor meet building parameters. Even the staff-children ratio is not being maintained in many schools.Have not fulfilled conditionsAs per the regulatory guidelines, no child below the age of three should be admitted to a play/preschool and there must be a teacher and a caregiver for every 20 children. The fee structure must be regulated by the government and should only be collected on a monthly or quarterly basis.According to building parameters, a separate restroom for children, a pantry, CCTV cameras, separate child-friendly and disabled-friendly toilets for boys and girls, fire safety equipment, play area, arrangements to secure the school building with a boundary wall and adequate circulation area and ventilation are required.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh says that only two out of 327 play/preschools have applied online for registration while all others are functioning illegally. “Every such school is required to register itself with the Women and Child Development Department. Action will be taken against the defaulters,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/327-preschools-running-sans-registration-in-rewari-district-234269
04-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Bail can’t be granted to habitual offenders in drug cases, rules High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that bail cannot be granted to habitual offenders indulging in drug trafficking even after being enlarged on bail in another case of a similar nature.The High Court also made it clear that giving repeated chances to habitual offenders in drug cases to join the mainstream was dangerous for society and the fact was required to be kept in mind while considering their bail pleas.Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted that bail could be granted in drug cases only when the court was of the opinion that the petitioner-accused would not indulge in the same activities again if enlarged on bail.Justice Sethi said the consumption of drugs was ruining the life of youngsters.The families of drug addicts, too, were not only facing social stigma but also mental trauma, which was required to be curtailed at any cost.“Offenders need to be given another chance to come in main society and live a normal life. But where the offender is repeatedly indulging in the same activities despite being given a chance, then granting bail in such cases is dangerous for society,” Justice Sethi asserted.In his detailed order, Justice Sethi added this fact could not be ignored while considering the plea of an accused, “who committed similar offence again while on bail and that too relating to the violation of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act”.The assertion by Justice Sethi came in a case where the state counsel submitted that the petitioner-accused was a habitual offender and another case already stood registered against him under the provisions of the NDPS Act.Dismissing the bail plea, Justice Sethi added it transpired from the facts of the case that the present FIR was registered while the petitioner was on bail in another matter.The allegation against him showed he had again indulged in similar activities, violating the process the provisions of the NDPS Act after the grant of bail. He also failed to maintain good conduct while on bail.“The petitioner is a habitual offender. Hence, this court is of the opinion that in case the petitioner is granted the concession of bail, he will again indulge in unlawful activities,” Justice Sethi asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bail-cant-be-granted-to-habitual-offenders-in-drug-cases-rules-high-court-234270
04-04-2021||Panipat||Four medical stores raided, one sealed||A joint team of the CM flying squad and the Health Department on Saturday raided four medical stores —  three in the city and one at Samalkha — following complaints of the sale of drugs and expiry medicines. A medical store situated at Kalandar chowk was sealed.  According to information, the CM flying squad received a tip-off that some medical stores are selling drugs. A CM flying squad team along with Drug Control Officer (DCO) Vijaya Raje raided three medical stores at Kalandar chowk and another at Samalkha.  The DCO said the owner of Junaid medical store could not produce the bill of 240 tramadol tablets, and hence the shop was sealed.  The official said although no banned drug or expiry medicines were found at any medical store, their records of medicines were not found properly maintained. Notices would be served on the owners of other three medical stores, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-medical-stores-raided-one-sealed-234271
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Fire engulfs 700 huts in Gurugram||At least 700 jhuggis were gutted in a massive fire that broke out at Nathupur village in DLF phase 3 here in the wee hours today. The cause of the fire is suspected to be a short circuit. Fire personnel evacuated residents from the huts and it took them about seven hours to douse the flames. No casualties or injuries to anyone have been reported. According to fire officials, they received a call of the incident at 2.08 am. The slum area is inhabited by more than 2,500 persons, who work as guards, drivers and domestic helps in nearby areas.  They suspected that the fire incident took place due to an illegal electric supply, which caused a short circuit in the area and it spread rapidly to other huts. Soon the entire area was engulfed in flames.  “Teams from several fire stations were pressed into service. Although it is suspected that a short circuit led to the incident, the matter needs proper investigation”, said Isham Singh Kashyap, a senior fire officer.  Fifteen fire-tenders from the Sector-29 fire station, Udyog Vihar fire station, Sector-37 fire station, Bhim Nagar fire station and from the DLF had rushed to the spot. A timely rescue operation saved hundreds of lives. The illegal huts had been erected on four acres at Nathupur village. All jhuggis were covered with plastic covers, tarpaulin sheets, wood and bamboo. These materials were another reason for the fire to spread across the area rapidly,” Kayshap added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-engulfs-700-huts-in-gurugram-234274
04-04-2021||---||Man held on extortion charge in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, April 3 The police have arrested a person on the extortion charge and recovered Rs 70,000 from him. The accused has been identified as Rakesh Kumar, alias Raju, of Bilaspur town in Yamunanagar district. On the complaint of Ajay Sharma of Sector 17, HUDA, Jagadhri, a case was registered against Rakesh Kumar under Sections 384, 388 and 389 of the IPC at the Jagadhri Sector 17 police station on April 1. SHO Ramphal said the accused was yesterday produced before a Jagadhri court that sent him to one-day police custody. Ajay Sharma said they belong to a village falling under Bilaspur police station. His brother, Arun Sharma, was posted as a pharmacist at a primary health centre in the Bilaspur area. “A woman of our village filed a complaint at Yamunanagar women police station against my brother alleging that he raped her after serving her a cold drink laced with a sedative. Besides, she also alleged that my parents and I made castiest remarks against her,” said Ajay. He said they were called to women police station on March 27 in connection with the complaint. “Besides, family members of the complainant (woman) and woman’s family friend Rakesh Kumar, alias Raju, of Bilaspur town also came at the police station that day,” said Ajay. He added that Rakesh Kumar demanded Rs 2 lakh and threatened them if they failed to pay, a fake case of rape would be registered against his brother Arun Sharma. A deal for Rs 1.2 lakh was finalised between them. “We were again called to women police station on March 31. Rakesh Kumar took Rs 50,000 from us outside woman police station that day,” said Ajay Sharma. They informed the police about the extortion who caught Rakesh Kumar red-handed while taking the remaining amount of Rs 70,000 near the New grain market, Jagadhri, on April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-on-extortion-charge-in-yamunanagar-234275
04-04-2021||---||Illegal shops demolished||Yamunanagar, April 3A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) office, Yamunanagar, demolished unauthorised constructions at Bhilpura village in the district on Friday.The team comprising DTP Amit Madholia, junior engineers Amit Kumar and Ravinder Kumar demolished eight damp proof courses (DPCs) and six shops.The team also removed electrical poles and demolished roads there.Madholia said that Jogesh Kumar, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Chhachhrauli was appointed duty magistrate.The District Town Planner requested people not to invest their hard-earned money in such unauthorised colonies and contact the office of DTP for any enquiry before buying land in such colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-shops-demolished-234276
04-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Unscheduled wheat purchase allowed after farmers protest||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 3The district administration also allowed the procurement of wheat crop without the schedule in grain markets after the daylong protest by farmers at the office of the Karnal Market Committee on Saturday. The farmers alleged that were not being allowed to enter grain markets without the schedule.However, the farmers called off the protest after Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav assured them that gate passes would be issued even to those who come without the schedule. But he made it clear to the farmers that the gate passes would be issued only to those who get their crops registered on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. Those who were yet to register on the portal could do so on April 5 and 6. He added that the state government had made the registration of crop on the portal mandatory, and accordingly SMSes were being sent to the farmers about the schedule.“We apprised the government about the issue of the farmers and it allowed the procurement of wheat without the schedule. Gate passes will be issued manually to those whose crop has been registered on the portal,” said Yadav. He appealed to the farmers to bring their crop after cleaning and drying it. After pacifying the farmers, the Deputy Commissioner along with SP Ganga Ram Punia and SDM Ayush Sinha got the auction of the wheat crop conducted. He also assured the farmers that their payments would be transferred to their bank accounts within 48 hours and the commission of the arhtiyas would be delivered to them.Earlier in the morning, on the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas gathered at the office of the market committee. The SDM tried to pacify them but they remained adamant on their demand. “We have been opposing the scheduling system since the first day, as it is not feasible,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiyas’ Association.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a member of the state core committee of the BKU (Charuni), said that farmers could not wait for the schedule to be issued to them as the crop was ripening and the threat of fire looms large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unscheduled-wheat-purchase-allowed-after-farmers-protest-234277
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arrangements poor in grain markets: Bhupinder Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has blamed the BJP-JJP government for mismanagement in farm mandis.He said that wheat procurement from April 1 was announced but proper arrangements were not made.“Where will the farmers go if they have already harvested their wheat crop but haven’t got the message? Will they take the harvested crop home and then bring it to mandis? This will double their labour and transport cost. This processis harassing farmers. The government should immediately procure wheat from the farmers whenever they bring the crop to the market.”Hooda also opposed the decision to reduce the moisture content in wheat from 14 per cent to 12 per cent. He expressed concern over rising unemployment in the state.“About 45,000 posts of teacher in government schools are lying vacant. Even in schools, about 50 per cent of the posts of head master and principal are vacant. According to a report, 54 per cent of the schools in Karnal do not have head teachers but still the government is not making new recruitment,” he claimed.Hooda said that nearly one lakh youths, who had passed the HTET, were waiting for JBT recruitment for the past seven years but the BJP government had not made even one appointment during its tenure. The previous Congress government had recruited more than 20,000 JBTs.“The government is neglecting schools, hospitals, and medical colleges. There is a shortage of staff everywhere but instead of hiring people, the government has introduced a freeze on new recruitment. This is the reason Haryana has once again topped the CMIE report on unemployment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrangements-poor-in-grain-markets-bhupinder-hooda-234278
04-04-2021||Rohtak||Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Cong flay lathicharge on protesters in Rohtak village||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Congress have condemned the use of force by the police on protesting farmers at Asthal Bohar village in the district during the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. They have also asked the state government for a negotiated settlement of farmers’ issues rather than “waging a war against people who have brought the BJP to power”.“Farmers had assembled to peacefully show black flags to the Chief Minister but the police canecharged them without any provocation. Even women protesters were manhandled and several of them were injured,” said Inderjit Singh, a senior leader of the SKM.Krishanmurti Hooda, a spokesman for the state Congress, said that the police lathi-charge was a glaring example of atrocities being committed by the government against farmers, who were protesting in a democratic manner. — TNSJind villagers block highwaysHisar: Villagers blocked roads at various points in Jind district in protest against the police action on the farmers in Rohtak during the Chief Minister’s visit on Saturday. As per reports, the villagers, comprising mostly youths, blocked the Jind-Chandigarh and Jind-Barwala highways. Tekram Kandela, Kandela Khap leader, said the government seemed to be in a mood of confrontation with the farmers instead of opening a channel for dialogue. Tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-cong-flay-lathicharge-on-protesters-in-rohtak-village-234279
04-04-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Unite all sections of society, says Gurnam Singh Charuni||Kurukshetra, April 3Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) head Gurnam Singh Charuni today said that there was need to unite all sections of society to protest jointly against the Central Government instead of blaming each other for exploitation and other issues. He was addressing a Dalit and Kisan Mahapanchayat at Shahabad on Saturday.Charuni said, “Labourers, farmers and Dalits all are being exploited but we blame each other. We are fighting against corporate houses and we need the support of entire society. Every year, lakhs of people die due to hunger, improper medical facilities and debt. The country has ample resources but their distribution is not right”.“The government has been making efforts to close grain markets. We never asked for direct payment to our bank accounts and we will not follow the schedules given by the government agencies to bring produce to the market. We will bring produce when it matures. Soon, the date for the Parliament march will be announced. We will protest at Parliament. We have learnt lessons from previous incidents and will ensure that no untoward incident takes place,” he added.Dalit leader and Congress national spokesman Dr Udit Raj appealed to community leaders to support farmers and hold mahapanchayats all over the country.He said, “This is our duty to support the farmers’ agitation. We have to fight the privatisation drive. Dalits are yet to join the protest. Dalit MPs and MLAs are not reaching dharna sites. We will notget a better opportunity to save the Constitution”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-unite-all-sections-of-society-says-gurnam-singh-charuni-234280
04-04-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab protester assaulted at Tikri, dies||Gurpreet Singh (26), a farmer from Barnala district, who was injured in a scuffle with someone at the Tikri border, died on Friday. A case of murder has been registered against Gurpreet’s fellow villager Satta Singh.Gurpreet had come to Tikri three days ago. Jai Bhagwan, investigation officer, said Satta, according to a complaint, thrashed Gurpreet badly on Thursday evening. Next day, Gurpreet’s relatives took him to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town where he was declared brought dead. The assailant would be arrested soon, he added.It is the second such incident at the Tikri border. On March 25, 61-year-old Hakum Singh of Patti Fuddu village in Bathinda was found murdered with his throat slit near the new bus stand in Bahadurgarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-protester-assaulted-at-tikri-dies-234281
04-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Garbage disposal a chronic problem in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 3Waste collection and disposal have turned out to be a chronic problem in Faridabad. Around 60 per cent of households here still don’t have access to the doorstep collection system.The civic authorities have, however, sought help from the corporate sector for building a robust infrastructure.MC seeks help from corporate sector “The city that outsourced waste collection to a private company in 2017 on a monthly budget of Rs 28 lakh is yet to overcome the crisis. The state of solid waste management here is in a bad shape despite the annual budget of the Municipal Corporation (MC) touching Rs 2,500 crore,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Notably, a majority of the population has no access to waste disposal and even the MC or the agency has been unable to provide the services properly. Also, steps such as issuance of notices and imposition of penalty have failed to improve the work on the ground.Admitting that doorstep collection had benefitted only 40 per cent households, MC Commissioner Yash Pal Yadav said with October 2 being the deadline to bring in major changes in the waste disposal system, issues regarding inadequate infrastructure, shortage of vehicles and staff were expected to be resolved by that time. Claiming that the MC had less than half of the required vehicles at present, he said efforts were on to increase the fleet from 230 to 460 soon.A decision to set up special committees in each of the 40 wards to look after the job and create facilities to recycle or process the waste locally had been taken, Yadav added.In the meantime, the authorities are also looking for alternative disposal|sites as the one at Bandhwari village is already full to its capacity. Around 800 tonnes of waste is churned out here daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-disposal-a-chronic-problem-in-faridabad-234282
04-04-2021||Hisar||Abhay Chautala: Govt trying to weaken farmers' agitation||INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said today that leaders of the ruling party were trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation and targeting their leaders. He was addressing a public meeting in the Uchana Assembly constituency of Jind district.Abhay condemned the attack on BKU leader Rakesh Tikait. “The government is trying to crush the agitation, which is a democratic right of people,” he said.He said the Congress also stands exposed, as the party MLAs had preferred not to resign from the Assembly to support the farmers on the issue of three laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautala-govt-trying-to-weaken-farmers-agitation-234284
04-04-2021||Hisar||BJP leader Sonali Phogat takes potshots at protesting farmers||BJP leader Sonali Phogat, who had contested the Assembly elections from the Adampur constituency, has released a video stating that the protesting farmers failed to scuttle the visit of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in Hisar yesterday.Phogat, who had been in the spot for thrashing a market committee official, said while addressing farmers, “Jawab acche se mila kal. Kya ukhad liya. Deputy CM aaye aur saare programme karke chale gaye. (You got a befitting reply yesterday. The Deputy CM arrived and completed all his scheduled programme. But you could do nothing)”. The video has gone viral on social media. She said that the government was working for the welfare of people. “Leaders are working so hard and you are tying to chase them and hurling abuses at them. You dare disturb the events,” she said. The protesters were indulging in unnecessary politics, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-takes-potshots-at-protesting-farmers-234285
04-04-2021||---||Farmers not getting SMS for procurement, claims Selja||Chandigarh, April 3  Kumari Selja, president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, today accused the BJP-JJP government of harassing farmers during the procurement of wheat crop.  She said, “The government has reduced the moisture content from 14 per cent to 12 per cent due to which the crops of farmers are not being purchased. The farmers, whose crop is ready, are not getting the message. At the same time, those whose crops are not ready are getting the message for procurement,” she claimed.  Selja added that at some places in the state, the message was being sent to farmers at night to bring their crops to the mandis the next morning. “At some places, passes are not being issued to farmers to enter mandis,” she alleged. She said that the decision of the government regarding registration for the purchase of crops had added to the problems of the farmers. “The government should procure the entire crop of the farmers,” Selja added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-not-getting-sms-for-procurement-claims-selja-234286
04-04-2021||Hisar||Angry over Rohtak police action, Jind farmers block highways||Enraged residents of several of Jind’s villages held road blockades to protest police action over a farmers’ protest in Rohtak---a development that comes hours after clashes between protesting farmers and police lead ahead of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Rohtak left three people wounded.Among the wounded were two elderly farmers.Roadblocks were reported in several parts of Jind, where angry crowds comprising mostly youngsters spilled on to the streets to protest police action.READ: Three hurt in clash between farmers and police in Haryana's RohtakBoth Jind-Chandigarh and Jind-Barwala highways have been blocked. Neither district authorities nor police have taken any action so far, although the situation continues to remain volatile.By late evening, farmers sitting on dharna at the toll plazas in Hisar, Jind, and Kaithal districts had also blocked the highways.Tekram Kandela, a leader of the Kandela Khap, called it a “spontaneous reaction” to the earlier lathicharge.The government seems to want an open confrontation with protesters, not an open dialogue over the three controversial agriculture laws, he said.“The incident of assault on the BKU leader Rakesh Tikait by some BJP activists in Rajashtan yesterday and the police action on farmers in Rohtak today have caused resentment among the villagers,” he said.Ishwar Datt, who was among those blockading the road, claimed the government was trying to provoke farmers.“They’re trying to crush the farmers’ protests,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/angry-over-rohtak-police-action-jind-farmers-block-highways-234181
