05-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Passenger train services resume on Rohtak-Delhi track after a year||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 5Thousands of local people who daily go to Delhi and surrounding areas in connection with their jobs and business purposes heaved a sigh of relief on Monday with the Railway authorities restoring the operation of eight passengers’ trains (four up and four down) on the Rohtak-Delhi track after a year.Though the number of passengers was fewer on the first day, happiness was writ large on their faces. They followed Covid safety protocols by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The railway authorities, too, kept a close tab on the passengers to ensure strict compliance of standard operating procedures.Former minister Manish Kumar Grover reached the railway station in the morning and welcomed the passengers. He also distributed sweets, masks and sanitisers among them stating that precaution was the only way to defeat the Covid infection.“Rail commuters had been facing a lot of inconvenience in reaching Delhi by bus which left us in Bahadurgarh town following the blockade by protesting farmers at Tikri border. Then, we had to either use metro trains or hire private cabs to enter Delhi. Now, we will be able to reach the destination comfortably as the rail track is open,” said Satbir Sharma, a commuter.Jitender Bhardwaj, another passenger, said everyone had been waiting for resumption of train services for a long time. “It will not only benefit the passengers but also prove useful in revival of the business of vendors and nearby shops, which hugely depend upon the rail services,” he added.  “First passenger train left for Delhi from Rohtak at 4:15 am today. Thereafter, other trains left at 7:05 am, 7:30 am and 4:05 pm. Similarly, four trains reached Rohtak from Delhi at 9:40 am, 3:40 pm, 6:40 pm,” said Balbir Rathi, Traffic Inspector (Railway), adding that the number of passengers was likely to rise in coming days and they can buy ticket from the window at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/passenger-train-services-resume-on-rohtak-delhi-track-after-a-year-235005
05-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||Faridabad residents protest dumping of waste in Aravallis||Tribune News Service Faridabad, April 4 Residents have raised a banner of protest against the dumping of untreated waste into the Aravalli forest zone in the district. Claiming that the waste collected from Faridabad and Gurugram municipal areas is now being diverted to the forest area located near the state highway in the district.  Jitender Bhadana, an activist of the ‘Save Aravalli’, an NGO, said more than 35 truckloads of garbage was dumped near the police post in Pali village on Saturday night. Destined to be dumped at Bandhwari village near the border of the two districts, he said the untreated waste was now being dumped at new locations as the areas in and around Bandhwari site had been used. Alleging that the agency hired by the Municipal Corporations of these cities had been ‘asked’ to dump the garbage at any available site in the area despite being a protected forest zone.   He said they claimed that the site where the waste was dumped was a temporary one and the waste was of RDF (refuse derived fuel) category, which did not cause pollution. The matter will be taken up with the NGT, he announced. Challenging the RDF claim, Sanjay Bagul and Kailash Bidhuri, other environment activists, said the waste was raw and untreated and threatened to cause pollution of all types. Describing it as gross violations of all norms of the NGT and forest laws, they said it was the second spot in the Aravalli that had been selected for dumping of waste in the past two weeks. Officials concerned had allegedly dumped waste at another spot also located in the vicinity of Pali village, last month, which was opposed by a mahapanchayat of several villages held on March 26, it is said. Union Minister for State Krishan Pal Gurjar had also opposed dumping of waste in the area located near Pali village. Yashpal Yadav MC Commissioner, Faridabad, said efforts were on to find a viable solution to the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-residents-protest-dumping-of-waste-in-aravallis-234782
05-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar woman duped of Rs 14 lakh||A woman of Yamunanagar district was allegedly duped of Rs 14 lakh on the pretext of sending her abroad. On the complaint of Pooja Rani of Salempur Bangar village, a case has been registered against Rajat of Dhumsi village, Virender Kumar of Nandi village and Vinod Kumar of Mohali (Punjab), under Sections 406, 420, 506 of the IPC and under the Immigration Act at the Sadar police station, Jagadhri. The complainant said she and her husband met Rajat in October 2019. Later, he arranged their meeting with Virender Kumar and Vinod Kumar. “They assured me that they will first send me to Mauritius on a study visa and then to England. They took Rs 14 lakh from us . But, they neither sent me abroad nor returned the money,” alleged the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-woman-duped-of-rs-14-lakh-234783
05-04-2021||---||102 cartons of liquor seized in Faridabad||Faridabad, April 4A team of the crime branch of the police has seized a truck containing 102 cartons of the IMFL (1,224 bottles) from Sector 70 here. The market price of the seized liquor is reported to be around Rs 5.50 lakh.An official said the police acted on information that a truck containing smuggled liquor was parked at a place. Though the driver managed to flee just a few minutes before the raid, the police found 102 cartons of liquor along with 1,380 cartons of crockery items in the truck. However, no documents pertaining to the liquor were found in the truck.It was not clear from where the truck had come and where it was destined to go, the police claimed. “We have registered a case under the Excise Act against unidentified persons and have launched a hunt to nab the culprits on the basis of the registration number of the truck ,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/102-cartons-of-liquor-seized-in-faridabad-234784
05-04-2021||---||Clerks told to be IT-savvy||Chandigarh, April 4 Clerks in the Haryana Government offices will have to be computer-savvy to get increment and promotion. To encourage the use of information technology (IT) in the official work and implement its flagship “paperless office” project, the government has decided to implement the “no increment” and “no promotion” policy for clerks, including those directly recruited and working on promotion. Earlier, the government had decided to dispense with the services of those clerks, who did not qualify the state eligibility test (SETC) in computer application. In 2018, the government had said that “all persons, who are recruited directly or promoted to the posts of clerk, shall have to qualify the SETC to be eligible for increment or promotion”. However, with confusion surrounding the implementation of the decision, the government had reiterated that there would be no increment or promotion for all categories of clerks, sources said. “The services of clerks are not to be dispensed with if they do not qualify the SETC during the period of probation. But the principle of ‘’no increment’’ and ‘’no promotion’’ will apply,” the government order added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clerks-told-to-be-it-savvy-234785
05-04-2021||Nitish Sharma---||Uncertainty looms over 3-day Pehowa Chaitra Chaudas fair||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, April 4 Uncertainity prevails over the upcoming three-day Chaitra Chaudas fair, which is expected to be organised from April 9 to 11 at the Saraswati Tirtha in Pehowa, Kurukshetra. Devotees from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, UP and Delhi reach Pehowa during the Chaitra Chaudas fair in large numbers to offer prayers to their ancestors. Last year, the fair was cancelled due to the Covid pandemic and even this year, the government is yet to issue any notification or guidelines regarding the fair as the Covid cases are increasing day by day. The local ‘tirtha purohits’ have been seeking permission for the fair, on the pattern of Kumbh, and release of fresh water into the Saraswati Tirtha. They said the fair was cancelled last year and it proved to be a major financial setback for not only the purohits but for the local traders as well. Recently a delegation of ‘tirtha purhoits’ and religious organisations met Pehowa MLA and Sports Minister Sandeep Singh in this regard. Vikram Chakrapani, president, Brahmin Panchayat, Pehowa, said, “Lakhs of people are coming to Haridwar daily and the government should implement the same guidelines here as well. The Haryana Government should allow the devotees to go to Pehowa with negative Covid reports, and the administration can also conduct on-the-spot rapid tests. We are ready to give every support to the administration and it can take all measures to stop the spread of Covid. If the rallies can be organised then there should be no objection in organising the fair.”  Akshay Nanda, BJP district media co-incharge, who led the delegation, said, “ Chatira Chaudas is an important fair and following the request made by the delegation, Sandeep Singh has raised the matter with the Chief Minister and other senior officials, including the ACS (Health). The government may change the form of the fair and impose some restrictions. We are hopeful that soon some guidelines will be issued for the fair.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uncertainty-looms-over-3-day-pehowa-chaitra-chaudas-fair-234786
05-04-2021||Panipat||Pollution control board for Rs 4.13-cr fine on sugar mill||Following the National Green Tribunal (NGT) orders, the Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), has recommended imposition of Rs 4.13 crore environmental compensation (EC) on the Panipat Co-operative Sugar Mill reportedly for extracting groundwater without any valid consent. A complaint was filed with the NGT against the sugar mill for violating environment laws in 2019. After NGT directions, a joint team of officials of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the HSPCB conducted inspections and found violations of the Water Act, Air Act and Environment Protection Act at the sugar mill. The joint committee said the sugar mill was extracting groundwater illegally to meet the water requirement of the unit using a borewell, without the permission of the Central Ground Water Authority. The NGT had ordered imposition of environmental compensation on the sugar mill for violating norms on July 31, 2020, on the basis of the report of the joint committee. Following the NGT order, the RO, HSPCB calculated the fine for extracting groundwater illegally by the sugar mill for 2,065 days (from April 15, 2015 to December 8, 2020). Kamaljeet Singh, RO, HSPCB, said the compensation had been calculated as per the NGT order. He also recommended to the Deputy Commissioner to impose the fine on the sugar mill. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-control-board-for-rs-4-13-cr-fine-on-sugar-mill-234787
05-04-2021||---||In Rewari village, Dalit groom ‘manhandled’||Rewari, April 4A Dalit groom was stopped from carrying out the marriage ritual of “ghurchari” allegedly by a group of upper caste youths in the district’s Ratanthal village yesterday evening. After the police intervened, the ritual was carried out under heavy security.TWO BOOKEDOn the complaint of groom Vinod Kumar, two residents of Ratanthal village — Bhim Singh and Gaurav — were booked today under Sections 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 379-A (snatching) of the IPC, and Section 3 of the SC and ST Act.“Ghurchari” is a pre-nuptial ritual in which the groom rides a mare to the village temple.In the complaint, Vinod said his marriage procession was scheduled to go to Ladhuvaas village on Saturday evening. “A group of youths intercepted the procession. They pushed me down from the mare, manhandled me and snatched my gold chain. They have indulged in such incidents earlier as well. The police reached the village after half an hour of the incident. The marriage procession resumed under police security.”Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said no one got injured in the incident, while the “baraat” left for Ladhuvaas village after the “ghurchari”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-rewari-village-dalit-groom-manhandled-234788
05-04-2021||---||Cancel party events till protest on: Farmers’ ultimatum to Haryana govt||Rohtak, April 4A panchayat of farmers held at the Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Panipat highway on Sunday served a two-day ultimatum on the state government to cancel all programmes of the BJP and JJP leaders till their agitation was under way.It also demanded an inquiry into the police action against the protesting farmers during the CM’s visit to Rohtak on Saturday and an FIR against persons involved in the incident.Meanwhile, farmers of nearby villages, who attended the panchayat, also blocked the highway up to 3 pm to register their protest against the Rohtak incident.Presiding over the panchayat, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni condemned the Rohtak incident, alleging that the government wants a clash hence it was leaving no stone unturned to instigate people so that it could defame the agitation. He appreciated the women protesters for resisting the CM’s visit to Rohtak by climbing on to police vans.Charuni said a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had been called on April 6 to decide the further course of action against the state government if it fails to act on the panchayat’s demands. He called upon the farmers to understand the government’s trick of scuttling the agitation and creating a similar situation that prevailed during the 2016 Jat stir hence everyone should be extra cautious and carry on the protest peacefully.“The Rohtak SP has claimed that no one canecharged the protesters then those who caused injuries to the farmers must be identified and punished. The panchayat has demanded an inquiry into the matter. It has also asked the government not to send its leaders in public and cancel all their programmes till the time farmers’ protest is under way,” Charuni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancel-party-events-till-protest-on-farmers-ultimatum-to-haryana-govt-234789
05-04-2021||ibune News Service---||Bhupinder Hooda condemns lathicharge on farmers in Rohtak||Chandigarh, April 4 Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today strongly condemned the lathicharge on farmers in Rohtak. He claimed the BJP-JJP government was shedding the blood of those farmers who feed the nation by irrigating the fields with their sweat. Hooda said everyone had a right to demonstrate in a peaceful manner in a democracy and attacking such protesters with sticks was against democratic principles. “The government should apologise to the farmers and strict action should be taken after carrying out a fair probe into the incident,” he said.  Lauding the restraint of the farmers, the Leader of Opposition said he had never seen such a large and disciplined movement in his life.  “The agitation has been going on for 129 days and farmers have shown exemplary discipline and maintained peace. The government and its ministers are constantly trying to provoke the farmers and create circumstances for conflict,” he said. “The farmers of Haryana along with peasants from all over the country are demonstrating for their demands but instead of talking to them, the government is repeatedly taking barbaric action. Even before farmers’ march to Delhi,  the BJP-JJP government had lathi-charged unarmed farmers in Pipli. After that, the government used force to stop the farmers going towards Delhi and water canons and tear-gas shells were used against them,” the former CM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-condemns-lathicharge-on-farmers-in-rohtak-234790
05-04-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Haryana CM Khattar’s effigy burnt at Bhiwani toll plaza||Hisar, April 4 Farmers today burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at the Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani district in protest against the police action in Rohtak yesterday. The protesters said the government would be taken to task for attacking farmers in Rohtak during the yesterday’s protest demonstration.  Nar Singh, who is leading the dharna at the Kitlana toll plaza, said the farmers were fighting a battle for future generations and won’t backtrack on their demands under any pressure. The farmers said the government should realise that the ongoing stir was set to bring a massive transformation in the socio-economic structure of the country as farmers wanted pro-people policies and laws from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. However, the government was trying to extend undue favours to the corporates, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-haryana-cm-khattars-effigy-burnt-at-bhiwani-toll-plaza-234791
05-04-2021||---||Kejriwal: AAP govt being punished for backing farmers' agitation||Hisar, April 4Hitting out at the Centre, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal today said the BJP government would have to pay a heavy price for ill-treating protesting farmers on the issue of three new agricultural laws.Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat at HUDA ground in Jind, Kejriwal said the farmers’ demands were justified, but the Modi government instead of listening to their grouse, was trying to crush their voice. “Farmers are the real patriots of the country and those who are opposing them are in fact the traitors as they are focussing on their vested interests and not ready to sense the ground realities,” he said.Raising the issue of reducing the powers of the Delhi Government by passing a Bill to empower the Lieutenant General, the Chief Minister said the Delhi’s AAP government was being targeted for extending support to the farmers’ agitation. “The elected government is being weakened in Delhi by handing over powers to the LG. The AAP government is being punished for backing the farmers, but we will keep supporting them despite the repercussions,” he said.Paying tributes to the farmers who have died during the agitation at the Delhi borders, Kejriwal said, “it’s our responsibility that their sacrifice should not go in vain.”“While Haryana’s BJP government tried to stop farmers by blocking their way and using force, the Delhi Government has been providing water, Wi-Fi, toilets and other amenities to the protesters.”Supporting the road blockades by the farmers in protest against police action in Rohtak yesterday, Kejriwal said he had to take diversions to reach the mahapanchayat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kejriwal-aap-govt-being-punished-for-backing-farmers-agitation-234792
05-04-2021||---||In Yamunanagar, khair wood smuggling unabated||Yamunanagar, April 4In spite of the crackdown on the smuggling of khair wood, the wood mafia continues to fell and illegally transport logs of timber in the district.In the past one year, from April 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021, 19 cases against 58 persons were filed in the special environment court, Kurukshetra, for allegedly smuggling khair wood.In the year before that (from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020), the Forest Department had filed seven cases against 23 offenders.The khair wood fetches about Rs 8,000 per quintal in the domestic market. Most of the logs smuggled from the district are supplied to factories manufacturing “kattha” (catechu) in Delhi and Bahadurgarh (Haryana).Sources said that a sharp decline in illegal mining activities had been reported in Yamunanagar district in the past one year due to efforts by Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal and the Special Enforcement Team constituted by the state government to stop illegal mining.“More the strictness, more the smuggling,” said a source, adding the wood mafia took advantage of the staff crunch ailing the department.Khair trees are found in abundance in the forest area of the district starting from Asgarpur village to Kalesar village. Besides, timber trees are grown on panchayat and private lands as well.Suraj Bhan, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), said the department was making efforts to completely wipe out the smuggling of khair wood. “We have formed teams in all forest ranges of the district. These teams patrol the area at night to curb the smuggling,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-yamunanagar-khair-wood-smuggling-unabated-234793
05-04-2021||---||Police stop farmers from constructing martyrs’ memorial at Singhu border||Sonepat, April 4The police on Sunday evening stopped farmers from constructing a ‘martyrs’ memorial’ near KFC Mall at Kundli near the Singhu border.Govt has lost people’s trust: MPNotably, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had announced the construction of memorials at all protest sites — Singhu, Tikri, Shahjanpur and Ghazipur — in the memory of those farmers who died during the protest. The SKM also held a ‘Mitti Satyagrah Yatra’ to collect soil from the villages of the deceased farmers’ villages for the memorials.As per the SKM records, as many as 351 farmers have lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ stir so far.Following the SKM announcement, protesters had started the construction of a ‘pucca’ structure for the memorial near KFC Mall on the National Highway-44 today.After the police received information, Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar-led police team reached the spot and stopped the construction in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-stop-farmers-from-constructing-martyrs-memorial-at-singhu-border-234794
05-04-2021||---||Stricter SOPs for gatherings in Haryana from today||Chandigarh, April 4To contain the Covid spread in the state, the government has restricted the number of persons at indoor and outdoor social gatherings.For indoor functions, a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons. For events in open spaces, gathering will be allowed with the ceiling of 500 persons. Meanwhile, up to 50 persons will be allowed to attend a funeral.7 more succumb; Over 12,500 active Covid cases in stateNEW GUIDELINESThe capacity of indoor places will be specified by the ULBs/department concerned keeping in view calculated correlation between the seating or standing capacity and the covered area in square yards or feet. — Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Comm (Revenue)Financial Commissioner (Revenue)-cum-member of the Haryana State Executive Committee Sanjeev Kaushal said the capacity of indoor places would be specified by the urban local bodies/department concerned keeping in view the calculated correlation between the number of chairs/seating or standing capacity and the covered area in square yards or feet.This has been done under the revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) for social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious political functions and other congregations. All functions will be allowed with strict adherence to appropriate Covid behavior such as social distancing norms, wearing of masks, sanitisation, hand hygiene and provision for thermal scanning, etc.Kaushal said the organisers of functions and other congregations shall take prior permission from the district magistrates, who would seek necessary NOCs from the departments concerned, including the police.The Deputy Commissioners shall form joint inspection teams for enforcing these instructions, ensure extensive checking and taking action against the violators as per law, rules and directions issued by the government.These directions shall be enforced by the DCs in their respective districts, and any violations shall be punishable under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005 and Section 188 of the IPC as per the national directives, Kaushal added.Meanwhile, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said the new SOPs had been issued in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the state. Speaking to mediapersons on Sunday, Vij said these guidelines would come into force from Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stricter-sops-for-gatherings-in-haryana-from-today-234795
05-04-2021||---||ML Khattar announces salary hike for safai karamcharis||Karnal, April 4Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced, among a slew of incentives, an increase in the salary of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) and sewer men.“The monthly salary of sanitation workers of rural areas has been increased from Rs 12,500 to Rs 14,000, and of those working in urban areas from Rs 15,000 to Rs 16,000. Sewer men will get Rs 12,000 every month instead of Rs 10,000,” said the Chief Minister while addressing safai karamcharis in a state-level Safai Mitra Uthan Sammelan here.Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal and Safai Karamchari Aayog Chairman Krishan Kumar were also present on the occasion.Khattar assured safai karamcharis of disbursing the salary on time. “In case of delay for any reason, the salary will be given from Rs 1 crore fund allotted to each DC. An additional benefit of Rs 500 will be given if the salary is delayed.”It was also announced that an insurance of Rs 10 lakh would be given to the family of a sewer man if he died while cleaning a sewer. If he died for reasons other than that, an insurance of Rs 5 lakh would be given to his family under the Pradhan Mantri Jiwan Suraksha Yojana. In case of natural death, the insurance amount will be Rs 2 lakh.The Chief Minister also announced benefits of ex gratia to the on-roll safai karamcharis.Among other incentives, safai karamcharis having an annual income of Rs 1.8 lakh will get a bank loan without guarantee for the education of their children.Karnal turned into fortressOn their guard after farmers protested CM Manohar Lal Khattar's visit to Rohtak on Saturday, the district administration turned the city into a fortress. Around 1,500 police personnel led by 11 DSPs were deployed. All roads leading to Kalidas Rangsala and PWD Rest House were sealed with barricades. As a result, commuters faced inconvenience.Driven by vested interestsI have written a letter to Anwali villagers, urging them to maintain social harmony. Some people driven by vested interests are doing politics. They should refrain from doing so, otherwise they will have to bear the consequences. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ml-khattar-announces-salary-hike-for-safai-karamcharis-234804
05-04-2021||Karnal||Online Dr Iya memorial lecture||Professor’s book releasedYamunanagar: After the success story of 'Configurational coordinates of women's space in selected novels of Shashi Deshpande’ and 'The Priceless Petals', Dr Ritu Kamra Kumar, an associate professor in the postgraduate department of English, Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, is back with her third book, ‘The strokes of solitude’. A thought-intriguing anthology of detailed observations of life, The strokes of solitude was released virtually by motivational speaker and author, Vivek Atray. While providing an insider’s view into the book, Dr Ritu shared, “The articles compiled in ‘The strokes of solitude’ are my minute observations of life's experiences. It is a unique expression of my thoughts which exposes various facets of life; thereby filling my pot of learning with sublime sensibility, exalted experiences, and an emotional enthusiasm.” Published by Authorspress, the book is divided into five sections: Kith and kin, myriad musings, woman's word, academia aesthetic and resonant realities, which is followed by readers' reflections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-dr-iya-memorial-lecture-234811
05-04-2021||The wheat begun arriving in the grain markets of the state from April 1. It is now the responsibility of the BJP-JJP coalition government to make all necessary arrangements||Kisan passbooks should be issued to farmers||Shakti Singh, KarnalResidents face water crisis in BhiwaniResidents of Sector 13 in Bhiwani have been facing water crisis for many days, but the district authorities are looking the other way. We have taken up the matter with the district administration officials on several occasions. The water supply to around 100 houses from house number 1,826 to 1,934 is particularly affected due to the problem. Two years ago, the Deputy Commissioner had directed the authorities concerned to lay a new water pipeline for these houses. However, the authorities concerned are not taking any interest to redress the problem.Residents of Sector 13, BhiwaniEase Traffic near Ambala Manav ChowkThe situation at Manav Chowk in front of HDFC Bank, Ambala City, is chaotic. Umpteen lines of parked bikes and other four-wheelers, including cars and tractors, have led to congestion. Next to it after one private establishment another bank PNB exists where number of parked vehicle is no less making the lives of general public a hell. Some time it becomes very embarrassing for old people and women to cross the road. Adding to the woes of people is the renovation of Manav Chowk, which is in progress for the last many months. I hope the police and Municipal Corporation takes cognisance of the issue and eases out the congestion.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CanttPreparations for wheat procurement only on paper in NarwanaGovernment officials, as usual, announced that all necessary arrangements for the smooth procurement of wheat has been made at all mandis. Whereas, in reality, it is in a shambles. In Narwana, the market yards are full of trash and most of the roads are potholed. There are no arrangements of toilets and drinking water. The weighbridges are lying defunct. The Kisan Bhawan meant for farmers has been usurped by the staff. In villages, the condition of the purchase centres are pitiable as there is no boundary walls and pucca floors for unloading the crops. At night, in the absence of flood lighting, anti-social elements become active and steal filled up bags. The administration must ensure proper facilities before the procurement starts.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-passbooks-should-be-issued-to-farmers-234812
05-04-2021||Karnal||Creativity comes alive on canvas||Booklet with social messages launchedKarnal: CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday launched a booklet “Smart Karnal, Smart Kids”, prepared by students of OPS Vidya Mandir School. For this, the students pursued cursive writing training from an academy. Their teacher, Sonia Aharwala, persuaded them to work for society and trained other poor children. The booklet is a unique package containing social messages such as water and sparrow conservation and avoiding use of plastic, cellphones and environment, etc. It also includes various career options for students. Soon, a free cursive writing course will be organised for the underprivileged students. The booklet will also be distributed free of cost, however, the students have to take an oath to plant at least two trees and conserve water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/creativity-comes-alive-on-canvas-234814
05-04-2021||Rohtak||30 labourers injured as bus overturns near Pehrawar bypass||Over 30 labourers were injured when a bus they were travelling in overturned near Pehrawar bypass on Sunday. The injured are admitted to the PGIMS and are out of danger. The mishap took place when the bus was on its way to Kaithal. TNSChandigarhChief Principal Secretary Dhesi bereavedDr Avtar Singh, 97, father of Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister DS Dhesi, passed away on Sunday. He suffered a heart attack and passed away on Sunday morning. In a statement, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed deep condolences and sorrow on the demise of Dr Avtar. TNSPalwalMan held for sheltering rape accused sonThe police have arrested a 52-year-old man, Majid of Dewla Nangli village in Nuh district, for allegedly sheltering his rape accused son, Shakir (25), who is yet to be nabbed. A cop said the accused was nabbed on a tip-off. Shakir is absconding in a case of rape registered against him in September last year. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-labourers-injured-as-bus-overturns-near-pehrawar-bypass-234815
05-04-2021||---||Farmers try to block Haryana Speaker’s convoy at toll plaza||Panchkula, April 4Farmers protesting under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha allegedly tried to block the convoy of Haryana Speaker and local Gian Chand Gupta while he was on his way to attend a party’s programme at Pooja Palace in Pinjore this noon. However, Gupta denied any such development.The protesters tried to block Gupta’s convoy and showed black flags while it was crossing the Chandimandir toll plaza. The farmers, as a mark of protest against the three contentious farm laws, also raised slogans against the BJP government.Police personnel, who were deployed in a huge number at the toll plaza, had a tough time dispersing protesters to provide a safe passage to the convoy. The protesters then moved towards the venue of the programme.However, the protesters were stopped by the police at some distance from the programme venue.Karam Singh, a local leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said they tried to block Gupta’s motorcade to show him that people from his party were not welcomed here.He said they would continue to give similar reception to BJP leaders until the government takes back the laws.What Gupta saysGupta said: “My vehicle reached the Pinjore event without any hassle. It could have been the vehicle of any other leader. I am not aware of any such event,” he said. Speaking on the way of protest, he said: “In a democracy, everyone has the right to protest, but there should be a proper way for it. Causing inconvenience to others is not the right way.”When this correspondent tried to contact Inspector Deepak, SHO of the Chandimandir police station, to know whether any action has been taken against the protesting farmers, he didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-try-to-block-haryana-speakers-convoy-at-toll-plaza-234723
05-04-2021|| Gurugram||Gurugram women’s live video of their harassers leads to arrests||Two men were arrested on charges of harassing two women after a video of the incident went viral on social media, Gurugram Police said on Sunday.The incident occurred late on Saturday night at DLF Phase 1 in Gurugram’s Gwal Pahari area. The women who claimed two men were harassing while they waited for their cab went live with the incident, showing the faces of the alleged harassers and the registration numbers of their vehicle.The suspects however fled by the time the police sent a PCR van in response to their call. They were identified using the vehicle registration number shown in the video.The two women claimed in their complaint that the suspects were drunk, followed them in their car and demanded their phone numbers. One of the two women then pulled out her phone and began relaying the incident live.Police were still questioning the suspects when this report was filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-womens-live-video-of-their-harassers-leads-to-arrests-234618
