06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana allots 140 acres of land to Flipkart for setting up its largest fulfilment centre in Asia||The Haryana government has approved allotment of 140 acres of land to e-commerce major Flipkart for setting up its largest fulfilment centre in Asia, having a covered area of 3 million square feet in Patli Hajipur in Gurugram district’s Manesar, an official statement said.The land, belonging to Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HSIIDC), has been allotted at a price of Rs 3.22 crore per acre. The approval was granted in a meeting of Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB) which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Tuesday, the statement said.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Education Minister Kanwar Pal were also present in the meeting.Unlike traditional warehouses, fulfilment centres are equipped with highly automated pick, pack, and shipping processes to facilitate safe and timely processing of orders.As per the state government release, “during the meeting, the chief minister was apprised (by the officials) that the land allotted at price of Rs 3.22 crore per acre to Instakart Services Private Limited (a Flipkart subsidiary) will not only give impetus to further investments in the region but would further boost market access opportunities for lakhs of MSMEs, sellers from Haryana and North India.” The representatives of Flipkart informed during the meeting that Instakart is planning to set up a series of fulfilment centres and associated logistics infrastructure across India to enable its market growth, the release said.                   To attain this goal, the company aims to provide the best-in-class service to the customers and thus is planning to construct Regional Distribution Centres (RDC) across the country to strengthen its network capability.Further, the company is planning to build a logistics campus in the National Capital Region, in proximity to Gurugram, as per the release. It intends to build a campus spread over an area of 140 acres to cater to demand in north India. This fulfilment centre will essentially cater to parcel goods, white goods and furniture.The release said approximately 6,000 direct and 12,000 indirect jobs will be created through this investment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-allots-140-acres-of-land-to-flipkart-for-setting-up-its-largest-fulfilment-centre-in-asia-235478
06-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Schools start session sans EWS admissions||Gurugram, April 5While their counterparts in Delhi will remain shut owing to surge in Covid cases, Gurugram private schools have started their new session today with a majority sticking to the online mode of education.The commencement has left hundreds of parents of the EWS category children worried 134A of the Haryana School Education Rules (HSER), 2003. The private schools have neither registered nor displayed the EWS vacancies on their online admission portals as mandated.The children who were not admitted by any school even in 2020 owing to the pandemic fear losing yet another year as not only schools have started without them but also no instruction or directive has been has been given by the Education Department regarding the admissions. The worried parents have approached the local department, but it has reportedly cited helplessness due to lack of any guidelines or instructions from the state directorate.“I wanted to admit my child to school in Class V last year, but was told that there was no EWS quota for online education because of the pandemic. This year, I went to three schools in my area and was turned away. When I went to the Education Department they said no order had been issued from Panchkula. The classes have started, how will my child get admission in mid-session? Even if she does how will she cope up,” said Suhail Zafari, a tailor in Sector 45.As per rules, schools should keep aside 10 per cent of their seats for EWS students (family’s income is less than Rs 1.80 lakh PA). The admissions for such students will start in February, March. They will appear for assessment exams and qualified ones will be allotted schools by draw of lots.“The admissions under the Act are notified by the Education Directorate and we at the district level just execute them. We have so far got no instructions,” said a senior Education Department official. Meanwhile, the schools are in no mood to comply with Act this year. “We are the worst hit economically. Like all other industry, even we need help from the government. We are left to fend for ourselves. We can’t continue charity till economically stable. We want exemption this year and these children can continue in government schools for another year,” said a member of Independent Schools Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-start-session-sans-ews-admissions-235161
06-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||Water crisis in Bhiwani, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri||Tribune News ServiceHisar/Bhiwani, April 5The potable water crisis has hit many towns in the region due to shortage in the supply of raw canal water to the waterworks.Residents of many localities in Hisar, Bhiwani Charkhi Dadri towns are getting inadequate and brackish water supply from the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED). The department says it has to supply water extracted from underground borewells in the absence of canal water.In Hisar’s posh locality such as Green Park and Officers Colony, the residents complained that they had been getting brackish water supply for many months. “The water is unfit for human consumption and other domestic use like washing dishes and cloths. All residents in the Officers Colony have subscribed to the water-tanker service for potable water”, said a resident who lives in the Officers Colony.In many other localities like Patel Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, the Satrod area, Hanuman Colony, Balmiki Colony, the water supply has been cut down to once in a day and the time of the supply too has been shortened. Mahender Juneja, municipal corporation member, said he had been raising the issue with the PHED officials but all in vain. He said polluted water was also supplied in some pockets.Recently, several residents of Hanuman Colony were booked when they staged a dharna and demonstration outside the waterworks of the Public Health Engineering Department in Hisar against the issue.The PHED Senior Engineer, TR Panwar, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that the protesters had misbehaved with the staff and also locked the office and had obstructed public servants from discharging their duties. The police spokesperson informed that a case under Sections 147, 149, 294, 342, 186, 353 and 506 of the IPC had been registered against 60 persons.In Bhiwani town, residents of Sector 13 and some other localities alleged that they had been facing water shortage and the problem had aggravated with the advent of summer. They said the district administration promised them that another pipeline would be laid for the smooth supply of water but the projects was lying in limbo for several months.Similarly, residents of Charkhi Dadri town alleged that the PHED had been providing water supply from the borewell as the canal water had dried up in the waterworks. Deepak Sheoran, a MC member, said the two waterworks were insufficient to fulfill the need of the town as the water requirement had almost doubled in the past couple of years. “To ensure water supply, the PHED tubewells is supplying water, but the groundwater is not fit for consumption”, he said.Executive Engineer, PHED, Charkhi Dadri, Shashi Kant said they supply borewell water only after canal water dried up in the waterworks. “The Irrigation Department has assured us that the canal water will be available by tomorrow”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-crisis-in-bhiwani-hisar-charkhi-dadri-235162
06-04-2021||Panipat||1,050 principal posts ‘vacant’ in government schools in Haryana||A state-level meeting of the members of the Haryana School Lecturers’ Association (HSLA) was held here at Arya Senior Secondary School on NH-44 here. The newly elected state president Satpal Sindhu presided over the meeting.Sindhu said 1,050 posts of principals were vacant in government senior secondary schools due to which the education and health of the students were affected during the Covid pandemic.The state president appealed CM Manohar Lal Khattar to look into the matter and also demanded the current charge of these schools be given to capable people as per the directions of the state government so that work was not affected in these schools. Sindhu also said ACM matters of the teachers were pending at the directorate, when the CM had already announced that the ACM matters of the employees would be dealt within three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-050-principal-posts-vacant-in-government-schools-in-haryana-235163
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Culprits booked 6 mths after duping Japanese national||Gurugram, April 5A Japanese national, working in Gurugram, wasduped of over Rs 1.7 crore. Though the incident took place around six months ago, an FIR was registered today after he approached the Chief Minister and the DGP through the Twitter.According to Takanori Takeda, he is in India on work visa. He came in contact with Asang Chang at KARA Karaoke Bar in October 2019. Asang introduced herself as the manager-cum-partner of the bar. She and her partner Prakash became good friends with him and she also introduced him to her sister.“On March 21, 2020, Asang demanded Rs. 7.5 lakh towards the payment of remittance charge for the release of an international parcel. I agreed to help her and transferred Rs. 5.5 lakh to her bank account in March 2020. Asang claimed that her cousin Wong, who lives in the USA, is a rich man. He would send Rs 50 crore to her in a few months. She showed me a document issued by the Ministry of Finance that she has to deposit Rs 12.24 lakh to get her money released. I believed her story and lent her Rs 1.85 crore. Thereafter, Asang and her associate stopped picking up my phone calls and started avoiding me. I then realised that I have been duped,” said Takanori in his complaint.In October last year, he filed a complaint with the Gurugram police but no action was taken against the accused. It was on March 29 this year that he posted a complaint on the Twitter handles of the Chief Minister, Home Minister Anil Vij, DGP and other senior officers. “I had lodged a police complaint but no FIR was registered even after six months. How can we feel secure in such a situation?”, he wrote on the Twitter.Seeing the complaint on the Twitter, the Gurugram police swung into action and registered an FIR against the accused under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the IPC at DLF Sector 29 police station. The case was being investigated, a police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/culprits-booked-6-mths-after-duping-japanese-national-235164
06-04-2021||---||Rohtak-Delhi track: Passenger train services resume after a year||Rohtak, April 5Thousands of people who daily go to Delhi and surrounding areas in connection with their jobs and business purposes heaved a sigh of relief today, with the Railways authorities restoring the operation of eight passenger trains (four up and four down) on the Rohtak-Delhi track after a year.Though the number of passengers was fewer on the first day, happiness could be seen on their faces. They followed Covid safety protocols by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The authorities too kept a close tab on the passengers to ensure strict compliance of standard operating procedures.Former minister Manish Kumar Grover reached the railway station in the morning and welcomed the passengers. He also distributed sweets, masks and sanitisers among them, stating that precaution was the only way to defeat the Covid infection.“Rail commuters had been facing a lot of inconvenience in reaching Delhi by bus which left us in Bahadurgarh town following the blockade by protesting farmers at the Tikri border. Then, we had to either the use metro trains or hire private cabs to enter Delhi. Now, we will be able to reach the destination comfortably as the rail track is open,” said Satbir Sharma, a daily commuter.Jitender Bhardwaj, another passenger, said everyone had been waiting for the resumption of train services for a long time. “It will not only benefit the passengers but also prove useful in the revival of the business of vendors and nearby shops, which hugely depend on the rail services,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-delhi-track-passenger-train-services-resume-after-a-year-235165
06-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: High-level bridge proposed over seasonal river Markanda||The Irrigation Department has proposed to construct a high-level bridge over the Markanda, a seasonal river in the district, to connect Harigarh Bhorakh and Jandheri villages.To be built at a cost of Rs 14 crore, the bridge will benefit the residents of nearly 35 villages of Kurukshetra and Ambala.An official said the residents of the area had been demanding a bridge across the river for more than 50 years, but the demand was not met so far. The bridge will benefit residents of nearly 35 villages of Kurukshetra and Ambala.In 2017, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in his poll manifesto, had promised a bridge over the Markanda in this region.Irrigation Department XEN Gurvinder Singh said: “There are several villages that are not directly connected to Pehowa, and to reach here people have to travel via Teokar or Jalbera villages. Under this project, a 2,500-ft road and nearly 100-150-m-long high-level bridge will be built.”“The project file was first moved in September last year but was sent back as it required the Deputy Commissioner’s nod. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-high-level-bridge-proposed-over-seasonal-river-markanda-235167
06-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad Rose Garden to make way for e-way||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 5The Rose Garden built by the HSVP 40 years ago in the green belt adjoining Sector 17 here will make way for Rs3,580 crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway.The garden has been included in the 70-m right-of-way (ROW) to be handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the expressway passing through the city.With almost 90 per cent area of the 4-acre garden coming under the expressway alignment, the work on the removal of trees and plants coming in the way has already been started.“We are working on shifting the plants and infrastructure to other nurseries, green belt or available spots, as the place needs to be vacated or cleared up for the upcoming project,” said Naresh Singh, SDO (Horticulture), HSVP. Adding that this had been the only garden set up by the department, he said it had around 4,000 varieties of rose.Though it is not clear how much money has been spent so far, officials concerned, however, admit the majority of the green belt adjoining Sectors 14, 17, 9 and 13 located adjacent to the bypass road is going to be merged into the 12-lane expressway.Describing it as a direct and huge loss, Amarjit Singh, a resident of Sector 17, said the project would result in acute noise and air pollution. Charging the authorities of ignoring their interests, another resident Rakesh Kashyap said the garden and the green belt could have been spared if the alignment was done on the opposite side, which had no residential pocket.While the NHAI has already started removing the green belt on the right side of the expressway (towards Palwal), the HSVP has been asked to provide ROW of 70 m on both sides of the present bypass highway. The expressway starts at the Ring Road-DND junction in New Delhi, passes through Faridabad to culminate at the Interchange junction at Mandkola village of Palwal. Its foundation was laid on March 1, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-rose-garden-to-make-way-for-e-way-235168
06-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Haryana arhtiyas oppose DBT, may boycott purchase||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 5Arhtiyas have opposed the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to farmers against the payment for grain procurement and threatened to boycott wheat buying from April 8 if the payment was not resumed through them.In a state-level meeting of arhtiyas held here, the Haryana State Anajmandi Arhtiyas’ Association also demanded dues of the last paddy season, 12 per cent interest on the delay in releasing the payment and permission to farmers residing in border areas to sell their crop in Haryana.Ashok Gupta, state president of the association, said: “The state government had told us that the payment will be transferred as per the will of farmers. A majority of farmers have already given their consent to transfer their payment through arhtiyas while registering their crops on the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal. In spite of this, the government has said it will credit the payment in the bank accounts of farmers.”“The state government has time till April 7 to meet our demands, otherwise we will boycott the procurement from the next day,” he said.The state government has assured arhtiyas that they would continue to get their commission even if farmers are directly paid for their produce. This, however, is not the concern of arhtiyas.Gupta said: “Arhtiyas are like ATMs to farmers, who borrow money from us in times of crisis. They pay off the debt after having sold their crop. If the state government pays farmers directly, we won’t get our money back. Payment through arhtiyas is a guarantee that we will get out money back.”Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas’ Association, raised another concern related with the DBT scheme. “Last season, the Agriculture Department had transferred the payment to wrong bank accounts. Till now, farmers have not received the money,” he said.He further said payments were pending because “I” forms were not available online. “The state government should start a portal on the lines of CM window to address the grievances of arhtiyas and farmers.”After the state-level meeting, a delegation of arhtiyas led by Gupta left for Chandigarh for a meeting CM Manohar Lal Khattar. After having met the CM, Gupta said arhtiyas were adamant on their demand.Govt’s assuranceThe state government has assured arhtiyas that they would continue to get their commission even if farmers are directly paid for their produce. This, however, is not the concern of arhtiyas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-arhtiyas-oppose-dbt-may-boycott-purchase-235169
06-04-2021||---||Farmers' agitation: Mitti Satyagrah Yatra reaches Tikri border||Jhajjar, April 5The Mitti Satyagrah Yatra, carrying soil from several states, arrived at the Tikri border on Monday.The yatra, comprising 40 persons led by eminent social activist Medha Patekar, was received by protesters at the main protest site in Tikri by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders Yogender Yadav, Purushottam, Inderjit Singh, Amrik Singh, Jasbir Kaur, Jia Lal, Balbir Thaken and Harbhagwan.“A statue made by West Bengal sculptors has become the centre of attraction at Tikri. The soil was placed as a mark of homage for martyrs at the statue. The yatra has already visited Singhu and Shahjahanpur borders and installed memorials to mark the martyrdom of kisans during the four-month agitation,” said activist Inderjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-mitti-satyagrah-yatra-reaches-tikri-border-235170
06-04-2021||---||ACS reviews wheat procurement arrangements in Karnal||Karnal, April 5Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Sumita Misra, today reviewed procurement arrangements at the grain market here.She assured farmers of resolving their problems and directed officials to help farmers to register their produce on the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal. Misra interacted with farmers and enquired about their problems, if any.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav informed the ACS around 8,715 quintals of wheat had been procured so far.She also visited the Indo-Israel Centre of Excellence for Vegetables, Gharaunda, and Horticulture Training Institute, Uchani. During her visit to the vegetable centre, she inspected the polyhouse, nethouse and low-tunnels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/acs-reviews-wheat-procurement-arrangements-in-karnal-235171
06-04-2021||---||Protesting farmers gherao FCI offices, seek legal guarantee on MSP||Panipat/Sonepat, April 5 Farmers in Haryana today held protests outside Food Corporation of India (FCI) offices and raised several demands, including a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The protesters expressed anguish over the Union Government’s decision to seek farmers’ land records for online payments to their accounts and demanded its immediate rollback. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has given the call to mark April 5 as the “FCI Bachao Diwas”.  In Panipat, Kuldeep Balana of the BKU said, “Last year, the state government had procured wheat with moisture content up to 14 per cent. But this year, the moisture content threshold has been reduced to 12 per cent, making it difficult for farmers to sell their crop.”  In Sonepat, members of the All-India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sangathan, All-India Kisan Sabha, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, BKU and Bharatiya Kisan Panchayat staged dharna outside FCI godowns and submitted a memorandum of demands to the General Manager, FCI.  They said the protest at the Delhi borders would continue until the farm laws were repealed.  In Palwal, hundreds of BKU activists and members of 52 “pals” (khaps) staged a outside the FCI godown. Swami Shradhanand Saraswati and Master Mahender Chauhan from the 52 “pals” said the Centre was least concerned about farmers who were protesting for the past four months. In Rohtak, farmers assembled at Mansarovar Park and took out a procession to the FCI office. Inderjit Singh, an SKM leader, said, “Central policies made the FCI bankrupt. If procurement by the state is weakened, the Public Distribution System will collapse, leading to mass hunger.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-gherao-fci-offices-seek-legal-guarantee-on-msp-235172
06-04-2021||---||Make procurement process simple: Bhupinder Hooda||Chandigarh, April 5Former state Chief Minister (CM) Bhupinder Singh Hooda today hit back at CM Manohar Lal Khattar over his statement in Karnal, alleging that the Opposition was instigating farmers against the BJP-JJP government.“The CM is trying to cover up his failures by shifting the onus on the Opposition for the protests against the BJP-JJP leaders. Instead of levelling baseless allegations, the government needs to avoid confrontation with the protesting farmers,” said HoodaOn Saturday, the CM had faced farmers’ ire in Rohtak where he had gone for a condolence meeting. The protesting farmers had clashed with policemen.Hooda said it was well known that the farmers’ agitation was “apolitical”. “The Congress is supporting them because their demands are just,” he said.Alleging mismanagement in procurement, he said that the farmers were harassed at procurement centres and were being forced to register at the “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal. “It is not practical for farmers to first take their produce from fields to home and then to mandis,” he said.Hooda demanded that the government should simplify the procurement process so that the farmers don’t have to face harassment in the grain mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-procurement-process-simple-bhupinder-hooda-235173
06-04-2021||---||2 held for Bathinda farmer’s murder on Tikri border||Jhajjar, April 5Hakam Singh (61) of Bathinda district was allegedly murdered by truck driver Kulwant Singh of Moga district (Punjab), at the Tikri border on March 25, the police said.Kulwant (48) allegedly had an illicit relationship with Hakam’s “bhabhi” (wife of younger brother) Karamjeet Kaur (47), who was also involved in the crime. She pressurised Kulwant to commit the crime, said the police.Both accused have been arrested. Hakam was found murdered behind the new bus-stand in Bahadurgarh.“Kulwant and Kaur hatched a plot to kill Hakam who kept a watch on Kulwant when he visited their house. Kulwant, along with Hakam, came to Tikri on March 25 to join the agitation. He killed Hakam at the behest of Kaur,” said Vijay Kumar, SHO, City Police Station, Bahadurgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-bathinda-farmers-murder-on-tikri-border-235174
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana State Council for Child Welfare official assumes charge||The newly appointed Honorary General Secretary of the Haryana State Council for Child Welfare (HSCCW), Parveen Atri, assumed charge onMonday.  He said he was grateful to Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, who is the HSCCW president, and Chief Minister Manohar Lal, who is the HSCCW vice-president, for giving him an opportunity to serve as the Honorary General Secretary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-council-for-child-welfare-official-assumes-charge-235175
06-04-2021||Faridabad||Three injured in Ballabgarh firing incident||Three persons, including a commission agent, were injured in an incident of firing and assault using sharp-edged weapons at Ballabgarh Subzi Mandi this morning. A case was registered in this regard, but no arrest had been made so far. Some old enmity was stated to be the reason behind the incident. As per the police complaint, five persons, who came in a car around 5.20 am, stopped near shop No. 115, owned by one Hem Singh Saini (51), a commission agent, and started assaulting him and two others sitting there. While one of the accused opened fire targeting Saini, the others were attacked with knives. As Saini, a resident of Unchagaon village, dived to escape the fire, he received bullet injuries in his arm. Pradeep, a farmer, and Chandan, a helper, got stab injuries. The attackers, Lokesh, Harinder, Chaman, Chander and Sachin, fled soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-injured-in-ballabgarh-firing-incident-235176
06-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court to examine state ‘failure’ on mask norms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5As India recorded a spike of more than one lakh Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours on Monday, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told that failure to adopt effective steps for inculcating mask etiquette among the people bordered on the violation of their right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.As the issue came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, the amicus curiae or the friend of the Court Rupinder Khosla submitted that the State’s inability to enforce necessary measures also amounted to infringement of the people’s rights. He added Covid protocol, issued by Government of India, was required to be strictly followed.Faced with the situation, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan prayed for additional time to seek instructions from the State Chief Secretary. Accepting his prayers, the Bench fixed the case for further hearing later this week.The Bench has already asked the State of Haryana to specify whether punitive provisions were required to be incorporated in the instructions on the issue for initiating action against persons “endangering their own life and those of others by wearing mask in a casual manner”.The Bench also asked the State counsel to also specify the measures being taken to implement in letter and spirit the instructions issued by the government on mask etiquette. It also made it clear during the course of the hearing that mask etiquette were required to be injected to the public along with the vaccine to beat Covid.The directions came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Rishi. His counsel had told the Bench that the petitioner, a jail inmate, was tested positive for Covid on December 27, 2020. As a result, he was taken to quarantine centre in Sector 12, Panchkula.Thereafter, the petitioner did not receive attention from the medical authorities. With jail no bar for Covid infection, the Bench hearing his petition had called for details regarding the availability of masks for the inmates. The petitioner was put back in jail after he recovered, but the Bench made clear its intent to continue with the matter after holding that “a larger question has arisen during the course of hearing”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-to-examine-state-failure-on-mask-norms-235177
06-04-2021||---||Covaxin crunch at three Karnal health centres||Karnal, April 5Amid the rising number of Covid cases, three Community Health Centres (CHCs) of the district have run out of Covaxin doses, hampering the vaccination drive.Sources say the three health facilities in Indri, Ballah and Kunjpura ran out of the doses four days ago. As a result, several persons, including frontline workers, are waiting for their second dose.The department had received 17,200 doses of Covaxin, India’s first homegrown antidote to Covid.As for Covishield, the district Health Department had received 1,18,160 doses. Till Sunday, 89,780 doses were administered. “People who have received the first dose of Covaxin cannot be administered Covishield as the second dose. As per government guidelines, the same vaccine has to be administered,” said a department official.A frontline worker, who had received the first dose in February, said: “I visited the health centre twice to enquire about the availability of Covaxin. On both occasions, I only got assurance from nurses.”The district has witnessed 15,590 Covid cases so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covaxin-crunch-at-three-karnal-health-centres-235178
06-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Haryana students submit fake Covid reports to evade offline exams||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 5Several students pursuing professional and postgraduate degrees at state universities, and affiliated colleges have reportedly submitted forged Covid-positive certificates to avoid taking offline exams.This came to light after Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here received more than 2,500 applications from students of the UIET, requesting the authorities for online exams. These students had attached medical certificates, including Covid-positive reports, as a reason for not taking the offline exams.State universities have allowed students having genuine reasons to take online exams in view of the pandemic. Most universities, however, do not have a foolproof mechanism to curb the use of unfair means during online exams.“During scrutiny, a committee found a lot of fake documents. Necessary action will be taken against erring students. If proved (guilty), such students will be debarred from taking the exams in future,” states a notice issued by UIET Director Prof Yudhvir Singh recently.When contacted, the Director said: “Many students cited medical reasons, including Covid, for taking online exams. Some of the Covid-positive reports seemed doubtful. Hence, these were rejected. Strict action will be taken against students who have submitted forged certificates.”BS Sindhu, MDU Controller of Examinations, said: “Colleges affiliated to the MDU and the university are verifying the medical certificates given by students. Appropriate action will be taken against those found guilty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-students-submit-fake-covid-reports-to-evade-offline-exams-235179
06-04-2021||---||Weekly infections cross 10K mark for first time this year in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 5The number of weekly Covid cases in Haryana has crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time this year, while the death count reached 50.The state witnessed 10,414 Covid cases from March 29 to April 4 against 7,891 during the week preceding it. However, the last time the state saw more than 10,000 cases was from November 30 to December 6, when 11,374 people tested positive. The numbers are still less than the surge witnessed during mid-September and mid-November last year, when weekly infections crossed 17,000.However, the numbers have doubled in less than two weeks, with 4,691 cases reported from March 15 to 21.In case of mortalities, the state touched 50-mark for the first time since last December when 53 people died of Covid from December 21 to 27.The daily positivity rate, which had come down to less than one per cent in February this year, has again gone up to 6.8%. The cumulative positivity rate of the state, however, stands at 4.7% now.Over 20L inoculated||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-infections-cross-10k-mark-for-first-time-this-year-in-haryana-235181
06-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Antibody cocktail cured Punjab leader:  Gurugram hospital||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Monoclonal antibody cocktail, a combination of two neutralising antibody drugs casirivimab and imdevimab, which has the potential of reducing hospitalisation in Covid-19 and also shortening the duration of symptoms, has been administered to only one person, a senior Punjab politician, at a private hospital in Gurugram.Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibodies drug, has been administered to 42 patients, including Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, so far at the PGIMS, Rohtak.The monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment is now available in the US.“The US government has so far not allowed its export to other countries. When a senior politician from Punjab was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram, his family was intimated about all treatment options, including that of antibody cocktail, if they could manage its import. They were successful in their attempt and the antibody cocktail was given to the politician. Despite his health issues the politician recovered from the infection within a few days without any complications,” said a senior doctor of the state.“To my knowledge, this Punjab politician is the only person in the country to have received a dose of monoclonal antibody cocktail so far.”Meanwhile, as far as tocilizumab, an immunosuppressive medicine that belongs to a class of monoclonal antibodies, was administered under trial to 183 patients in several top hospitals in the country, including 42 in the PGIMS, Rohtak, by a team of doctors who published their findings in reputed medical journal Lancet in its March 4, 2021 issue.Among those who received tocilizumab is Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, according to Dr Dhruv Choudhary, nodal officer for Covid in Haryana, who was part of the trials. Among others who were part of the trials was Dr Sushila Kataria from Medanta Medicity, Gurugram.“No significant difference was observed between the group that was given tocilizumab and the other which was put on standard care. Thus, our study did not support the routine use of tocilizumab in adults with Covid. However, there might be a role for it in patientswith severe Covid that should be defined further,” said Dr Chaudhary.US ex-PREz took this treatmentAs per a doctor, one-time injection of the antibody cocktail prevented 100% of Covid illness, 100% of high SARS-CoV-2 viral loads, and cut length of asymptomatic infection to one week. The treatment was given to Donald Trump, former President of the US, after he got infected in October 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/antibody-cocktail-cured-punjab-leader-gurugram-hospital-235182
06-04-2021||Hisar||3rd edition of newsletter of Guru Jambheshwar University released||Award for UHS doctorRohtak: Dr Shiba Sethi, a senior resident doctor at the department of community medicine at Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, has bagged the first prize in poster-presentation at the 22nd Annual Maharashtra State Joint Conference of IAPSM and IPHA-2021 based on the theme 'Covid-19 pandemic: An eye-opener for strengthening of public health'. Dr Shiba presented her research paper titled 'Misconceptions about Covid-19 and its effect on vaccine-acceptance in urban population of Rohtak' in the form of a poster at the conference, for which she won the first prize.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3rd-edition-of-newsletter-of-guru-jambheshwar-university-released-235184
06-04-2021||Palwal-Umri road in pathetic condition||Palwal-Umri road in pathetic condition||The Kurukshetra Administration should take note of the pathetic condition of the Umri-Palwal road adjoining Jindal Global City in Kurukshetra. The road is the lifeline for residents living in Sectors 3,4,29,30 and 8. Travellers entering Kurukshetra also take this road leading to Kurukshetra University and other important destinations. This stretch is filled with huge potholes and the upper bituminous layer of road is not visible. It is very unfortunate that crores of rupee is being spent on the beautification of the Holy City but basic needs like roads is being left neglected and unattended. The administration should construct this road immediately. –Dr Satinder Verma, Kurukshetra.Stop wasting electricity in Panchkula The central high pole consisting of multiple halogen bulbs in the main market of Sector 16, Panchkula, is often seen lit during the day resulting in sheer wastage of electricity. The UHBVNL should fix responsibility for such lapses by levying fine on the guilty employees.  Ramit Ritu Bagga, Panchkula.Development of IT sector will attract youthsThis is in reference to the news item about development of Panchkula district. The decision taken by the Haryana Government is a welcome step that the authorities are conscious about the development of this area. This is not only beneficial for the people living here but is also beneficial of the overall development of the state. As the government is taking several steps in this regard, the government should also consider developing IT sector in this part of the state because almost all necessary infrastructure facilities are available here. The government should rise to the occasion by taking this prudent decision. Surinder Kumar Mahna, Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-umri-road-in-pathetic-condition-235186
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab trails Haryana by 5.5L jabs||In spite of various initiatives, Punjab lags behind its neighbours when it comes to Covid vaccination. So far, 12.5 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state, in stark contrast to 18 lakh jabs given in Haryana in the same period.In all, 6.51 lakh persons over 45 years of age have received the first dose with 6,536 getting the second dose. Around 4.12 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been administered the first dose, while 1,15,290 have received the second shot.To further ramp up the vaccination drive among high-risk groups, the state government has set district-wise vaccination and testing targets as per high positivity and low testing rates, respectively.72 deaths in 24 hoursHealth and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today directed Civil Surgeons to ensure vaccination and sampling/testing as per the district-wise weekly target.Sidhu said besides vaccination centres at hospitals, mobile camps are also being organised at pre-determined locations, for which captive beneficiary data has made available by managements of industries, residential societies, organisations, etc.Steep surge in positivity ratePointing out the need for reducing turnaround time between sampling and test results, he said as time lag led to the spread of infection within this window, all districts must send samples at least three times a day to the designated labs.There was a need to review the status and performance of private labs. Covid testing must be increased to ensure adherence to the guidelines, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-trails-haryana-by-5-5l-jabs-235040
06-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Punjab farmer was murdered at Tikri border by sister-in-law, paramour: Police||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 5Hakam Singh (61), a farmer of Patti Fuddu village in Bathinda district (Punjab), was murdered by a truck driver, Kulwant Singh, of Lopo village in Moga district at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on March 25, police have said.Kulwant (48) was allegedly having an illicit relationship with Karamjeet Kaur (47), wife of Hakam’s younger brother, who was also involved in the crime. She allegedly pressured Kulwant to perpetrate the crime, the police said.The Bahadurgarh police arrested both the accused and produced them before a court which sent them to judicial custody.Hakam was found murdered with his throat slit behind new bus stand in Bahadurgarh town.“Kulwant and Karamjeet Kaur hatched a plan to kill Hakam who kept a watch on Kulwant when he visited their house. To execute the plan at the behest of Kaur, Kulwant came to Tikri on March 25 to join the ongoing farmers’ agitation along with Hakam. On reaching here, Kulwant offered liquor to Hakam and slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon when he became unconscious,” said Vijay Kumar, SHO, City Police Station, Bahadurgarh.He added that Kulwant kept staying at Tikri after perpetrating the crime, even as a case of murder was registered against unknown persons on the complaint of Karamjeet Kaur. Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal then formed a joint team of Cyber Cell, CIA, City Police and Sector-9 Police Post to investigate the case.  “Kulwant was arrested from the Railway Station in Bahadurgarh two days ago when he was trying to escape. During interrogation, he spilled the beans and confessed to the crime. Later, Kaur was arrested from Punjab,” said Vijay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-farmer-was-murdered-at-tikri-border-by-sister-in-law-paramour-police-235021
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana ‘gherao’ FCI offices||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Monday held protests outside Food Corporation of India (FCI) offices and raised various demands, including a legal guarantee for the minimum support price.The protesters expressed anguish over the central government’s decision to seek farmers’ land records for online payments to their accounts and demanded its immediate rollback.Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said his organisation ‘gheraoed’ 34 FCI offices in 15 districts of Punjab.Protests were also held outside the central procurement agency at Chandigarh, Amritsar, Sangrur and Haryana’s Kurukshetra and Sonepat.The protesters asked the Centre to give a legal guarantee on the MSP for their produce.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked the Centre to postpone its decision of direct payment to farmers for the time being, saying if it is implemented, then those who cultivate land under tenancy will face problems in getting payment.The farmers also demanded that the procurement process be completed in a minimum time.The government should ensure that farmers do not face any problem due to lack of wheat bags and other facilities, the protesters said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, with their main demand being complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops.So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand.In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-gherao-fci-offices-235001
