07-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Night curfew in Delhi leaves Sarhaul border clogged||Delhi Government’s decision to impose night curfew within the city limits and the resultant barricades on the city’s borders led to traffic snarls at the Sarhaul border on Tuesday night.The border was already traffic bottleneck area, mainly because of an ongoing construction of an underpass, but snarls caused by authorities allowing vehicles only after checks caused harried several late night commuters, particularly those heading toward the airports, added to the chaos."My mother has her flight to Canada and we have been stuck here for over 45 minutes. We left home an hour earlier than we would as we know the congestion possibility here but this checking has worsened the issue,” said one such commuter, Naina Chadha.Delhi Police have installed checkposts allowing those with valid tickets to pass. Those who don’t are questioned vigorously about their reasons to travel into Delhi. Delhi government has announced night curfew until April 30, and commuters expect such traffic snarls to last at least that long.  But commuters aren’t the only harried lot. Restaurant owners in Gurugram complain that the long traffic queues would likely keep patrons away.“There is no curfew in Gurugram but the situation for us is curfew like. People coming from Gurugram have to cross border and take a u-turn to reach the mall. The usual traffic jams in these parts already cause cost us patrons. And now this,” said Pankaj Ghosh, who owns a restaurant at the Ambience mall.Meanwhile, Gurugram Police have issued an advisory for people to avoid unnecessary travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/night-curfew-in-delhi-leaves-sarhaul-border-clogged-235940
07-04-2021||Rohtak||Farmers gear up for massive show on April 10; launch public contact campaign||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is gearing up to make 24-hour blockade on the KMP expressway on April 10 successful with leaders of various farm outfits from Haryana launching a public contact campaign in the villages on Wednesday to muster people’s support for the protest.They visited Kultana, Baland, Garnavathi villages in Rohtak and Rohad, Dighal, Jakhoda, Badli villages in Jhajjar district and motivated the villagers to ensure their participation in the blockade to strengthen the agitation. “To ensure massive turnout, we are stressing upon especially those villages located nearby the KMP expressway so that they could easily reach the protest site in a large number hence different teams have been formed to contact people in these villages,” said Inderjit Singh, vice president, All India Kisan Sabha.Singh maintained at a meeting held at Tikri border today, duties had been assigned to the farm leaders to invite the people by making phone calls or using other media as well.The 24-hour blockade would be resorted to from 10 am on April 10 at the same points where dharna was staged on March 6, he added.Virendra Hooda, national general secretary of the BKU (Kisan Sarkar), said the call for blockade on the KMP expressway was against ‘indifference’ of the Central government towards farmers’ agitation and continuing with its own agenda of privatisation besides new norms notified by the FCI for the purchase of wheat. “Today, we visited several villages and found acute resentment among the villagers against the BJP government over the farmers’ issue” Hooda claimed.  Sumit Dalal, another farmer leader, said the role of nodal purchase agency had been truncated in a systematic way with an intention to facilitate the corporate sector and private players in grain trade.“Conditions like asking for land revenue documents or abruptly transferring money directly to the farmers’ account may cause problems as those farmers who cultivate on contract basis will be deprived of the money of sale as they do not have land titles in their names,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-gear-up-for-massive-show-on-april-10-launch-public-contact-campaign-235939
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Notify collector rates by April 7, Haryana DCs told||Financial Commissioner Revenue Sanjeev Kaushal has directed all Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to notify the collector rates for their districts by April 7. Kaushal reviewed the preparations in this regard with the Deputy Commissioners through a video-conference here. He said the government had constituted a six-member committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notify-collector-rates-by-april-7-haryana-dcs-told-235524
07-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Choked drain stinks, needs cleaning in Ambala||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Choked drain stinks, needs cleaning in AmbalaThe pucca drain passes between the road leading towards Kaithal-Hissar and the Mandi (grain market) main wall. The drain is fully chocked and stinks. The reason being many fruits and vegetables vendors have encroached the area. The vegetable and fruit waste are thrown in the drain and animals can be seen hovering around the place. It is surprising as to why stakeholders of Swacchata Abhiyan and the department concerned have not taken care of issue. I hope the Municipal Commissioner, Ambala City, would take cognisance of the issue and set things right in public interest. Gian P Kansal, AmbalaImplement UT pattern in Haryana tooThis refers to 'Big relief for power consumers in Chandigarh' (Chandigarh Tribune, April 1). It was quite heartening to learn that the JERC has directed the UT Electricity Department to discontinue the recovery of the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges starting April 1, 2021, till further orders. Let Haryana state government also walk into the shoes of the UT of Chandigarh and favourably consider providing similar relief to its subjects. For sure, such a 'pro-people' move will go a long way in earning some brownie points for the state government. SK Gupta, PanchkulaVentilators lying idle at Jind hospitalLife-saving devices like ventilators are lying idle in all civil hospitals of Jind district. Last year, five ventilators were supplied to Civil Hospital, Jind, when the Covid pandemic was at its peak, to save precious lives of patients. Nine ventilators have been supplied now as the number of Covid patients have increased. But these ventilators can't be used simply because in all these hospitals, there is no ICU rooms and anesthetists, and without this provision, these packed ventilators have been locked in a room. This is a waste of public money. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/choked-drain-stinks-needs-cleaning-in-ambala-235529
07-04-2021||Hisar||GJUST alumnus gets gold award||KU plan for NEP-2020 approvedKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University (KU) has prepared the roadmap for the implementation of the New Education Policy(NEP) 2020. The Institutional Development Programme (IDP) 2022-2027 was finalised for the implementation of the New Education Policy 2020 at a meeting of executive council chaired by KU VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva. “With the New Education Policy, India will emerge more firmly on the world education scenarioCounselling session conductedHisar: The directorate of students welfare (counselling and placement cell) of the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) organised a counselling session for students to motivate them for preparing for the civil services examinations. The director, students welfare (DSW), Dr Devender Singh Dahiya, informed that the event was organised under the aegis of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP). He said the Indian Forest Service (IFS) and alumnus of the university Dr Sunil Dhaka gave tips to the students about the mode of preparations for the civil services.Jab drive on Mullana campusAmbala: A Covid-19 vaccination drive was organised for residents of Mullana and Ambala on the MM(DU) Campus, Mullana. During this drive, 950 persons of different age groups were vaccinated with “Covishield” vaccine. On this occasion, the Chancellor of the university, Tarsem Garg, stated that this vaccination drive was a humble contribution by MM Group of institutions to build a healthy world around. The vaccination will definitely protect and enhance the confidence of people to fight against the deadly virus and curb the spread of the disease.Covid awareness programmeFaridabad: Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised a Covid-19 awareness programme. Keynote speaker MP Singh, chief warden civil defence and Coordinator, Covid-19 awareness programme, explained in detail the dos and don’ts that should be kept in mind regarding Covid and the latest SOPs issued by the government recently. Stating that the disaster management authority has also issued new guidelines regarding the maximum number of people at public places, he asked the students and the staff to remain vigilant and said the college officials should ensure checking of the body temperature of all at regular intervals and especially when one enters the college premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gjust-alumnus-gets-gold-award-235530
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 84,950 more vaccinated||Sampla MC chief joins BJPRohtak: Pooja Rani, chairperson of the Sampla Municipal Committee, on Tuesday joined the BJP in the presence of the BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, former minister Manish Grover and senior leaders- Satish Nandal and Shamsher Kharak. She won the chairperson poll as an independent candidate by defeating the BJP nominee Ms Sonu Valmiki. TNS‘Explore possibilities of setting up warehouses’Chandigarh: State Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal has directed officials to explore the possibilities of setting up warehouses in the rural areas under the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. He was presiding over a review meeting of officials of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation and Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board here on Tuesday. TNSMoS Dhanda faces protest in KaithalKarnal: Minister of State for Women and Child Welfare Kamlesh Dhanda today faced protest by farmers during a programme at Kakot village in Kaithal district. Some of them entered the venue and raised slogans against her. Kaithal SP Lokender Singh said no case had been registered. TNSMitti Satyagraha Yatra concludesSonepat: The Mitti Satyagrah Yatra carrying the soil from 23 states concluded at the Singhu border on Tuesday. The soil was placed at a martyrs’ column designed by a team of artists led by Kulpreet Singh. Earlier, the yatra led by social activist Medha Patekar was received by Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders. TNSINLD sets up 40-bed hospital at SinghuSonepat: To mark the death anniversary of former PM Ch Devi Lal, the INLD has set up a 40-bed hospital at the Singhu border. It was inaugurated on Tuesday by family members of farmers who died during the agitation. “Specialist doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff will be available at the hospital,” INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala told the media. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-84-950-more-vaccinated-235525
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Flipkart gets 140 acres in Manesar||In view of the increasing demand of warehousing, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today approved the allotment of 140 acres in Manesar to Flipkart for setting up its largest fulfilling centre in Asia.The approval was granted at the meeting of the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board presided over by Khattar here.During the meeting, the CM was apprised that the land, belonging to the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, allotted at a price of Rs 3.22 crore per acre to Instakart Services Private Limited, a Flipkart group company, would not only give impetus to investment, but would boost market access opportunities for MSMEs.The fulfillment centre will cater to parcel goods, white goods and furniture. About 6,000 direct and 12,000 indirect jobs will be created through this investment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flipkart-gets-140-acres-in-manesar-235526
07-04-2021||---||People not guinea pigs: Bhupinder Singh Hooda to Haryana CM||Chandigarh, April 6Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today hit back at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for calling himself “prayogsheel mukhyamantri” at a press conference on March 31.“The residents of Haryana are not guinea pigs. Experiments are conducted on guinea pigs. Tell me a single experiment which has benefited people,” said Hooda, while addressing mediapersons here.He said that the government should stop blaming the Opposition for the present state of affairs in the state and should introspect. “They should wonder why the leaders of the party, which won all 10 Lok Sabha seats of Haryana two years ago, are not able to go among the public today,” said Hooda.“The government’s attitude towards farmers is completely negative as the purchase of wheat is being delayed by making the excuse of registration, moisture, mixing and message after the growers expressed their opposition to the Centre’s three farm laws,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-not-guinea-pigs-bhupinder-singh-hooda-to-haryana-cm-235527
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM orders implementation of online transfer policy||Haryana will now be making online transfers for cadre above 300 posts in every department. For this, CM Manohar Lal Khattar has given directions to implement the Online Transfer Policy in all departments.The CM was presiding over a meeting of officers of various departments here today. He directed that all necessary arrangements for the implementation of the Online Transfer Policy be made in all departments by April 30.He said if an employee was in the district cadre and wanted to go to another district, then he should be given the option to do so. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-orders-implementation-of-online-transfer-policy-235533
07-04-2021||Hisar||Fake RCs: Three ex-SDMs among 8 booked in Fatehabad||Three former Sub-divisional Magistrates (SDMs) and two employees of the vehicle registration office have been booked on the charge of issuing fake registration certificates (RCs) in Fatehabad district.A police spokesperson said the Chief Minister’s flying squad today carried out a raid at the SDM’s office and found that RCs were issued on fake documents.The case under Sections 120-B, 201, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered on the complaint by subinspector Rajesh Kumar of the CM’s flying squad. The accused have been identified as former Fatehabad SDMs Satbir Singh Jangu, Sanjay Bishnoi and Surjeet Nain. Jangu and Nain have retired, while Bishnoi is posted as the Deputy Municipal Commissioner in Jind.The other accused are two former clerks — Om Prakash Sihag and Rajesh Khatak — and three others — Ramesh and Bhim Singh, both residents of Fatehabad district, and Shamshir Alam Khan of Bihar. The complaint mentioned the accused issued five fake RCs in 2018, 2019 and 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-rcs-three-ex-sdms-among-8-booked-in-fatehabad-235534
07-04-2021||---||Youth murdered in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, April 6Two murders in a day rocked Jhajjar district on Tuesday.A 24-year-old youth was hacked to death in Dehkhora village, while a 28-year-old married woman was stabbed to death in Sulodha village. In both incidents, the assailants attacked the victims after barging into their house.In Dhekhora, the crime was committed around 4 am when Pradeep was asleep in his room. Two persons came there on a two-wheeler and attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. The assailants fled from the place, while injured Pradeep was taken to the PGIMS in Rohtak where he died.In Sulodha village, the woman, identified as Priyanka, was allegedly murdered by her neighbour when she was alone at her house in the afternoon. After the incident, she was rushed to a hospital where she died.The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained, while the police have registered a case against one Jitender, who is missing after the crime. Priyanka had two children.Woman killedIn another incident, a woman, identified as Priyanka (28), was allegedly murdered by her neighbour when she was alone at her house. Jitender, who is missing after the crime, has been booked. Priyanka is survived by two children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-murdered-in-jhajjar-235535
07-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Will boycott purchase of rabi crops: Haryana arhtiyas||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 6Arhtiyas in Haryana have said they will boycott the procurement of rabi crops, which begins on April 8, unless their demand for non-implementation of direct benefit transfer (DBT) is accepted.Assurance won’t do, need actionThough the CM has assured us of raising the issue with the FCI, we will boycott the procurement if our demand is not met. — Ashok Gupta, Arhtiya Association HeadThe Haryana Arhtiyas Association wants the farmers be given an option whether they need payment through arhtiyas or the DBT system.“We had a meeting with CM Manohar Lal Khattar yesterday. Though he has assured us of raising the issue with the FCI, we will boycott the procurement if our demand is not met by Wednesday,” said Ashok Gupta, state president, Haryana State Anajmandi Arhtiyas Association.“A majority of the farmers have already given their consent to route their payment through arhtiyas while registering on ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-boycott-purchase-of-rabi-crops-haryana-arhtiyas-235655
07-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Bar employee raped after taking lift in car in Gurugram||Gurugram, April 6A bar employee was allegedly gang-raped by five men on her way back home after she took lift in their car in the wee hours today.The three accused, whose gave her lift, drove her to Jhajjar, 48 km from here, where they called two of their friends and all five committed the crime in the car.An FIR in this regard was registered at the women’s police station, Manesar. The police claimed that the three accused, who drove her in the car, had been identified and would be nabbed soon.The 24-year-old victim lives in Delhi and works in a bar on the MG road. According to the complaint filed by the victim, it was at around 3 am when she was waiting for transport opposite the Sahara mall. The accused came in the car, saying it was as a shared cab.“I asked the driver about ride to Delhi and he agreed. I asked about the other two persons and was told that they would be dropped at IFFCO Chowk. They, however, took the car on the expressway and sped off and raped me in the car. They then dumped me on road and fled,” said the victim.She managed to reach Farukhnagar and informed the police about the crime.After getting information, a team of the women police station, Manesar, met the victim and rushed her to hospital for medical examination, which confirmed rape.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against three unknown persons under Sections 376-D, 506 and 342 of the IPC at the women police station, Manesar.Three booked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bar-employee-raped-after-taking-lift-in-car-in-gurugram-235515
07-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||If workload less, employer can fire contractual staff: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6In a significant judgment on contractual appointments, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has delineated upon the circumstances under which an employer can dispense with the services of a contractual employee, including financial constraints and reduced workload.Justice Tejinder Singh DhindsaAnother factor: financial crunchOn account of budgetary/financial constraints, the employer chooses not to carry out the work or implement the project in question, it would always be open for the employer not to engage any contractual employee.The Bench has made it clear that an employer was well within his rights not to engage contractual employee if chooses not to go ahead with work due to budgetary/financial constraints.Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa asserted: “A contractual arrangement in favour of an employee would always be subject to the right of the employer to resort to a method of regular appointment. It would also be open for the employer to dispense with the services of a contractual employee if his work and conduct is found wanting.”Justice Dhindsa also made it clear that it would again be open for the employer to disengage the contractual appointee in case of non-requirement or reduction in workload. “Yet again even if there be work, and on account of budgetary/financial constraints, the employer chooses not to carry out the work or implement the project in question, it would always be open for the employer not to engage any contractual employee.”The matter was brought to Justice Dhindsa’s notice after a canal patwari working on contractual basis since February 2020 filed a petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents. He was seeking directions to the respondents to continue with his services on a contractual basis till the filling up of the post on a regular basis. His counsel told the Bench that the petitioner’s work and conduct had been exemplary. He was a matriculate and “patwar pass”. He had even gained sufficient experience on the canal patwari post. As such, he was vested with the right to continue on the post on a contractual basis.“Such decision would be taken by the competent authority on an objective basis keeping in view the relevant parameters of workload, past work and conduct of the contractual employee in question etc…,” Justice Dhindsa asserted, while dismissing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/if-workload-less-employer-can-fire-contractual-staff-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-235519
07-04-2021||---||Rs 11 lakh stolen from village ATM booth in Bahadurgarh subdivision||Jhajjar, April 6Thieves struck at an ATM booth of Punjab National Bank at Jasaur Kheri village under the Bahadurgarh subdivision last evening and decamped with Rs 11 lakh. There was no security guard at the booth when the incident took place.Although a CCTV camera has been installed there, the miscreants threw some chemical on it before breaking open the ATM dispenser. A case has been registered on the complaint of the bank manager.According to the footages of CCTV cameras installed nearby, the looters came in a black car. In one of the footages, two miscreants were seen, but their faces are not clearly visible.Investigation officer Jasbir Singh said efforts were underway to identify the accused at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-11-lakh-stolen-from-village-atm-booth-in-bahadurgarh-subdivision-235536
07-04-2021||---||In Gurugram, e-autos to replace 2k diesel ones||Gurugram, April 6In a major move to deal with vehicular pollution, the Gurugram Municipal Corporation is all set to replace 2,000 diesel autos with e-autos.Ranking highest in the NCR in terms of vehicular density and pollution, the city is chasing the pollution-free dream and is switching its public transport to battery-operated mode.The authorities have, meanwhile, worked out an economically viable rehabilitation plan for the auto-drivers who are being told to submit their autos to scrap.“The plan is inspired by the CM’s last budget note, which highlighted environment-friendly development. We are going a step ahead from the conventional practice of switching diesel autos with the CNG autos. The old autos will be turned into scrap to ensure that these are not used illegally in other districts,” said MC Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.“In return for each diesel auto submitted for scrap, we will give two e-autos to the owner which will help him generate income. The owners of e-autos will be granted registration certificates within 72 hours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-e-autos-to-replace-2k-diesel-ones-235528
07-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad’s only cycle track non-functional||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 6The vision of promoting the usage of cycles in the city remains only on paper. The 1.5 kilometres cycle track, the only one of its kind built at a cost of 23 lakh four years ago, has been non-functional and reduced to almost rubble. However, now, the track has been encroached upon.Pratyush Sharma, AdvocateNow occupied by vendorsThe track has been occupied by vendors, hawkers and parking mafia as it is located near the Mini-Secretariat. Located very close to the Mini-secretariat, the district headquarters here, the track has been left with only a couple of signboards which claim that the passage along the road dividing Sectors 12 and Sectors 10-11 has been a track, which had been missing since the day one. Claiming that this had been the only cycle track that had been constructed by the HSVP(HUDA) and was expected to give a new definition to the promotion of non- motorised transport, but could not get on track due to issues like the quality and lack of promotion,’’ says an official in the local administration. Moreover, the area where it was built was a commercial or institutional sector, he said a majority of the people who came here used motorised vehicles. “They only need an authorised parking lot, resulting in chaos as hundreds of two-wheelers or four-wheelers are parked at any available space near the secretariat.Claiming that a cycle track is most suited in residential areas, Anoop Chaudhary, a resident, said the authorities had failed to conduct the feasibility study properly and that was the reason why the project had failed. “The track has been occupied by vendors, hawkers and parking mafia as it is located near the Mini-Secretariat,” says Pratyush Sharma, an advocate, here. While it was built on the dividing road of Sector 11 and 12 connecting the Mini-Secretariat with the Mathura road, a similar project proposed on the dividing road of Sectors 12-15 was abandoned due to non-feasibility, it is revealed.Admitting technical issues, DC Yashpal Yadav said 735 kilometres cycle track and equal length of footpaths are proposed under the upcoming City Development Plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabads-only-cycle-track-non-functional-235504
07-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram: Parents allege arm-twisting by schools over fee||Gurugram, April 6Hundreds of parents are a harried lot as city private schools have allegedly withheld results or refused promotion or issuance of transfer certificates to their wards asking them to pay charges other than the tuition fee. The parents, who have been protesting for over a month now, have moved to the local administration to seek relief.They say while they have been paying the tuition fee regularly as per the Haryana Government directive, the schools on commencement of the new session have withheld the results of students asking them to clear the same ‘dues’ for 2020. The parents say that they are also not being allowed to withdraw their children from school without paying the money.In list of protests being held across the city, high drama prevailed outside DPS School, Sushant Lok, as parents whose children’s results were allegedly held up for these dues staged a protest today. At 11am the parents reached the school and protested for not being entertained and heard. Similar protests have been reported from schools like Lord Jesus School, Sector 5, GD Goenka School, Sector 48, Greenwood School, Sector 9 and Suncity School, Sector 37.“We have lost jobs and will not be able to pay this fee which is illegal. The government clearly announced that only tution fee would be charged. Since last year, we have been telling them that. Now, getting an opportunity, they have withheld results not letting us withdraw our wards and blackmailing us. We have moved to administration and even the Chief Minister, but have got no help. Our children are under immense trauma,” said one of the parents’ representatives, Tarun Sehajpal.However, the schools have refuted allegations claiming they are acting as per the 30th June orders of the Haryana Government.“The latest order of the Haryana Government which allowed us to calculate our fee, annual charges and other dues is duly uploaded on the school websites. It is not that we did not help distressed parents. In fact, the parents in real need came and met us and all schools made relevant concessions that we could. There is no valid order of charging only tuition fee. The parents who are creating nuisance are misled and misinformed. We are thronged with many admission applicants who did not pay any fee the entire year in previous schools and are now switching and want transfer certificates. Genuine cases can all approach us and they will be helped,” said Col Pratap Singh, president, Haryana Progressive Schools Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-parents-allege-arm-twisting-by-schools-over-fee-235506
07-04-2021||---||Farmers oppose BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini's visit to Shahabad, smash windscreen||Kurukshetra, April 6Protesting farmers today confronted Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, smashing the rear windscreen of his SUV car, the police have said. The MP was not in the SUV when protesters at Shahabad Markanda, 20 km from here, targeted it.Nayab Singh Saini, Kurukshetra MPCongress-backed protestersThose who indulge in acts of violence against elected representatives cannot be farmers. These are Congress-supported protesters. Such people are defaming farmers. If we are not saying anything, this does not mean we are afraid. Farmers protesting over the three new farm laws were sitting on a dharna in front of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLA Ram Karan Kala’s home when they learnt that the MP had reached a BJP worker’s house in nearby Majri mohalla.They then gathered outside the BJP worker’s house, while Saini was having tea inside, the police have said.According to Saini, when he tried to leave the place, more than 50 protesters “gheraoed” it. A few of them jumped over the vehicle, while someone smashed the windscreen with a stone or a “lathi”, he said.The BJP MP said it was with great difficulty that police got him out of the area in the SUV.Later, the farmers forced the BJP worker to remove the party’s flag from his house.Saini said, “Those who indulge in acts of violence against elected representatives cannot be farmers. Such people are defaming farmers. These are Congress-supported protesters. If we (BJP and JJP leaders) are not saying anything, this does not mean that we are afraid. Where were these people when their land was being sold and their crops were not being procured under the Congress rule?”The Kurukshetra incident was the latest in a series of protests by farmers against ruling BJP-JJP coalition leaders in Haryana.Police were deployed in large numbers after the incident.Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg said police were investigating the matter and would file a case against those found responsible for the violence.Ramkaran Kala, JJP legislator, also faced farmers’ protest for attending social and party events. On Tuesday, he attended an event in the honour of Chaudhary Devi Lal.The farmers staged a dharna in front of the MLA’s house and raised slogans against him. Later, the MLA met the agitating farmers and assured them of not attending any social or party event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-oppose-bjp-mp-nayab-singh-sainis-visit-to-shahabad-smash-windscreen-235511
07-04-2021||---||Faridabad: Villagers protest demolition drive||Faridabad, April 6Residents of the district’s Khori village staged a demonstration outside the mini-secretariat here today in protest against the anti-encroachment drive carried out by the Municipal Corporation.They submitted a memorandum to the district authorities, demanding that they should not be evicted from the village. The protesters claimed more than 400 persons had been rendered homeless in the past six months because of the MC’s demolition drive.Social activist Nirmal Gorana of the Bandhua Mukti Morcha claimed more than 100 houses of labourers were demolished in Khori village in September last year.“The MC razed another 300 houses of the poor without issuing any notice. The MC demolished our houses in spite of the fact that a case related to it is pending in the High Court,” he said.Gowada Prasad, a resident of Khori village, said no prior notice was given to residents, who had been living in the village for the past several years. The memorandum submitted to the DC office sought a three months’ notice before eviction, revision of the rehabilitation deadline from 2003 to 2015, provision of food and lodging facilities to those who had been evicted and regularisation of houses located in labourers’ colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-villagers-protest-demolition-drive-235531
07-04-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Lockdown in Europe hits $3 bn garment export industry in Gurugram, Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 6Still struggling to revive itself from the economic woes, the garment export industry of Gurugram and Faridabad has been hit by the pandemic yet again. With Covid crisis worsening in European nations such as Spain, Germany and France and eventual lockdowns, the 3 billion US$ industry faces a setback with orders being cancelled or reduced by almost 60 per cent.Animesh Saxena, Udyog Vihar Industries AssnOrders way less than usualWe all are worried as we are mostly dependent on European countries. The number of orders are way less than what we get annually and the customers are not ready to even lift the finished products. Despite the industry being hit by the lockdown and the migration of workforce last year, we had expected to revive ourselves this year, but all in vain.Over 1,800 export units in Faridabad and Gurugram thrive on garment production for units in Germany and France and according to the unit owners they have been asked to hold on to shipments or reduce the agreed quantity of winter clothes produced or the orders have drastically gone down, spelling a doom for them.“We all are worried as we are mostly dependent on European countries. The number of orders are way less than what we get annually and the customers are not ready to even lift the finished products. Despite the industry being hit by the lockdown and the migration of workforce last year, we had expected to revive ourselves this year but all in vain. From May till August it is a lean period for our industry if the situation continues many ancillaries or small units dependent on us will be affected,” said Animesh Saxena, president of Udyog Vihar Industries Association.According to the exporters what is pushing them to the edge is the rise in Covid cases in Delhi NCR and speculations of restrictions and curbs.“Cases are rising here also and we are expecting stringent curbs and restrictions. There is panic among our workforce and another migrant exodus may be the last nail in the coffin. We have appealed to the government to keep industries in the loop and consider while planning any curbs or restrictions,” added Navneet Goel, a garment exporters’ representative from Faridabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-in-europe-hits-3-bn-garment-export-industry-in-gurugram-faridabad-235532
07-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Gurugram realty firm fined Rs 7.07 crore for causing damage to environment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Haryana, has imposed a compensation of Rs 7.07 crore on M/s GP Realtors Pvt Ltd in Gurugram for damage to environment in connection with the company’s project coming up on 1.79 lakh sq m (44.329 acres) in the special economic zone (SEZ) in Behrampur, Balola and Bandhwari villages in Gurugram.A petition was filed in 2019 in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), alleging that construction was carried without environmental clearance and permission from the National Board of Wildlife.The project development cost was Rs 254.54 crore, while an expenditure of Rs 441.70 crore had been incurred till now. After a show-cause notice in 2019, the construction was stopped on March 7, 2020, at the site.On February 6, 2020, the NGT had observed that the project proponents continued construction since 2016, before obtaining prior environmental clearance based on modified plans, which was granted in 2018.According to the action taken report (ATR), dated April 2, submitted by chairman of the authority, Bharat Bhushan, before the NGT, a committee comprising retired IFS officer Raj Kumar Sapra, Chief Wildlife Warden of Haryana, Regional Officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board Gurugram (north) and Praveen Bhargava, chairman of Perfect Group (accredited consultant) was formed to assess environmental damages.The committee visited the SEZ site in Gurugram on February 23. Later, inspector Wildlife Sultanpur National Park, Gurugram, Rajesh Kumar, joined as a representative of the Chief Wildlife Warden and inspected the site on March 17 and March 21.During the assessment, it was found that the construction had led to increased dust quantity and particulate matter (PM) pollution load in environment.The committee found that the natural drainage pattern had been obstructed due to development, which had led to the accumulation of rainwater near the project site; leading to various health issues and reduced groundwater recharge. From the wildlife department, it was pointed out that “the erosion of soil along the building due to natural watercourse shows the building is constructed in this watercourse that might have been a feeding channel for Ghata Jheel in the rainy season”.The use of freshwater during construction has impacted the availability of potable water in surrounding areas. The unused excavated soil has led to the improper dumping of soil in the nearby areas. Trees have not been planted which might have been used as barricading to stop the dust emission from the complex to surrounding areas. Instead of 2,242 trees, only 200 were planted and out of these, only five survived.“The trucks which have been used for carrying raw materials and discarding waste material, have led to increased traffic volume on the road network,” said the committee. It was concluded that as this project was located within 10 km of Asola Wildlife Sanctuary, hence the permission of the standing committee of the National Board of Wildlife was to be obtained.It was pointed out that the site was a habitat of peafowl, jackals, grey partridges, bee-eaters, spotted owlets and four to five species of butterflies. Some inactive burrows and den that might have been used by monitor lizards and hyena or jackal were also observed. The next hearing in the NGT is April 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-realty-firm-fined-rs-7-07-crore-for-causing-damage-to-environment-235523
07-04-2021||Kurukshetra (Haryana)||Farmers gherao BJP MP in Haryana, smash car windscreen||Protesting farmers on Tuesday blocked a BJP MP’s car, smashing its windscreen as he tried to leave a party worker’s home, police said.Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini said police had a tough time in getting him away from the protesters at Shahbad Markanda, 20 kms from here.Farmers protesting over the three new farm laws were sitting on a ‘dharna’ in front of Jannayak Janta Party MLA Ram Karan Kala’s home when they learnt that the MP had reached a BJP worker’s home in nearby Majri mohalla.They then gathered outside the BJP worker’s home while Saini had tea inside, police said.According to Saini, when he tried to leave the place over 50 protesters ‘gheraoed’ it.  A few of them jumped over the vehicle while someone smashed the windscreen with a stone or a lathi, he said.He said it was with great difficulty that police got him out of the area in the SUV.The Kurukshetra incident was the latest in a series of protests by farmers against ruling BJP-JJP coalition leaders in Haryana.The MP said those who indulge in acts of violence against elected representatives cannot be farmers. Such people are defaming farmers, he added.Police were deployed in large numbers in the after the incident.Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg said police are investigating the matter and would file a case against those found responsible for the violence.On Saturday, farmers had held a protest against Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Rohtak, forcing authorities to shift the landing site for his helicopter.Farmers also held a protest last week against Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala outside Hisar airport.Farmer leaders have said they would continue their “peaceful social boycott” of leaders from the BJP and its allies.The Centre says the new laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-gherao-bjp-mp-in-haryana-smash-car-windscreen-235492
07-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Bar employee gangraped in Gurugram after being given lift in ‘shared’ car||Gurugram, April 6A bar employee was allegedly gangraped by five persons after she took lift in their car on her way back to home in the wee hours of Tuesday.The three accused, whose gave her a ride, allegedly drove her to Jhajjar, 48 km away, where they called two others. All five allegedly took turns to rape her in the car.An FIR of gangrape has been registered at women police station, Manesar, and police claim that the three who drove her have been identified and will be nabbed soon.The 24-year-old victim lives in Delhi and works in a Gurugram bar, on MG Road.According to the complaint filed by the victim, around 3 am she was on her way back to home and was waiting for transport opposite Sahara Mall. The accused came in a car, offering a ride in a "shared cab".“I asked the driver about the drop in Delhi and he agreed. When I asked about the other two persons in the car, he said they will be get down at IFFCO Chowk. They, however, took the car on expressway. They threatened and molested me and took the car to fields and raped me. They then dumped me on the road and sped away,” she said.She somehow managed to reach Farukhnagar and informed police.After getting information a team from the women police station, Manesar, met the victim and rushed her to hospital for medical examination which confirmed rape. On the basis of her complaint, an FIR has been registered against three unknown persons under Sections 376-D (gangrape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC at Women police station, Manesar.“Case has been registered and the accused have been identified who are natives of Jhajjar district. We are conducting raids and they will be nabbed soon,” said inspector Poonam Hooda, SHO of women police station, Manesar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bar-employee-gangraped-in-gurugram-after-being-given-lift-in-shared-car-235484
07-04-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest, events behind Punjab surge: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said the COVID-19 spread in Punjab was mainly event-driven with marriages, local body elections and farmers’ agitation playing their part.In a virtual interaction with the health ministers of 11 high burden states, including Punjab’s Balbir Singh Sidhu, this evening, Vardhan said about Punjab, “In Punjab, the UK variant of the virus has been found in over 80 per cent cases. Cases are surging and genome sequencing has also established the presence of the variant. This case surge is mainly event driven with marriages, local body elections, and farmers’ agitation playing a part.”On Haryana’s disease graph, Vardhan said the infection spreading to smaller towns is a matter of concern.“What is happening calls for introspection and action. Laxity is evident in this constant surge. Even right now everything is in our control and if we stick to strategies that helped us contain the infection until February we can bring down the cases,” said Vardhan.He said 50 central teams in Punjab, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh will send daily feedback on containment progress to the Health Ministry for corrective action.The minister also said the recent spate of elections, Kumbh, reopening of offices, outdoor events by people and complete disregard for masks had led to the current surge.“The fight against COVID is no rocket science. We just need to do more of the same—masks, hand hygiene, social distancing,” Vardhan said, urging states to stringently remind people of the lost lessons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-events-behind-punjab-surge-harsh-vardhan-235477
07-04-2021||Parveen Arora||DNA-based chip to identify good germplasm of ‘desi’ cattle||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 3Scientists of the Karnal-based National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) have succeeded in developing a high-density DNA-based chip of molecular markers to identify the elite germplasm of indigenous cattle. They had earlier tasted success in genome sequencing of all 50 registered breeds of the indigenous cattle of the country.As per the scientists, after analysing the sequencing data using various bio-informatic tools, the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip was created. “Recently, we completed the decoding of DNA (genome) sequence of all 50 registered breeds of the indigenous cattle of the country after a struggle of two years by using bio-informatics tools. Based on the study’s outcome, we have designed and developed a high-density chip of molecular markers,” said Dr RK Vijh, Director, NBAGR.These scientists claim that with the help of this chip, elite germplasm can be identified at very early age even at the time of birth when the DNA or blood can be calculated, while in the existing technique, the progeny testing programme takes around eight-and-a-half to nine-years for selection of elite sires or bulls. In this method, the bulls were either mated to large number of female or used through artificial insemination.“In the existing technique, the prediction was done when the daughters of those sires completed the first lactation, but now, the quality of elite germplasm can be determined at birth,” the director said, adding that apart from being a time-consuming technology, the existing one is also cost-intensive. The DNA-based chip methodology will reduce the generation interval by five or six years. Besides, it will lead to increase in genetic worth by two-and-a-half times. The new method will allow the scientists to select elite bulls from a large number of animals.He claimed that this was the first high-density chip for bos indicus and humped cattle. It is cheaper in comparison to the available high-density chip for bos taurus-non humped cattle.“The purpose of this chip is identification of elite germplasm, especially in bulls, because most of the economic traits, including milk yield, reproduction, milk composition, are sex limited,” the director said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dna-based-chip-to-identify-good-germplasm-of-desi-cattle-234273
