08-04-2021||Chandigarh||2,872 new COVID-19 cases in Haryana||Haryana recorded the highest daily spike in over four months on Thursday as 2,872 more people tested positive for coronavirus, the Health Department said.Eleven more fatalities took the toll to 3,230 and there are 17,129 active cases, while the recovery rate was 93.38 per cent, according to a bulletin.Three persons succumbed to the infection in Yamunanagar, two in Ambala, one each in Hisar, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Jind districts, the bulletin stated.The tally rose to 3.08 lakh with 2,872 new infections, the highest since November 20 when the state reported 3,104 cases in a single day, it said.The new cases include 741 in Gurgaon, 378 in Faridabad, 284 in Karnal, 239 in Panchkula, 199 in Ambala and 186 in Kurukshetra, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-872-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-236432
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar announces state benefits for ‘arhtiyas’, sore over direct MSP payments to farmers||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said all ‘arhtiyas’ whose commissions and labour wages are pending since the last procurement season will get an interest on the delayed payment of the amount. Khattar made this announcement while also seeking to assure farmers of a hassle-free and time-bound crop procurement.The chief minister offered this state benefit to Haryana’s ‘arhtiyas’ who had earlier said they would not take part in the wheat procurement process in protest against the state government’s insistence on direct payment to farmers’ accounts for crops procured from them.The chief minister said the state government recently had a meeting with ‘arhtiyas’ during which various important issues were discussed and ‘arhtiyas’ were assured that they would not face any problem during the procurement. “The process of payment of interest will start from today and necessary directions for the same have been issued to the Food and Civil Supplies Department,” the chief minister said while presiding over a review meeting of the Rabi procurement process.The meeting was held through video conferencing with all deputy commissioners and officers concerned.“Arhtiyas (commission agents) have also been asked to get their accounts verified,” he added.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal were also present in the meeting, an official statement said.During the meeting, deputy commissioners apprised the chief minister of the “smooth procurement” being done in grain ‘mandis’ of the state.Khattar also asked officials to keep holding regular talks with ‘arhtiyas’ to ensure that they do not face any problem.The state government had earlier said the payments for the crops procured would be made directly into the verified accounts of farmers.Meanwhile, Khattar also directed the deputy commissioners to ensure that farmers do not face any trouble in bringing their crops to the ‘mandis’.He asked them to make proper arrangement for smooth procurement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-announces-state-benefits-for-arhtiyas-sore-over-direct-msp-payments-to-farmers-236405
08-04-2021||Rohtak||Three coaches of empty train catch fire in Rohtak||Three bogies of the Rohtak-Delhi MEMU (Mainline Electric Multiple Units) stationed at Rohtak Railway Station got damaged in a fire on Thursday.No loss of life was reported. Railway authorities have started an inquiry for the same.The train was to depart for Delhi at 4:10 pm.“We got a phone call from the station master around 2:10 pm about the fire. Six fire tenders were pressed into the services, which took over an hour to douse the flames and control the situation. Diesel tank of the train had caught fire,” said an official of the Fire brigade department, adding that the three bogies were burnt in the fire.A huge crowd gathered at the spot. Police personnel rushed to the spot to prevent any untoward incident.Balbir Rathi, Traffic Inspector, told ‘The Tribune’ that a team of railway officials from Delhi led by Chief Safety Officer Seema Kumari arrived at Rohtak railway station after receiving information about the incident.“The team will not only assess the loss but also ascertain the reason responsible for the incident,” he added.Notably, the Railway authorities resumed services of passenger trains on April 5 after a gap of one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-coaches-of-empty-train-catch-fire-in-rohtak-236392
08-04-2021||Jhajjar||Bahadurgarh man gives 2-acre land to agitating Punjab farmers for cultivation||A retired customs officer residing at Balor village on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border has provided two acres of his agricultural land to a group of agitating farmers from Amritsar to grow vegetables.“These farmers have been camping adjacent to my fields for the last four months. Earlier, I provided them with the facilities of bathing, toilets, besides offering them milk and food on many occasions. Recently, they approached me to take the land on rent for cultivation to meet the shortage of vegetables. But I gave them land free of cost on humanitarian grounds as they are fighting the battle for the entire farming community,” said Nar Singh Rao.Rao, who owns four acres of agricultural land, said the farmers could use the land till their agitation ended. “We are prepared for a long haul. Since we have no other work here except participating in the protest, we decided to grow vegetables such as bottle gourd, pumpkin and peppermint etc to meet the daily demand. The residents of Haryana have been extending every kind of help for the last four months, but the supply of vegetables has gone down for the last couple of days,” said Shamsher Singh of Amritsar. He said they had ploughed the field and asked kin back home to bring vegetable seeds. The vegetables would be ready to use in 45 days. Thereafter, these would be distributed to the farmers at Tikri, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarh%C2%A0man-gives-2-acre-land-to-agitating-punjab-farmers-for-cultivation-236327
08-04-2021||Hisar||Retired teacher held for rape||A retired government school-teacher has been arrested for raping a 19-year-old girl for nearly five years in a village of the district. A case under Sections 376 and 354 of the IPC, the POCSO Act and the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes Act has been registered against him. TNSGurugram2 shops gutted in fireA major fire broke out in a five-storeyed paint and hardware showroom in Sadar Bazaar here on Wednesday evening. The fire spread to three shops and two of them were gutted. Fire-fighting teams were dousing the flames. No injuries or casualties were reported while goods worth crores were gutted. OCJhajjarFactory goes up in flamesRaw material worth lakhs gutted in a fire that broke out in a unit manufacturing plastic products, Apex Industries, in Bahadurgarh here on Wednesday. Workers had a narrow escape, while short-circuit is stated to be the reason. Fire tenders were called in to douse the flames. TNSPalwalPO nabbed after 7 yearsThe police nabbed a proclaimed offender, Rashid Khan (25) of the district’s Babupur village, after seven years near Buraka village of Hathin subdivision on Tuesday evening. He was booked in rape case of a minor in 2014. A local court sent him to two-day police custody on Wednesday. TNS4 nabbed with banned drugs Chandigarh: The Haryana Police arrested four persons, including a woman, and seized 50,000 banned medicines, which they were carrying in a car in Sirsa district. The accused — Ajay of Khori Kalan village in Mewat and Mukesh, Ravi and Radha, all residents of Rajasthan — have been booked under the NDPS Act. TNSCong protests in Rohtak, RewariRohtak: Congress workers on Wednesday organised a demonstration in Rohtak and Rewari and submitted a memorandum to the district authorities in protest against the alleged lathicharge by the police on protesting farmers during CM Manohar Lal Khattar's visit to Rohtak on April 3. TNSCentre may bring more laws: TikaitYamunanagar: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has apprehended that the Centre would introduce more farm laws related to milk and seed, which would be detrimental to the agricultural sector. TNSSport events at Tikri on BaisakhiJhajjar: Social outfits will organise sports events at the Tikri border on Baisakhi on April 13. Competitions such as "gatka", cricket, wrestling, kabaddi, bodybuilding, horse-racing, athletics, turban tying and volleyball would be held at the Dalal Khap langar ground. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-teacher-held-for-rape-236032
08-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Housing Board park lies in state of neglect in Ambala||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Housing Board park lies in state of neglect in AmbalaThe park in Hosing Board, Sector 9, Ambala City. The park has been neglected for the past many years despite the fact that the dilapidated condition of the park has been brought to the notice of top authorities of the district. There is no boundary wall. The plants have been destroyed by stray animals. There is nothing in the name of grass on the ground. We hope the authority concerned will set the things right. GIAN P KANSAL, Ambala CityCorruption must be weeded out OF all departmentsStrict laws should be formulated to plug all loopholes that leads to corruption. The heads of all departments should issue strict verbal/written instructions against corruption by explicitly mentioning the punishment for such people i.e., termination of job, initiation of legal process, filing of FIR, forfeiture of all accumulated dues and non-payment of even partial salary. Otherwise there is no hope to weed out the perennial problem. Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaRemove age bar for vaccinationIt has been observed that more people have shown up for vaccination after starting the vaccination for those above 45. While India grapples with the second wave of the virus, it seems that vaccination should be open for all, this will also prevent wastage of jabs. A very few senior citizens go out of their houses, so the main carriers of the Covid virus are the people who go out to work. If young people get vaccinated, the chain may be broken, resulting in India witnessing fewer Covid cases. Priyam Aggarwal, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/housing-board-park-lies-in-state-of-neglect-in-ambala-236039
08-04-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University students get jobs||SmarTech workshopKurukshetra: A workshop 'SmarTech: Build 21st century skills, including communication, creativity and collaboration' was conducted at the TERI Institute of Kurukshetra. More than 100 students from schools across India participated in the workshop and learnt how to build their own SmarTech prototypes using Arduino, Raspberry Pi, and NodeMCU. The SmarTech workshop encouraged students to construct their very first self-made SmarTech prototype and showcase them by putting up pictures and videos of the same on social media with #TERiiTalks #My1stSmarTech as tags.New session at Gita NiketanKueukshetra: The new session (2021-22) began Gita Niketan Vidyalaya known for inculcating values, etiquettes, accountability and above all patriotism amongst students who are the real wealth of a nation. In the introductory session, Principal Narayan Singh familarised the students to the fact that sincerity and faith were requisite components to obtain knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guru-jambheshwar-university-students-get-jobs-236040
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Government extends deadline for CET registration till May 31||The Haryana Government has extended the last date for the registration for the common eligibility test (CET) for Group C and D posts till May 31. The deadline was March 31 earlier.Recently, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the website of the CET for all Group C and D posts to be filled through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC). The website was launched to remove difficulties faced by the candidates for the submission of their separate applications for each advertisement of the HSSC. Meanwhile, about 5 lakh candidates have already registered themselves on the CET portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-extends-deadline-for-cet-registration-till-may-31-236033
08-04-2021||---||TB eradication theme marks World Health Day||Chandigarh, April 7Additional Chief Secretary (health) Rajiv Arora said a strong health system had been established in all districts of the state.Speaking as the chief guest during a video-conferencing programme organised on World Health Day today, he said the Ayushman Yojana and Health and Wellness Centres were important steps in this direction. The plan has focused on implementing health components in the public and private sector.Mission Director, National Health Mission, Prabhjot Singh said health workers performed exceptionally well during the Covid-19 pandemic and were still doing so. World Health Day is celebrated every year on April 7 and this year, the Haryana Health Department has given the theme,State TB eradication, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tb-eradication-theme-marks-world-health-day-236035
08-04-2021||---||3,692 violators fined in Palwal last month||Palwal, April 7As many as 3,692 challans have been issued for the Covid norm violations in the district in March.A spokesperson of the Police Department said a penalty of Rs 18.46 lakh had been realised from the offenders in this period.Claiming that the Police Department has again stepped up the campaign against the Covid rules violation, he said a drive had been launched to implement the regulations in a strict manner, to curb the surge again.Adding that the cops have been asked to implement the regulations in a strict manner, he said a cumulative penalty of Rs 25.15 lakh had been imposed on 5,031 Covid-related violations detected between January 1 and March 31, this year.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal on Wednesday appointed 15 Incident Commanders-cum-Duty Magistrates to supervise the Covid regulations in the district. As many as 28 containment zones have also been announced in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-692-violators-fined-in-palwal-last-month-236036
08-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad cops get tough on noisy bikes||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 7In a special drive to curb the growing use of modified silencers emitting firecracker-like sound in two-wheelers, the traffic police have fined 125 bike owners in the past one week.The cops have announced to further intensify the drive in order to rein in violators. “We will not allow any motorcycle or other vehicle that uses any loud sound or siren in an unauthorised manner on roads. This not only results in the violation of the traffic rules, but also creates nuisance and sound pollution,” says Rajiv Kumar, SHO, Traffic.Claiming that the drive will continue indefinitely, he said this was perhaps the first time that such a huge number of violators had been penalised in the city in a short span. Revealing that the use of modified silencers to create cracker-like sound invites a penalty of Rs 2,000, he said a drive had been launched to put a curb on such an activity.In the past one week, 44 motorcycles have been impounded and a penalty of over Rs 25 lakh has been imposed on the violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-cops-get-tough-on-noisy-bikes-236041
08-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Domestic airport to come up on defence land in Ambala Cantt||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 7More than two years after the civil airport project was approved under the Udan 3.0 scheme, the district administration and the air force authorities have agreed to construct airport on the land adjoining the air force station on Jagadhri road in Ambala Cantonment.Ashok Kumar, Ambala DCDiscussion held with officials concernedA civil airport was approved for Ambala Cantonment and efforts were being made to identify and finalise a suitable land for the project. A detailed discussion has been held with the officials concerned regarding the airport project.In December 2018, the civil airport project was approved but the project has been hanging fire ever since, as the land for the project was not finalised. The runway of the air force station is to be used for the airport. It will have flights for Srinagar and Lucknow.As per information, Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar, Air Officer Commanding Prashant Arya along with officials from the air force, Cantonment Board Ambala, Civil Aviation, Revenue Department and other district officials held a meeting in Ambala on Tuesday evening and agreed to use the land near Mama-Bhanja Peer, adjoining the air force station for the airport.While one gate of the airport will be towards Jagadhri road, the other gate will open inside the air force station. The officials of civil aviation who were present in the meeting have been asked to prepare and submit their project report so that it could be forwarded to the higher authorities.Anil Vij, Home MinisterTo be ready in couple of yearsAll stakeholders have principally agreed on the land identified on the Jagadhri road. The air force has agreed to give passage for the runway. The land will be transferred to the Haryana Government and the state government will pay the cost of the land. If everything goes right, the airport will be ready in a couple of years.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said “A civil airport was approved for Ambala Cantonment and efforts were being made to identify and finalise a suitable land for the project. A detailed discussion has been held with the officials concerned regarding the airport project.”State Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has been taking a keen interest in the project and he has repeatedly raised the issue with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Vij held a meeting with the Defence Minister in February and sought his intervention in the issue pertaining to land requirement for a domestic airport in Ambala.Speaking to The Tribune, Home Minister Anil Vij said, “All stakeholders have principally agreed on the land identified on the Jagadhri road. It is a 15-acre defence land. The air force has agreed to give passage for the runway. The land will be transferred to the Haryana Government and the state government will pay the cost of the land. We have asked the Civil Aviation Department to prepare and submit the project report. We have taken defence land in the past too for Civil Hospital. After getting approval from the Ministry of Defence, the project will be started. If everything goes right, the airport will be ready in a couple of years. The land identified is suitable for the project as it is near the national highway, bus stand and railway station.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/domestic-airport-to-come-up-on-defence-land-in-ambala-cantt-236012
08-04-2021||---||Water war: Haryana blames Delhi for ammonia spike||New Delhi, April 7The Haryana Government told the Supreme Court that the Delhi Government was trying to conceal its water management failure by holding it responsible for the increased ammonia levels in the potable water supplied to the national capital.In an affidavit filed in response to the Delhi Jal Board’s plea, the Haryana Government said Delhi was responsible for the increased ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to its residents as the Wazirabad Water Treatment Plant had not been upgraded.Haryana contended that the Central Pollution Control Board had examined the water of Yamuna on January 13, 2021, and it was found that the ammonia levels rose sharply from Delhi contact point at Palla to Wazirabad.This was due to unauthorised discharges between Palla and Wazirabad, and sediment deposition in Wazirabad Pond. Therefore, it is up to the Delhi Jal Board to control pollution at these points, Haryana submitted.As per Environmental Protection Rules, 1986, permissible limit of ammonia in inland surface water is 50 PPM (mg/l) and as per the WHO, permissible limit of ammonia in drinking water is 1.5 PPM (mg/l). Drinking water can have the ammonia level up to 1.5 PPM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-war-haryana-blames-delhi-for-ammonia-spike-236080
08-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Industry jittery, Haryana on back foot on quota for locals law||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7The Haryana Government seems to be on the back foot regarding the law on job quota for locals in the private sector. It is now considering certain relaxations after addressing industry’s concerns, particularly that of the IT firms based in Gurugram.Talking to The Tribune, Vijayendra Kumar, Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, said the new law has yet to come into force for which rules have yet to be framed. “The government will implement the law after careful consideration of the concerns of the industry," he said.“No date has been notified for the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020. The Chief Minister and Deputy CM have held a meeting with office-bearers of various industry associations, assuring them that their concerns will be carefully considered before implementing the Act,” the officer said.The Act providing for 75 per cent jobs to the locals in the private sector with a salary up to Rs 50,000 per month was one of the poll promises of the Dushyant Chautala-led JJP.A survey last month by NASSCOM, the premium trade body, found that a majority of the 500-odd IT-ITeS companies in Haryana were worried over the impact of the new law on their recruitment strategies and the policy of equal opportunities, diversification and inclusion.The e-survey found that Information Technology and Information Technology enabled Services (IT-ITeS) companies providing direct employment to nearly 4 lakh people in Haryana could consider shifting their operations to source talent once the law was enacted. “Given that the Act applies to the new hires, the impact is expected to be severe in 1-2 years as the industry sees a high attrition rate,” the NASSCOM report warns. As many as 80 per cent companies said the new law would have a negative impact on their future business operations and investment plans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industry-jittery-haryana-on-back-foot-on-quota-for-locals-law-236094
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bid to transfer Rs 16 cr from bank a/c foiled||The Haryana Police have arrested three persons from Jind district for conspiring to siphon off Rs 16 crore from a dormant account of a Kanpur-based branch of the ICICI Bank. However, one of the accused is still at large.On Wednesday, DGP Manoj Yadava said the gang was busted after a team of the cyber police station, Panchkula, got secret information that some persons were attempting to transfer Rs 16 crore from a dormant account. “After a tip-off, our cyber team immediately swung into action and the accused were arrested by conducting a raid at Malvi village in Jind.”Initial probe revealed that the scammers accessed the email linked to the dormant account and managed to fraudulently update a new mobile number to receive the OTP. The fraudsters needed 48 more hours to transfer the funds but were apprehended. A beneficiary account where they planned to transfer the funds has also been identified.The arrested accused have been identified as Jagbir and Kaptan, both residents of Jind district, and Imran, a native of Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bid-to-transfer-rs-16-cr-from-bank-a-c-foiled-236037
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Cabbie robs Gurugram man of Rs 30,000||A PowerGrid engineer was allegedly robbed of Rs 30,000 by a man who gave him a lift.The accused threatened the victim with a knife and got him to withdraw Rs 30,000 from his ATM.A native of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, Amit Kumar is currently living in Sector 46 and working as engineer with PowerGrid. The incident took place on Tuesday morning when he was heading to office from his home.“It was outside of gate No. 2 of Sector 46, I asked for lift from a cab driver, who agreed and soon after held me hostage at knifepoint. The car driver asked for money and when I denied he snatched my wallet. Then he took me to an ATM and withdrew Rs 30,000 from my account and fled away with one of his friends who came on a Scooty there,” Amit told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR had been registered at the Sector 50 police station under relevant Sections of the IPC.“We are reviewing the CCTV footage and trying to identify the accused. He will be nabbed soon,” said ASI Dharmbir Singh, investigating officer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cabbie-robs-gurugram-man-of-rs-30-000-236034
08-04-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Four held for damaging MP Nayab Singh Saini’s SUV||Kurukshetra, April 7Hundreds of farmers today staged a dharna outside the Shahabad police station in Kurukshetra in protest against the arrest of four of their brethren in connection with the attack on Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini’s SUV. They condemned the police for adding attempt to murder charge to the FIR.Rakesh Bains, BKU leaderWhy Section 307 added to fir?Farmers neither pelted the SUV with stones nor caused injury to the MP. The police have been unable to justify Section 307 in the FIR. The police have sought three days for the probe.The Kurukshetra police last night registered a case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 307, 341 and 427 of the IPC against 21 persons, including 10 unidentified protesters. Four farmers — Hakam Rai, Kulwinder Singh, Kehar Singh and Gurmeet Singh — were arrested. They were produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody.As the news of their arrest spread, farmers gathered at Shaheed Udham Singh Trust around 9 am, took out a protest march and sat on dharna outside the police station.They raised slogans against BJP MP Saini and demanded the release of the four farmers.Around 4.30 pm, a five-member committee held a meeting with Shahabad DSP Atma Ram. After the meeting, the farmers lifted the dharna on the assurance that the police would recheck the facts of the case.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “Farmers neither pelted the SUV with stones nor caused injury to the MP. The police have been unable to justify Section 307 in the FIR. The police have sought three days for the investigation. If we are not satisfied the police probe, a panchayat will be held on April 12 to decide the further course of action.”The DSP said, “The police will recheck the facts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-four-held-for-damaging-mp-nayab-singh-sainis-suv-236038
08-04-2021||---||Farmers oppose MLA Gopal Kanda’s visit to Sirsa, police use water cannons||Hisar, April 7The police used water cannons to disperse a group of farmers, who allegedly tried to go past barricades when Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal and MLA Gopal Kanda arrived to cast his vote for the Municipal Council chairman’s post in Sirsa today.MLA had voted against no-confidence motionThe farmers, protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, gathered near the MC office where the police had put up barricades and raised slogans against Kanda, the president of the Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP).Kanda had voted against a no-confidence motion brought against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in the Assembly by the main opposition Congress last month.Farmer leaders had earlier said they would continue with their “peaceful social boycott” of leaders of the BJP and its allies.Sirsa DSP Aryan Chaudhary said the protesters attempted to go past the barricades when the police tried to stop them.The police managed to get the two leaders out of the MC office in their vehicles amid the protest.Protesting farmers blocked BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini’s car in Kurukshetra district’s Shahabad yesterday, smashing its windscreen as he was about to leave a party worker’s home, the police had said.Meanwhile, during the MC meeting, HLP-backed Reena Sethi secured 17 out of 32 votes and was elected the chairperson. She defeated BJP’s Suman Bamania, who polled 15 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-oppose-mla-gopal-kandas-visit-to-sirsa-police-use-water-cannons-236017
08-04-2021||Rohtak||Samyukt Kisan Morcha mobilises support for KMP blockade||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today launched a public contact campaign in villages to mobilise support for the 24-hour blockade of the KMP expressway on April 10.Farmers’ leaders visited Kultana, Baland and Garnavathi villages in Rohtak district; and Rohad, Dighal, Jakhoda and Badli villages in Jhajjar district, seeking support in making the blockade a success.“To ensure a massive turnout, the SKM is focusing on villages located near the KMP expressway. Hence, teams have been formed to reach out to people in these villages,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha.He further said duties were assigned to farm leaders during a meeting held at the Tikri border. “We will make phone calls and use social media to reach out.”Sumit Dalal, another farmer leader, said FCI's role had been truncated systematically to facilitate the corporate sector in the grain trade. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-mobilises-support-for-kmp-blockade-236018
08-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||BJP leader's suicide: Court accepts police cancellation report||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 7The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (ACJM) Manoj Rana has accepted the cancellation report filed in an abetment to suicide case against SP and other police officials in connection with the suicide by former councillor and BJP leader Harish Sharma, who had jumped into the Delhi parallel canal near Binjhol on November 19 last year allegedly due to police harassment.The court also dismissed the protest petition filed by his daughter Anjali Sharma.Ex-councillor Harish Sharma had jumped into the Delhi parallel canal near Binjhol on November 19 last year allegedly due to police harassment. The police had registered a case against him, his councillor daughter Anjali Sharma and 11 other persons on November 15 under various Sections of the IPC.Home Minister Anil Vij had ordered an inquiry into the matter by a SIT, comprising ADGP Sandeep Khirwar, SP Rohtak Rahul Sharma, ASP Udai Singh Meena and DSP Gorakhpal Rana.The body was taken out of the canal on the fourth day of his jumping into the canal. Hundreds of supporters had blocked the NH-44 after keeping the body on road.A case had been registered against Manisha Chaudhary, the then SP, SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahabir Singh under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC in Model Town on the complaint of Anjali Sharma.The SIT had conducted investigation into the matter and submitted its report in which it had given clean chit to Manisha Chaudhary, the then Panipat SP, SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahabir Singh.The SIT mentioned in the report that no accused was found responsible for the suicide committed by Harish Sharma. But Anjali Sharma, councillor daughter of Harish Sharma, had raised questions over the inquiry conducted by the SIT and filed a protest petition in the court.ACJM Manoj Rana, in its order, said after having a brief look into the entire turn of events, the court was satisfied that the police had logically reached the right conclusion.The investigation had been thoroughly conducted in the case and the conclusion drawn by the investigation team did not suffer from any factual or legal error, the order said.“This court also sees no merit in the prayer of the complainant made in the protest petition to direct the police to further investigate the matter. The protest petition filed by the complainant is dismissed and the cancellation report filed by the police is accepted,” the court order read.Ex-councillor’s suicide: Kin’s plea dismissedEx-councillor Harish Sharma had jumped into a canal near Binjhol on Nov 19 last year allegedly due to police harassment. Anjali Sharma, his daughter and councillor, had raised questions over the SIT probe and filed a protest petition in the court, which was dismissed. The court said the probe had been thoroughly conducted in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leaders-suicide-court-accepts-police-cancellation-report-236020
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Plan to inoculate 35 lakh by month-end in Haryana: Anil Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij said by the month-end, efforts would be made to vaccinate about 35 lakh people in the state. So far, over 21 lakh state people have taken the jab.Vij said the state would take all necessary measures to control the second Covid wave. At present, there are 13,000 active cases in the state and about 25,000 tests are conducted daily, and the positive rate is 4.7%. We are trying to increase testing further, he said.Earlier, at a meeting, Vij directed the officials connected with the health services of the state to start Covid-19 hospitals again in the state as per the requirement.Meanwhile, the state reported 11 deaths and 2,366 new cases in the past 24 hours. With this, the case tally mounted to 3,04,638 and toll to 3,219. As many as 29,836 people took the jab today, taking the tally to 21,27,118.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plan-to-inoculate-35-lakh-by-month-end-in-haryana-anil-vij-236021
08-04-2021||---||Delhi trying to conceal its water mismanagement, Haryana tells SC||New Delhi, April 7The Haryana government has told the Supreme Court that the Delhi Government was trying to conceal its utter failure in management of water by accusing it of being responsible for increased Ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to the national capital.In an affidavit filed in response to the Delhi Jal Board’s plea, the Haryana Government said it’s Delhi which was responsible for increased Ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to its residents as the Wazirabad Water Treatment Plant had not been upgraded to treat water.Haryana contended that the Central Pollution Control Board had examined the water of river Yamuna on January 13, 2021 and it was found that Ammonia levels rose sharply from Delhi contact point at Palla to Wazirabad.This was due to unauthorised discharges between Palla and Wazirabad and sediment deposition at Wazirabad Pond and therefore it’s up to DJB to control pollution at these points, Haryana submitted.As per Environmental Protection Rules, 1986, permissible limit of Ammonia in inland surface water is 50 PPM (mg/l) and as per WHO permissible limit of Ammonia in drinking water is 1.5 PPM (mg/l), it said, contending that the drinking water supplied by authorities and treatment on its plants can have the Ammonia level up to 1.5 PPM.“Whereas DJB instead of improving its capacity to treat the increased permissible limits of Ammonia in the river water raises hue and cry if the river water at Yamuna contains the Ammonia level of just above 0.88 PPM stating that the water treatment plant in Wazirabad cannot treat water which is above 0.8 PPM,” said the affidavit filed by Haryana.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde – which had on March 25 asked the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to maintain status quo on supply of Yamuna water to Delhi – will take up the matter next week after DJB files its affidavit.The DJB had moved the top court for directions to the Haryana government to stop the discharge of effluents into the Yamuna and release sufficient water to Delhi.DBJ said water level has fallen in the national capital. Canal repair works should not be done in the months of March and April when the water demand is at its peak and Haryana had not responded to several letters written to it.On behalf of Haryana Government, senior counsel Shyam Divan had said full level of water supply has been made available.Ahead of scorching summer, the DJB had on March 8 moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government to avert a potential water crisis in the national capital.Delhi receives 479 million gallons water a day (MGD) against 609 MGD from Haryana. Besides, Delhi draws 90 MGD groundwater and receives 250 MGD from the Upper Ganga Canal.As per a Supreme Court order of February 1996, the pond level in Wazirabad has to be kept full. The normal level of the Yamuna near Wazirabad Pond should be 674.50 feet but it has dropped to 670.90 feet.Haryana supplies water to Delhi through the Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB) and the Yamuna. CLC and DSB supply water from Hathni Kund via Munak canal and BBMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-trying-to-conceal-its-water-mismanagement-haryana-tells-sc-235966
08-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Massive fire in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar||Gurugram, April 7A major fire broke out in a five-storey paint and hardware showroom in crowded Sadar Bazaar area on Wednesday evening.The fire spread to three other shops and two shops were gutted. The fire fighter teams were still on spot and trying to douse the fire till filing the report.Nobody was injured and no causality reported while the goods worth crores were gutted.The fire broke out in Sumit Hardware and paint agency in Sadar Bazaar on Basai road around 6.20 pm. Soon the blaze and smoke was spotted by people. Police and fire brigade were called.Twelve fire engines were pressed into service but due to paint inside the showroom the blaze spread rapidly and the fire spread to neighbouring shops.Fire officer Isham Singh Kashyap said they are on spot as the fire has not been controlled fully yet. He added that the cause behind the fire was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/massive-fire-in-gurugrams-sadar-bazaar-235956
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Mehtab Singh Gill takes over as Punjab State Chief Vigilance Commissioner||Former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Mehtab Singh Gill, on Wednesday took over as Punjab State Chief Vigilance Commissioner.He was administered oath by Punjab Governor this afternoon.The commission has been set up under the Punjab State Vigilance Commission Bill, 2020, passed by the Vidhan Sabha in October last year.  Justice Gill was also heading a Commission instituted by the Congress government to look into false cases registered during the 10-year rule of the Akali government.Justice Gill will exercise superintendence and control over the vigilance and the police department.Applications were invited for the post, following which five retired  high court judges and three IAS  officers applied.The final selection was by the Governor after Justice Gill was recommended by a committee comprising the Chief Minister, the Speaker and senior most minister in accordance with  the Vigilance Commission Act 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/justice-mehtab-singh-gill-takes-over-as-punjab-state-chief-vigilance-commissioner-235875
