09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid spike: Haryana schools up to class 8 shut till April 30, says CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced to shut schools up to class VII till April 30.This comes after Haryana recorded the highest daily spike in over four months on Thursday as 2,872 more people tested positive for coronavirus.The Chief Minister added that the Haryana government was ensuring that there was no panic and the life of people continued as normal despite a rise in cases. They were keeping a close watch on each city, and taking necessary precautions."We will be taking steps putting curbs analysing the situation city wise. We want to create no panic, " said Khattar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-spike-haryana-schools-up-to-class-8-shut-till-april-30-says-cm-khattar-236868
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||With surge in COVID cases, Haryana Minister says concerned over farmers camping along Delhi border||With Haryana witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases, Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday said he was concerned about the farmers sitting on the state's borders with Delhi and would be writing to the Union Agriculture Minister for resuming talks and solve the issue.Vij, who is also the Health Minister, said all required steps are being taken to check the spread of coronavirus in the state.“We are doing all that...but my concern is that a large number of farmers are sitting along Haryana's borders. Coronavirus cases are spreading fast and I have to save them too from the corona.“I am going to write to the Union Agriculture Minister to resume talks soon so that this issue is resolved and farmers who are sitting in large numbers can go back home. A solution to any problem can be found only through dialogue,” Vij told reporters in Ambala.Notably, Haryana had recorded the highest daily spike in over four months on Thursday as 2,872 more people had tested positive for coronavirus, the Health Department said.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.--PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-surge-in-covid-cases-haryana-minister-says-concerned-over-farmers-camping-along-delhi-border-236841
09-04-2021||---||Large number of farmers on Delhi border major concern for Covid spread: Vij||Chandigarh April 9 Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said that the build-up of large number of farmers on Delhi borders was his major concern in the state’s efforts to fight rising cases of Covid-19. He said he would soon write to the Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar requesting him for early resumption of talks with them. In a video released, Vij said that Haryana would follow all the guidelines issued by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his meeting on Covid-19 on Thursday, but his biggest worry was the build-up of farmers on Delhi borders and it was his duty as a health minister to save them from the virus. The minister said that he was going to write to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar requesting him to resume negotiation with farmers so that their issues could be resolved. He said negotiations could resolve all issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/large-number-of-farmers-on-delhi-border-major-concern-for-covid-spread-vij-236837
09-04-2021||---||No proper arrangements for farmers in markets: Hooda||Panipat/Karnal, April 8Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said here today that the state government had failed to make proper arrangements for farmers even though it had announced to start procurement on April 1. He visited the grain market here to take stock of the procurement process. He also interacted with farmers about their problems.Taking a dig at the government, he said the farmers, who were reaching the market with their crops, were being harassed in the name of moisture and non-registration on the web portal due to server issue. The government should cooperate with the farmers and not do new experiments with them every day. Hooda opposed the decision to reduce the standard limit of moisture in wheat from 14 per cent to 12 per cent.Stop new experimentsThe farmers, who are reaching the market with their crops, are being harassed in the name of moisture & non-registration on the web portal due to server issue. The government should not do new experiments with them every day. —Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Former CMEarlier, wheat with moisture up to 14 per cent was procured.Earlier 0.75 per cent mixed quantity (rye, mustard, chaff) was allowed in a quintal, but this has been reduced to 0.50% or 500 grams in a quintal this time, he said.The former CM said the government was continuously increasing input farm costs and trying to mislead farmers by promising to double their income. Representatives of the Haryana Arhtiya Association also met Hooda and told him that the government had assured them to leave the payment decision to the farmers.Meanwhile, he met farmers and arhtiyas in Karnal also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-proper-arrangements-for-farmers-in-markets-hooda-236690
09-04-2021||---||Door-to-door collection of cow dung passed in Rohtak||Rohtak, April 8Now, cattle dung will be collected from door-to-door for its scientific disposal to ensure cleanliness and to solve the issue of choked sewers in the city. The Municipal Corporation (MC) in its meeting of the general House held here today passed an agenda item in this respect.As per decision, no fee will be charged from any diary owner. The dung will be collected by a private contractor who will use it for a boi-gas plant. There are around 2,000 milk dairies in the city and at present, no arrangement to lift the dung leads to choking of the sewers. The door-to-door collection of dung will solve this issue to a large extent, said Suresh Kumar, a councillor from Ward 6.“The issue was placed in the House in view of the Cattle Dung Management Policy formed by the state government to collect the dung from milk dairies, gaushalas and cattle owners. Though the corporation wanted to charge a nominal monthly fee from them, the councillors resolved to provide the facility free of cost,” said Mayor Manmohan Goyal, adding that the place for dumping the dung remains to be decided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/door-to-door-collection-of-cow-dung-passed-in-rohtak-236691
09-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Ex-Army man duped of Rs 5L in Noida||Gurugram, April 8A retired Army Captain was duped of around Rs 5 lakh on an online chatting and dating website. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 50 police station against an online dating services agency, located in Noida.According to the complaint filed by the Captain, a Sector 46 resident, he received phone calls from the online dating services offering chance of connecting with high-society women for companionship.“Out of curiosity, I gave my consent to tele-caller Khushi who got me connected and forwarded my call to Tanya in Kolkata. All this happened on April 3. Tanya insisted that I should make payment through net banking in the form of joining fee, registration fee, information disclosing fee etc. On her insistance, I carried out the transaction of Rs 4,94,840. Soon after, I realised that I had been cheated and the money had been taken from me”, read the complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the dating service agency and their executives under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Sector 50 police station.“We are verifying the facts and the probe is on. The accused will be nabbed soon,” said ASI Dharmbir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-army-man-duped-of-rs-5l-in-noida-236692
09-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Parents in dilemma over sending kids to schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 8With new academic session having begun or about to begin, private as well as state-run schools in the state have started holding offline classes.However, parents of schoolchildren are in a dilemma over sending their children to schools in view of the rising instances of Covid-19 infection among youngsters.Many parents feel that the pandemic may prevail for another year or so and it would not be appropriate to keep the schools closed for such a long time, while some maintain that offline classes should not be held for another quarter.“We are apprehensive about sending our son, who is in Class V, to school as there has been a fresh spurt in the number of cases. Though the online classes may continue,” says Dr Sunita Dhingra, a parent.Some parents are of the view that the schools have remained closed for entire year and there is no point in extending the closure.“No one can predict till when the pandemic will continue. Hence, there is no point to keep the schools closed indefinitely,” said Dinesh Miglani, father of a school-going child.Ramesh Chauhan, principal of Government Senior Secondary School at Sundana village in Rohtak district, stated that students of senior classes were coming to school, while children of lower classes were taking their exams online.Rohtak district education officer Vijay Laxmi maintained that the school heads had been directed to follow the Covid guidelines strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-in-dilemma-over-sending-kids-to-schools-236693
09-04-2021||---||Gurugram admn mandates ‘leave at gate’ deliveries||Gurugram, April 8With the steep rise in Covid cases in the past one week, the Gurugram administration has ordered all Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) to switch to ‘leave at gate’ deliveries. In a series of precautionary measures issued by DC Dr Yash Garg, societies, condominiums and residential areas have been asked to take steps to minimise the entry of outsiders. The deliveries have to be restricted to the gate and the residents have been asked to collect the same from there.The societies have been asked to erect check points, arrange for handwash, sanitisation and thermo scanning at the gate. The RWAs have been asked to ensure that senior citizens above 65 years of age do not venture out. “Those living alone should be helped by a volunteer group to get their essential items. The societies need to be proactive in safe guarding the senior citizens,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-admn-mandates-leave-at-gate-deliveries-236694
09-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||NGT raps Gurugram, Faridabad local bodies on environmental rights||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8In a case related to legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill site near Gurugram, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said that “it is established on record that so far there has been a serious failure of the authorities (local bodies of Gurugram and Faridabad) in performing their responsibility to effectuate the right of the citizens to clean environment”.While disposing of the case on April 7, the NGT bench, comprising chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, Justice Sudhir Agarwal, Justice Brijesh Sethi and expert member Dr Nagin Nanda, commented, “Though an action plan has now been filed, whether the Municipal Corporations concerned and the Urban Development Department of the State of Haryana execute the same in a mission mode and within reasonable time remains a moot question.”It added, “Since the Tribunal has already monitored the failures of the authorities for a sufficiently long time (for five years), the State must now take ownership of its basic responsibility in the interest of the rule of law, protection of the environment and public health.”It said the Chief Secretary “may personally monitor compliances (of NGT directions) periodically”.The waste dumped at Bandhwari is from Gurugram and Faridabad. The case pertained to the inaction of the authorities in scientific management of the waste which has resulted in leachate being discharged, causing contamination of groundwater, polluting surface water and also polluting the air, with potential for damage to the public health and environment.The Tribunal has observed that out of the 33 lakh tonne waste at Bandhwari, less than 1 lakh tonne waste was remediated in the last one year and if further remedial action is not taken, the unsatisfactory state of affairs may continue for an indefinite period for which no accountability is being fixed.Earlier, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), in its report dated January 13, had told the NGT that the “highest point of dumpsite is 40 m and the quantity of total waste dumped has increased to approximately 33 lakh tonnes as fresh waste at the rate of 2,000 TPD (tonnes per day) is still being dumped at the site and in its comparison, less quantity of waste is being bio-mined”.It added that steps for decontamination of groundwater had not been taken.In reply, the MC Gurugram told the NGT on April 5 that solid waste processing capacity had been increased by 90 per cent to 5,100 TPD by employing eight more trommels. It added that “waste to energy plant” construction would commence from October this year. The MC Faridabad told that alternative sites were being looked for the disposal of fresh waste.In an earlier report of the CPCB, dated February 13, 2020, the damage on account of Bandhwari legacy waste dump site was Rs 148.46 crore, on account of damage to air quality, soil, and water quality, climate change and aesthetics.Regarding compensation, the NGT ordered that as earlier decided in the case “Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016”, each local body would pay at the rate of Rs 10 lakh per month which “may be deposited in a separate account and used for the restoration of the environment”.Public health at riskThe NGT has observed that at Bandhwari, the inaction of the authorities in scientific management of the waste has resulted in leachate being discharged, causing contamination of groundwater, polluting surface water and also polluting the air, with potential for damage to the public health and environment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-raps-gurugram-faridabad-local-bodies-on-environmental-rights-236695
09-04-2021||---||3 coaches of train catch fire in Rohtak; none hurt||Rohtak, April 8Three bogies of the Rohtak-Delhi MEMU (mainline electric multiple unit) stationed at the Rohtak railway station got damaged in a fire that broke out on Thursday.No loss of life was reported. The Railway authorities have started an inquiry into the incident.The train was to departfor Delhi at 4.10 pm.“We got a phone call from the station master around 2.10 pm about the fire. Six fire tenders were pressed into the services, which took over an hour to douse the flames and control the situation. The diesel tank of the train had caught fire,” said an official of the Fire Brigade Department, adding that the three bogies were burnt in the fire.A huge crowd gathered at the spot, while police personnel rushed to prevent any untoward incident.Meanwhile, Balbir Rathi, Traffic Inspector, told The Tribune that a team of the Railway officials from Delhi led by Chief Safety Officer Seema Kumari arrived at the Rohtak railway station after receiving information about the incident. “The team will not only assess the loss but also ascertain the reason responsible for the incident,” Rathi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-coaches-of-train-catch-fire-in-rohtak-none-hurt-236696
09-04-2021||Gurugram||Circle rates revised in G'gram, luxury homes costlier by 25%||With new circle rates being implemented from Thursday, luxury properties in Gurugram will now be costlier by almost 25%.Meanwhile, the highest increase of over 70% has been reported for Carlton Estate as the rates have been revised from Rs 8,000 per sq ft to Rs 15,000 per sq ft.As per the revised rate chart, a 25% hike has been introduced for luxury condominiums like Magnolias, Aralia and Camellias, which have increased the prices from Rs 20,000 per sq ft to Rs 25,000 per sq ft. The Crest has also seen an increase from Rs 8,000 per sq ft to Rs 12,000 per sq ft.The circle rates for other posh societies like Parsvnath Exotica, The Verandas, Palm Springs, Exotica, Laburnum, Unitech World Spa, Park Place, Belaire, Vipul Belmonte, Central Park and Princeton have also increased from Rs 8,000 per sq ft to Rs 9,000 per sq ft.However, the homebuyers are most-affected by revision and hike in rates for builder floors in licenced colonies and sectors of the HSVP. The circle rates here have been hiked from Rs 5,500 sq ft to Rs 6,500 per sq ft. This means that a buyer has to shell out over Rs 15 lakh on an average for builder floors of 250-300 sq yards.In the Farrukhnagar tehsil, the farmland will now cost Rs 32 lakh per acre instead of Rs 31.68 lakh per acre. Also, the farmland in Babra Bakipur village will cost Rs 70 lakh per acre than Rs 63.92 lakh per acre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/circle-rates-revised-in-ggram-luxury-homes-costlier-by-25-236697
09-04-2021||---||Over 11K mask-less Jind residents pay Rs 57L in fine this yr||Hisar, April 8After a spurt in Covid cases, the Jind police intensified its drive to penalise the violators and have issued challans worth Rs 57 lakh in the past three months this year.Jind DSP Sadhu Ram said they had been motivating people to wear masks in the district. “Despite the awareness drive, there are number of people who wear masks. As a result, the police have been issuing challans to those not wearing masks,” he said, adding that they had penalised 11,562 persons in three months and collected a fine of Rs 57 lakh.Highest single-day spike in HisarThe DSP said last year, they had also challaned nearly 25,000 persons. The DSP said the police personnel were also deputed at different points in the town to distribute masks among people, adding that they were keeping extra care in crowded places.According to district officials, the number of active Covid cases has gone up to 530 in Jind district, of which 40 persons are hospitalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-11k-mask-less-jind-residents-pay-rs-57l-in-fine-this-yr-236698
09-04-2021||Ambala||DIG Kumar reinstated, FIR cancelled||DIG Ashok Kumar, who was suspended after being booked for a spat with minister Anil Vij’s brother Kapil Vij in February this year, has been reinstated with immediate effect and posted as DIG (State Vigilance Bureau), Ambala.An order in this regard was issued today by Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Rajeev Arora.The FIR lodged at the Ambala Cantt police station against the DIG has been cancelled. A cancellation report was presented in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Ambala.DIG’s advocate Satinder Singh Garg said, “The matter has been resolved between the two. The police had also submitted its cancellation report following which the FIR was scrapped and the DIG was reinstated.” The DIG and Vij’s brother came face-to-face at Sirhind club where the latter had gone to attend a birthday party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dig-kumar-reinstated-fir-cancelled-236699
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court frames charges against 8 accused||The CBI Special Court, Haryana, today framed charges against eight people in the Chautala village double-murder case.The trial against the eight accused, Mahender, Harsimrandeep Singh, Chhotu Ram Bhat, Mukhram, Sukhwinder, Sukhdeep Singh, Ravinder, and Sukhpreet Singh, for criminal conspiracy read with murder, attempt to murder, rioting while armed with deadly weapons, for being members of unlawful assembly, criminal intimidation and the Arms Act would start from April 16 at the CBI court in Panchkula.On the night of January 11, 2017, Ranbir Singh, along with his nephew Satibir, had gone to the kinnow plant of Godara, a co-villager, for considering the sale of of the fruit from their 3-acre farm. Both met Godara and entered his office where Amit Saharan and Jai Prakash were already present.While discussing, Godara, along with Jai Prakash, went out of the office leaving behind three-Ranbir Singh, Amit Saharan, and Satbir-in the office. At about 8.40 pm, assailants entered the office and killed Amit and Satbir while Ranbir Singh claimed that he escaped while hiding under the table. During spot inspection, the Haryana Police had collected 28 empty cartridges, nine bullets along with 22 pieces of bullets.Bhawna, wife of Satbir, told the CBI that her family had no dispute with Godara, but her brother-in-law Ravinder Bishnoi had differences with Chotu Ram Bhat over their business partnership in liquor contracts. Ravinder Bishnoi used to visit Godara often.Ravinder’s friend Amandeep, a relative of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, was killed at the behest of Bhat in 2014. In retaliation, Lawrenc, also known to Ravinder, managed to attack Bhat in Dabwali court in 2016 where he got injured. Bhat was suspecting that Amit Saharan and Ravinder Bishnoi were financially helping Lawrence.As per the CBI chargesheet, five shooters — Kamaljeet, Jaspreet, Nishan, Sukhpreet, and Harsimrandeep, all Punjab residents — had stayed at Bhat’s residence at Chautala village to plan the elimination of Amit and Ravinder. — TNSChautala village double-murder caseThe murder of Amit Saharan and Satbir took place on January 1, 2017, at a kinnow plant of PK Godara at Chautala village in Sirsa. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had handed over the case to the CBI, Chandigarh, on September 18, 2018, on the petition of victims’ wives. Navina, wife of Amit, and Bhawna, wife of Satbir, had approached the HC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-court-frames-charges-against-8-accused-236700
09-04-2021||Panipat||Pilgrims sans Covid test sent back from Uttarakhand border||Don’t travel to Delhi during curfew: Gurugram PoliceGurugram: People, especially millennials, travelling to Delhi on a regular basis were left high and dry after the Gurugram traffic police issued a public notice on Twitter restricting the entry of private vehicles to Delhi during curfew hours. “We have received a letter from the Delhi Police asking us to sensitise our staff to the decision. Since Delhi is under night curfew, Gurugram people should avoid unnecessary travel,” says DK Bhardwaj, DCP, Traffic, Gurugram. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pilgrims-sans-covid-test-sent-back-from-uttarakhand-border-236701
09-04-2021||A policy should be in place to remove aged and diseased trees. The storm on the intervening night of April||Policy must for removing aged, diseased trees||Ban on entry of vehicles a welcome step in karnalNishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, has taken a good decision to ban the entry of vehicles in the main markets of the city such as Karna Gate, Sarafa Bazar, Gur Mandi etc in public interest. Shopkeepers of these markets should not be allowed to sub-let the space in front of their shops to any street vendor. The roads of these markets can be opened and widened from Ghantaghar Chowk towards Karna Gate, Kalandari Gate, Arjun Gate, Subhash Gate and upto Meera Ghati Chowk by making dividers on the main Old GT Road, thereby keeping the traffic arrangements intact. The administration should also make proper arrangements for parking of the vehicles coming to the markets. —Shakti Singh, KarnalEncroachment removal a job half done in PanchkulaNotwithstanding the recent well-intended moves of the Haryana Assembly Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta to rein in the widespread encroachment at various public places across the city, some violators still continue to thrive in some of the market areas here. The visit by MC's top ranking officials to Sector 8 booths and 9 market areas will reveal the real inside story. How come the civic body has failed to clear the forced occupancy of varandahs (meant for the free movement of general public) by some Sector 9-based shopkeepers such as fruit vendors, fast-food sellers and even a few general stores? Will the newly elected Municipal Councillors rise to the occasion and remove all existing encroachments in Panchkula? —SK Gupta, PanchkulaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/policy-must-for-removing-aged-diseased-trees-236703
09-04-2021||---||Avoid investing in SRS projects in 3 dists: Government||Chandigarh, April 8Against the backdrop of the ongoing Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigation, the Haryana Government has sounded a warning to the investors to desist from investing in 14 projects of the realty major SRS Group, falling in three districts of Faridabad, Palwal and Rewari in the NCR.“The general public should not invest any money for the purchase of plot, flat, floor or make any further payment to the coloniser against property already booked by them in the licensed colonies of the SRS Group,” K Makrand Pandurang, Haryana’s Director, Town and Country Planning, said.While six projects each are in Faridabad and Palwal districts, two are within the jurisdiction of Rewari district in the vicinity of New Delhi. The projects include residential group housing and affordable housing projects.Going into the reasons for the advisory, the director said the Chandigarh Office of the ED had attached all moveable/immovable properties of the SRS Group and its individual legal entities concerned under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.“In the order, it has been directed that the attached properties shall not be transferred, disposed or parted with or otherwise dealt with in any manner without the ED's prior permission,” the order said, telling investors to approach the ED for any grievances against the coloniser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/avoid-investing-in-srs-projects-in-3-dists-government-236705
09-04-2021||Parveen Arora||80 hazardous ponds in Karnal dist  to be cleaned, redeveloped||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 8As many as 80 ponds of the district, which have become a health hazard for residents, will be reclaimed by the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) during the pre-monsoon and monsoon period under the “Catch the rain” campaign, a national-level programme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month.Under the campaign, these ponds will not only be cleaned but also desilted for water conservation, the capacity of these ponds will also be increased. Besides, efforts will be made to treat the water, so that it will be used for agriculture purpose. These works will be done under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGREGA) funds and the Swachh Bharat Mission, said Gaurav Kumar, District Nodal Officer for the “Catch the rain” project.Four being developed as model ones“After the cleaning and desilting of these waterbodies, we will be able to conserve the rain water,” he said, adding that the number of such ponds will also be increased in the coming days. “I have directed the officials concerned to speed up the implementation of this project as this is the right time for redeveloping ponds,” he added.There are 971 ponds in the district, including 946 in rural areas, of them four ponds are being developed as model ponds situated in Sagga, Padha, Kachwa and Gonder villages, while the water of 105 ponds is being treated with the help of wetland technology. A pond in Samora village is being treated with the help of biodigester technology. As many as 80 ponds have been identified so far for the purpose of water conservation, said Ramphal, SE, Panchayati Raj Institution.Apart from it, beautification of these ponds will also be done by growing plants, he added. Tejinder Singh Teji, member, Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority, said the Haryana Government had constituted the Pond and Waste Water Management Authority for the rejuvenation of waterbodies across the state. The authority has started work and it has asked the PRI and Irrigation Department for the redevelopment of these ponds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/80-hazardous-ponds-in-karnal-dist-to-be-cleaned-redeveloped-236706
09-04-2021||---||Selja condemns hike in prices of fertilisers||Chandigarh, April 8Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Thursday attacked the BJP government for the increasing rates of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK) fertilisers.She said the farmers were already suffering due to the anti-farmer policies of the BJP government. “At the same time, the huge increase in the prices of DAP and NPK is a cruel strike of the government on farmers. The government should withdraw it with immediate effect,” she demanded.In a statement issued here on Thursday, Selja said the price of 50 kg DAP fertiliser had been increased by 58.33%. The 50 kg bag of DAP, which used to cost the farmer Rs 1,200 has now been priced at Rs 1,900. Similarly, the price of 50 kg bag of NPK has been increased by up to Rs 615. The prices of DAP and NPK have doubled in the seven-year regime of the BJP government.Flays govt for using force on farmersHPCC president Kumari Selja has condemned the use of water cannons and lathicharge on the protesting farmers during demonstrations. She visited several villages in the Ellanabad Assembly segment in Sirsa district on Thursday and urged party workers to be ready for the bypoll in view of resignation by MLA Abhay Singh Chautala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-condemns-hike-in-prices-of-fertilisers-236707
09-04-2021||Karnal||Annual talent search programme||Free cursive course for studentsKarnal: Students associated with a local NGO, Satya Foundation, started a free cursive course for students of Classes III to VII. This course is based on a cursive booklet which was recently launched by the Chief Minister. The course not only offers practice of cursive worksheets but also include lessons on social issues such as water conservation, sparrow conservation, say no to plastic, environment and many more. Apart from this, the students will be appraised about various career options. This will help them in thinking about the streams and options available from an early age. The beauty of this campaign is that it is run and managed by students Kirti, Swati and Dipti of Class XII and Purv of Class VIII of OPS Vidya Mandir. Their teacher Dr Sonia Aharwala said these students had taken care of all aspects, including registration of students, practising the course, daily home-work checking. With the growing number of Covid cases in the city, the students areparticular about following the SOPs. The class runs daily from 4 to 6 in the evening at Gali number 8, Sham Nagar, Karnal. The course is free of cost and the students are provided a specially designed booklet. The students in lieu of this course they will have to plant at-least two saplings and make sure that it grows into a tree. Secondly, the students will make all efforts to conserve every single drop of water, said Dr Aharwala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/annual-talent-search-programme-236709
09-04-2021||Chandigarh/Karnal||Haryana ropes in ration depots for procurement||Haryana has roped in ration depot holders and farmer producer organisations (FPOs) by offering them temporary licence of commission agents to deal with the boycott of procurement by arhtiyas from today over the direct payment to farmers.Dr Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture, Haryana, said payment through arhtiyas was unjustified as 75 per cent of the 10.66 lakh farmers had opted for direct benefit transfer (DBT) to their accounts.Move comes as arhtiyas boycott purchase“Arhtiyas are cooperating with the government in most districts. Only some districts like Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Kaithal and Sirsa were epicentres of the boycott. We have told DCs to issue temporary licences to depot holders (PDS ration shop owners) and FPOs. A list of 380-odd active FPOs has been supplied to the DCs,” said Misra. Chander Shekhar Khare, Director, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs, Haryana, said temporary licences of commission agents to depot holders and FPOs were issued in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Jind and Sirsa districts today. “They will be paid 2.5 per cent commission, as applicable for the arhtiyas,” said Khare.Ashok Gupta, state president of Haryana Arhtiya Association, however, said their association would continue with the boycott.“While asking farmers to register on Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal, the government gave the option for direct payment or payment through arhtiyas. But now, the government is not allowing a choice to the farmers,” he said.Meanwhile, around 10,000 quintal of wheat had been procured in Karnal district till late evening despite the boycott by the arhtiyas.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said nearly 200 arhtiyas across the district had joined the procurement process. However, president of the Karnal Arhtiyas Association said only some arhtiyas were opposed to the boycott. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ropes-in-ration-depots-for-procurement-236440
09-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||5 High Court advocates on list forwarded for elevation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Forty-five names forwarded to the Supreme Court by the Centre for appointment as high court judges include five Punjab and Haryana High Court advocates.Available information suggests the Punjab and Haryana High Court is also among 14 of 25 HCs across the country to have supported the Supreme Court’s proposition to appoint ad hoc judges for prevailing over the vacancy crisis.Both developments are significant as the Punjab and Haryana High Court is currently working at nearly half its strength. It has 46 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The crisis is expected to deepen with the retirement of three more judges later this year.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7,83,952. It is followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which is facing a pendency of 6,69,944 cases. As many as 2,31,637 cases are pending between one and three years. In the absence of new appointments of judges and the physical hearing of cases, the problem is expected to worsen in the coming months.It is believed the names forwarded by the government are yet to be placed before the collegium. As such, it was yet to take a decision on recommending the names for elevation. The entire process, under the circumstances, is likely to take time.The High Court collegium had nine months back recommended to the Centre the names of five advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — for elevation. The file was cleared by both governments of Punjab and Haryana, but the list was pending with the Centre. It is believed the 45 names were forwarded following the SC observations that a reasonable time frame was required to be fixed for the government to respond to the collegium resolution. The observations by the Bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, Justice SK Kaul and Justice Surya Kant were made on March 25 during the hearing of a matter related to vacancies in 25 high courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-high-court-advocates-on-list-forwarded-for-elevation-236445
09-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Panic grips Gurugram as traffic police bans entry of private vehicles into Delhi after 10 pm||Panic gripped Gurugram after Traffic Police announced the non-entry of private vehicles in Delhi from 10:00 pm on Thursday.Traffic police issued the notice on their verified Twitter account.Following chaos at the border on Wednesday due to restrictive entry and COVID checking as per the latest directives has left millennium city harried.Moments after the issue was shared on social media, those using personal cars to drop or pick up from airports, the employees of local bars and pubs, and those crossing Delhi on the Expressway went ahead seeking their future course of action."We have got a letter from Delhi police asking us to sensitise our staff about the same. Delhi has a night curfew and people should avoid any unnecessary travel to save themselves from hassle," said D K Bhardwaj, DCP Traffic, Gurugram.With this announcement, there has been a rush at the Sarhaul border of people trying to get in Delhi before curfew commencement.Heavy police will be deployed to filter traffic before it entering Delhi.आमजन से अनुरोध है कि दिल्ली में नाईट कर्फ्यू(10PM-05AM) लगाया गया है जिसके कारण रात्रि के समय दिल्ली सीमा में निजी वाहनों का प्रवेश वर्जित है।अतः रात्रि के समय यात्रा ना करे। @gurgaonpolice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panic-grips-gurugram-as-traffic-police-bans-entry-of-private-vehicles-into-delhi-after-10-pm-236401
