10-04-2021||Chandigarh||COVID: 11 fatalities, 2,937 new cases in Haryana||Haryana reported 11 COVID-19 fatalities on Saturday which took the death toll to 3,252, while 2,937 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,13,441 in the state, a health department bulletin said.While two fatalities each were reported from Ambala, Panchkula and Yamunanagar, one death each was from Jind, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra and Karnal districts, it said.Among the districts that reported a big spike in cases were Gurugram (864), Panchkula (217), Karnal (271), Faridabad (200) and Sonipat (203), the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state is 19,453.The recovery rate is 92.76 per cent while the total number of those discharged after recovery were 2,90,736, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-11-fatalities-2-937-new-cases-in-haryana-237348
10-04-2021||Jhajjar||Farmers block KMP expressway at three points in Jhajjar||Protesting farmers on Saturday blocked the Kundli-Mewat-Palwal (KMP) Expressway at three points—Aasoda, Mandothi, and Badli village—in the district. The farmers reached the points at 8 am.The blockade at Aasoda and Mandothi was restored by farmers camping at the Tikri border while the local farmers led the Badli blockade.Farmers blocked the road with their tractors and other vehicles. The blockade will continue for 24 hours.BKU (Ekta) Chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan told 'The Tribune', that the agitation was not an "anti-Modi" battle, but against the corporate sector, and that they were ready for the long haul, and would continue their dharna until the three laws were repealed."We will march towards the Parliament, but will not repeat the January 26 incident. Those who want to divide the farmers into the lines of religion and caste to scuttle the agitation will not be allowed to participate in it. The march will not only strengthen the agitation further but also mount pressure in the Center,” added Ugrahan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-kmp-expressway-at-three-points-in-jhajjar-237325
10-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In pictures, cops forcibly remove protesters at Tewasan toll plaza to clear KMP expressway in Haryana||The Haryana Police detained several farm union leaders and supporters on Saturday as the protesters blocked the Kundli-Mewat-Palwal (KMP) Expressway as part of their ongoing protest against the central agri laws.The police were seen forcibly removing the activists at Rewasan toll plaza to clear the way for motorists.Farmers blocked the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway at some places in Haryana early on Saturday.Also read: Farmers block KMP expressway at three points in JhajjarThe blockade started at 8 am and would last 24 hours.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations, on Friday gave a call for a 24-hour blockade of the KMP expressway.A long traffic jam was witnessed on both sides the KMP.The 136-km-long expressway is also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-pictures-cops-forcibly-remove-protesters-at-tewasan-toll-plaza-to-clear-kmp-expressway-in-haryana-237260
10-04-2021||Rohtak||Online national conference at MDU, Rohtak||57 participate in webinarFaridabad: Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, working as mentor for seven mentee institutions for NAAC accreditation held a webinar recently. Revealing this, a spokesperson of the college said that the objective of the webinar was to evaluate the progress of mentee institutions and also to attend other queries related to NAAC accreditation. As many as 57 participants comprising principals, coordinators and faculty members from the institutions took part. Dr Krishan Kant, Principal, Aggarwal College, chaired the webinar. Prof SK Chakarvarti, accreditation ambassador and Dr Naresh Kamra, deputy coordinator, IQAC, were also present during the webinar. Vineet Nagpal provided technical support to the webinar.Workshop on research planningRohtak: A workshop on "research methodology and academic writing skills" was organised by the faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Ch. Ranbir Singh Institute of Social and Economic Change (CRSIS&EC) of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Prof MC Gupta, senior professor and head, department of pharmacology, Pt BD Sharma, PGIMS (Rohtak), inaugurated the workshop and emphasised on the importance of research planning. He spoke on the topic "Research- Why and how?" head, department of pharmaceutical sciences and dean of the faculty Prof. Sanju Nanda delivered the welcome address. Director, CRSIS&EC Prof Inderjeet threw light on the academic activities of the institute.Student placed in Chennai-based firmHisar: One student of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology has been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Chennai-based Star Health Insurance organised by training & placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar of the university, congratulated the selected student. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said off-campus placement drive was conducted by Mr Sunil Kumar, assistant branch manager of Star Health Insurance, Hisar. As many as 28 MBA students participated in this off-campus drive out of which one student was selected. Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director said the selected student was Deepak Jain from MBA 2021 batch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-national-conference-at-mdu-rohtak-237002
10-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Fire at wheat farms a cause for concern in Narwana||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Fire at wheat farms a cause for concern in NarwanaDuring the wheat harvesting season, the mercury hovers around 45°C. Farmers are always in a hurry to finish the job quickly. They hire harvester combines and a lot of labourers work day and night. Some of them drink country liquor and smoke. If a match stick or 'bidi' is accidentally thrown, it can ignite fire, which may engulf nearby fields. Fire engines generally arrive very late. In Narwana, 20 kms away, such a fire incident took place and caused massive losses to the farmers. The farmers should work very cautiously during harvesting. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaParivar Pehchan Patra should be amendableThe Haryana Government has introduced a scheme of Parivar Pahchan Patra (PPP) which allows only one amendment. Mostly, people get the services from CSC centres and the possibility of mistakes cannot be ruled out. The situation of any person or family is changeable due to addition, deletion or separation of any family member, which requires amendments. So provisions of editing and amendment should be allowed as and when required. This facility should also be provided to the PPP holder on self- service bases.RK Garg, TohanaAct against Covid norm violatorsThis refers to news report 'Panchkula private hospitals run out of Covid ICU beds' (Chandigarh Tribune, April 9). It is truly a matter of concern that Panchkula district has now achieved the dubious distinction of recording its highest single-day surge of 239 cases since the inception of the pandemic in March last year. The sudden rise in the number of cases has resulted in 100 per cent ICU-bed occupancy at private hospitals and only two are available at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. Let the Panchkula administration rise to the occasion and take action against all willful violators before it gets too late. SK Gupta, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-at-wheat-farms-a-cause-for-concern-in-narwana-237006
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: ‘Vaccination Festival’ in Haryana from tomorrow||Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said a ‘vaccination festival’ would be celebrated in the state from April 11 to 14. During this period, 6 to 7 lakh people will be inoculated free of cost. Presiding over a high-level meeting, Vij said as promised by PM Narendra Modi, vaccination would be carried out across the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-vaccination-festival-in-haryana-from-tomorrow-237003
10-04-2021||Hisar||Chaudhary Devi Lal University closed for three days||The authorities of the Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU) has closed the university for three days after three of its teachers tested positive for Covid today. According to information, Vice-Chancellor Prof Ajmer Singh ordered closing of the university from April 9 to 11, after three faculty members tested positive for the virus. There has been no change in scheduled examinations and essential services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaudhary-devi-lal-university-closed-for-three-days-237004
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Schools shut up to Class VIII in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced to shut schools up to Class VIII till April 30. This comes after the state recorded the highest daily spike (2,872) in over four months on Thursday.The CM added that the state government was ensuring that there was no panic and the life of people continued as normal despite a rise in cases. They were keeping a close watch on every city, and taking necessary precautions.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-shut-up-to-class-viii-in-haryana-237005
10-04-2021||Sonepat||Farmers’ 24-hour blockade of e-ways starts today||Farmers led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will block the 135-km-long Kundli-Manesar-Palwal and the 135-km-long Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressways from Saturday morning till Sunday morning. The Haryana Police have appealed to the people to avoid the two e-ways.VIJ: Border build-up matter of concernThe build-up on Delhi’s borders is a matter of worry amid Covid. I will seek early resumption of talks with farmers — Anil Vij, Haryana ministerDarshan Pal Singh, Krantikari Kisan Union, said the blockade would last from 8 am on Saturday till 8 am on Sunday. Farmers protesting at the Singhu border would block the expressways at Kundli; those at the Tikri border would stop vehicules at Tikri; members of the BKU, Baghpat unit, would stage a protest at the toll plaza between Khekra-Baghpat and farmers at Ghazipur would block the traffic at Dasna. “Emergency services will remain unimpeded,” Darshan Pal explained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-24-hour-blockade-of-e-ways-starts-today-237121
10-04-2021||Hisar||125 farmers booked in Hisar for burning effigies of BJP leaders||The police have booked 125 farmers in connection with burning effigies of BJP leaders here town on March 30.Sources say the accused have been booked under Sections 341, 283, 147 and 149 of the IPC, and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Among them, 14 farmers have been booked by name. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/125-farmers-booked-in-hisar-for-burning-effigies-of-bjp-leaders-237007
10-04-2021||Chandigarh April 9||Avoid KMP expressway today, say Haryana Police||The Haryana Police have issued a traffic advisory asking commuters to avoid the KMP expressway on Saturday to avoid a 24-hour blockade, the call for which has been given by farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agricultural laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has threatened to block the expressway for 24 hours from 8 am on April 10.ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said, “Arrangements have been put in place to maintain law and order, prevent any kind of violence, and facilitate the traffic and public transport.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/avoid-kmp-expressway-today-say-haryana-police-237009
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||On Haryana CM order, officials dismissed, suspended||On the instructions of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, several officials have been either dismissed or suspended after complaints against them were filed at the CM window.Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Programme Project Director Dr Rakesh Gupta, and Chief Minister’s OSD Bhupeshwar Dayal gave the order during a review meeting of the CM Window and Social Media Grievance Tracker today.Taking cognisance of a video which went viral on Twitter and YouTube, the CM suspended Sub-inspectors Ram Richapal and Rambir of Faridabad for having beaten up a complainant in custody.In a complaint related to 60 bogus ration cards in Sonepat, the CM directed an FIR be registered against officers and beneficiaries concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-haryana-cm-order-officials-dismissed-suspended-237010
10-04-2021||Karnal||Karnal jail to launch in-house radio station||The Karnal jail is all set to have its in-house radio station to bring a positive change among inmates by utilising their talent and energy.The trial of the station is being done and it is expected the station will be functional by the middle of this month.Ten inmates, including five women, have been trained as radio jockeys (RJs) and for anchoring to run the daily programmes for the studio set up inside the jail premises by the Tinka Tinka Foundation of Dr Vartika Nanda, the brain behind the project.Amit Bhado, jail superintendent, said among the 10 trained RJs, four were convicted in murder cases, two were under-trials in murder cases and another was being tried under the POCSO Act. They were enthusiastic about this initiative, said Bhado.“We have provided all sorts of facilities for the establishment of the radio station on the jail premises. We are hopeful that once the inmates were released, they would have a positive change with this step,” said the official. The radio programmes will be a combination of news and entertainment. News, songs by inmates, local folk songs and songs on demand will be aired from the studio. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-jail-to-launch-in-house-radio-station-237011
10-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine state’s stand on lowering jab age||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9Amid the Covid surge, the Punjab and Haryana High Court will examine the state’s stand on the issue of lowering the vaccination age to “contain the crisis”.The HC will also consider the state’s response to the issue of identifying areas where the cases were comparatively more, before imposing restrictions there, and detecting places vulnerable to the virus spread.The issues were raised before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri by the amicus curiae or the friend of the Court, Rupinder Khosla.Meanwhile, Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal submitted that he would seek instructions regarding the suggestions made by the amicus curiae before apprising the court on the next date of hearing. He also placed on record an affidavit on the issue filed by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan. It stated reports received from all DCs on the implementation of the government orders.The Bench also took note of the state counsel’s submissions that fresh Covid guidelines have been issued and failure to implement them in letter and spirit will result in punitive measures by the government.The directions came on a plea filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Rishi, a jail inmate who got infected. He was taken to a quarantine centre in Panchkula, where he did not receive any attention.The Bench had then sought details on the availability of masks for prisoners. Rishi recovered and was sent back to jail, but the Bench decided to continue with the matter, saying “a larger question has arisen during the course of hearing”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-examine-states-stand-on-lowering-jab-age-237012
10-04-2021||---||Parents accuse private schools of malpractices in Ambala, Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, April 9Accusing private schools of adopting malpractices, a group of parents held a demonstration at the Mini-Secretariat in Kurukshetra on Friday.‘Charging’ admission fee from old studentsThe parents alleged the private schools had been charging admission fee even from old students in violation of the court’s orders, they claimed. NCERT books were available in the market, yet these schools were introducing books of private publishers as the schools authorities got hefty commission from them. Despite holding only online classes, the schools had hiked the tuition fee, which was not justified, they said. Besides these schools had also hiked development charges and had been forcing the parents to pay the increased charges, else the names of their wards would be struck off.The parents submitted a memorandum to the District Revenue Officer of the Chief Minister, Haryana, and sought directions for the private schools. On the other hand in Ambala, the Haryana Progressive Schools’ Conference has served a legal notice to the District Education Officer, Ambala, after the official issued an order directing the private schools not to levy any annual charges and only take tuition fees from the parents, recently. Following repeated complaints against a few private schools in the district that the schools had been demanding annual charges for session 2020-21, before declaring the results of the students, the District Education Officer had directed the schools to charge tuition fee only for session 2020-21, else action would be taken against the schools.Saurabh Kapoor, adviser of the Haryana Progressive School’s Conference, said, “The District Education Officer has issued an order asking schools not to levy annual charges, but there are orders from the Supreme Court in which the court has allowed the schools to levy annual and other charges. If the parents are in no position to pay the charges they can request the schools and the schools have been cooperating with the parents. If the orders are not withdrawn by the DEO we will move Punjab and Haryana High Court.”District Education Officer Suresh Kumar said, “I am yet to receive any notice. If the schools are claiming any orders from the Supreme Court that allows the schools to levy annual charges, then we will bring it to the notice of the directorate .”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-accuse-private-schools-of-malpractices-in-ambala-kurukshetra-236981
10-04-2021||---||Can’t block roads, rules Supreme Court||New Delhi, April 9Public roads can’t be blocked during protests and there should be free flow of traffic on roads, the Supreme Court said on Friday.Hearing a PIL filed by a commuter against blocking roads connecting Delhi with Noida by farmers, a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul made the Haryana Government party to the case.The SC clarified it was not concerned with larger issues relating to farm laws that can be decided judicially, politically or administratively and that it was only dealing with road blockade.“We have said this before... roads should not be blocked. This is a single mother who has to face many issues because of blocked roads,” the Bench said posting the matter for further hearing on Monday.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for the governments of Haryana, Delhi and UP.As the main roads connecting Delhi and Noida remain blocked since the beginning of protests against farm laws in November last, the SC had, on March 29, issued notice to the Centre and the UP Government on a petition by a woman who said commuting had become a nightmare for her.Acting on the PIL filed by Monicca Agarwaal, a resident of Noida and a single parent with some medical issues, a Bench had asked the Centre and UP Government to explain why the roads connecting Delhi and Noida were not kept free from blockades.“We consider it appropriate to issue notice to the Union Government and others to ensure that the road area is kept clear so that the passage from one place to another is not affected,” it had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-block-roads-rules-supreme-court-236986
10-04-2021||---||Farmers, agents face off at Ambala grain market||Ambala, April 9A group of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents), who have been on strike against Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to growers against their produce, came face to face at the grain market here today over wheat procurement.The farmers demanded that arhtiyas, who have refused to procure the produce in protest, must buy wheat. Arhtiyas, however, expressed their helplessness in view of the Centre’s decision to credit the payment directly in farmers’ bank accounts.This led to a verbal spat between them. The situation remained tense for half an hour.The farmers raised slogans against Ambala New Grain Market Commission Agents’ Association Duni Chand and sat on dharna in front of his shop for nearly half an hour.Chand said: “The call for strike was given by the state union. Our fight is not for us alone. We are protesting for farmers and agricultural labourers as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agents-face-off-at-ambala-grain-market-236987
10-04-2021||---||Hisar village to fine those inviting BJP-JJP MLAs||Hisar, April 9Residents of Dabra village in Hisar district have announced to impose a fine of Rs 5,100 on anyone who dares to invite any MLA of the ruling BJP-JJP to the village for any event.A social panchayat took the decision after the JJP’s Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag visited some villages in his segment on Tuesday.The social panchayat gathered in a “chaupal” also summoned some locals, who reported to have invited the MLA for a visit to the village. A villager said one of the persons who were told to appear distanced himself from the MLA’s meeting.The villagers called a social panchayat after the MLA shared some photographs of his visit to Dabra and other villages on his Facebook page.Kanwal Singh, a villager, said, “The panchayat also took a decision to impose a fine of Rs 5100 on those inviting any ruling party MLAs to their personal or public functions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-village-to-fine-those-inviting-bjp-jjp-mlas-236988
10-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||In Jind, 14 arhtiyas fined for defying strike call against Direct Benefit Transfer||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 9The Katcha Arhtiyas Sangh in Jind’s Safidon town has imposed a fine of Rs 21,000 each on 14 arhtiyas for having defied the strike call in view of the Centre’s decision to credit the payment against the produce directly in the bank accounts of farmers.The commission agents in the state went on strike yesterday on the call of the Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas’ Association. In the Safidon grain market, however, 14 arhtiyas participated in the online bidding process for procurement.Pale Ram Rathi, Arhtiyas’ leaderSome refuse to pay upTwo arhtiyas deposited the fine on Friday, while some others are likely to pay it in a couple of days. But there are some who have refused to pay the fine. We will take a decision on them in a meeting.Katcha Arhtiyas Sangh chief Pale Ram Rathi said, “All arhtiyas expressed their resentment over the decision of the 14 arhtiyas. We wanted that the bidding by the 14 arhtiyas must be cancellation, but market committee officials said it was impossible as the process had been completed online.”Subsequently, members of the sangh held a meeting and decided to impose a fine of Rs 21,000 on each of the 14 commission agents for not adhering to the strike call.“Two of the arhtiyas deposited the fine today, while some others are likely to pay it in a couple of days. But there are some who have refused to pay the fine. We will take a decision on them in a meeting. The sangh might withhold the supply of gunny bags to arhtiyas who will not pay up,” Rathi added.The association has been opposing the Direct Benefit Transfer mode of payment to farmers against the procurement of rabi crops and demanded that it should be made optional.Another death at TikriJhajjar: A 55-year-old farmer from Punjab died, reportedly of cardiac arrest, at the Tikri border on Friday. The deceased was identified as Jaspal Singh of Joganand village in Bathinda district. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said the exact cause of death would be ascertained after the autopsy, he added. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-jind-14-arhtiyas-fined-for-defying-strike-call-against-direct-benefit-transfer-236989
10-04-2021||---||Property transfer to cost more in Gurugram||Chandigarh, April 9Close on the heels of revision in circle rates, the Haryana Government has decided to charge 1% additional duty on the transfer of property in Gurugram.A notification issued by AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said 1% duty would be charged along with the stamp duty on the transfer of immovable property within the limits of the Gurugram Metropolitan Area notified by the state government. It will be paid to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority.GMDA to get EDC directlyMeanwhile, a notification of the urban local bodies said the state government had decided to impose additional 2% duty on property transactions in all municipal areas, except Gurugram MC.Notably, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had already announced to impose additional 2% duty on property transactions in all civic bodies of the state.The additional duty – 1% for Gurugram and 2% for the rest of the state, would be in addition to the payment of prevailing stamp duty to the state exchequer. Currently, there are three stamp duty slabs for property transaction — 5% (for women), 6% (for joint property owners) and 7% (for men) — across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-transfer-to-cost-more-in-gurugram-237008
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Traffic advisory tells travellers to avoid  Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Highway on April 10-11||As a precautionary measure, Haryana Police on Friday issued a traffic advisory for travellers after a 24-hour Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) blockade call was given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha—a front of protesting farm unions.  It would start at 8 am on April 10 and end by 8 am on April 11.  Sharing this information, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Haryana, Sh. Navdeep Singh Virk, said that elaborate arrangements have been put in place to "maintain public peace and order", and prevent any kind of violence, and facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport systems on this important expressway. Keeping in view the mass gathering of farmers at the KMP Expressway—all the range ADGPs/IGPs—Commissioners of Police and districts SPs have been instructed to ensure maintenance of law and order with minimum inconvenience to the general public. Besides, proper traffic diversions have already been planned by the affected districts, especially Sonipat, Jhajjar, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram and Nuh. Passengers coming from the Ambala-Chandigarh side on the National Highway-44 to travel towards Uttar Pradesh. Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal to Shamli, and from Panipat to Sanauli to Uttar Pradesh, Ghaziabad and Noida. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram, Jaipur, etc, can turn towards National Highway-71A from Panipat, and travel via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari. He added that all citizens are being informed about these arrangements in advance so, that they can plan and modify their journey accordingly, to avoid any inconvenience. Concerned districts have also been asked to issue local advisories in this regard. However, smooth movement of traffic continues on all other routes across the state.Virk said, that no person would be allowed to take the law in their hands and strict action who goes against it. Also, all precautionary steps are being taken given the convenience of the citizens of the state as well as travellers coming from outside, he added.20 companies deployedMeanwhile, as many as 20 companies, including 12 companies of central forces and 8 companies of Haryana Police, have been deployed under the supervision of 6 DSPs and 17 Inspectors to deal with any untoward situation. Besides, special teams have been deployed at Rai, Kundli and Kharkhoda police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-traffic-advisory-tells-travellers-to-avoid-kundli-manesar-palwal-highway-on-april-10-11-236847
