11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana registers 3,440 new COVID-19 cases, 16 more fatalities||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana reached 3,268 on Sunday with 16 more fatalities, while 3,440 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 3,16,881, a health department bulletin said.While three fatalities were reported from Jind, two deaths each were reported from Panipat, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani, Karnal, Ambala and one death each from Gurugram, Hisar and Sirsa districts.Of the fresh cases, Gurgaon reported 1,084, Faridabad 445 and Karnal 264 infections.The previous highest single-day spike in cases in Haryana was registered on November 20, 2020, when the state had reported 3,104 cases.At present, there are 20,981 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate stands at 92.35 per cent.A total of 2,92,632 people have recovered from the infection so far, the bulletin said.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said states should observe a “vaccine festival” between April 11 and 14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against COVID-19, the Haryana Health Department had set up 1,627 COVID-19 vaccination centres which administered 1,13,917 vaccine doses to the beneficiaries in the state on Sunday.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said the Health Department administered 1,13,917 anti-coronavirus vaccine doses on Sunday, taking the total number of jabs given till date to 24,69,233.He said vaccination centres have been strategically placed in highly-populated areas across the state and even in the rural areas. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-registers-3-440-new-covid-19-cases-16-more-fatalities-237751
11-04-2021||New Delhi||Won't let CM Khattar enter Badauli village: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will not allow Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to enter Badauli village for an event on April 14.Speaking to the media at the Singhu border, Tikait alleged that Khattar is coming to "disrupt the amity" in the area in the garb of unveiling a statue of BR Ambedkar."We are not against Baba Saheb's statue, we are against Khattar. Samyukta Kisan Morcha has decided that as long as our protest is on we are against the CM and the deputy CM."He is not coming here to unveil the statue, but as per the BJP's plot he is coming here to disrupt the amity among people. And we, along with the Khap Panchayat, we will not allow him to do that," Tikait said.Khattar is scheduled to visit Badauli village in Panipat to unveil a statue of Ambedkar on the occasion of the Dalit icon's birth anniversary on April 14."We won't let him enter the village. If anyone else wants to unveil the statue, they can do it," Tikait added. Hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi—Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur—demanding a repeal of three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The Centre says the new laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-let-cm-khattar-enter-badauli-village-rakesh-tikait-237720
11-04-2021||---||Another Haryana farmer dies at Singhu border||Sonepat, April 11Another Haryana farmer, agitating against the new farm laws, died reportedly of cardiac arrest in a tent at the Singhu border on Saturday night.The deceased was identified as Rajinder Singh, a resident of Bichpari village in Gohana in Sonepat district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-haryana-farmer-dies-at-singhu-border-237676
11-04-2021||---||Faridabad to be on fast track of development, says Khattar||Tribune News Service  Faridabad, April 10 The newly set up Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) will ensure the speedy development of the city. This was announced by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while presiding over the first meeting of the FMDA here today. Announcing that the FMDA will have a coverage of 741 sq km of area and all roads 30m wide or more, he said all sewerage networks (above 600mm) and the two town parks would also be taken over by the FMDA from the HSVP or the Municipal Corporation. Stating that the KGP will soon have a direct connectivity with the city, the CM said the connectivity with Greater Faridabad would remain the prime focus with development of a robust infrastructure. Admitting that the lack of coordination among various agencies like the HSVP, MCF and the PWD had been one of the reasons behind the slow progress, he said an integrated command and control centre (ICCC) would be set up for the speedy implementation of the projects. “As Faridabad was the largest city in the state with around 179 sectors, the district had been left behind in development due to geographical factors. Claiming that the FMDA will put the city on fast track, he said this move will result in curbing red tape and corruption. He said besides the water supply, the FMDA would look after the road network and the sewage system. While all the STPs will be managed directly by the FMDA to ensure efficient treatment of the sewage or waste water in the city, the city will soon get an independent city bus service as part of the public transport facility. A budget of Rs 105 crore will be sanctioned for the FMDA initially. Later, the CM toured various parts and instructed officials for the speedy completion of various development projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-to-be-on-fast-track-of-development-says-khattar-237570
11-04-2021||---||Two Faridabad  MC officials get notice for ‘inaction’ against illegal structures||Bijendra Ahlawat Tribune News Service Faridabad, April 10 A show-cause notice has been issued to an Assistant Engineer and a Junior Engineer of the building section of the Municipal Corporation in connection with alleged negligence and inaction against unauthorised constructions and encroachments in the city. Prashant Atkan, Joint Commissioner, NIT zone of the MC, has confirmed having issued the notice. This is the first direct action against MC officials after a three-member SIT was formed to probe the charges of irregularities and corruption in this matter. The officials — Assistant Engineer Jeet Ram and Junior Engineer Sumer Singh — have been asked to respond to the notice within a week. In the reply, they have been directed to state what actions they took to remove unauthorised constructions, whether or not onsite completion certificates were issued and the reasons for not launching the anti-encroachment drive. The notice stated that the officials had failed to remove encroachments and that their conduct was not only negligent, but also threatening and disobeying to the authorities. “The failure to give reply to this notice within a week will lead to a strict departmental action,” stated the notice issued on Friday.   “You (the two officials) have failed to take necessary action against the sites where maps are revoked by the undersigned and complaints were lodged. There is no follow-up action with the competent authorities and consequently illegal structures mushroomed, specifically in the Badkhal constituency,” says the notice. The two officials have been relieved from the enforcement wing of the MC. The Joint Commissioner said, “The notice has been issued in response to irregularities that surfaced recently. An SIT led by the Director, Urban Local Bodies Department, is probing the complaints.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-faridabad-mc-officials-get-notice-for-inaction-against-illegal-structures-237571
11-04-2021||---||Farmers’ protest hits Sonepat hard; Nuh normal||Sonepat, April 10 Intensifying their stir against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws, farmers today blocked the 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) expressways.  The call for a 24-hour blockade was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation. The blockade started at 8 am and will last 24 hours till Sunday morning.  Farmers, including women, carried flags of their organisations and raised slogans against the government. They squatted on the expressways while slamming the Centre for not repealing the farm laws. As per the scheduled programme, hundreds of farmers gathered at the KMP and KGP zero point and then proceeded towards a toll plaza on the KMP e-way near Nahra-Nahri village where they staged a protest.  Farmer leaders Dr Darshan Pal, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Surjeet Singh Phul, Harinder Singh Lakhowal and Baldev Singh Sirsa were also present at the toll plaza. They addressed farmers, appealing to them to maintain peace during the protest. They also said the today’s blockade was a warning to the Centre.  Because of the road blockade, long queues of vehicles, especially commercial four-wheelers, were seen in Sonepat. However, the SKM’s call for blockade did not evoke much response at Nuh, Manesar and Farukhnagar. The blockade was scheduled to continue till 8 a.m. on Sunday. However, the Gurugram police had diverted traffic near Panchgaon and Farukhnagar and advised commuters to avoid travelling on the super expressway.   Suchha Singh of Phillaur said, “We have been camping at the Delhi Borders for the past four months, but the Centre did not pay heed to our demands.”  In Jhajjar, farmers blocked the KMP expressway at three points near Aasoda, Mandothi and Badli villages.  Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, “It is a long battle, not against the Modi government but against the corporate sector. Farmers are ready for a long haul. They will continue their dharna until the three farm laws are repealed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-hits-sonepat-hard-nuh-normal-237573
11-04-2021||---||Arhtiyas call off strike, resume procurement||Karnal, April 10 Arhtiyas have called off their strike against the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to farmers’ bank accounts after senior officials of the CMO and the Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department agreed to take up the demand of making the DBT scheme optional for cultivators. Agricultural labourers, who had threatened to boycott the procurement from Saturday, also called off their strike call. The Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association had, on April 8, boycotted the procurement process in protest against the Centre’s decision to pay directly to farmers against their produce. To ensure the procurement process was not disrupted, the state government had roped in depot holders and issued them temporary licences for buying wheat and other crops.  A day into the strike, a rift among arhtiyas emerged as some of them defied the strike call and procured the produce. On Friday, association members led by president Ashok Gupta had a meeting with officials. In the meeting, the association was told most of their demands had been considered and CM Manohar Lal Khattar had taken up the matter of DBT with the Union Government.  “The state has assured arhtiyas that they will receive a message 24 hours prior to the disbursement of payment to farmers. Subsequently, arhtiyas called off the strike,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-call-off-strike-resume-procurement-237574
11-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||15 detained in Nuh||Gurugram, April 10 In all, 15 farmers of the Mewat Kisan Morcha were detained for blocking the KMP expressway in Nuh today. They had blocked both lanes of the expressway near Rewasan village, causing a traffic logjam that extended up to three kms. Commuters were stuck for an hour.  On getting information about the traffic jam, the police led by DSP Surender Singh reached the spot and detained 15 farmers.  “We were protesting peacefully on the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. It was undemocratic to remove us from the expressway,” said one of the detained farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-detained-in-nuh-237575
11-04-2021||---||1-hr blockade in Palwal||Palwal, April 10 The traffic movement on the KMP expressway was blocked for only an hour here today. Activists of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and 52 “pals” (khaps) staged dharna from 2 pm and 3 pm.  Rajkumar Ohlyan, a representative of farmers, said the duration of the blockade was cut short to one hour because of the ongoing harvesting season. “A majority of farmers are busy in the fields. Having said that, the protest against the farm laws will continue,” he said A large number of police personnel were deployed on the expressway to check any untoward incident during the blockade. A police spokesperson said traffic was diverted to alternative routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-hr-blockade-in-palwal-237576
11-04-2021||---||Ex-Speaker Satbir Kadyan dead||Panipat, April 10 Former Vidhan Sabha Speaker Satbir Singh Kadyan died due to cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Delhi this morning. He was 70. He is survived by his son Devender Kadyan and daughter Saroj Bala.  He was admitted to the hospital around a month ago. He was the national vice-president of the Jannayak Janta Party. He was elected MLA from the Naultha constituency in 1987 for the first time. He again fought election in 1996 unsuccessfully. In 1990, he was again elected from the Naultha constituency and served as the Vidhan Sabha Speaker from 1990 to 2004 during the INLD government. He had also been appointed chairman of Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO). Ajay Singh Chautala, national president, JJP, along with wife Naina Singh Chautala, MLA, arrived at his residence to express their grief to the family of the late leader. Besides, Deputy CM Dushyant Singh Chautala expressed his condolences over the demise of the former Speaker.  The last rites of the leader were performed at his native village Sewah in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-speaker-satbir-kadyan-dead-237577
11-04-2021||---||Khattar to chair event on Ambedkar anniversary, farmers see conspiracy||Sonepat, April 10 The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has questioned Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for planning a programne near the Singhu border to celebrate the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar on April 14. It said the Chief Minister was trying to create a rift between farmers and agricultural labourers. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala will participate in a similar programme in Kaithal the same day in spite of a “social boycott” of leaders of the BJP and JJP by farmers.  “The state government may project that farmers are opposing the programme of Dalits, but the reality is farmers are not against Dalits. The anti-Dalit face of the BJP government is not hidden from anyone,” the SKM said in its statement.  It added, “We appeal to all Dalit-Bahujan organisations in Haryana to peacefully oppose the government’s program.”  On April 11, social reformer Jyotiba Phule’s birth anniversary will be celebrated on the Delhi borders.  In Rohtak, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni today alleged that the government wanted to create a rift between farmers and people from the SC category on the pretext of celebrating Ambedkar’s birth anniversary. He alleged that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) was well-aware of “nefarious designs” of the government.  Chaduni said barring the visit  of the Chief Minister to Rai in Sonepat and of the Deputy Chief Minister’s to Kaithal, farmers would not oppose the participation of any BJP-JJP leader in Ambedkar Jyanti functions on April 14. Chaduni was interacting with mediapersons on the sidelines of the ‘Dalit-Pichhada (SC/BC) varga’ mahapanchayat organised by Kanta Allaria, chief of the Mission Ekta Samiti, in Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-to-chair-event-on-ambedkar-anniversary-farmers-see-conspiracy-237578
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||14k cases  settled at lok adalat||As many as 14,875 cases at pre-litigation and pending stage were amicably settled during the first National Lok Adalat of the year organised by the Haryana State Legal Services Authority across the state. More than Rs 34 crore was settled between the parties.  The adalat was organised in 22 districts and 33 subdivisions under the guidance of Justice Rajan Gupta, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and Executive Chairman of the Haryana State Legal Services Authority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14k-cases-settled-at-lok-adalat-237581
11-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Huge tourist influx in K’shetra amid surge||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 10Huge tourist influx amid the rising Covid cases has become a major cause of concern for the district authorities.As per information, 4,000-5,000 tourists visit Brahma Sarovar on a daily basis. Similarly, thousands of people reach Pehowa for post-death rituals. However, they can be seen moving around in groups and without face masks.An official said they could not ban the entry of tourists as it would have a bad impact on the livelihood of small traders as well as tirtha purohits (priests).Prof Tejinder Sharma from Kurukshetra University, said “Tourist places are definitely at risk, but at the same time we have to understand that the virus is here to stay. The administration can’t ban tourist entry as it will have a bad impact on the economy. The administration and the Kurukshetra Development Board should start registration to regulate influx of visitors and discourage holy dips in Brahma Sarovar and at other places.”Civil Surgeon Sukhbir Singh said they had started random sampling of shopkeepers and street vendors to check the Covid spread.Chief Executive Officer, Kurukshetra Development Board, Anubhav Mehta, said, “At least 5,000 tourists visit Brahma Sarovar every day and the number is likely to go up during the Navratri festival.”A police spokesperson said they had challaned 1,985 persons last month for not wearing masks while 583 challans had been issued till April 8.Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said, “We have asked the Kurukshetra Development Board and the police to strictly implement the Covid guidelines. As many as 18 duty magistrates have been appointed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/huge-tourist-influx-in-kshetra-amid-surge-237601
11-04-2021||Hisar||Scribe booked for ‘cyber terror’||The police have registered a case on charges of promoting enmity between different groups, assertions prejudicial to national integration and cyber terrorism against a Hisar-based journalist for one of his social media posts.The journalist, Rajesh Kundu, had posted a message on social media two days ago lodged a police complaint.Kundu, who works as a contributor for a national news channel and also operates his web portal in the name ‘The Ink’, has been uploading interviews and posts related to the farmers’ agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scribe-booked-for-cyber-terror-237602
11-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||SC extends interim stay on ‘coercive action’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10The Supreme Court (SC) has extended the interim stay on “coercive action” in all matters pending before it regarding the Ambience Mall petitions, where part of an area meant for the residential purposes was de-licenced and re-licensed for the mall (commercial purpose). The CBI has been investigating the case for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, and Prevention of Corruption Act against Ambience Mall builders, and the officials of the Town and Country Planning Department and Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, after an order from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Earlier, vide an order dated October 8, 2020, the apex court had directed not to take coercive action only in the main petition which was filed on behalf of Raj Singh Gehlot, builder, M/s Ambience Private Limited, and M/s Ambience Developers and Infrastructure Private Limited, against whom the CBI had registered the case.During a resumed hearing on April 7, the apex court also ordered, “The CBI, through its Director, shall be made a party to the instant proceedings”. The notices were issued in all petitions for May 5.The court also granted permission to Kohler India Corporation Private Limited, another affected party, to file a special leave petition (SLP) in the matter. The Bench comprising Justice Uday Umesh Lalit and Justice Indira Banerjee observed, “We understand that in keeping with the direction issued by the High Court (the Punjab and Haryana High Court), a formal FIR has been registered by the CBI and investigation is being undertaken.”Anil Grover, Senior Additional Advocate General, appearing for Haryana, submitted that some officials of the state were called for interrogation and their statements had also been recorded. The CBI had registered the case on August 5, 2020, in the matter.Quashing the de-licencing orders, the high court, vide its order dated July 10, 2020, had ordered for fixing responsibility and had said that no item such as de-licencing existed in the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975 and its rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-extends-interim-stay-on-coercive-action-237603
11-04-2021||Karnal||Traders keep shutters down over firing incident||Traders of the Gharaunda market on Saturday kept their shutters down to protest against firing on a shopkeeper. They also blocked the railway road over rising crime.The blockade was lifted after SHO Mohan Lal assured them of cracking the case at the earliest.According to information, three miscreants, in a bid to loot Vinod Juneja, opened fire on him while he was sitting in his shop. A bullet hit him on the chest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-keep-shutters-down-over-firing-incident-237604
11-04-2021||---||Haryana teen wrestlers Anshu Malik, Sonam Malik qualify for Olympics||Chandigarh, April 10Five days before her 19th birthday, Haryana wrestler Sonam Malik gave herself the best possible gift when she qualified for the Tokyo Olympic Games. Adding icing to the cake was Sonam’s friend and one-time adversary Anshu Malik, 19, who too qualified for the Tokyo Games with an excellent performance at the Asian Olympic Qualifiers in Almaty, Kazakhstan, today.Sonepat girl Sonam had to come from behind to reach the final of the 62kg category, after being 0-6 down in the semifinals against Kazakhstan’s Ayaulym Kassymova. Sonam then won nine points in a row to earn an Olympics quota place. “The Kazakh girl was a very good wrestler and I was trailing 0-6, but I was confident of winning even after that. This is incredible,” said Sonam, who won gold in the 2018 and 2019 Cadet World Wrestling Championship. Sonam finished with a silver as she could not compete in the final today after she seemed to have injured her knee.Anshu, who is from Nidani village in Jind, was dominant on her way to the final of the 57kg category, conceding only two points in three bouts. In the final, she lost a hard-fought bout to Khongorzul Boldsakhian, who won 7-4. The two Maliks had reached Almaty around midnight, after a nine-hour halt between flights in Tashkent.Both weighed around 1kg above the permissible weight in their categories, which is normal for wrestlers before a tournament, but they had little time to lose weight at the venue in Almaty. They thus exercised at the Tashkent airport to sweat out some extra weight. Today morning when they stepped on the mat, their weight was just right, and they put up impressive performances, especially after their long travel, and lack of rest and acclimatisation in Almaty.The two girls were competitors in the 56kg category in their days as juniors. In 2016, they fought each other twice, both winning once. The two girls became friends at the national camp in Lucknow, and their families decided that they should compete in different weight categories.With this, the representation of Indian women wrestlers at Tokyo has gone up to three — another Haryana girl, Vinesh Phogat, had qualified for the Games through the World Championship in 2019.Sonam has established herself as India’s top wrestler in the 62kg division, with four wins in a row over Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik row. Sakshi had won her medal in the 58kg category but has been competing in the 60kg to 62kg divisions since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-teen-wrestlers-anshu-malik-sonam-malik-qualify-for-olympics-237495
11-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Adamant farmers block expressways||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 10Colourful tents, youths driving flag-bearing tractors with blasting music, local men in traditional attire smoking hookah in groups and women preparing variety of food items in langar at different points, such was the scene on 1-km-stretch of the KMP Expressway near Bahadurgarh on Saturday.24-hour blockadeFarmers started the 24-hour blockade of the KMP and KGP expressways today following a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in protest against the three farm laws.The protesters parked tractors and other vehicles in the middle of the expressways at 8 in the morning and pitched tents at several places to beat the heat. The dharna on Aasoda side (KMP) was led by BKU (Ekta) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan, while activists of the BKU (Rajewal), All-India Kisan Sabha and other outfits camped on the Mandothi side.A majority of the protesters were those camping at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border while local participation seemed low as compared to the March 6 protest when farmers had blocked the expressway for five hours to mark the 100th day of their agitation.Despite hot weather, there was a considerable presence of women, especially elderly, at the BKU (Ugrahan) camp. “We are here for a decisive battle and will go back only after winning it,” said Jagjit Kaur, an elderly protester.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adamant-farmers-block-expressways-237494
