12-04-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Bookies nabbed while betting on IPL match in Gurugram||Three bookies were arrested in a house in Sushant Lok area here while they were betting on an ongoing IPL cricket match on Sunday night.An FIR has been registered and police recovered four mobiles, one laptop and a notepad from their possession.The accused were produced in a city court today but were granted bail.Acting on a tipoff, a police team of crime unit, sector 17, led by unit head inspector Narender Chauhan raided a house in Sushant Lok area last night where three people were busy in betting.When police entered the house, they saw one of them talking on a phone and other writing in a register while a cricket match was on a laptop screen in front of them.“The accused were betting on ongoing IPL cricket match between the teams of Hyderabad and Kolkata. The house owner was not there and we are investigating the same and are looking for the house owner to nab him,” said inspector Narender Chauhan, investigating officer.The arrested accused are identified as local residents Chirag Kataria, Rajesh Kataria and Naresh Gupta.An FIR has been registered against the accused under sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act at Sushant Lok police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bookies-nabbed-while-betting-on-ipl-match-in-gurugram-238180
12-04-2021||---||Kaithal farmers show black flags to Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar||Karnal, April 11Opposing the visit of state BJP president OP Dhankar, scores of farmers today showed black flags to him on the Khanori road in Kaithal when he was going in his cavalcade to chair a programme to mark the 130th birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar.Yet another death at TikriJhajjar: A 37-year-old farmer, Lakhbir Singh, hailing from Dhaul Khurd village (Ludhiana), died after reportedly suffering a cardiac arrest at the Tikri border. His body was brought to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh on Sunday evening. He had been camping near Balour bypass in Bahadurgarh. TNSThe farmers also tried to cross the barricades, but the heavy police force managed to stop them.Carrying national and farmer union flags, farmers along with locals assembled near the venue, where the police had installed barricades to stop them. As soon as the convoy of Dhankar reached there, the farmers raised slogans against him, the BJP, the CM and the Deputy CM.Vikram, a farmer, said they had already announced boycott of the BJP-JJP leaders in the state till their demands of repealing the three farm laws are accepted. “The BJP is trying to divide society by organising such programmes, but people have understood its strategy and are united,” he said.Farmers threatened to continue the protest if any BJP-JJP leader tried to enter their villages or cities.Amid the protest, Dhankar reached the venue and addressed the gathering. Accompanied by Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini, Dhankar paid tribute to BR Ambedkar.When asked about the protest by farmers, he said the new laws would have no impact on the MSP. “It is not good to continue the protest,” he said, adding the government had already said it would amend the laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-farmers-show-black-flags-to-haryana-bjp-president-op-dhankar-237898
12-04-2021||---||Mining obstructed, 12 booked||Yamunanagar, April 11 The police have booked 12 farmers for allegedly obstructing mining work of a firm in the district’s Jathlana area.  On the complaint of Kanwaljeet Singh Batra, a case was registered against Karhera village farmers under Sections 120B, 147, 149, 341 and 506 of the IPC at the Jathlana police station on Saturday. The complainant said his firm M/S Kanwaljeet Singh Batra had taken a contract of the sand quarry of B-13 block (Model Town, Karhera) from the Haryana Government for seven years and started the mining work on April 24, 2018. He said his firm had taken the land on lease from farmers and the gram panchayat of Model Town, Karhera village. He said his firm made the payment to the owners of the said land through cheques in advance every year. “However, some farmers are now putting undue pressure on his firm to increase the payment of the land contract illegally,” alleged Kanwaljeet, in his police complaint. He alleged that those farmers were wrongly instigating others and obstructing the mining work. “When our earth-moving machines operate, these farmers scuffle with our staff and threaten them with dire consequences,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-obstructed-12-booked-237899
12-04-2021||Hisar||Withdraw case against scribe Rajesh Kundu, seek panchayats||The panchayats of five villages have come out in support of web journalist Rajesh Kundu, who has been booked for “cyber terror”.The panchayat held at Pabra, the native village of Kundu, has demanded the withdrawal of the criminal case against him and threatened to launch an agitation if the government tried to suppress the voice of the media.Meanwhile, the police today questioned the cameraman of the journalist.Earlier, a delegation of journalists from Hisar and other places called on Home Minister Anil Vij in Ambala, who assured them of a fair inquiry into the matter before taking any further step.Kundu has been booked under Sections 153 A and 153 B of the IPC, and Section 66 F of the IT Act on the basis of his social media post on the farmers’ protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-case-against-scribe-rajesh-kundu-seek-panchayats-237900
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram court issues warrant against District Town Planner||A bailable warrant has been issued against District Town Planner (DTP) RS Bhat for not having appeared in court in connection with the alleged fraud in the allotment of EWS plots.He was directed to submit the records of EWS plots allotted by Ansal Buildwell Ltd in Suhant Lok Phase 2 and 3 here. The builder, in “connivance” with officials of the DTP’s office, had allegedly sold 20 per cent of EWS plots at a whopping price.Sushant Lok resident Rajendra Kumar Goel had moved court, alleging discrepancies in the plot allotment. The DTP’s office has allegedly not submitted these documents, claiming the record are “untraceable”.Bath said he would arrange all records dating to 1985 and submit those in the court on the next hearing on July 14. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-court-issues-warrant-against-district-town-planner-237901
12-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Protesting farmers reach out to commuters||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 11The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s 24-hour blockade on the KMP expressway caused inconvenience to commuters. However, bonhomie between protesters and commuters could be seen at the protest site near Bahadurgarh on Saturday night.Only Congress can repeal laws: SeljaPalwal: State Congress chief Kumari Selja on Sunday accused the BJP government in the state and at the Centre of being ‘anti-farmer’. She claimed that it was only the Congress that was capable of revoking the three agricultural laws that had left farmers and the common man in distress. She was addressing party workers at Prithla village. tnsThe protesters apologised to the commuters stuck in the blockade then served them food, while the latter thanked the farmers while moving ahead on Sunday morning.The protesters blocked the expressway at various points in Jhajjar and Sonepat districts from 8 am on Saturday.“I knew about the blockade but expected to reach a factory in Bahadurgarh from Uttar Pradesh before 8 am on Saturday but got stuck near Aasoda village. My truck was loaded with costly wood hence I couldn’t go anywhere in search of food at night but the farmers bailed out me of this crisis,” said Manish, a truck driver from Bulandshahar.Ram Tirath, another truck driver from Saharanpur, said more than 50 vehicles got stuck and the drivers had no option except to wait for the dharna to be lifted. “We all were angry with the farmers for blocking the expressway but the emotions mellowed down as soon as they came to us in the evening. Firstly, they felt sorry for the inconvenience and then requested us to partake of langar.”Meanwhile, Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said their intention was not to trouble anyone but it became imperative to send out a message to the Centre that the farmers were still united and won’t go back without getting the laws repealed. “We ensured food to all those stuck in the blockade,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-reach-out-to-commuters-237902
12-04-2021||Sonepat||CM Manohar Lal Khattar to face farmers' protest in Sonepat||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha today decided to oppose the visit of CM Manohar Lal Khattar to Badoli village of Sonepat district on April 14.It has been decided in the Sarvjatiya Sarvakhap Panchayat held at the Antil khap dharna site under the chairmanship of Hawa Singh, president, Antil khap.The CM will visit Badoli village for the state-level programme on the birth anniversary of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on April 14.“It was unanimously decided in the panchayat that the CM’s visit to Badoli village of the Rai Assembly on April 14 will be peacefully opposed,” said Rakesh Tikait of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Tikait made it clear that they were not against the unveiling of the Ambedkar’s statue, but the CM’s visit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-manohar-lal-khattar-to-face-farmers-protest-in-sonepat-237903
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Submit reports on disciplinary cases, depts told||The government has asked its departments to prepare progress reports of pending disciplinary cases against government employees. The departments have been asked to submit the reports in a week. An order of the Chief Secretary noted cases against the employees under the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal), 2016, were pending for long. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/submit-reports-on-disciplinary-cases-depts-told-237904
12-04-2021||Yamunanagar||4,500 wheat bags destroyed in fire||At least 4,500 bags of wheat destroyed in a fire that broke out at a purchase centre at Ranjitpur village here on Sunday afternoon.As many as 22 intact bales of jute bags, four bikes and two power generators of arhtiyas were also destroyed. The exact quantity and amount of the loss is yet to be assessed.Surender Singh, district manager of HAFED, said the cause behind the fire incident was still unknown. Initially, it broke out in the hut of a labourer. Later, it spread to the purchase centre.Mohan Lal, president of the Arhtiyas’ Association, has sought a compensation from the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-500-wheat-bags-destroyed-in-fire-237905
12-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Cousin held for raping minor in Yamunanagar||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused by her cousin at a colony here.On the complaint of the victim’s mother, Dharmendra, a native of Bihar and the son of her sister-in-law, has been booked under Section 6 the POCSO Act.Sadar police station SHO Manoj Kumar said the accused was arrested yesterday. He was produced in a a local court, which sent him to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cousin-held-for-raping-minor-in-yamunanagar-237906
12-04-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij inaugurates park named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Ambala Cantt||Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today inaugurated Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Park, constructed at a cost of Rs 25.80 crore on 17 acres, in the Ambala Cantonment.The minister accused the Congress of ignoring freedom fighters like Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, and Rajguru. Addressing the gathering, Vij said, “We have been taught wrong history.”Vij said, “The 1857 revolt, the first struggle for freedom, started at Ambala Cantonment. To commemorate the sacrifice of first revolt heroes, a memorial is being constructed so that the people can know the real history.”About the park, Vij said, “During the Congress rule, some influential people tried to grab this land. We fought against them and got the land freed. The then CM Bansi Lal had given Rs 30 lakh for the park. A majority of the projects in the country are named after the Nehru and Gandhi family. After a lot of deliberation, we decided to name the park after Subhas Chandra Bose, who fought the British.”“There is a kids’ zone, open gym, lake, musical fountain, open-air theater, and other facilities in this park,” the minister said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-inaugurates-park-named-after-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-in-ambala-cantt-237907
12-04-2021||---||Revoke closure order or face stir, Ambala schools tell govt||Ambala, April 11Unhappy with the state government’s orders to shut schools for Classes I to VIII till April 30 amid spike in Covid cases, asection of local private schools has asked the authorities to withdraw the decision. If not, the schools said, they would have no option but to protest.Biggest-ever spikeJhajjar first district in state to launch ‘vax fest’ for cops The private schools’ operators today gathered under the banners of the Integrated Private Schools Welfare Society and Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, and termed government’s order “anti-education”.Saurabh Kapoor, president, Integrated Private Schools Welfare Society, said: “The schools remained closed during the last academic session. Now, the situation was returning to normal when the government decided to shut schools again. The government’s priority should be education. Unfortunately, this has not been the case of late.”He added the government should withdraw its decision or else schools would be forced to protest.Private schools have decided to hold a demonstration in front of Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel’s residence on April 19 and submit a memorandum in support of their demands for the Education Minister and the Chief Minister.The Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association has decided not to close schools.Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the association, said: “We fail to understand what the government is trying to achieve by closing schools while all shops and businesses remain open. We will submit memorandums to DCs and announce the future course of action in Chandigarh soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revoke-closure-order-or-face-stir-ambala-schools-tell-govt-237908
12-04-2021||---||Haryana to get more Vita booths soon||Faridabad, April 11The number of Vita booths will be raised in the state soon to popularise the usage of milk products of cooperative dairies.This was announced by Cooperatives Minister Dr Banwari Lal while presiding over a function here. Launching the ‘masala chhach’ (buttermilk) and ‘dahi’(curd), two new products of the Vita Milk Plant at Ballabgarh here on Saturday evening, Dr Lal said the state government was working on expanding the number of Vita booths in the state to make homemade dairy products easily available to consumers. He said chhach (400 ml) and dahi (500 grams) manufactured at the plant, would be sold at a retail price of Rs 10 and Rs 30 per packet, respectively. He said the number of Vita booths of the Ballabgarh plant is proposed to be raised to 400 from the present 147 booths. Besides, the regular ones, 16 model booths will also be set up in the city to popularise Vita items.Stressing on the need of proper marketing, he said the commission of the retailers had been raised to strengthen the distribution network and the expansion of dairy related work . This will mean more income to the people involved in the sector. He said while 90,000 litres of milkwas processed at the Ballabgarh plant, hygiene and quality would remain the main priority in preparation of all the byproducts.Claiming that while the sale of spurious and adulterated food items, including milk items, had been a cause for concern, he said consumers would be assured of proper quality and hygiene. However, he said measures would be taken to curb the sale of adulterated food items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-get-more-vita-booths-soon-237909
12-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Maharaja Agrasen parking now open to public||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 11The newly constructed three-storey Maharaja Agrasen parking near the Durga Bhawan temple has been thrown open to the public by the Municipal Corporation.Area councillor Dimpal Jain said the parking facility would provide a major relief from traffic congestion in crowded markets in the area. Since a tender to run the facility was yet to be floated, no charges would be taken for now. Thereafter, nominal amount would be charged on hourly basis, he added.He said a cafeteria had also been constructed on thetop floor of the complex.Mayor Manmohan Goyal said the project was announced by the CM in May 2017. “The issue pertaining to the operation and upkeep of the facility was discussed at the recent meeting of the General House of the MC, which decided to invite applications for the same. It will help reduce traffic congestion in nearby markets to a large extent,” Goyal added.Several crowded markets are situated around the parking facility. Earlier, in the absence of a dedicated space in the congested area, people would park their vehicles on the roadside, leading to long jams. The complex has parking facility for 70 four-wheelers and 260 two-wheelers. It has been connected with a three-km elevated road used by commuters to avoid the crowded area of the Bhiwani stand.“Despite the deployment of adequate traffic police, the stretch from the Quilla road to the Durga Bhawan temple remains crowded as shopkeepers and customers park their vehicles on the roadside in the absence of any dedicated facility. The new parking lot will help ease traffic congestion,” said Ramesh Kumar, a shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maharaja-agrasen-parking-now-open-to-public-237910
12-04-2021||In the era of computerisation||Gunny bag shortage in mandis||Surge in criminal activities in tricity disturbingIt disturbed me when I came to know of the increasing crime incidents in the Tricity, which is quite alarming. Anti-social elements have been active. Many snatching incidents have been reported daily despite the pandemic. In a recent incident, a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a gold chain from a 57-year-old woman in Sector 23. The administrations must take note of it and act at once. — Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaRusted Signboard in Ambala parkThe HSVP signboard bears warning that playing cricket, hockey, football etc. and taking pets for a stroll is prohibited. For any infringement, a fine has also been proposed. This sighboard is rusted and many wordings are not readable. People violate norms in this park by playing cricket regularly and harass people living closeby and damage panes of windows and vehicles. On many occasions it has turned into a verbal spat. The matter has been brought to the notice of the administration, but all in vain. We hope the administration will look into the issue seriously. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gunny-bag-shortage-in-mandis-237947
12-04-2021||Karnal||Sweet news for cane growers||A first for Ambala hospitalAmbala: Doctors of local Civil Hospital performed the shoulder arthroscopy surgery on a woman with a rotator cuff tear. She suffered the injury in an accident after which she was having constant pain. She was admitted subsequently and operated by Dr Nishant Setia and Dr Vinod Kamboj. This is the first case of shoulder arthroscopic surgery performed at the Ambala City Civil Hospital.Teachers’ stir completes 300 daysHisar: Sacked PTI teachers, holding a dharna for their demand of reinstatement, completed 300 days of the protest on Sunday. PTI Teachers’ Association district president Dilbag Jangra said they had started their protest after 1,983 teachers lost their jobs following the SC verdict. He said they demanded the state government should take measures for the reinstatement of the teachers, who had lost the means of their livelihood.Leader out of ‘site’Gurugram: Senior Congress leader Capt Ajay Yadav and relatively new entrant Sukhbir Katatria had an argument in front of their supporters during a protest here. Kataria had reportedly changed the venue for the assembly of workers without informing Yadav, who was to lead the protest. While Yadav waited at the party office with his supporters, Kataria was at Mor Chowk ready to flag the protest march.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sweet-news-for-cane-growers-237948
12-04-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Resume talks, Anil Vij writes to Narendra Tomar; farmer unions see plot to abort their stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Citing the second Covid wave, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday wrote to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urging him to resume talks with the protesting farmers, even as the agitation entered the136th day.Apprehending that the Centre could use the rising Covid cases as a ploy to forcibly disperse the protesters, farmers’ leaders said they would not budge from the Singhu and Tikri borders but were willing to resume talks if the government agreed to repeal the three controversial agri laws.The deadlockThe stalemate between farmers’ unions and the Centre has persisted since January 22 when the 11th round of talks took place“There is no Covid scare at the election rallies attended by big leaders of the BJP. If the Covid threat at the protest sites was real, our agitation would not have lasted this long without a majority of farmers testing positive for the virus. We will stay put till the laws are repealed,” a resolute Gurnam Singh Charuni of the BKU (Charuni) faction told The Tribune.The general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal), Harinder Singh Lakhowal, said they had been protesting at the Delhi borders for over four months now. “We are convinced that Covid can’t kill us, but the three black laws certainly will,” he maintained, emphasising that the Centre must set a date for resuming the talks, “if it genuinely has the interest of the farmers at heart.”Harpal Singh Sangha, president, Azad Kisan Committee, Doaba, said: “Over 350 farmers have died during the stir but not a single one due to Covid. This is merely a propaganda to quell our protest. But we will stay put till our demands are met.”In his letter, Vij said he was alarmed over the “thousands of agitating farmers sitting on the borders of Haryana” and did not want the virus to spread as the farmers were not following Covid norms. Stressing that the issue could only be resolved through a dialogue, Vij wrote:” I request you to resume talks to resolve the matter and end the protest.”The stalemate between farmers’ unions and the Centre has persisted since January 22 when the 11th round of talks took place. Referring to the Covid surge, Tomar has already urged the farmers to call off their stir and come up with a proposal for talks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resume-talks-anil-vij-writes-to-narendra-tomar-farmer-unions-see-plot-to-abort-their-stir-237972
12-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers' protest: To beat the heat, bamboo huts come up at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 11With temperature heading north, bamboo huts and sheds with green nets replaced tractor-trailers at Singhu. Over 110 huts have been set up with facilities such as refrigerators, air coolers and fans to give farmers respite from the scorching heat.The farmers are spending Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh on such hut. Migrant labourers are working overtime to meet the growing demand.The rising temperature has taken a toll on gathering at Singhu, the epicentre of the farmers’ protest, although farmer leaders claim it is due to the ongoing harvest season.Ravinder Singh Phagwara of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar said they had been putting up at the Delhi border since November 26 last year. “It was easy during the winter months.Although staying in the open in scorching heat is difficult, we will not give up,” he said.“Bamboo huts covered with tarpaulin and mosquito nets have been set up. A well-equipped hut costs around Rs 1.5 lakh and it can house now 40-45 people at one time,” he said.Sharanpreet Singh, Ranjeet Singh and Amritpal Singh of Jalandhar have equipped their tractor-trailer with an air conditioner. They said they won’t step back till the laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-to-beat-the-heat-bamboo-huts-come-up-at-singhu-border-237968
12-04-2021||Hisar||Journalist booked for ‘cyber-terrorism’ in Haryana over social media post||The Haryana Police have booked a Hisar-based journalist for “cyber-terrorism” and “promoting enmity between classes” for one of his alleged social media posts.The case was registered by the police against Rajesh Kundu, who runs a news portal, on Friday under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology (IT) Act.Opposition leaders, including Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kumari Selja, Deepender Singh Hooda of the Congress and INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala, have condemned the registration of the case against Kundu. They have demanded that the case be immediately withdrawn.Police said the journalist has been booked on charges of promoting enmity between different classes, assertions prejudicial to national integration and cyber-terrorism for one of his social media posts.According to the FIR, in the social media post, Kundu had said Hisar would witness caste-based violence in a week and this will be a blueprint for an experiment in the state and then in the country.The FIR was lodged on a complaint filed by a Hisar police official.District police spokesperson Vikas stated in his complaint that inflammatory messages, which could incite the public, were allegedly sent to WhatsApp groups and over Facebook from Kundu’s mobile phone number and this can have an impact on maintaining peace.Therefore, a case should be registered against him, the complainant sought.On the basis of the complaint, a case under sections 153A (promoting enmity between classes), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and 66F (cyber-terrorism) of the IT Act was registered against the scribe here on April 9.Kundu has been extensively covering the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three new agriculture laws of the Centre.The FIR triggered a strong reaction from Haryana journalists as well as opposition parties, who slammed the police move.The opposition leaders claimed that the case was lodged against Kundu because he was raising the farmers’ voice through his social media handles.“When the government could not break the ongoing farmer agitation, it lodged an FIR against journalist Rajesh Kundu, who has become a voice of the farmers. Neither this voice can be suppressed nor the farmer agitation,” Surjewala said in a tweet.Journalists in Hisar held an emergency meeting at the PWD Rest House on Saturday evening and slammed the police for lodging the case against Kundu.The Chandigarh Press Club also condemned the registration of the FIR against the Hisar-based journalist.“Kundu was vocal in raising the farmers’ voice during the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Now, Hisar police have booked him under charges of ‘cyber terrorism’ and ‘promoting communal disharmony’ over an alleged message that he posted on a WhatsApp group and Facebook,” Press Club secretary general Saurabh Duggal said in a statement.The statement mentioned that Kundu has maintained that he was “just performing his duty as a responsible citizen and as a journalist by sharing a post regarding his apprehension of violence on the basis of information received through sources”.“With this post, I just wanted to alert the people so that such a situation can be averted,” the Press Club statement quoted Kundu as saying.“In these circumstances, the registration of a criminal case against the journalist is highly condemnable. Not only this, the police have conducted raids at several places in Hisar apparently to create fear among the media fraternity,” it said, adding that the Press Club will raise the matter with the chief minister. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/journalist-booked-for-cyber-terrorism-in-haryana-over-social-media-post-237710
12-04-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Overloaded vehicles from Punjab hit mining business||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, April 10Overloaded vehicles from Punjab are allegedly adversely hitting mining business of Haryana.After strictness by the Haryana Government against overloaded vehicles in the state, stone-crusher owners of Haryana are loading less building construction material, including sand, stone, bajri etc, in trucks from their stone-crushers and screening plants.However, overloaded trucks are still coming from Punjab to Haryana, causing a huge financial loss to the Haryana stone crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters.The Stone Crusher Association, Yamunanagar has written a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, requesting him to put a ban on overloaded vehicles coming from Punjab to Haryana.“Overloaded vehicles carrying sand, stone and bajri are coming in Haryana from Punjab in violation of the policy of the Haryana Government made against overloading. The vehicles enter Haryana through Kaithal, Pehwa, Ambala and Narwana (situated on Punjab border),” alleged Rampal Kamboj, president, Stone Crusher Association, Yamunanagar.He said the mining material coming from Punjab was being sold at cheaper rates due to overloading, causing a huge financial loss to the Haryana stone-crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters.He said the rates of their material were higher due to proper weight carried in the vehicles.He added that it would be difficult to do business for them in such circumstances if the Haryana government didn’t take some concrete steps to stop the entry of Punjab’s overloaded vehicles.“Our business of sand, stone, stone dust, core-sand and bajri is reducing day by day. Therefore, the state government should immediately take some steps to stop the entry of the overloaded vehicles coming from Punjab to Haryana,” said Rampal Kamboj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overloaded-vehicles-from-punjab-hit-mining-business-237584
