13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Not in favour of imposing lockdown: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||A day after the Haryana government imposed a night curfew to check the rising number of COVID-19 cases, Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of lockdown in the state and asserted that COVID-related guidelines will be implemented strictly.The number of daily cases in Haryana has been on the rise with Gurgaon and Faridabad districts being the worst hit.On the possibility of imposing lockdown to contain the surge in cases, Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said, “We are not in favour of imposing lockdown. We are not considering this as of now. We want life to go on and at the same time lives should be saved (from coronavirus) and that is possible with strictness.”“Keeping in view the growing number of coronavirus cases, we have imposed night curfew and taken other steps like imposing restrictions on gatherings,” he said.For indoor gatherings, 50 per cent of hall capacity with a maximum of 200 people is allowed while not more than 500 people are allowed in outdoor gatherings. Not more than 20 people are allowed for a funeral, he added.“We are taking all necessary steps, but we can succeed only with people’s cooperation,” Vij said.He urged people to show the same seriousness in following the guidelines as they had shown last year.“Everyone will have to strictly follow the guidelines. Wearing masks when out of home is a must. People will have to religiously follow all guidelines if we have to check the spread of cases,” he said.On reports about the exodus of migrants following the imposition of curbs and night curfew, the minister reiterated, “No one needs to leave or go anywhere. We are not going to impose lockdown.”         As far as those who work during night shifts are concerned, they can reach their workplace before 9 pm and after 5 am when there are no curfew restrictions, he said.Vij said that additional chief secretaries of departments of home, health and urban local bodies have been instructed to ensure that people wear masks and follow all other COVID-related guidelines.He assured that there is sufficient stock of COVID-19 vaccines and all other arrangements are in place to check the spread of the disease.He added that 45,000 quarantine beds, 11,500 isolation beds, 2,100 ICU beds are available besides a sufficient number of PPE kits and masks, etc.Vij said 70 per cent of total active cases in the state currently are under home isolation and health department teams regularly monitoring them.So far, 26 lakh people have been vaccinated in the state and a target of inoculating 10 lakh more during the four-day vaccine festival has been set.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Thursday said states should observe the vaccine festival from April 11 to 14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against COVID-19. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-in-favour-of-imposing-lockdown-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-238639
13-04-2021||New Delhi||Southwest Monsoon 2021: Forecaster Skymet predicts 103 per cent rain for India||Private forecaster Skymet Weather has predicted Monsoon rains at 103 per cent (907 mm) of the Long Period Average rains for India, ranging between “normal and above normal”, with a model error of five per cent. This is the third year in succession that India may see “above normal” rains during the season. The last time it happened was in 1996, 1997, and 1998, Skymet said.  While most pasts of the country are expected to see “good rains”, some parts in the Northwest, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana, and Eastern parts of the country are expected to see some deficiency during initial parts of the season, the Skymet said. The Northwest is expected to see above-normal rains in September, the Skymet said.The monsoon usually reaches Northwest India at the end of June.Historically, there has been a vast difference in rain distribution over Punjab and Haryana.Last year Punjab reported a rain surplus, whereas Haryana recorded deficient rainfall.This year, in July and August, the states may report "some deficiency between 10 to 15 per cent"."However, the month of September seems to be rain surplus therefore, we do not expect any major risk in terms of rainfall over Punjab and Haryana," said Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather.Skymet said that there is “no cause of concern” so far as the food bowl of the country is concerned    Overall, there is a 70 per cent probability of “normal” rains with very little, only 10 per cent probability of “below normal” rains in June. In July, there is a 75 per cent probability of “normal” rains and only 15 per cent of “below normal” rains. In August, there is an 80 per cent probability of “normal” monsoon, 10 per cent “above normal” and 10 per cent of “below normal” rains. In September, there is a 30 per cent probability of “normal” rains and as much as 60 per cent of “above normal” rains, Skymet said. September is expected to see good rains, above 16 per cent in most parts of the country, including the Northwest.Ahead of the onset of the much-awaited rains over the Indian mainland two key factors, La Nina, and Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD), are “softening”, returning to neutral levels. The Skymet also ruled out the possibility of El Nino, which means SSTs may remain “neutral” during the 2021 Monsoon season, meaning that it may not give a “boost” and, also not “harm” the monsoon in any way. Similarly, the IOD index is also expected to be neutral, “not affect rains in any significant manner”, during the June-September season, according to the first forecast of the seasonOfficial forecaster India Meteorological Department (IMD) is expected to come out with its forecast for the seasonal rains on which almost two-thirds of India’s agricultural tracts depend upon for irrigation. Warmer than normal SSTs normally lead to more cloud formation and rains. In those terms, La Nina, or say a warmer West Pacific, and positive IOD, that is warmer West Indian Ocean, are indicative of good rains. El Nino or colder SSTs and negative IOD indicate otherwise.Last year saw El Nino weakening and La Nina developing during the second half of the season, factors that gave the country rains 109 per cent of the Long Period Average, third-highest after 112 per cent (in 1994) and 110 per cent (in 2019) according to the IMD. Monsoon rains are also important for replenishing groundwater and from this season onwards the official forecaster is also planning to provide estimates of possible increase and availability of water levels in river basins and reservoirs for better water management. Ends||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/southwest-monsoon-2021-forecaster-skymet-predicts-103-per-cent-rain-for-india-238546
13-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Police beat boxes  to be set up at 20 roundabouts in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 12The Municipal Corporation will install police beat boxes at 20 roundabouts in the city under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode to facilitate the traffic and other policemen deputed there for maintaining law and order.Will work as small police postThe boxes having the facilities of fans and chairs will work like a small police post as the cops will be present there. At present, no such facility is available in the city hence the policemen deployed at the roundabouts have to stand under trees and other structures to protect themselves from scorching heat or rain.The corporation has passed a proposal at its recently held general House meeting and also decided to float a tender to invite private firms for the purpose.Sources said the process to set up the police beat boxes in the city was initiated after a private firm approached the corporation authorities and put up a proposal to install the boxes at its cost and pay a monthly rent for the same. It also sought permission to insert some advertisement on the boxes to generate earnings.The corporation placed the proposal before its general House meeting, which passed it with the conditions that the firm would pay it Rs 2,500 per month per box. Initially, it will install two boxes at two places—Ashoka Chowk and Rajeev Chowk— in the city as a pilot project. Thereafter, more boxes will be set up in the coming days.Mayor Manmohan Goyal said at the general House meeting it was decided to enter into an agreement with a private firm, which moved the proposal for the beat boxes but now, they were planning to float an open tender to invite all those firms interested in the project.“A final call in this respect will be taken soon. Besides facilitating the police personnel, the beat boxes will also enhance the beauty of the city,” Goyal added. DSP Gorakhpal Rana said the beat box would show the presence of police personnel at the roundabout and create a sense of security among people hence it was a good move by the civic body.“Except the traffic cops, two other police personnel have been deployed at every roundabout and outside the educational institutes in the city to maintain law and order. Besides them, riders too remain on patrolling round-the-clock to discourage anti-social elements,” said the DSP on being asked about the security arrangement in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-beat-boxes-to-be-set-up-at-20-roundabouts-in-rohtak-238400
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to give Rs 51-lakh scholarships to Sanskrit students||CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who is also the president of the Haryana Sanskrit Akademi, has made a provision of Rs 51.11 lakh scholarship for Sanskrit students, who cleared the examinations of Pratham, Purvamadhyama, Uttarmadhyama, Visharad, Prakshastri, Shastri and Acharya in 2018 and 2019. Dinesh Shastri, Director of the akademi, said, “The state government is honouring those who propagate the Sanskrit culture and teach the language. The government also honours writers and littérateurs who contribute to the field of Sanskrit every year.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-give-rs-51-lakh-scholarships-to-sanskrit-students-238401
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Three bookies arrested while betting on IPL match in Gurugram||Three bookies were arrested in a house in Sushant Lok while they were betting on an ongoing IPL cricket match last night. An FIR has been registered and the police seized four mobiles, one laptop and a notepad from their possession. The accused were produced in a city court today, but later granted bail.Acting on a tip-off, a police team of the crime unit, sector 17, led by unit head Inspector Narender Chauhan raided a house in the Sushant Lok area last night when the trio was busy betting. When the police entered the house, they saw one of them talking on phones and the other writing in a register while a cricket match was on a laptop screen in front of them. “The accused were betting on the ongoing IPL cricket match between Hyderabad and Kolkata. The house owner was not there and we are investigating into the matter and are looking for the house owner to nab him”, said Investigating Officer Inspector Narender Chauhan. The accused have been identified as Chirag Kataria, Rajesh Kataria and Naresh Gupta. An FIR has been registered at the Sushant Lok police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-bookies-arrested-while-betting-on-ipl-match-in-gurugram-238402
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram to get discom front office to handle rising plaints||Gurugram, April 12Much to the respite of thousands of residents and in the wake of rampant complaints, Haryana Power Minister Ranjit Singh announced setting up of a “front office” in Gurugram.The minister had been approached by industries and resident welfare associations (RWAs) complaining about no response or delayed action on power-related complaints.Singh said that instead of sending the complaints to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), Hisar, these would be resolved at the new front office in Gurugram.He said that Gurugram, Faridabad and Dharuhera are industrial hubs from where the power companies generate revenue. Hence, the power corporation would try to solve the problems of entrepreneurs.“Once a week, the Managing Director of DHBVN or his representative will review the power supply to industries in Gurugram. I will review the situation every 15 days,” said Ranjit Singh during a meeting with industrial associations.He said that in the next three months, the grievance redressal system in Gurugram would be improved.He said that the electricity bill of industries would be sent through e-mail after which they would be given seven working days to make the payment. These would not include bank holidays.On the demand of entrepreneurs, the minister said that data related to how much electricity was consumed by the industry, the payment amount etc would be made available online.On the demand for setting up a 66 KV sub-station at Sector-37, Gurugram, Ranjit Singh said that a decision would be taken in a week and industrial associations would be informed about it.Taking note of a complaint that transformers had been installed very low in Kadipur and Basai industrial areas, the Power Minister directed their installation on a platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-get-discom-front-office-to-handle-rising-plaints-238403
13-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Charki Dadri man quits job to open milk parlour||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 12After having worked at a couple of multi-national companies (MNCs) for nearly a decade, corporate executive Pradeep Singh quit his job and started a milk parlour here.A few months into the business, Pradeep (35), a native of Charkhi Dadri district, suffered a setback during the Covid-induced lockdown, but he did not lose hope. Determined, he achieved a turnover of Rs 4.5 million in just 18 months.He supports more than 10 dairy farmers and employs nine workers at his milk parlour-cum-eating joint. “I was earning well as a corporate marketing executive, but in the heart I knew that it was not my calling. So I convinced my family to switch to entrepreneurship,” says Pradeep.He made a humble beginning by selling cow milk on a mobile vending-cart. Gradually, he moved to a rented accommodation on the busy Delhi road.“I had to keep the shutters down for three months when the lockdown was in force. But I had faith in my workers and I retained them despite not having any income. I had to borrow money from my family to stay afloat during the testing times. As the restrictions were lifted, the business bounced back,” he recalls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charki-dadri-man-quits-job-to-open-milk-parlour-238404
13-04-2021||Ambala||Follow Covid SOPs during Navratras, religious places told||As a large number of people are expected to visit religious places during Navratras starting from Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, Ashok Sharma has ordered strict compliance of Covid-related SOPs in religious places. The DC has asked all religious places to ensure sanitiser dispenser and thermal screening, permission to asymptomatic persons only, using face masks, social distancing, separate entry and exits for visitors, washing of hands and feet before entering the premises, no physical offerings and to ensure regular disinfection. In case of a suspected or confirmed case on the premises, the management of the religious place will inform the Health Department following which risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority and further action will be initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-covid-sops-during-navratras-religious-places-told-238405
13-04-2021||---||Taraori police station best in Haryana||Karnal, April 12The Taraori police station has been adjudged the best police station of the state in the annual ranking of police stations for 2020. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued a certificate of best police station 2020 to the Taraori police station.Congratulating Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia and Taraori police station staff for the achievement, Manoj Yadava, Director General of Police (DGP), said that the annual ranking of best police stations is carried out every year by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.Apart from selecting 10 best police stations in the country, state-wise ranking is also issued wherein Taraori police station has figured. He appreciated the efforts of the police station team and said that this would also inspire the staff of other police stations to improve their performance at all levels. “The Union government has adopted a uniform model of ranking police stations in the country. The basic objective of the ranking is to improve the quality of policing and make it citizen-friendly,” the DGP said.He further informed that Haryana Police Academy (HPA), Madhuban, and RTC Bhondsi had also bagged the Union Home Minister’s trophies for the best training institution in the country recently.SP Karnal Punia also congratulated the SHO and the staff members. He said that it is a proud moment for the Karnal police and it would also motivate other police stations to do better on all the parameters fixed by the Union ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/taraori-police-station-best-in-haryana-238406
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hassle-free mutation of property  soon||Getting mutation of property, the transfer or change of title entry in revenue records, is set to be transparent and hassle-free in Haryana. Under a new system put in place by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, mutation can now be automatically generated on the same day after the registration of the deed of sale, mortgage with possession, gift exchange and family transfer. According to a notification issued by Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR), the new system would be operational in those revenue estates where the HARIS/HALRIS/Web-HALRIS systems had already been implemented. “The mutation shall be displayed on the HALRIS portal and if any party has any objection to the sanctioning of the mutation, it can file an objection ,” the notification said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hassle-free-mutation-of-property-soon-238407
13-04-2021||---||Cases up, 9 pm-5 am curfew across Haryana||Chandigarh, April 12The Haryana Government today imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in view of the rising Covid numbers in the state.Weddings to be hitThe marriage season is going to start on Tuesday and we have already taken bookings. We want the government to relax the timing. — Col Manbeer Choudhary, HotelierIn an order issued today, ACS Revenue and Disaster Management Sanjeev Kaushal pointed out that this was imperative “as a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles during night has been reported”.However, those with curfew passes and those tasked with law and order or emergency duties, including executive magistrates, police personnel, military, health, power, fire and media persons with accreditation, are exempted.There will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.Also, vehicles or persons in bonafide transit will be allowed to pass, but only after verification of the point of origin and destination.The decision of the state government to impose night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases has not gone down well with hoteliers. They have asked the government to impose the curfew from midnight to 5 am.“The marriage season is going to start from Tuesday due to Navratras and we have already taken bookings for the marriages and have also given advance for the services in the marriages. We want the government to relax the timing at least for three hours so that the marriages could be held easily,” said Col Manbeer Choudhary (retd), president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana (HRAH).He said they had already sent a memorandum to the Chief Minister and the Prime Minister in this regard, requesting them not to take harsh decision as these nine days (Navratras) are very crucial for the hotel industry as most of the celebrations are held at night.“The economic growth trajectory of the MSME in Haryana is trying to get back on its feet, especially the hospitality industry. With the onset of Navratras, the hotel sector is looking up to some business in the coming days. We request the government to relax the timing,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-up-9-pm-5-am-curfew-across-haryana-238408
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar ready for talks with private schools||Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar on Monday said the government was ready for a dialogue with school managements over the issue of the closure of classes I to VIII amid the Covid surge.   Gujjar said, “The Covid cases are rising across the nation. Other states have also closed down the schools. There has been a surge in Haryana too. Parents are scared. That is why we have taken the decision to close down the schools for the time being. If school operators across the state want to have a dialogue, it is always welcome.” Federation of Private Schools’ Association president Kulbhushan Sharma said, “The state has been functioning normally. Rallies are being held and polls are taking place. Even the temples are open. Why not make everything online? Also, parents are sending their wards to schools as per their own will. No one is forcing them.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-education-minister-kanwar-pal-gujjar-ready-for-talks-with-private-schools-238409
13-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Fire destroys wheat crop||A fire destroyed wheat spread over 100 acres in Kheri Shishgran, Gumthala Garhu, Dera Fateh Singh and Santpura of Pehowa on Monday. At least five tubewells and their wirings reportedly also got damaged. Besides, sugarcane crop on seven acres was gutted in Thana village. Satish Kumar, Fire Officer, said short circuit was suspected to be the cause of fire. No loss of life or injuries has been reported. The fire started at Kheri Shishgran. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-destroys-wheat-crop-238410
13-04-2021||Kaithal||Kalayat: No-confidence motion, BJP MC chief Rajni Rani loses post||The Kalayat Municipal Council (MC) chairperson and BJP leader Rajni Rani lost her post as a no-confidence motion was passed against her at a House meeting held here today. Of the 13 votes, she got only four, while nine supported the no-trust motion.  Rana blamed the Minister of State Kamlesh Dhanda for “hatching a conspiracy to remove her from the post”. However, Dhanda denied the charges. She was elected chairman two and a half years ago.   “I worked hard for the party and the development of the town, but the minister has hatched conspiracy against me,” the outgoing chairperson said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalayat-no-confidence-motion-bjp-mc-chief-rajni-rani-loses-post-238411
13-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS runs out of Covaxin, residents prefer ‘Modi wala tika’||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 12With a majority of local residents preferring to get Covaxin jabs instead of Covishield, Rohtak PGIMS has run out of Covaxin stock. The PGIMS authorities have requested the Health Department for more doses of Covaxin.“As of now, we are left with a small number of doses of Covaxin, which are being administered to the persons who have got the first jab of Covaxin and have come for the second dose,” says Dr RB Jain, the nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination at PGIMS. Dr Jain said they required 3,000 doses of Covaxin and had been repeatedly urging the Health Department authorities to ensure its timely supply. As of now, the persons visiting the PGIMS to get the first dose of anti-Covid vaccine were being told that they could have Covishield jabs, while Covaxin jabs were being given only to those who had already got the first dose of Covaxin.A substantial number of residents coming to get themselves vaccinated demand Covaxin as it has been administered to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “They want to get jabs of the ‘Modi wala tika’ as they consider it safer and more effective,” said a healthcare professional associated with the vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-runs-out-of-covaxin-residents-prefer-modi-wala-tika-238412
13-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Haryana reports 18,748 new infections in 7 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Haryana witnessed 18,748 new cases of coronavirus in the past seven days, registering a grim record of the highest-ever weekly count ever since the pandemic began in March last year.1,79,570 vaccinatedHaryana provided Covid vaccine jabs to 1,79,570 persons on the second day of the “Teeka Utsav” on Monday. Of these, 1,58,367 people were given the first dose of their vaccine, while 21,203 were provided their second dose. A total of 1,13,917 persons were inoculated in the state on the first day of “Teeka Utsav” on Sunday. With 17,257 first doses and 2,803 second doses, Gurugram leads all districts. TNSThe Health Department in the state is, meanwhile, unsure when the cases will plateau.The state witnessed 18,748 new cases last week (April 5 to 11), an unprecedented increase of 80 per cent over 10,414 cases in the preceding week (March 29 to April 4).Seventy seven persons succumbed to the virus in the last seven days against 50 deaths in the preceding week.The previous highest numbers of weekly infections in Haryana were seen in September last year when 17,616 new cases surfaced from September 14 to 20.The state Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has told administrative secretaries of Home, Health and Urban Local Bodies Department to implement mask wearing in the state strictly.“This time the pace at which the infections are rising is much higher than the first wave and is quite frightening too,” said a healthcare worker dealing with Covid-19 cases.From 1,737 cases in the first week of March (March 1 to 7), the cases have multiplied more than 10 times in almost a month.During the same period, the daily positivity rate has also jumped from nearly 1 per cent to 9.4 per cent.The R Naught value has also gone up from 1.01 to 1.11.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana, said the numbers had increased across the country and not in the state alone.“One cannot isolate the state when infections are surging across the country, particularly in our neighbourhood. On our part, we have increased the number of tests. The tests had come down to 15,000 to 18,000 in February, but now, we are testing 30,000 to 35,000 people every day,” said Arora.The ACS said the state government had also increased vaccination in the state as the department was inoculating one lakh to 1.25 lakh people every day.He said even the Prime Minister had said that rather than worrying about the numbers, the authorities should lay emphasis on increased testing and isolation of positive cases as well as inoculation of eligible people.Asked when the Health Department was expecting plateauing of the cases this time, Arora said it was very difficult to predict when the infections would peak because the virus was exhibiting an unpredictable behaviour.He said the doctors were saying that though the infections were more in numbers this time in the second wave, but these were feeble in symptoms in a majority of cases. There could, however, not be any categorical statement in this regard and more research was needed to understand the behaviour of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-18-748-new-infections-in-7-days-238413
13-04-2021||Sonepat||Farmers' protest: Reach Delhi borders for Ambedkar anniversary, appeals SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today appealed to Dalits to reach the Delhi borders in large numbers to celebrate the Save Constitution Day and Kisan-Bahujan Ekta Diwas on April 14 on the occasion of BR Ambedkar’s birth anniversary. Dr Darshan Pal Singh, a member of the SKM, said: “Representatives of the Bahujan Samaj will be reaching Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and other borders on April 14 to support farmers.”  “Ambedkar is the architect of our Constitution, which the Modi government is hell bent on amending it,” he said. Meanwhile, farmer leaders met protesters in their trolleys, camps and huts to boost their morale and urge them to stay at the morcha until the Centre repealed the three controversial farm laws. Some farmers shared their problems related to sanitation at the protest sites and scarcity of water. The leaders assured them to resolve their problems. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-reach-delhi-borders-for-ambedkar-anniversary-appeals-skm-238414
13-04-2021||Parveen Arora---||Online system of lifting has led to space crunch in mandis: Arhtiyas||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 12 The slow pace of lifting the procured wheat from grain markets of the district has led to space crunch. About 2.67 lakh MT wheat has been procured at all 22 grain markets and purchase centres, but only 55,615 MT have been lifted so far. Farmers and arhtiyas blame the new system of lifting — “first in, first out”. Under this system, an online schedule is generated and passes are issued for lifting the produce procured first. It, however, doesn’t take into account the quantity of bags an arhtiya has bought. Suppose an arhtiya procures 30 bags of bags on Day 1 of procurement, while another buys 100 on the second day. The bags of that arhtiya who had bought the produce on the first day will be lifted first.  This wasn’t the case earlier. A manual schedule was prepared and preference was given to that arhtiya who had more number of bags. Besides, there was no slab on the number of bags to be lifted.  Rajnish Chaudhary, officiating president of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association, said: “The state government should fix a slab of minimum 500 bags to be lifted in one go. Only then, the lifting of bags will pick up pace. Under the present system, a truck driver has to visit four to five shops to fill his truck.” Vishal, a farmer, who waited to unload his trolley in the local grain market, said: “Earlier, purchase was an issue. Now, poor lifting has become a cause for concern.” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The district administration had recommended the higher authorities to fix the online portal that generates passes. It has been done. Now, the government has allowed procurement agencies to lift the produce from those arhtiyas, who has more bags. With this, the problem of space crunch will be resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-system-of-lifting-has-led-to-space-crunch-in-mandis-arhtiyas-238415
13-04-2021||---||Panipat lawyers block NH over police ‘harassment’||Panipat, April 12Members of the District Bar Association (DBA) on Monday protested against the police and blocked the NH-44 near the Mini-Secretariat after a dispute between a Constable posted in the CIA-2 unit and an advocate.The protesting advocates gheroed the SP office and raised slogans against the cops at the police headquarter in the Mini-Secretariat. They demanded the cancellation of the FIR against the advocates and the termination of the police officials.Meanwhile, DSP City Virender Saini reached the spot and assured the protesters of a proper investigation into the incident. The DBA on Monday suspended work for four days and decided that if any advocate appears in the court then their membership will be cancelled. The next DBA meeting will be held on April 16.On Sunday, a vehicle of the CIA-2 unit was passing through a street in Purewal colony when advocate Sahil Bathla came on his bike. Sahil alleged the street was congested and he requested the driver of the police vehicle to give him some space but the latter started abusing him. As Sahil opposed him, the cop started beating him and also tore his shirt. His colleagues helped him fled the spot as people gathered there. Later, Sahil informed the SP, DSP and SHO about the incident.The Old Industrial Area police have registered a case against ASI Ashok Kumar and Constable Sunny. Besides, the police have also filed a cross-case against Sahil, his father Tilak Raj, Asim Dudeja and Ashok Dudeja under Sections 148, 149, 186, 332, 341, 353, 379 B, 506, 511 of the IPC on the complaint of ASI Jawahar Lal of the CIA-2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-lawyers-block-nh-over-police-harassment-238416
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Panic admissions cause bed shortage in Gurugram||With daily spike of around 1,000 cases during the past two days here, shortage of beds for Covid patients has been reported in city hospitals.3,818 cases, 14 deathsWith 3,818 fresh Covid cases, the highest since the start of the pandemic, and 14 deaths, the overall tally of Haryana jumped to 3.21 lakh on Monday. Two deaths each were recorded from Sonepat, Panipat, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad, while one death each was recorded from Faridabad, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Jind..“No vacancy board” for patients is making them run from pillar to post to seek beds. Accusing hospitals of “selling” beds to rich patients from UP or Delhi, residents have demanded reservation of beds for district patients. The local administration, being flooded with complaints of hospitals giving beds to higher revenue providers, has issued a warning to penalise the guilty.“We have ample infrastructure, but yes the number of beds is currently bit crunched. We consider panic admissions by patients and non-compliance of set parameters for admissions by hospitals as the key reason. The hospitals have clear guidelines on who should or should not be admitted. Still we find that a majority of beds are occupied by not-so-serious patients. There have been complaints of eligible patients being denied beds for paying through government panels. We will penalise any hospital that is found giving beds on the basis of revenue generation,” said Munish Sharma, nodal officer, Covid Bed Management, Gurugram. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panic-admissions-cause-bed-shortage-in-gurugram-238417
13-04-2021||---||Haryana government stops procurement in 18 mandis for 24 hours||Chandigarh, April 12The Haryana government today stopped the purchase of wheat in 18 mandis of the state for 24 hours due to the excess arrival of wheat in the mandis. The state government has urged the farmers to bring their crops to their respective procurement centres only after receiving the SMS for bringing their crops in the mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-stops-procurement-in-18-mandis-for-24-hours-238418
13-04-2021||Karnal||Petrol pump men looted of Rs 15L||Three miscreants looted Rs 15.35 lakh from two petrol pump employees in Uchana village at gunpoint when they were going to deposit the money in a bank on Monday afternoon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petrol-pump-men-looted-of-rs-15l-238419
13-04-2021||---||Villagers seek closure of stone-crushers, take out march in Narnaul||Mahendragarh, April 12Residents of various villages under the Nangal Choudhary region took out a march in Narnaul today in protest against the district authorities for not ensuring the closure of stone-crushing units allegedly being run in violation of the siting and pollution criteria.“The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had, in July 2019, ordered the state authorities to shut down 72 stone-crushing units being run against the rules. In the meanwhile, some unit owners approached the Supreme Court against the order. The SC, in November 2020, transferred the case to the NGT, which directed the authorities to execute its orders, but no action has been taken against the units even after four months, causing great resentment among villagers,” said Tejpal Yadav, a protester and the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-seek-closure-of-stone-crushers-take-out-march-in-narnaul-238420
13-04-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose varsity Awarded||Dr Dastur memorial oration at NDRIKarnal: Dr NN Dastur Memorial Oration Award was organised at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) Deemed University, Karnal. Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director, NDRI, presided over the programme and welcomed the chief guest, professor JS Rajput, Padma Shri awardee, India's representative to UNESCO's Executive Board and Former Director, National Council of Educational, Research and Training. Dr Chauhan highlighted the role played by Prof Rajput in reforming education and literature and for bringing Indian education on the International podium. Dr Rajput while giving his oration on the topic entitled, "Emerging canvas of Indian education" elaborated on the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-varsity-awarded-238435
13-04-2021||Tundla village||Residents of Ambala village living in poor hygiene||— Col RD Singh (Retd) Ambala CanttInstall bank ATM in Panchkula grain marketThe huge grain market complex in Sector 20, Panchkula, that houses farmers' vegetable market, apple market and Agro Mall besides a hundred shop-cum-flats, is brimming with activity all through the year. Hundreds of vehicles bring seasonal agricultural produce daily. The government needs to install an extension counter of a bank or an ATM there.— Lalit Bharadwa, PanchkulaLet's all be alert and help govt agenciesApropos (Chandigarh Tribune dated April 12) "4.04 crore stolen from bank in Sector 34, guard missing"; Trees, electricity poles in the middle of roads turn death traps for motorists"; "2 swindlers held for duping city woman of 11.93 lakh"; are perennial issues plaguing the tricity since yore. The general public should also come forward without any apprehension and be alert in helping the agencies nab the culprits. The local government and law enforcement agencies should also increase surveillance and apprehend such mischievous elements swiftly to restore the already lost confidence of the common man.— Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-of-ambala-village-living-in-poor-hygiene-238436
13-04-2021||---||Symptomatic devotees to be tested at Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula, April 12Amid the raging pandemic, the district authorities have braced themselves for an influx of devotees at the Mansa Devi temple and the Kali Mata temple, Kalka, during the Navaratri festival, beginning tomorrow.All devotees entering the shrine will have to undergo screening. Rapid antigen tests will be conducted for those found symptomatic. The facility would only be available at the Mansa Devi temple, said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur.180 devotees in 15 minutesAccording to the finalised arrangements, only 180 devotees will be allowed during a 15-minute slot to pay obeisance through an e-token system at the temple.The capping is 120 persons for 15 minutes at the Kali Mata temple, Kalka.To get an e-token, devotees are required to fill certain details on the board website — www.mansadevi.org.in. The e-token will then be sent to their mobile phones. Devotees willing to have “preferential darshan” at the Mansa Devi temple can pay Rs50 per person and register themselves. A devotee can make the registration for a maximum of 10 members at a time.No ‘bhandara’, cultural programme‘Bhandara’, cultural programmes and other entertainment activities will be prohibited during the fest.20 nakas set upAs many as 20 nakas have been set up in and around the Mansa Devi temple to ensure law and order and free flow of traffic. People have been advised to opt for online darshan and visit the temple in a limited number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/symptomatic-devotees-to-be-tested-at-mansa-devi-temple-238358
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Surge triggers migrant exodus 2.0 in Gurugram||The rising Covid cases, imposition of curbs, night curfew and fear of another lockdown has prompted the exodus of thousands of migrants from Gurugram. Fearful of being stranded without food and money, the migrants —- primarily employed in Gurugram industries —- are making a dash for their villages. Nearly 20 per cent of the 1.5 lakh-strong workforce reportedly left this weekend, leaving the industry in a panic.Editorial: Migrants’ exodusAddress anxieties, avoid repeat of 2020“It’s shocking that 20 per cent of the workforce here has not reported to work today in the Udyog Vihar industrial zone. We have learnt that they have all left for their villages. To allay their fears, we have spent the day making announcements that they would be looked after and there was no order for lockdown,” said Animesh Saxena, president of Udyog Vihar Industrial Association. Udyog Vihar has around 75,000 workers while the rest are mainly from the Manesar auto industry zone.Labour colonies in Manesar are wearing a deserted look as workers began leaving their “chawls” since Friday, said sources. Since the cases began to rise, migrants have been on tenterhooks over speculation about a second lockdown. Every day hundreds of migrant families from UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal board buses to leave the city. “During the lockdown last year, my wife and I had to literally walk to Aligarh with our ailing four-year-old son. We are taking no chances this time. Last time the lockdown was announced suddenly, we expect the same this time… so we are leaving. Along with 10 other families, we have hired a special bus to take us to UP,” said Afzal, a factory worker in Manesar who left the city this morning.“We got messages on WhatsApp about the lockdown possibility in Delhi and Gurgaon. We will be left without jobs and will have to beg for food again. We will have no money to pay rent, therefore we are leaving. I will come back once the situation improves,” said Raghuveer Yadav from Bihar.Editorial: Open vaccination for allApprove more vaccines, ramp up productionThe industry blames the administration for not allaying the apprehensions of the migrants and spelling out the strategy to tackle the pandemic.“No official announcement or assurance has reached these workers from the administration or their representatives like councillors or sarpanches. Thus, they are not ready to trust us. During the last lockdown, we made a database of all workers and are now getting the HR department to assure them that in case of any curbs, we will give them dry ration, food and salaries,” added Saxena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surge-triggers-migrant-exodus-2-0-in-gurugram-238313
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt stops wheat purchase in 18 mandis for 24 hours due to excess crop arrival||The Haryana government on Monday stopped the purchase of wheat in 18 ‘mandis’ of the state for 24 hours due to excess arrival of the crop in these grain markets.The state government has urged the farmers to bring their crops to their respective procurement centres only when they receive the SMS on their registered mobile phones for bringing their crops in the mandis, according to an official statement.The farmers after registering themselves on ‘Mera Fasal Mera Byora’ crop registration portal can also change their schedule of bringing their crops as per their convenience, it said.The statement added that a decision in this regard was taken in a review meeting regarding ongoing rabi procurement season 2021-22 held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here.During the meeting, the chief minister was apprised by the officials that in 18 mandis of the state, due to excess arrival of wheat and less lifting of the crop, pilling of the crop has been reported.Therefore, a decision has been taken to stop the procurement and not to issue gate pass to farmers in 18 mandis, including Radaur in Yamunanagar district, Thanesar, Pehowa, Ladwa, Babain and Ismailabad in Kurukshetra district, Taraori, Nilokheri, Indri, Assandh and Nissing in Karnal district, and Ambala City and Saha in Ambala district.The mandis include Kaithal, Kalayat and Cheeka in Kaithal district, Gohana in Sonepat district, and Samalkha in Panipat district for the next 24 hours.Besides this, orders have been given to open additional procurement centres for these mandis after taking consent from the deputy commissioners concerned. During the meeting, it was shared by the officials that these additional procurement centres would be set up wherever all the procurement arrangements have been made.Meanwhile, an official spokesperson said that till Sunday, a total of 29.47 lakh tonne of wheat has arrived at 396 mandis/ procurement centres of the state, out of which a total of 15.69 lakh tonne of wheat has been procured.Till April 11, an amount of Rs 149.28 crore has been transferred directly to the accounts of farmers whose crops have been procured.Meanwhile, Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister J P Dalal said farmers in the state have been expressing satisfaction over the smooth procurement process going on in mandis across the state.Dalal was speaking to reporters after inspecting the procurement process in the grain market at Rewari on Monday.The minister said the Haryana government is procuring 10 crops on minimum support price including millet, groundnut, sunflower, wheat, paddy and mustard, and the farmers are getting payments directly into their accounts. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-stops-wheat-purchase-in-18-mandis-for-24-hours-due-to-excess-crop-arrival-238199
13-04-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Night curfew in Haryana from 9 pm to 5 am||Chandigarh, April 12The Haryana government on Monday imposed night curfew in the state with immediate effect amid a surge in coronavirus cases.“There shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in the state of Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours,” the order read.Read also: Russia’s Sputnik V gets expert panel nod, ball now in DCGI courtNon-adherence to COVID-19 norms, virulent strains could be behind surge in infections: AIIMS chiefSonia writes to PM Modi for nod to more vaccines; BJP hits back“Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders,” Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told PTI.He said the decision has been taken in the wake of an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the state recently.On Sunday, Haryana had reported 16 COVID-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 3,268. The total coronavirus case count rose to 3,16,881 with a record spike of 3,440 cases on Sunday, according to a health department bulletin.The order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority said the Centre and the Haryana government have issued various guidelines from time to time to prevent the spread of COVID-19.However, there has been a recent surge in number of cases and therefore, it is imperative to put in place strict measures of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread, it said.It was mentioned in the order that there has been a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles during the night.“There shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the restricted hours,” according to the order.However, services and movement of persons related to law and order, emergencies and municipal duties have been exempted from the curfew, it said.Executive magistrates, police personnel, military, paramilitary personnel in uniform, health, electricity and fire personnel, media persons with accreditation, and the government machinery tasked with COVID-19 related duties will face no restrictions, the order said.Also, those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass by officers authorised on this behalf are exempted, it said, adding that there will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.All vehicle and persons in bonafide transit (inter-state or intra-state) shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination, the order said.Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will remain open round-the-clock.Pregnant women and patients going to get medical services and passengers going to or returning from airport or railway stations will be exempted.Those violating the orders will face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. With PTI inputsA copy of the order:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/night-curfew-in-haryana-from-9-pm-to-5-am-238167
