14-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||No lockdown in Haryana as of now: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said there will be no imposition of lockdown in Haryana, only the night curfew will continue in view of the increasing cases of COVID-19 in the neighbouring states.“Yes, cases are rising but currently we don’t see any pressing need for lockdown. Night curfew was not a lockdown and neither will it restrict economic activity. The night curfew will only restrict the movement of people so that they leave their workplace at 10 pm and reach their homes by 10:30 pm. This will break the chain of corona infection formed by the movement of people in the evening,” said Chautala.He was in the city to flag off cardiac ambulances equipped with state-of-the-art facilities under the Jeevan Sarathi Campaign at Artemis Hospital, Gurugram.The deputy CM said the government is completely prepared to deal with the second wave of COVID-19. In order to break the chain of the second wave of corona in the state, the Tika Utsav is continuously running since the last four days, he added.He said providing healthcare services to the people living in remotest areas of Gurugram district at the earliest will be possible with these ambulances. The cost of these ambulances is more than Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-lockdown-in-haryana-as-of-now-dushyant-chautala-239078
14-04-2021||Rewari||10 farmers held in Rewari before Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala's arrival||Over 10 farmers were detained on Wednesday for planning a protest to welcome Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chatuala to the city.Chautala was in the city to unveil the statue of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. Farmers were gearing up hold a black flag protest against three controversial  agriculture laws at Nehru Park.  They were taken into custody under Section 107 of the Indian Penal Code (abetment of a thing) read together with Section 151 (preventive detention) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Rewari Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal.  Chautala said later in the day that people had the right to protest in a “democratic fashion”, and couldn’t take law into his hands.There is no need to impose lockdown in the state, he said, and added that his government was equipped to deal with a new wave of the coronavirus."The government had decided to close the schools from first to eight classes after 160 students at Sainik School in Kunjpura tested Covid positive. Private schools should not play with the health of the students by conducting the classes. The vacation period will be added into the summer vacations," Chautala said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-farmers-held-in-rewari-before-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautalas-arrival-239053
14-04-2021||Rohtak||Leave of all healthcare professionals in Haryana medical colleges cancelled||Amid a COVID spike in Haryana, the State Government on Wednesday cancelled the leave of all healthcare professionals serving at Rohtak PGIMS and other state-run medical colleges.A communiqué shot off by the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research to the Registrar, University of Health Sciences (UHS), and the directors of Rohtak PGIMS and directors of the state-run medical colleges at Nalhar, Khanpur Kalan, Karnal and Agroha maintain, that leave will not be granted to any healthcare professional till further orders.Following the issuance of the said notification, the Director of Rohtak PGIMS and the Principal of Rohtak PGIDS have also passed orders stating that no faculty members, senior residents, residents, nursing staff and paramedical staff (healthcare professionals) would be allowed any kind of leave till further orders.The orders, further, maintain that the leave of the staffers, who are already on leave is hereby cancelled, and directing them to join their duties immediately.Meanwhile, the PGIMS authorities have also pulled up their socks to tackle the fresh spurt in the number of Covid cases in the state.The PGIMS Trauma Centre has been re-designated as Covid Hospital.Nevertheless, medical experts, as well as administrators, are of the view that the night curfew and other measures adopted by the government would be of little use if the residents continue going to crowded places and violating the Covid protocol.“The residents should understand that exercising self-restraint is a must to avoid catching Coronavirus infection, even if they have got themselves vaccinated. Ensuring physical distancing and hand hygiene should be followed strictly and religiously to stay safe in the testing times,” observes Dr M.C.Gupta, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Pharmacology at Rohtak PGIMS.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar has also cautioned the residents against going to crowded places and advised them to follow the Covid protocol to check the fresh wave of the pandemic.“The challenging drive will be intensified and strict action taken against those found violating the Covid protocol,” he asserted.The Deputy Commissioner exhorted the residents to get themselves vaccinated to stay safe and not get misled by rumours and misconceptions regarding the anti-Covid vaccines.“The indigenous anti-Covid vaccines are safe and effective. All residents above 45 years of age can get these vaccines at their nearest health facility. No prior registration is required and an identity-proof like Aadhar Card is needed for on-the-spot vaccination,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leave-of-all-healthcare-professionals-in-haryana-medical-colleges-cancelled-238997
14-04-2021||Karnal||Interactive workshop at KVA DAV Karnal||New session begins at SD Vidya SchoolAmbala: New session in SD Vidya School, Ambala Cantt, began on the auspicious day of the first Navratri and the festival of Baisakhi with a Hawan ceremony. On this occasion, everyone prayed for the success of students in the upcoming board exams. The school staff wished for the safety of the students.Training programme at KCGMCKarnal: A training programme was organised on Tuesday by the Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) Monitoring Centre of Kalpana Chawla Govt Medical College, Karnal, on safety related to Covid-19 patients and vaccination. The centre has been functioning at the KCGMC for the past 4 years as a part of the Nationwide Pharma-co-vigilance programme of India under the guidance of Dr Tirthankar Deb as the coordinator. This centre performs monitoring and assessment of possible adverse effects resulting from the use of medicines at the KCGMC or any other hospital in the region. In the training programme, around 150 nursing and para medical staff of the KCGMC participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interactive-workshop-at-kva-dav-karnal-238676
14-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Paying Rs 50 for ‘Darshan’ unfair at Panchkula Mansa Devi temple||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Paying Rs 50 for ‘Darshan’ unfair at Panchkula Mansa Devi templeCovid protocols can be enforced strictly on the campus of Mata Mansa Devi shrine during Navratri, but the concept of preferential darshan after paying Rs 50 per person is alien to the religious ethos. The shrine Board should withdraw this kind of darshan. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaEncroachment on roads leads to traffic chaosAll major roads in Kaithal town have been encroached upon by shopkeepers and rehriwalas who continue to carry on their business from such 'illegally occupied' space. Thus congestion on roads leads to frequent traffic jams, which adversely affects normal life of residents and road users. This has been going on for the past decades and the civic authorities have failed to get these encroachments vacated or reclaim such land despite repeated anti-encroachment drives. The morale of encroachers is so high that they reoccupy the roads space got vacated by the administration within a few hours. Satish Seth, KaithalNight curfew warning for those ignoring SOPSIt is natural that the people of Haryana will have to face many problems with the night curfews across the state. But the government has no other option. In a way, this is a warning to the people that one should not be lax and must protect themselves from corona. The Covid infection is increasing day bt day and the people are still not serious about preventive measures. Wearing masks, frequent hand washing with soap or sanitising and complying with physical distancing minimizes the risk of infection Everyone should feel free to get corona vaccinations, motivate others to get vaccinated. Shakti Singh, KarnalEmploying more sanitation staff a welcome stepThe Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has initiated steps towards increasing their staff for maintain cleanliness.They have increased the strength of sanitation workers from 69 to 269 and has also decided to hire more agencies for employing contractual workers. Good move indeed. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paying-rs-50-for-darshan-unfair-at-panchkula-mansa-devi-temple-238677
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 IAS officers get additional charge||The state government has given the additional charge of Additional Director, Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA), Gurugram to Ashok Sangwan, Additional Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi. Besides, K Makarand Pandurang, Director, Town and Country Planning Department, has been given the additional charge of Chief Administrator, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, Panchkula during the leave period of Ajit Balaji Joshi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-ias-officers-get-additional-charge-238657
14-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Museum opened at Kurukshetra University||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated a museum, developed on the theme of the 1857 freedom struggle, on the Kurukshetra University campus on Tuesday evening. The museum has been built at a cost of Rs 5.38 crore. He was here as the chief guest for a cultural event organised on the occasion of Baisakhi. The event was organised jointly by the Haryana Kala Parishad and KU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/museum-opened-at-kurukshetra-university-238659
14-04-2021||A major fire was reported at a wood-cutting unit in the Timber Market of Ambala Cantonment on Monday night. No casualties were reported in the incident.||Fire at wood-cutting unit in Ambala Cantt||As per information the fire broke out around 10:30 pm.Family of a labourer was also inside the building when the fire broke out, but they were rescued on time.Fire tenders from Ambala Sadar Zone, Ambala City, Naraingarh, Kurukshetra were pressed into service. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-at-wood-cutting-unit-in-ambala-cantt-238660
14-04-2021||---||GJUST discontinues offline classes as 22 test +ve||Hisar, April 13Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology has decided to discontinue offline classes and resume online classes for the students after 22 persons, including girl students and university staff members tested positive for Covid 19 today.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, informed that they have decided to provide lodging facilities to the Covid-affected students and staff members in the faculty house and the warden house on the university campus. He said the students had been asked to leave hostels as the classes would be held online for two weeks.He said other essential services and examinations will continue as per schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gjust-discontinues-offline-classes-as-22-test-ve-238661
14-04-2021||Panchkula||Over 10K pay obeisance  at Mansa Devi temple||A total of 10,400 devotees paid obeisance at Mansa Devi temple on the first day of the Navratri festival today. Nearly 2,500 devotees paid obeisance at Kali Mata temple in Kalka while 300 visited the Chandi Mata temple.Paying Rs 50 for ‘Darshan’ unfair at Panchkula Mansa Devi templeAs per the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, devotees started pouring in since 5 am. The rush this year was less as compared to the fest in October last year as online appointments were made a must to visit the temple. Everyone was wearing a mask and all efforts were taken to ensure social distancing, said Deputy Commissioner and Chief Administrator, Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Mukul Kumar.Devotee tests +veHe said around Rs10.82 lakh in cash were offered this time, almost half the amount that was offered on the first day of the fair in October last while Rs3.48 lakh was offered at Kali Mata temple. Five gold ornaments weighing 7.9 gram and 68 gram silver were also offered by the devotees.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, along with his wife Bimla Gupta, were among those who visited the temple today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-10k-pay-obeisance-at-mansa-devi-temple-238723
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||In farmers’ support, Baisakhi celebrated at Chandigarh's Matka Chowk||This year, Baisakhi celebrations stepped beyond the traditional places of worship onto the dividers facing Matka Chowk.Holding flags of farmer unions and Tiranga, many people thronged the chowk’s dividers, which have now become a protest site for city’s urban and rural dwellers who are in favour of farmers and against the new agro-market laws.On Baisakhi, people sang folk songs and recited poetry based on agriculture and Baisakhi. Sikh prayers were offered too.Rajwinder, a protester, said, “We staged this protest with Baisakhi celebrations on the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha. As Baisakhi is a farmers’ (harvest) festival. It is part of both agriculture and culture.”In the evening, for over three months now, members of pro-farmer groups like Kirti Kisan Forum, Naujawan Kisan Ekta and Farmers Welfare Society, along with members of civil society, gather at Matka Chowk to protest the new farm laws.Many people rode bicycles to reach the venue.“I’m here because of the older people, especially Babaji, an elderly, baptised Sikh man, who was reportedly harassed by the cops,” Said Darshan Singh.Another cyclist, Jashandeep joined in: “Also, we have come in support of the farmers protesting near Delhi borders. If they can sit there for days and months, we can certainly come here for two hours.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-farmers-support-baisakhi-celebrated-at-chandigarhs-matka-chowk-238757
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||New policy for setting up guest, boarding houses in Haryana||In a bid to provide affordable short-term accommodation in residential zones, the Haryana Government has come out with a new policy for the setting up of the guest and boarding houses.The policy aims at providing rented “pay and use facility” for a period of less than one month for the general public.Under the policy, the guest and boarding houses will be allowed on residential plots from 500 to 1,500 square yards falling in the lane of either 500 or 1,000 square yards size plots.However, the owner will be liable to pay 50 per cent commercial charges prescribed for up to 150 per cent floor area ratio (FAR) for undertaking the construction.The permission for the setting up of the guest and boarding houses will also be given to those buildings, which have already been constructed at the site.The owner will have to comply with the provisions of the Haryana Building Code, 2017, while constructing the guest/boarding houses. Besides, the owner will not be allowed to sell or bifurcate the rooms and the building will not be covered under the Haryana Apartments Ownership Act, 1983. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-policy-for-setting-up-guest-boarding-houses-in-haryana-238664
14-04-2021||---||Registry clerk suspended for stamp duty evasion||Ambala, April 13Ashok Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, suspended registry clerk Ashish Kumar in case of an alleged stamp duty evasion in Naraingarh on Monday.There were complaints against the registry clerk regarding underestimation of stamp duty. District Revenue Officer (DRO) Capt Vinod Sharma said, “I have been marked an inquiry. The registry clerk had underestimated the price while registering a land, causing loss of stamp duty on April 8. We will check if there is any other such case of stamp duty evasion as well. The stamp duty will be recovered.”Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said, “There were complaints that registry clerk Ashish Kumar has underestimated stamp duties following which he has been suspended and an inquiry has been ordered. The DRO has been directed to submit his report within three days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registry-clerk-suspended-for-stamp-duty-evasion-238662
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM nod to 200 acres for Rewari AIIMS||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved the purchase of 200 acres of land for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to be constructed at Rewari as well as the purchase of land for seven projects.The CM was presiding over the meeting of the high-power land purchase committee to buy the land available on the e-Bhoomi portal for nine projects here today.The approval was given after the landowners agreed on the price.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, deputy commissioners and landowners of the respective districts also joined the meeting through video-conferencing.For AIIMS, the committee approved the purchase of 200 acres of land at the rate of Rs 40 lakh per acre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-nod-to-200-acres-for-rewari-aiims-238663
14-04-2021||---||Now, curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 13The Haryana Government today ordered new timings for the night curfew to arrest the spurt in Covid-19 cases. The new timings would be from 10 pm to 5 am instead of 9 pm to 5 am announced yesterday.In his order, Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner Revenue and Member, Haryana State Disaster Management Authority, also announced relaxations for the smooth running of essential services and movement of essential and non-essential commodities.Private security services, Internet service providers, pharmaceutical companies and telecommunications services are some of exempted categories allowed movement in the state.The DCs have also been told to ensure the movement of inter-state and intra-state movement of goods by checking identity cards or e-passes issued by states and UTs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-curfew-from-10-pm-to-5-am-in-haryana-238666
14-04-2021||---||3,845 new Covid cases, 16 more die in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 13With 3,845 fresh Covid cases and 16 deaths, the Covid tally in the state reached 3.25 lakh today.Three persons succumbed to the virus in Karnal and two in Fatehabad, while one death each was recorded in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Hisar, Ambala, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Mahendragarh and Bhiwani.The maximum fresh cases were recorded in Gurugram at 998, followed by 417 in Faridabad, 324 in Karnal, 278 in Panchkula, 246 in Sonipat, 227 in Panipat and 204 in Fatehabad.A total of 1.45 lakh persons took the first dose of the vaccine, while 24,001 took the second dose today.The active cases reached 24,207 in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-845-new-covid-cases-16-more-die-in-haryana-238667
14-04-2021||---||Faridabad private hospitals ‘turn away’ patients||Faridabad, April 13The district health authorities have warned administrative action against all those private hospitals who were found to be turning away Covid patients in a wrong manner.Dr Randeep Poonia, Civil SurgeonBeds lying vacantMany private hospitals have been turning away Covid patients on the pretext of non-availability of beds. The reality, however, is different. Most of the beds meant for Covid patients are lying vacant. In a letter issued today to these hospitals, Dr Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Faridabad, said it had been found that many private hospitals had been refusing admittance to Covid patients by claiming the non-availability of beds, while detailed analysis of the situation and physical report submitted to the office had found that most of the beds meant for Covid patients were lying vacant in the private hospitals.Directing the authorities of these hospitals to display daily the current availability of beds in the reception area, updating of the guideline directed medical therapy (GMDT) portal and submission of the physical report on a daily basis, the Civil Surgeon warned of strict action against the hospitals under the Covid-pandemic guidelines if complaints against them were found to be true.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-private-hospitals-turn-away-patients-238668
14-04-2021||Palwal||Car hits 3 boys, 1 dead in Palwal||A 16-year-old school student was killed and two of his friends were injured when they were reportedly hit by a car near Karna village in the district on Monday. The police have filed a case but no arrest has been made so far.According to the police complaint, the victims identified as Vishal, Shailesh and Vinesh, all students of St Anthony School, Karna, had alighted from their vehicle to attend the call of nature on the highway between Palwal and Hodal around 2 pm on Monday when a speeding car rammed into them.While Vishal, a student of Class X, died on the spot, Shailesh, a student of Plus One, and Vinesh, studying in Class IX, suffered injuries. The victims were on their way home at Mindkola village in a vehicle. The car driver fled from the spot.Meanwhile, in another incident, one Jitender, a 35-year-old employee of a private company, was killed when his motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Banchari village on the national highway on Sunday night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-hits-3-boys-1-dead-in-palwal-238669
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Two bookies arrested in Gurugram||Two bookies were arrested from a flat on Sohna road while they were betting on an ongoing IPL cricket match on Monday night. An FIR has been registered and the police have recovered four mobiles from their possession.Acting on a tip-off, a police team of the crime unit, Sector 17, led by unit head inspector Narender Chauhan raided a flat on Sohna road when the duo was busy betting. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-bookies-arrested-in-gurugram-238670
14-04-2021||---||Undertrial ends life in jail in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, April 13A 47-year-old undertrial — Kulwant Singh of Moga district in Punjab — reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the bathroom at district jail in Dulina village here on Tuesday.He had been lodged in jail since April 5 and was an accused in the murder of 61-year-old farmer Hakam Singh of Bathinda (Punjab) at Tikri border on March 25. Hakam was found murdered with his throat slit in the fields.Kulwant allegedly had illicit relations with the ‘bhabhi’ of Hakam Singh and both were involved in the murder. The police arrested them on April 4. Rakesh Kumar, Investigation Officer, said Kulwant had gone to the bathroom in the morning but did not come out. There was no response when another prisoner knocked on the bathroom door. Later, the door was opened and Kulwant was found hanging with a bed sheet, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/undertrial-ends-life-in-jail-in-jhajjar-238671
14-04-2021||---||Allow schools on alternate days: Panel||Chandigarh, April 13Most of the private schools are still functioning in spite of closure orders from the state government till April 30. Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, told this to the media here today.“The state government has closed schools, but not hotels and malls. Even curfew has been imposed for the night. Elections are taking place in Assam and West Bengal, and lakhs of people are participating in Kumbh Mela. Why only schools have been closed?” he said.Sharma pointed out the state government had announced a Rs 20,000-crore package, but no relief was given to private schools. “When the lockdown was imposed last year, a maths teacher had to sell vegetables and another had to get enrolled under the MGNREGA. School bus drivers started working in fields. In light of the the recent order, several teachers, drivers and other staff could lose their jobs again.”“School owners were not consulted. I want to tell Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar that we don’t want any confrontation. We are just a call away. The government should allow us to conduct classes on alternate days,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/allow-schools-on-alternate-days-panel-238672
14-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ensuring cheating-free online exam not easy for Kurukshetra University authorities||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 13Ensuring cheating-free online examinations has become a challenging task for the Kurukshetra University authorities.As per information, there have been incidents of student using cursive writing font in computer to attempt exam, impersonation, usage of books, and remaining off-camera for a longer period during the exam.A professor said it was easy to catch students while cheating during offline examinations, but during online examination it gets very tough. Sometimes, it becomes difficult to identify the exact reason behind the student leaving the place while attempting the online exam for a few minutes. Besides this, poor net connectivity, data, and phone calls during examinations, as a majority of students are using phones to remain connected, are a few issues that the teachers and students face during the online examinations. There should be offline examinations, the teacher demanded.As many as 10 cases of using unfair means have been reported so far during the ongoing examinations of the PG (first semester).Not only the authorities, but a section of students is also concerned about this issue. A student said, “Students are also under stress. During online examinations, if anything goes wrong then the entire onus will be on the student. It has been observed that even the low performers of previous semesters are getting high marks, which also raises many questions.”Dr Hukam Singh, Controller of Examinations, Kurukshetra University, said, “The exams of the first semesters are on. Some incidents of students using unfair means have been reported and we have been taking precautions accordingly. As many as 10 UMCs have been reported during the ongoing examinations, so far. We have asked the proctors to keep a close watch on the students and report if they find any student involved in cheating. We have been appointing centre superintendents for all arrangements. For better proctoring, we have been appointing one teacher per 20 students while earlier the number of students used to be 30-40. During the evaluation, some more cases may also come into notice.”Brajesh Sawhney, director, public relations, Kurukshetra University, said, “Teachers keep a close watch on the students during proctoring through Google Meet. Sincere efforts are being made by the university to make examinations cheating free but if any student is caught by the teacher then appropriate action is taken against the student. At the same time, the teachers also help the students if they find any issue in uploading the answersheets or facing any technical issue.”Gets tough to catch students||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensuring-cheating-free-online-exam-not-easy-for-kurukshetra-university-authorities-238673
14-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Sans ownership rights, Rohtak SC families can’t avail govt schemes||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 13More than 100 Scheduled Castes (SCs) families living at Valmiki Basti in Subhash Nagar locality here are deprived of availing the benefit of government schemes meant for the BPL families as they do not have ownership of their house property even after seven decades.They have aadhar, elector ID cards, authorised connections of electricity, water, sewerage and are also paying property tax for their houses. Despite that they are struggling to get the ownership rights to enroll themselves in the welfare schemes.“Our family has been residing here for the past over 70 years, but are unable to take advantage of all those government schemes for which the registry of house is mandatory. Last year, I wanted to get a grant under a government scheme for renovation of my house, but could not succeed as I do not have ownership rights. Many others too want to avail the grant under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana, but the reason continues to become a hurdle,” said Krishan Valmiki, a resident.He maintained that they had raised the issue before the then Chautala and Hooda governments, but to no avail. “The present BJP government has provided us the facility of potable water and sewerage while lending ear to our grievances. There are many government schemes for the welfare of SC and BPL families, but these are confined to papers for us, till we do not have ownership rights of our property,” said Krishan.Balwan, another resident, informed that most of the houses had been built in 25 yards. “God knows when we will get the ownership of our house so that we can avail the government schemes!,” he added.Kanchan Khurana, area councillor, said besides all other residential proofs, the residents also had the assessment report of their houses prepared by the corporation. “But, they cannot get the grant under the PM Awas Yojana, Dr Ambedkar Awas Navinikaran Yojana and other schemes hence we have urged the government to provide them the ownership,” said Khurana.Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, said the issue was raised by the area councillor at the recently held meeting of the General House. “After discussing the issue, we have decided to send a request to the Director General, Urban Local Bodies, for the same,” Goyal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sans-ownership-rights-rohtak-sc-families-cant-avail-govt-schemes-238653
14-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Upload challan data online, State Information Commission directs Faridabad police||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 13The State Information Commission (SIC) has asked the Faridabad police to upload the challan data on the Police Department’s website. The order comes in response to an RTI application filed by a local resident, who has alleged lack of transparency in issuing challans.In the order issued on April 8, Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) Yashpal Singhal has directed the district police to consider uploading year-wise information on motor vehicle challans or traffic challans on the police website after considering the legal implications, if any. It should be done within one month of the receipt of the order, states the CIC order.The SIC has also allowed the appellant to inspect permissible record of the respondent public authority relating to his RTI application. The respondent State Public Information Officer (ACP-Headquarters, Faridabad) has been asked to furnish permissible or available information to the appellant within 15 days of the receipt of the order.The appellant, Ajay Bahl, a volunteer of local NGO Ek Sangharsh had filed the application filed on September 23, 2020, seeking information of the details of the money collected from challans and where it was deposited and used by the Police Department.The second appeal was filed on November 22, 2020. Bahl had alleged that traffic challans were issued in violation of the Motor Vehicles Act and that the Police Department did not provide correct information to his queries raised through the RTI application filed in September 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upload-challan-data-online-state-information-commission-directs-faridabad-police-238674
14-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Gatka, cricket... all part of Baisakhi bonhomie at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 13Protesting farmers camping at the Tikri border played gatka, cricket, kabaddi, athletics and volleyball to mark the occasion of Baisakhi. Wrestling and turban-tying competitions were also organised.Residents from nearby villages participated in the sport events organised by the Five Rivers Heart Association, a social outfit, in collaboration with other sports organisations.Health and eye check-up camps were also organised. Punjab artistes enthralled farmers by presenting folk and motivational songs.In the morning, farmers performed a “hawan” at the main protest site and closed the main stage around 11 am to participate in the “Baisakhi fair” on the Bahadurgarh bypass.“Baisakhi is an important festival which marks not only the foundation day of the Khalsa Panth, but also the start of the harvesting season. In Punjab, we go to gurdwara to celebrate. But this time, the experience of celebrating the festival at Tikri offers a different experience. We performed all rituals at Tikri, which has become our abode and place of worship,” said Kartar Singh from Punjab.Purrushottam Singh Gill, a BKU leader, said: “Through Baisakhi celebrations, we have sent out a clear message to the Modi government that farmers will not go back and continue to celebrate festivals with enthusiasm until the three farm laws are repealed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gatka-cricket-all-part-of-baisakhi-bonhomie-at-tikri-border-238675
14-04-2021||---||Tardy lifting: Arhtiyas, farmers block Karnal-Indri highway||Karnal, April 13Scores of farmers and arhtiyas of the Indri grain market blocked the Karnal-Indri state highway for more than one-and-a-half hours today in protest against the shortage of gunny bags, tardy lifting of wheat and non-issuance of gate passes due to the ban on procurement for 24 hours.The state government on Monday stopped the purchase of wheat in 18 purchase centres of the state for 24 hours due to glut in mandis. The Indri grain market was one of 18 mandis.In the morning, when farmers reached the grain market, they were not issued gate passes. Angry, they blocked the highway, causing inconvenience to commuters.Rampal Chahal, a BKU leader, said: “Who is to blame for glut in grain markets? Farmers? The blame lies with procurement agencies and transporters, who did not lift wheat on time. Banning procurement for 24 hours is no solution.”Manjeet Singh, another farmer, said the state government should increase the number of vehicles for speedy transportation.Satpal, president of an arhtiyas association in Indri, blamed procurement agencies and transporters for slow lifting of the produce. “Before procurement started, transporters had said 92 vehicles would be pressed into service to lift grains, but only 26 vehicles are doing the job. Besides, grains are lying in the open as gunny bags are in short supply.”Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Sumit Sihag assured protesters of deploying more vehicles to lift wheat and opening three additional purchase centres in the vicinity. He also assured them of arranging sufficient number of gunny bags by Wednesday afternoon. Subsequently, farmers and arhtiyas lifted the blockade.He said, “The government stopped procurement for 24 hours because of space crunch in mandis.”Procurement resumes in RadaurYamunanagar: Wheat was procured at the Radaur grain market today after market committee officials cleared space and allowed farmers to bring their produce. It was one of the 18 mandis where the state government had banned procurement for 24 hours in view of the glut in mandis, but timely action by officials helped farmers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-lifting-arhtiyas-farmers-block-karnal-indri-highway-238678
14-04-2021||---||‘Glitch’ in portal leads to slow procurement in Haryana||Hisar, April 13Balwan Singh, a resident of Badya Jatan village in Hisar, brought his wheat produce to the Hisar grain market two days ago, but has got stuck in the mandi as the procurement process has come to a halt for the time being due to the non-lifting of the procured grain.As farmers are rushing to grain markets after harvesting their produce, the arrival has virtually choked the mandis in the absence of the timely lifting of the wheat from the mandis.The pradhan of the Hisar Arhtiyas Association Chhabil Dass said slow lifting by the procurement agencies had resulted in glut in the mandis.The Hisar Market Committee secretary Hira Lal said due to the space crunch in mandi, they had allowed only 96 farmers to bring produce in Hisar mandi today, with around 7,300 quintals of wheat produce.Meanwhile, officials blamed a glitch in the official web portal for the slow procurement.Over 26L tonnes wheat boughtChandigarh: A total of 33.36 lakh tonnes of wheat has been received in the mandis and 3.44 lakh tonnes of wheat procured by the state procurement agencies at the MSP, with a total of 26.95 lakh tonnes wheat procured so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/glitch-in-portal-leads-to-slow-procurement-in-haryana-238679
14-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Act against complainant for U-turn, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13In a significant judgment liable to change the way the complainants in criminal cases take a U-turn after initiating proceedings, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the state of Haryana to proceed against a man for giving a clean chit to the accused before the trial court after accusing them of assault.The ruling by Justice Deepak Sibal came on a petition filed against the state and other respondents by Vikas through counsel Harsh Chopra for regular bail in an FIR registered on January 26, 2020, for murder and other offences under Sections 148, 149, 302, 323 IPC and the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act registered at Bhatu Kalan police station in Fatehabad district.The case was registered on the complaint of Kamal, who alleged that a prayer ceremony was being held at his residence on the occasion of his son’s birth, when the petitioner and five others came uninvited at night. Quarrel started when their entry was objected to by the complainant. His maternal grandfather sustained injuries in the fight and was declared dead after he was taken to a hospital.Appearing before the Bench, Chopra contended that the petitioner had been falsely implicated in the case. Elaborating, Chopra submitted that the complainant specifically deposed before the trial court after appearing as a prosecution witness that his maternal grandfather fell down on his own and hurt himself leading to his death.Justice Sibal asserted the FIR’s perusal revealed that the complainant specifically alleged that injuries inflicted by the accused had led to his maternal grandfather’s death. Specific roles had also been attributed to the accused. But he gave a clean chit to all accused while appearing before the trial court. “That being so, the state, after examining the same, is directed to proceed against the complainant for lodging a false FIR, in accordance with law,” Justice Sibal asserted.Granting bail to the accused, Justice Sibal added the main allegations were against a co-accused. As such, the court was of the opinion that useful purpose would not be served in the petitioner’s further incarceration. “Accordingly, the present case is considered to be a fit one in which the petitioner be directed to be released on regular bail,” Justice Sibal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/act-against-complainant-for-u-turn-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-haryana-238665
