15-04-2021||Sonepat||3-4 temporary structures at farmers’ protest site idamaged in fire||Three to four temporary structures were damaged in a fire on Thursday at a protest site in Haryana’s Kundli area where farmers are demanding the repeal of the Centre’s three agri laws.A fire department official said the cause of the fire is being ascertained.However, farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa alleged that there was a conspiracy and someone had deliberately started the fire.“Some farmers saw a man running away,” he said.A police official said claims of the farmers are being investigated.The fire was put out by the fire fighters and farmers had also assisted in the operation, he said.Sirsa said that refrigerators, fans, cots and other articles were damaged in the fire.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping since last year at three border points of Delhi—Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur—demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-4-temporary-structures-at-farmers-protest-site-idamaged-in-fire-239512
15-04-2021||Jhajjar||125 farmers booked on getting toll plaza at KMP Expressway closed||The protesting farmers continued to stage dharna at the Aasoda toll plaza on the KMP Expressway for the second day on Thursday in order to foil any attempt made by the administration to restart the plaza while the police have booked 125 farmers in connection with the closure of the toll plaza yesterday.In the police complaint lodged by Prem Chand, Senior Manager (KMP expressway project), the farmers have been accused of manhandling the toll plaza employees and threatening them of dire consequence.The complaint also alleged that the protesters also disconnected the wires of toll booths.A case under section 109 (abetment), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging duty), 188 (disobedience to the orders), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 283 (danger or obstruction in public way) has been registered against Rakesh of Jind, Vikas of Hisar, Suman Hooda of Gurugram, Narendra Ahlawat of Gochhi (Jhajjar), Jasvir Bhatti and Ballu Mandothi along with 125 others.The administration had reactivated the Aasoda toll plaza on Tuesday in the presence of heavy police force.Next day, the farmers forced the toll employees not to charge the toll from commuters and ensured free passage to the commuters.  Meanwhile, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said the police action was nothing except a scare tactic but they were not afraid of it and would ensure closure of the toll plazas across the state.“The police case will not affect our spirit in any manner as we are fighting a battle for a noble cause. Today too, we staged dharna at Aasoda toll plaza as a large number of police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed there with an intention to reactivate the toll but we will not let the administration to do so,” said Suman.Jasbir Singh, SHO, Aasoda police station, said the case would be probed before arresting the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/125-farmers-booked-on-getting-toll-plaza-at-kmp-expressway-closed-239507
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||HALSA to launch vaccination programmes at its centres||Travelling beyond the perceived function of just providing legal aid, Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA) on Thursday took another step towards the protection of people’s life and liberty by directing the launch of vaccination programmes at its alternate disputes redressal (ADR) centres across the state within a fortnight.HALSA has already launched Covid awareness drive “Arrest the disease, wear a mask; don’t go close, cover your nose” and has extended help to 3.5 lakh migrants by arranging for their transit and food during the pandemic.For ensuring vaccination at the village level, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and HALSA Executive Chairman Justice Rajan Gupta also suggested calling of reports from the sarpanches on inoculation and also on the release of pension and other old age benefits.The directions were issued during videoconferencing held under Justice Gupta’s chairmanship with all chief judicial magistrates-cum-secretaries of the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) in Haryana following the increase in Covid cases throughout the state.Justice Gupta asked DLSA secretaries to hold vaccination campaigns in assistance with the health department to facilitate vaccination on voluntarily basis. The secretaries were also directed to step up Covid awareness and relief programmes.Emphasising on the need to reach needy persons entitled to financial relief packages and other beneficial schemes launched by Central and state government, Justice Gupta further asked DLSAs secretaries to collaborate with the departments concerned.They were also asked to extend assistance for ensuring speedy delivery of Aadhaar and voter cards and other requirements for availing the schemes. They were further asked to ensure maximum availability of benefit of HALSA, NALSA and other government schemes to the general public.Justice Gupta also directed DLSAs to involve additional deputy commissioner of each district in their capacity of nodal officers in all its activities to ensure support from district administration, especially for ensuring relief to ordinary persons during the pandemic.Directions were issued for holding frequent meetings with the local administrative officers and enhance the usages of legal literacy clubs already set up in private and government schools of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/halsa-to-launch-vaccination-programmes-at-its-centres-239499
15-04-2021||Yamunanagar||13-year-old girl found pregnant after being drugged, raped in Haryana; 2 women, man held||A 13-year-old girl became pregnant after allegedly being drugged and raped by different people with three persons, including two women, arrested here on Thursday, police said.The key accused woman, who lives in the girl's neighbourhood, was addicted to drugs and apparently used the teenager to earn money to meet her needs.The woman, her husband and another woman, who used to give her room on rent to the couple where the child was allegedly raped, have been arrested, police said.A few days ago, the girl had complained of stomach pain and was taken to a hospital where she was found to be six months pregnant. When the child narrated her ordeal of sexual exploitation, the police were informed.After the teenager was counselled, she told the police that the key accused used to take her outside when her parents were away from home. She was then drugged and subjected to sexual abuse by different people at the house of the other woman.Police are investigating if the accused persons could have used more such children subjecting them to sexual abuse. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-year-old-girl-found-pregnant-after-being-drugged-raped-in-haryana-2-women-man-held-239496
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Withdraw stir on humanitarian grounds: Khattar to farmers||Amid a surge in COVID cases, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday appealed to farmers to withdraw their stir against the Centre's farm laws on "humanitarian grounds".His appeal came as the state government tightened restrictions on gathering at indoor and outdoor public functions to 50 and 200, respectively. Earlier, the state government had permitted 500 people at outdoor events and 200 at indoor programmes.Khattar said while it is the constitutional right of every person to protest and the state does not have a problem with anyone doing so in a peaceful manner, the situation due to rising COVID cases is a matter of concern.“At this time, due to COVID-19, life may be put in danger, so this is not the right time to protest,” said Khattar while presiding over a meeting called to review the coronavirus situation, according to an official statement.Farmers should withdraw their movement on “humanitarian grounds”, the CM said, adding that they can hold their protest once the situation improves.He also directed the deputy commissioners to contact the agitating farmers and try to persuade them. In the meeting, Khattar said keeping in view the increase in the number of cases, they need to reduce crowding at public functions.“Therefore, it has been decided that from now on, not more than 200 people can gather in open spaces during public functions and not more than 50 at indoor functions. Similarly, no more than 20 people will be able to attend funerals,” Khattar said. He directed all deputy commissioners to issue advisories to ensure that night-time ceremonies are shifted to daytime and the “Navratra” programmes be held during the day.Health Minister Anil Vij, who attended the meeting through virtual mode, directed the DCs and district police chiefs to get the coronavirus-related guidelines strictly implemented.“I can withstand the resentment of people by being strict but I cannot see the piles of dead bodies (people dying from coronavirus),” Vij said.  Vij further said there are only two ways to prevent the coronavirus spread.  “The first method is a lockdown and the second is strictness. We want the situation to be dealt with strictness instead of imposing a lockdown in the state,” he said, adding that reporting over 5,000 cases in a day is a matter of concern. “So, we have to create containment and micro containment zones,” he said.  He also expressed concern over the “black marketing” of Remdesivir drug and said teams should be deployed to check it.   Khattar said that due to increasing cases in the country and the state, they need to take precautions.“Last year, the economic activity had stalled due to the lockdown, which took about six months to get back on track. Therefore, we have to keep in mind that the economic cycle should continue in the state and that no one is adversely affected as well,” he said. He appealed to people to leave their homes only when necessary, wear masks, use a sanitiser and maintain social distancing. He said there is proper arrangement of oxygen, ventilators and beds in the state. So people need not panic, he said. He directed officials to hold all meetings online so that the movement of people could be reduced. Khattar said as crop procurement is under way, the number of procurement centres should be increased to speed up the process.  He directed the deputy commissioners to establish procurement centres in rice mills and schools for the next 10-12 days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-stir-on-humanitarian-grounds-khattar-to-farmers-239470
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana issues Covid advisory; caps number of people at weddings, funerals||The Haryana government on Thursday announced a slew of measures to check the spread of COVID in the state.The advisory were issued after a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar along with DCs, SPs and Civil Surgeons, the Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister.There was no shortage of beds, oxygen and ventilators in the state, the CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-issues-covid-advisory-caps-number-of-people-at-weddings-funerals-239444
15-04-2021||Bambolim (Goa)||Bengaluru enter  AFC Cup playoffs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bengaluru-enter-afc-cup-playoffs-239398
15-04-2021||New Delhi||Haryana girls make winning start at youth boxing WC||Haryana boxers Poonam (57kg) and Vinka (60kg) registered victories with varying degrees of difficulty to get India off to a good start at the Youth World Boxing Championships in Kielce, Poland.The two advanced to the pre-quarterfinals after notching up contrasting wins in the first round. While Poonam out-punched Colombia’s Valeria Mendoza 5-0, Vinka edged past Russia’s Daria Panteleeva 3-2 to make the last-16 stage.India have fielded a 20-member contingent — 10 men and as many women — for the marquee age-group event. — TNS, agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-girls-make-winning-start-at-youth-boxing-wc-239396
15-04-2021||Rohtak||Haryana Govt cancels leave of health workers in medical colleges||In view of the Covid surge, the Haryana Government has cancelled the leave of all healthcare workers serving at the Rohtak PGIMS and other state-run medical colleges.A communiqué shot off by the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research to the Registrar, University of Health Sciences (UHS), and the directors of the Rohtak PGIMS and the state-run medical colleges at Nalhar, Khanpur Kalan, Karnal and Agroha states that no leave would be granted to any healthcare professional till further orders.Infections cross 5,000 in 24 hours; 1.75 lakh vaccinatedFollowing the issuance of the said notification, Rohtak PGIMS director and PGIDS principal have also passed orders, stating that no faculty members, senior residents, residents, nursing and paramedical staff (healthcare professionals) would be allowed any kind of leave till further orders.The order further states that the leave of the staffers who were already away were hereby cancelled, directing them to join their duty immediately.Meanwhile, the PGIMS authorities have also pulled up their socks to tackle the fresh spurt in the Covid cases in the state. The PGIMS trauma centre has been re-designated as a Covid hospital.Nevertheless, medical experts as well as administrators are of the view that night curfew and other measures adopted by the government would be of little use if residents continue going to crowded places and violating the Covid protocol.“Residents should understand that exercising self-restraint is must to avoid getting infected, even if they have got the jab. Physical distancing and hand hygiene should be followed strictly and religiously in order to stay safe in these testing times,” says Dr MC Gupta, senior professor and head of the department of pharmacology, Rohtak PGIMS.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar exhorted the residents to get the jab to stay safe and not get misled by rumours and misconceptions regarding the Covid vaccines. “The indigenous anti-Covid vaccines are safe and effective. All residents above 45 years of age can get these vaccines at their nearest health facility. No prior registration is required and just an identity proof like Aadhaar card is needed for on-the-spot vaccination,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-cancels-leave-of-health-workers-in-medical-colleges-239267
15-04-2021||Karnal||Covid care only at Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla hospital||With the surge in Covid-19 patients in the district, the health authorities have decided to once again convert Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) into a dedicated Covid hospital, with all non-Covid activities to be run from the Civil Hospital.“As the number of Covid cases is increasing, we have decided to shift all non-Covid activities, except the OPDs, to the Civil Hospital,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC, adding that soon the KCGMC would have the facility of dialysis which would be beneficial to Covid patients.The medical surgical, ENT, ortho and emergency work will be shifted to the Civil Hospital in a day or two, while the labour room and gynaecology department will be shifted after the renovation of the labour room there. Only life-saving surgeries will be conducted at the KCGMC.The district is among the ones having the maximum cases of coronavirus.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon, Dr Yogesh Sharma, said more ventilators would be functional at the KCGMC in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-care-only-at-karnals-kalpana-chawla-hospital-239268
15-04-2021||Faridabad||9,043 NHPC staff, kin get inoculated||NHPC Limited, India’s premier hydropower company, has undertaken a large-scale Covid vaccination drive across all its offices in the country.“Total 9,043 NHPC employees, including their dependents, retired staff and their kin, security and contract workers, have been administered the Covid jab across 30 locations as on April 13,” said an NHPC spokesperson.He said the vaccination camps had been held at all corporate offices, power stations, project sites and regional offices. “Total 6,574 persons had received their first dose while another 2,469 individuals got their second dose.”The NHPC has already organised 52 vaccination camps and will hold 34 more such drives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-043-nhpc-staff-kin-get-inoculated-239269
15-04-2021||Ambala||Servant booked for looting owner in Ambala||The police have booked a servant, Rahul, and his unidentified accomplices for allegedly intoxicating his owner and another servant and decamping with jewellery, cash and valuable items from a house at Sector 9 here on Tuesday.Gurmeet Kaur, the complainant, alleged that she had gone out with her son and daughter-in-law for some work. When they returned, she found her husband unconscious and valuables missing. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/servant-booked-for-looting-owner-in-ambala-239270
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Industries seek curfew exemption for night-shift staff||The declaration of night curfew has left the industrial sector hassled as it has suspended night shifts. A majority of industries in Gurugram and Manesar function in multiple shifts, including wokring at night, which will no longer be possible with the curbs. The industrial bodies have urged the state to let them continue their work as usual.They have asked the administration to issue special passes to workers to ensure that the production is not affected.“There is economic crisis and we need to keep the industries going. We follow all Covid protocols and there is no unessential crowding or movement, so our labour should be exempted. We are still waiting for permission despite promises by the administration,” said JN Mangla, president of the Gurrgram Industrial Association.Similarly, IMT Manesar Industrial Association has written to the DC seeking exemption for night-shift employees from the curfew.“We welcome the curfew imposed by the government because prevention is better than cure. But the industry should be allowed to carry on with night shifts, so that it does not face any problem,” said Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Industrial Association.The move has also left the pub bars and restaurant owners irate as this has completely shut the business and will throw employees out of jobs.“We are here to recover from last year’s lockdown blow. We have put in so much effort to get back on track and now shutting down again will mean permanent closure. They can inspect us as we follow all protocols and so do our patrons. Rather than shutting us, they should shut markets which is crowded,” added Ashwini Kumar, manager of Quaff Mirco Beer Café.The malls too have voiced their concerns, especially with regards to eateries. The worst affected are those with scheduled weddings in April or May. A majority of these had shifted to Gurugram venues after curbs in Delhi. While some are postponing others are rushing for day wedding slots. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industries-seek-curfew-exemption-for-night-shift-staff-239271
15-04-2021||Rohtak||Maharshi Dayanand University's online theory classes||Opportunity for studentsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has decided to provide an opportunity to all those students, who could not appear /failed to appear in the March-2021 offline semester examinations due to some compelling reasons. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh said that keeping in view the Covid pandemic and in the interest of the student community, the university is providing a chance to all such students to appear for an online examination. All such candidates may request their respective college principals/directors/head of departments with full justification and supporting documents till April 22. Permission will be given to requests considered genuine by the principals/directors/head of departments concerned. The online examination will be of three hours duration and will be online proctored examination. MDU controller of examinations Dr BS Sindhu said the detailed examination related guidelines/SOPs have been issued by the university, and the same are available on the MDU website.Baisakhi celebratedYamunanagar: The festival of Baisakhi was celebrated at Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Shabad-kirtan was organised in the college Gurdwara Sahib in which the teachers of the college participated and prasad was distributed. College principal and NCC Officer Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the NCC students of the college started the campaign 'No plastic use'. The students also organised a meeting for martyrs of April 13, 1919 Jallianwala Wala Bagh incident, following social distancing. Patron of the college management committee, Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and president Randeep Singh Jauhar gave bwst wishes for Vaisakhi.Mega vaccination driveKurukshetra: A mega Covid vaccination drive was organised by Kurukshetra University on Tuesday on "Teeka Utsav", a mass vaccination call given by PM Narendra Modi and the Government of Haryana. As many as 550 employees of KU and their families got vaccinated. While inaugurating the drive, Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath said the Teeka Utsav was being organised all over India, so that more and more people could be vaccinated.130th birth anniversaryFaridabad: The 130th birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the father of the Indian Constitution, was observed at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar along with Registrar Dr SK Garg and other officials paid floral tributes to Dr Ambedkar, who was an economist, politician and social reformer for the modern India that was free of caste and other prejudices. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Dinesh Kumar highlighted the life, commitment and contribution of Dr Ambedkar towards the nation. He said the birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar was being celebrated as 'Tika Utsav' for Covid vaccination across the country.Tributes paid to Dr AmbedkarKurukshetra: Bharat Ratna Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar worked for uplifting the underprivileged in Indian society. This was expressed by Minister of State for Water Power, Social Justice and Empowerment Ratan Lal Kataria while speaking as the chief guest in an online seminar organied by Dr BR Ambedkar Study Centre of Kurukshetra University.Nav-Samvatsar welcomedFaridabad: The Indian New Year (Nav-Samvatsar) Vikram Samvat 2078 was welcomed at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, with gaiety and enthusiasm. While a yajna ritual was performed, a lecture session on the historical and scientific basis of the Indian New Year was also organised. Prof. Dev Prasad Bhardwaj gave a lecture on the historical and scientific basis of the Indian New Year. Addressing the session, Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said that Indian new year which arrives in Chaitra Shukla hads mythological, historical and natural importance in Indian culture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maharshi-dayanand-universitys-online-theory-classes-239272
15-04-2021||Palwal||IIT grad from Palwal 3rd in UPPSC exam||“Perseverance, continuous hard work with self-belief and the support of my family did wonders and made my dream come true”, said Mohit Rawat (27) from Palwal who has made his family proud by achieving third rank in the UPPSC exam the result of which were declared recently.Mohit is a graduate (B.tech) from IIT, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh). He is perhaps the only candidate from Haryana, who has secured a place in the top 10 list of the exam, conducted in 2020. He said it was his second attempt in the UPPSC and has also cleared the preliminary and the mains exam of the UPSC- 2020 and is due to appear in the final interview on May 28 this year.Mohit is the son of a retired Deputy Superintendent (Public Health Department) and hails from Bahin village of the district. He said he did not let himself get demoralised after he failed in the first attempt in the UPPSC and two attempts in UPSC exam. He was well placed in a private sector job with an annual package of over Rs 20 lakh soon after his BTech degree in 2015. “Though I continued with the job for two years, I came back and joined the coaching for Civil services in 2017 and ultimately tasted success after three years.’’ He says that he may opt for UPSC if he gets selected in the top 100.Mohit’s father Jawahar Singh said one could be successful if he/she was not afraid of failure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/iit-grad-from-palwal-3rd-in-uppsc-exam-239273
15-04-2021||Adigital kiosk had found a place in the corridor of the Mini-Secretariat||Digital kiosk lying defunct at Ambala City's Mini-Secretariat||Appropriate time to repair roadsThis refers to the news, Faridabad to be on fast-track of development, says Khattar (April 11). Kudos to the CM for extending praiseworthy announcement related to development of Faridabad. No doubt the FMDA/HSVP are committed to giving finishing touches to development issues, but various aspects were totally ignored by the Municipal Corporation. Most of the sectors of Faridabad fall short of adequate water supply. Consumers of water supply are forced to buy water tankers frequently. People are fed up with the carelessness and unresponsiveness extended by some of the MC officials. Various roads such as approach roads and connected roads of the sectors are damaged. The B&R Department of the PWD is least concerned with the repair activity of the roads falling under its jurisdiction. It is an appropriate time (before monsoon) to undertake repair work. — Yugal Kishore Sharma, FaridabadUse underground cables to avoid accidentsThe recent thunderstorm in the tricity had caused uprooting of several trees, electricity poles apart from snapping of power cables and Panchkula was no exception thereto. However, one of the most disturbing fall out of snapping of electricity cables was the unfortunate demise of a young lineman who, for some unconfirmed reasons, reportedly came in contact with a live wire while he was repairing the damaged cables. For sure, all such unsavory developments call for immediate undergrounding of the power cables across Panchkula. — SK Gupta, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/digital-kiosk-lying-defunct-at-ambala-citys-mini-secretariat-239275
15-04-2021||Rewari||9 farmers held before Haryana Dy CM’s arrival, released later||In all, nine farmers were arrested before Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chatuala arrived in the city to unveil the statue of BR Ambedkar on the Dalit icon’s birth anniversary today.Holding black flags, they had assembled at Nehru Park and announced that they would oppose Dushyant’s visit.Protest in KaithalKarnal: Scores of farmers protested at Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College at Jagdishpura village in Kaithal district on Wednesday as they were expecting Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala to chair an event on the Dalit icon’s birth anniversary. The district administration told farmers the Deputy CM’s visit was cancelled two days ago, but they continued to protest. TNSLater, the Deputy Chief Minister told the media everyone had the right to raise their voice peacefully. “No one will be allowed to take law into their hands and strict action will be taken against the guilty,” he added.To a query, the JJP leader said the night curfew had been imposed in view of rising Covid cases in neighbouring states. “Lockdown will not be imposed. The state government has made arrangements to deal with the second wave of the infection.”“The government had decided to close schools from classes I to VIII after 160 students at Sainik School in Kunjpura tested Covid-positive. Private schools should not play with the health of students by holding classes,” Dushyant added.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav said all nine farmers were later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-farmers-held-before-haryana-dy-cms-arrival-released-later-239276
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt orders FIR against Palwal's Khaika village sarpanch for Rs 1.8 cr fraud||The Haryana Government has ordered a first information report (FIR) to be lodged against Iqbal, the sarpanch of Khaika village in Palwal district, for allegedly embezzling Rs 1.84 crore.Apart from this, orders have been given to take immediate action against the gram sachiv concerned in this regard.This information was given by project director, Rakesh Gupta, of the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) programme while conducting a meeting with additional deputy commissioners and other district officials concerned to review the progress of various schemes.Reviewing a complaint regarding Charkhi-Dadri on CM-Windows, he said approval should be taken to register an FIR against former sarpanch of Bound-Kalan (Charkhi Dadri), Anita Devi and gram sachiv, Rambir, as financial loss to the panchayat fund, amounting to Rs 36 lakh, had been incurred during their tenure.On the complaint received against the tehsildar in Jhajjar regarding registering various sale deeds in a prohibited area, he directed the officials to seek reports in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-orders-fir-against-palwals-khaika-village-sarpanch-for-rs-1-8-cr-fraud-239277
15-04-2021||Karnal||Shortage of bags stalls lifting in Karnal mandis||The shortage of gunny bags in grain markets of the districts has stalled the weighing of procured wheat and thus slowed the pace of lifting.Of the 45 lakh quintals of wheat brought to 22 procurement centres of the district till Tuesday night, around 38 lakh quintals have been procured. But only 25 per cent of the procured produce has been lifted. Sources say gunny bags are available for 60 per cent of the procured wheat. As a result, heaps of wheat is lying in the open in almost every procurement centre.“My crop was procured on Wednesday morning, but it could not be filled in bags because it is in short supply. I have to wait here till my produce is weighed,” said Rajesh Kumar, a farmer. High-velocity winds and clouds worry him as he waits for the bags.Rajnish Chaudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiyas Association, blamed the state government for, what he described as, “mismanagement” at the grain markets. “The government did not provide sufficient gunny bags. As a result, arhtiyas and farmers are facing problems.”“The arhtiyas’ association has approached procurement agencies and the district administration for gunny bags, but to no avail,” Chaudhary said, adding around 10 lakh more gunny bags were required for the Karnal grain market.When contacted, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The district administration has apprised the higher authorities of the situation. The Food and Civil Supplies Department and Hafed have started delivering bags. In a couple of days, all grain markets will have sufficient gunny bags.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shortage-of-bags-stalls-lifting-in-karnal-mandis-239278
15-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 8L; five booked||The police have lodged a case after a man alleged he was duped of Rs 8 lakh on the pretext of a government job offer for his brother.On the complaint of Satyawan of Jagadhri, a case was registered against Yaghadutt, Gaurav, Ramnath, Samya Singh and Raj Kumar under Sections 406, 420 and 506 of the IPC.The complainant said the accused promised his brother Rajeev Rathi a clerical job in the Agriculture Department.The deal was fixed at Rs 8 lakh. He said when the accused failed to provide a job, he demanded his money back, but the accused threatened him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-8l-five-booked-239279
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||5-year-old boy ‘donated’ to Hansi temple rescued||After a raid at Mahant Jagannath Puri Samadha Mandir, Hansi, from where a five-year-old boy was rescued, the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) on Wednesday called for an FIR against the parents who donated the child to the religious body.“The child was abandoned by his father at the age of three months at the temple where there were no facilities to take care of an infant of that age. Hence, it has been ordered to take legal action against the father of the child,” said chairperson of HSCPCR Jyoti Bainda.Bainda had raided the temple premises on April 13. She added, “The act of abandoning a child is a penal offence under Section 317 of the IPC and Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.”She said that the parents were under the influence of superstition and claimed that as the temple head had cured the child after a snake bite, they donated him.The Commission also told the police to get the data of children who have been abandoned at the temple to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-year-old-boy-donated-to-hansi-temple-rescued-239280
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM: Revoking Art 370 tribute to Ambedkar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi — by revoking Article 370 — had paid real tribute to Dr BR Ambedkar, who played a significant role in the framing of the Indian Constitution.He said Dr Ambedkar had then opposed inclusion of Article 370 in the Constitution so as to uphold the political integrity, unity and diversity of the country.The Chief Minister was speaking as the chief guest at a programme organised on the occasion of the 130th birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar held here today.He said Babasaheb always believed that only through education, the person standing last in the queue could be brought into the mainstream.Babasaheb always believed in the theory that every person should spend half of his money on education and half on his other basic needs like food etc.Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said this was for the first time that the birth anniversary of Babasaheb was being celebrated on the Assembly premises after the installation of his statue.Panipat: Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda paid tributes to Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, on his 130th birth anniversary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-revoking-art-370-tribute-to-ambedkar-239282
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||The CM flying squad busted a fake call centre in a raid in the wee hours today and nabbed seven men — the call centre owner and six residents of the North-East.The accused were duping US nationals using their social security numbers obtained through pop-ups.The fake call centre was being run from a rented office at Ansal plaza in Palam Vihar. A laptop, a hard disk and Rs 1.9 lakh were seized.An FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station. DSP Inderjeet Yadav of CM squad, Gurugram, said he got a tip-off that the fake call centre was being run at Palam Vihar. DSP Yadav, with the help of the local police, conducted raids at the office where the employees were busy on computers and laptop.They did not possess any valid OSP licence of the Department of Telecommunications or any other MoU related to their work.The call centre owner has been identified as Akshay Dalal (32), a resident of MP. Others have been identified as Nanginliye (27), Siminlal (28), Squar (26), Vikto Amuchi (24), Mangcha Baithe (30), natives of Manipur, and Imnlog (26) of Nagaland. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-239283
15-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Protesting farmers yet again nix move to restart toll plaza on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 14The administration’s move to reactivate the toll booth on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway near Aasoda village failed within 24 hours as protesting farmers created a ruckus on Wednesday, forcing toll officials to stop charging tax from commuters. This was for the third time in four months that farmers shut the KMP Expressway toll plaza.The protesting farmers lifted the toll barriers, giving a free passage to the commuters. They also staged a dharna at the plaza and raised anti-government slogans. Bahadurgarh SDM Hitendra Sharma, present on the spot along with a heavy police force, said the farmers were requested not to take law into their hands by closing the toll plaza but they did not pay heed.The toll plaza was restarted on Tuesday in the presence of the SDM and the police to prevent any untoward incident. The farmers did not come yesterday as they had got together at Tikri border for the Baisakhi fair, said sources.BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had appealed this morning to farmers to reach the Aasoda toll plaza to ensure its closure in a peaceful manner. Suman Hooda, a farmer leader, said they would not leave the toll plaza till the administrative officers and police forces remained at the spot.Meanwhile, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) condemned the toll companies for restarting the collection. “These are provocations to disrupt the stir when harvesting is at its peak,” the AIKS said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-yet-again-nix-move-to-restart-toll-plaza-on-the-kundli-manesar-palwal-kmp-expressway-239159
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Haryana industry upset over night curfew||Night curfew has left the industrial sector in a fix. A majority of industries in Gurugram and Manesar function in multiple shifts, including night shifts. This will no longer be possible with the night curbs. The industry has sought special night passes for the workers to ensure that production is not affected. “There is economic crisis and we need to keep the industries going. Our labour should be exempted from curbs," said JN Mangla, president of the Gurgaon Industrial Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-industry-upset-over-night-curfew-239255
15-04-2021||---||Day 2 of Navratri festival: Over 9K devotees visit Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula, April 14As many as 9,600 devotees paid obeisance at Mata Mansa Devi temple on the second day of Navratri festival. While Kali Mata temple at Kalka saw 2,150 devotees paying obeisance, 225 devotees visited Chandi Mata temple.Besides, at least Rs11.60 lakh, along with gold and silver items, were donated at these temples.On the first day of the Navratri festival , a total of 10,400 devotees had paid obeisance at Mansa Devi temple. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-2-of-navratri-festival-over-9k-devotees-visit-mansa-devi-temple-239110
