16-04-2021||New Delhi||Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores transferred directly into accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana for wheat procurement||The government agencies have procured 18,24,310 tonnes (18.24 lakh tonnes) of wheat from Punjab and 36,30,790 tonnes (36.30 lakh tonnes) from Haryana in the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season till April 15.  From the country on the whole, 81,63,669 tonnes (81.64 lakh tonnes) has been procured at an MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal, against an estimated target of 427.36 lakh tonnes this year. From Chandigarh, 5650 tonnes have been procured, according to the FCI data.   This is the first time the farmers from Punjab and Haryana are receiving direct online MSP payment of their produce.The Centre has been pursuing with the two state governments for ensuring direct online payment into farmers’ accounts since 2015-16. However, they had been “routinely approaching the Centre for granting exemption and seeking time”.Just ahead of procurement, Punjab had sought yet another exemption, which was rejected by the Centre.Till date Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores has been transferred into the accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Normally there is a lag of 2-3 days in transfer of money, officials said, adding that procurement in Punjab started on April 10, and picked up in last two days (after Baisakhi), while in Haryana it has been going on since April 1.With Punjab and Haryana on board, the entire country is now covered under Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP under the theme of “One Nation, One MSP, One DBT”, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said. Till date Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores has been transferred into the accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Normally there is a lag of 2-3 days in transfer of money, officials said.Dismissing observations of procurement “going slow” in Punjab, Pandey said procurement and transferring of the MSP amount is going smoothly in the state.“We are now transferring in Punjab the MSP amount directly to farmers’ accounts which has been possible with the cooperation of the state government and ‘arthiyas’, who are a very important stakeholder. They will get their respective commission due under the APMC Act and rules into their accounts.“There is no stakeholder interest clash or encroachment in Punjab. ‘Arhtiyas’ will receive their commission separately through the e-mode of payment. Earlier, the MSP was going to farmers via ‘arhtiya’ and now it is being directly transferred to farmers online,” he said, in response to reports about ‘arthiyas’ demanding “signed blank cheques from farmers to facilitate procurement”. Pandey said the Centre is hoping to procure 427 LMT this season, the highest ever in the country. This includes 130 LMT from Punjab and 80 LMT from Haryana, states where farmers have been at the forefront of the agitation against the three agriculture laws.The leader of the group (of 11 states and two UTs, Chandigarh and J&K) will be Madhya Pradesh from where 135 LMT is expected to be procured. So far, the highest procurement has been reported from Haryana, he said, thanking the government and the ‘arthiyas’ of the state.As per the data available with the FCI, the government agencies have procured 23.08 lakh tonnes of wheat from the farmers in Madhya Pradesh and 1.99 lakh tonnes in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, to ramp up storage infrastructure in India and increase storage capacity by 100 LMT, the government is launching a storage modernisation plan.“By 2024-25, we will store our stocks in modern silos and phase out conventional godowns,” Pandey said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-13-71-crores-and-rs-735-crores-transferred-directly-into-accounts-of-farmers-in-punjab-and-haryana-for-wheat-procurement-239966
16-04-2021||Jhajjar||High-velocity wind, rain uproot farmers’ huts at Tikri||High-velocity winds coupled with rain uprooted the huts and tents of protesting farmers camping at Tikri border on Friday.Water entered their camps leaving clothes, food items and other belongings of the farmers soaked. The farmers later repaired their huts and placed the clothes and other things in open to dry.“We have suffered a heavy loss due to the storm accompanied with rains in the evening. Temporary abodes of many of the farmers were damaged and all things kept in the camp got wet but it will not affect our spirit and enthusiasm in any manner. We will not move from here without getting three farm laws repealed come what may,” said Anoop Chanaut, a farmer leader.He maintained they were fully prepared to brave every sort of weather.“We faced bone-chilling winter by sitting in the tractor-trailers at Tikri during initial days and now have made all arrangements to beat summer heat and to bear the rainy season by staying at huts hence no one is worried about the weather,” Chanaut added.Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said some of the huts had been repaired by the farmers by helping each other while the remaining would be set up again in the morning as the electricity supply was not proper this time.“A delegation of farmers today called on Bahadurgarh SDM Hitendra Sharma to complain about unavailability of basic amenities like cleanliness, adequate supply of potable water and electricity at the protest site at Tikri. The SDM has assured us of resolving the issue within one or two days,” said Singh, adding that the Bahadurgarh authorities had failed to ensure lifting of garbage from the protest site resulting in sewerage blockade and unhygienic conditions there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-velocity-wind-rain-uproot-farmers-huts-at-tikri-239960
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court frames charges against former Haryana CM Hooda in AJL plot allotment case||A special CBI court in Panchkula on Friday framed charges against former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) plot re-allotment case.“The charges were framed against Hooda under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (party to criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,” a defence lawyer said.Hooda was present in the court when charges were framed.On Thursday, arguments on Hooda’s discharge application and the framing of charges had been completed before the court in the case.Hooda’s application in the court seeking discharge from the case had been rejected.The counsel said the case will now come up for hearing on May 7.Hooda and Congress leader Moti Lal Vora, who passed away recently, had been named as accused in the case.The Central Bureau of Investigation had in December 2018 filed a charge sheet against Hooda and Vora, then chairperson of AJL, in connection with alleged irregularities in the re-allotment of a plot in Panchkula.The agency had then claimed that the re-allotment of the plot to AJL caused a loss of Rs 67 lakh to the exchequer.The CBI had said that the AJL was allotted a plot of land in Panchkula in 1982, on which no construction took place for 10 years after which the Haryana Urban Development Authority then took back possession of the plot. However, in 2005, the same plot was allotted at the old rate to the AJL allegedly in violation of the norms.As the chief minister, Hooda was the ex-officio chairperson of the authority.The Enforcement Directorate too had been probing the case and had earlier filed its charge sheet in a case of alleged irregularities in land allotment to the AJL in Panchkula.“Hooda favoured the AJL by granting them three undue extensions for construction in the said plot from May, 2008-May 10, 2012 until the AJL completed the construction in the year 2014,” the ED had earlier charged in a statement.The agency charged that Hooda allotted the pot to AJL by “blatantly misusing his official position”.The former Haryana chief minister, it alleged, “dishonestly allotted the said plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment to the AJL at original rates plus interest in violation of necessary conditions and policy of HUDA (Haryana Urban Development Authority) vide order dated August 28, 2005.”     The ED had filed a criminal complaint of money laundering in this case in 2016 based on a CBI FIR, which had taken over investigation into the case at the request of the BJP government of Haryana, and criminal FIRs filed by the Haryana Vigilance Bureau. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-court-frames-charges-against-former-haryana-cm-hooda-in-ajl-plot-allotment-case-239919
16-04-2021||Hisar||Haryana: Dr BR Kamboj is the new vice-chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh, HAU||Dr BR Kamboj has been appointed as the new vice-chancellor of the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) on Friday.A government spokesperson informed, that Dr Kamboj, who was holding the post of registrar of the university, has been appointed the vice-chancellor.Earlier, Dr Samar Singh, vice-chancellor of the Maharana Pratap Horticulture University Karnal was holding the additional charge of the HAU after the completion of the term of Dr KP Singh in July last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dr-br-kamboj-is-the-new-vice-chancellor-of-chaudhary-charan-singh-hau-239894
16-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Randeep Singh Surjewala, Digvijaya Singh test positive for coronavirus||Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Digvijaya Singh tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. In a tweet, Surjewala said: "I have tested +ve for #COVID19 today morning. Anyone who has come in contact with me in the last 5 days, please self isolate & take necessary precautions."Singh also tweeted about being quarantined a his Delhi residence.“My COVID-19 test report is positive. I have presently quarantined myself at my Delhi residence. Those who came in my contact should isolate themselves and keep a watch on their health by taking all precautions,” the Rajya Sabha member said in a tweet.The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister had given his sample for COVID-19 test to the staff of Delhi-based Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Thursday after developing symptoms. --with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/randeep-singh-surjewala-digvijaya-singh-test-positive-for-coronavirus-239869
16-04-2021||It is a matter of grave concern that the monkey population is increasing considerably in the state||No end to monkey menace in Haryana||Hassle-free mutation of propertyA large number of owners who purchased property under the municipal area without mutation about 25 years ago or more are now facing a lot of difficulties in order to sell it as required by the registering authority viz. the tehsildar/joint sub-registrar. The government should either exempt such owners from providing mutation or allow the sale deeds of the property without mutation being old ones so that they may be protected from undue harassment at various levels. Nita Nand Yadav, RohtakGovt apathy behind glut in mandisEven after precise and elaborate procurement arrangements made by the government in advance, mandis are still flooded and have no further space to unload the wheat produce. The reasons could be many, but the fact for this utter negligence is the ‘lackadaisical’ attitude of government agencies. They have no interest and intention to handle the crisis. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaHigh time to get serious about Covid protocolThe state government has ordered new night curfew timings to control the Covid surge, but it is the chronic violators who must be reined in on 24x7 basis. Intriguingly, the enforcement agencies concerned don’t appear to be serious enough as may be evident by no police patrolling in market or residential areas to ensure the compliance of Covid norms at least in Panchkula district. Perhaps, one of the grey areas happens to be morning walkers, several of whom can be seen moving without mask. Needless to say, the lackadaisical attitude towards the strict observance of various Covid preventive measures must be sternly dealt with. — Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-monkey-menace-in-haryana-239842
16-04-2021||Hisar||Aptitude test toppers awarded||Tributes paid to Dr AmbedkarYamunanagar: Staff and students of Guru Nanak Khalsa College celebrated Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Jayanti. Principal (Maj) Harinder Singh Kang said Dr Ambedkar was counted among the scholars of the world who had a deep knowledge of many subjects. Patron of the college management committee Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and chairman Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated the staff and students.Babasaheb remembered at MDURohtak: To mark the 130th birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar, a programme was organised at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh, Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja along with other faculty members paid floral tributes to Dr Ambedkar. In his address, the VC extolled the socio-economic vision of Babasaheb and said he was a true nation builder. An online seminar on the “Relevance of economic vision of Dr BR Ambedkar in present scenario” was organised to commemorate his birth anniversary. Former secretary, UGC, RK Chauhan was the chief guest for the online seminar. He threw light on the legislations brought in by Dr Ambedkar on economic issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aptitude-test-toppers-awarded-239841
16-04-2021||Jalandhar||Khed mela at Tikri to boost morale of farmers||A khed mela was held on the occasion of Baisakhi at Tikri border. Several events, including wrestling, kabaddi, volleyball, turban tying, running, yoga, tug-of-war, gatka and horse racing, were held to instill enthusiasm among protesting farmer.To uplift the morale of farmers who have been agitating for the last five months, Kartar Singh Pehelwan, a Padma Shri and president of the Punjab Wrestling Association, had earlier announced to organise wrestling competitions at Singhu border on February 3.Arjuna awardees Kartar Singh, Rajbir Kaur and Sajjan Singh Cheema, and Olympians Gurmel Singh and Davinder Singh Garja had announced their support after an unfortunate incident at red fort. “We support farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. To infuse more energy, motivation and power in farmers and youngsters who are spending days and nights at Delhi borders, wrestling competitions will be organised,” they had said earlier.Now, the competitions were organised to make the atmosphere at border lively.Pehelwan said to destroy cruelty of the powerful and create a peaceful society, the 6th master, Guru Har Gobind Singh wanted youngsters to be full of energy and motivation. So, he started an akhara outside Akal Takht, where several pehelwans would visit and perform.“Our farmers, too, are fighting the cruelty of the Centre and youngsters can be seen making their presence felt. Thus, it’s very important to keep them upbeat, which is why we decided to organise such events,” he said.He said farmers were away from their homes and were living in such harsh conditions, which is why such steps were being taken to boost their morale. Medical camps were also held at Tikri border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khed-mela-at-tikri-to-boost-morale-of-farmers-239789
16-04-2021||Panipat||Farmers agitation: Five huts of protesters gutted at Singhu||Five huts of protesting farmers were gutted at the protest site near Rasoi Dhaba on the NH-44 near the Singhu border on Thursday. The flames were, however, put out and no loss of life was reported in the incident.Farmers alleged that some miscreant had set the huts on fire. They lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. Besides, farm leaders alleged that it was a conspiracy to provoke them and defame their movement. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-five-huts-of-protesters-gutted-at-singhu-239817
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Assns: Farmers' protest hits commuters hard||The ongoing farmers' agitation had started affecting the life of those residing in the vicinity of the protest site at Singhu, representatives of certain organisations alleged here today.Addressing a press conference here, Hemant Nandel, president of the Rashtravadi Parivartan Manch, alleged that the impact of the anti-agricultural law movement had started taking toll on the pockets of common people. There had been a jam on the Kundli border for the last 135 days.Another representative Tara Chand said at least 60,000 persons commuted daily from Sonepat to Delhi. They sought the reopening of GT Road for vehicular movement at least from one side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assns-farmers-protest-hits-commuters-hard-239816
16-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Attack on Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini’s vehicle: 4 farmers get bail||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Dr Amit Kumar Garg on Thursday granted bail to the four farmers who were arrested in connection with the attack on Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini’s SUV.The court has allowed regular bail subject to furnishing bail bonds in the sum of Rs 50,000 each. Four farmers — Hakam Rai, Kulwinder Singh, Kehar Singh and Gurvinder Singh — had been arrested by the police and sent to judicial custody on April 7.Gurnam Singh Chahal, advocate for the farmers, said, “The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge has granted bail to the farmers. They will be released from Kurukshetra jail on Friday. The police have removed Section 307 but added Section 308 in the FIR.”Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “The police have been registering FIRs against farmers under political pressure. Four farmers have been granted bail by the court but we are not satisfied with the police action. The police have dropped attempt to murder charges as they failed to justify Section 307 in the FIR but have replaced it with Section 308 of IPC (attempt to commit culpable homicide). We will hold a mahapanchayat to decide the further course of action on Friday.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/attack-on-kurukshetra-mp-nayab-sainis-vehicle-4-farmers-get-bail-239815
16-04-2021||---||Farmer leaders: Won’t call off stir despite Covid surge||Sonepat, April 15Farmer leaders today said that the ongoing agitation on the outskirts of Delhi would continue despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. They would also continue to boycott BJP and JJP leaders in the state.Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh alleged that the Central Government deliberately introduced the three farm laws during the Covid restrictions so that growers could not raise their voice. “But, it is a fight for the existence of the farmers,” he added.He said amid the harvesting of the rabi crops, the farmers were protesting at the Delhi border, putting their season’s earning at stake.He alleged that despite the protesting farmers’ ultimatum, state BJP-JJP leaders continued to hold programmes with the sole purpose of inciting violence and weakening the movement.CM’s appeal to protestersIt is the constitutional right of every person to protest and we have no problem with those who protest. However, at this time, due to Covid-19, life may be put in danger, so this is not the right time to protest. I appeal to farmers that they should withdraw their movement on humanitarian grounds. If they have to hold or protest for any of their demands, they can do so when the situation improves. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-leaders-wont-call-off-stir-despite-covid-surge-239814
16-04-2021||Rewari||Nod to RoB  at Bhadawas crossing||The Railways authorities have approved the proposal for the construction of a railway over bridge (ROB) at the Bhadawas crossing near the grain market in the city.With this, residents will get rid of traffic jams due to the closure of the level crossing several times in a day.Union Minister Rao Inderjit said he had been making efforts to get the proposal accepted for the past several years. The project was included in the Railway Work Programme in 2018, but failed to get approval due to technical reasons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-rob-at-bhadawas-crossing-239813
16-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar minor sexually abused, found  5-mth pregnant||A 14-year-old girl of a colony in Yamunanagar was allegedly sexually abused by several persons at different times.The teenager, who is studying in Class VI in a government school near her rented house, is now five-month pregnant. The parents of the girl work as a labourer. When they were at their work, the girl was allegedly taken to the accused by a couple, a neighbour of the victim’s family.On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case was registered against the couple Riya, alias Rita, her husband Sonu and unknown persons under Sections 342, 372, 376-DA, 506 and 6, 17 of the POCSO Act at the Gandhi Nagar police station on April 13.The complainant said his daughter had not been feeling well for several days.“When my wife asked our daughter about her problem, she narrated the whole incident to her,” the complainant said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-minor-sexually-abused-found-5-mth-pregnant-239812
16-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Soon, jab programme at redress centres in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15Moving beyond the perceived function of just providing legal aid, Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA) today took another step towards the protection of people’s life and liberty by directing the launch of vaccination programmes at its alternative dispute redressal (ADR) centres across the state within a fortnight.HALSA has already launched Covid awareness drive “Arrest the disease, wear a mask; don’t go close, cover your nose” and has extended help to 3.5 lakh migrants by arranging for their transit and food during the pandemic.For ensuring vaccination at the village level, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and HALSA Executive Chairman Justice Rajan Gupta also suggested calling of reports from the sarpanches on inoculation and also on the release of pension and other old-age benefits.The directions were issued during videoconferencing held under Justice Gupta’s chairmanship with all chief judicial magistrates-cum-secretaries of the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) in Haryana following the increase in Covid cases throughout the state.Justice Gupta asked DLSA secretaries to hold vaccination campaigns in assistance with the Health Department to facilitate vaccination on voluntarily basis. The secretaries were also directed to step up Covid awareness and relief programmes.Emphasising on the need to reach needy persons entitled to financial relief packages and other beneficial schemes launched by Central and state government, Justice Gupta further asked DLSAs secretaries to collaborate with the departments concerned.Justice Gupta also directed DLSAs to involve Additional Deputy Commissioner of each district in their capacity of nodal officers in all its activities to ensure support from the district administration, especially for ensuring relief to ordinary persons during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-jab-programme-at-redress-centres-in-haryana-239811
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hafed bazaars in all district soon in Haryana||Haryana Co-operation Minister Dr Banwari Lal said because of the increasing demand for HAFED products among the consumers, sales at Hafed outlets in the state are increasing and overall sales of Hafed products reached Rs 10 lakh per day on April 12 and April 13.  From October to December 2020, the average sale of Rs 3.71 lakh per day was recorded. He said through various strategic steps, efforts have been made to increase the sales in the Hafed outlets.  He said inspired by the increase in the sales of existing small outlets, Hafed had decided to open a sale outlet called ‘Hafed Bazaar’ of about 1,000 sq ft area. At least one such bazaar will be opened in all district headquarters. He said its interior design and ambience would be modern and attractive.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hafed-bazaars-in-all-district-soon-in-haryana-239738
16-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||Hisar farmer gets Rs 121 claim for crop loss||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 15A farmer, Ravinder Singh, of Sarsana village paid Rs 6,600 as insurance premium for his cotton crop on four acres under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) during kharif season last year.The crop was damaged due to whitefly attack and he managed to garner only 14 quintals from the four acres. But he was taken aback when he got the message that he has been given a claim of Rs 121 for the crop damage.Similarly, a number of farmers complained to the DC that they too have got paltry sums of Rs 40 to Rs 135 per acre as claim by the insurance firm.Farmers led by Kisan Sabha district president Shamsher Singh Nambardar today submitted a memorandum to the DC seeking adequate compensation for the crop loss.Nambardar said the insurance firm had given the claim on the basis of crop cutting experiments (CCEs), which were carried out at the time of harvest of the crop. Deputy director, agriculture, Vinod Kumar Phogat, however, said the firm gives claim on the basis of losses either due to localised calamity or the CCEs, whichever was higher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-farmer-gets-rs-121-claim-for-crop-loss-239739
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Make policy to regularise illegal units, officers told||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the officers to formulate a policy for regularisation of industries running in unauthorised areas in the state and apply it as soon as possible.  He was presiding over the meeting of officers of the HSIIDC, Industries, Local Bodies Department and HSVP here. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala was also present. The CM directed the officers to take forward the work by drafting rules and regulations to avoid any problem at any level. So far, industries in Yamunanagar, Faridabad, Panipat and Rohtak have been surveyed.  As per the survey report, there are 4,742 industries in Yamunanagar. Of these, 1,413 are in the conforming zone while 3,329 are in the non-conforming zone. Of 21,460 units in Faridabad, 6,048 are in the conforming and 15,412 in the non-conforming zone. Of 10,805 units in Panipat, 3,318 are in the conforming and 7,487 in non-conforming zones. In Rohtak, 793 out of a total of 4,176 units are in the conforming and 3,383 in non-conforming zones.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-policy-to-regularise-illegal-units-officers-told-239740
16-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav---||Gurugram converts hotels into isolation centres||Gurugram, April 15 Bringing the city’s health infrastructure on its toes, Gurugram recorded its highest-ever 1,500 Covid cases on Thursday. With its hospital beds full and many condominiums becoming Covid hotspots, the health authorities have gone ahead by converting 12 hotels and five hospitals into isolation centres.  Issuing orders in this regard, Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued guidelines for the isolation of the confirmed cases in private facilities. There are instances where people don’t have the requisite space at home and may opt for facilities such as hotels, guest houses etc. This is likely to reduce the pressure on the family, give comfort to the person and protect the family members and the immediate neighbourhood. “Whereas, it is necessary that paid isolation facilities may be notified for confirmed Covid-19 cases having mild and very mild symptoms. Now, therefore, Gurugram hereby notified 12 hotels and five hospitals as self-paid/govt paid isolation facilities,” read his orders.  According to the Health Department, these isolation facilities had a total of 577 beds and around 20 per cent were already full. They have different packages and the room rent is between Rs 1,200 and Rs 3,500.  “As per the guidelines, we have started the facility of isolation in private hotels. Five government-paid and 13 self-paid isolation centres are set up in the district. We have also issued strict guidelines on who should be admitted to hospitals. We have asked them not to give beds to mild or asymptomatic patients”, said CMO Dr Virender Yadav. The move has, meanwhile, led various resident associations accuse the administration of putting them to risk by providing business to hotels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-converts-hotels-into-isolation-centres-239741
16-04-2021||---||Ensure stronger ties between Haryanvi diaspora & govt: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, April 15Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said dedicated efforts should be made to ensure that the Haryanvi diaspora connect with the state government gets stronger.He was presiding over a review meeting with the officers of the Foreign Cooperation Department (FCD) here.Khattar directed the officers concerned to identify potential investors across the world in order to establish Haryana as a global brand through ‘Go-global approach’ for transforming the state into a global economy and further prepare a progress chart of the activities being conducted by the FCD and also hold a monthly review meeting.“Specific country-wise targeted activities towards export enhancement should also be prepared. Besides, targeting investors through potential mapping should also be done on a priority basis.”The CM was apprised that dedicated efforts had been made by the FCD for further strengthening Haryana’s embassy connect across the globe. Director General and Secretary, FCD, Anant Prakash Pandey said the department was organising regular interaction and exchange programmes to ensure strong links with Haryanvi diaspora. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-stronger-ties-between-haryanvi-diaspora-govt-haryana-cm-239742
16-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak schools see 95% drop in fee submission||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 15The clamping of night curfew and closure of classes I to VIII has hit private as well as government schools in the district as parents have stopped depositing the fees of their wards, fearing a complete lockdown in coming days.Consequently, the schools have recorded a decline of more than 95% in fee submission after the imposition of fresh curbs. The district has over 450 private schools at present.“Around 100 parents were daily depositing fees of their wards before the closure of schools on April 9. The development reduced the number to 20 but the night curfew has hit the fee submission process badly. Now, merely four-five parents deposit the fees daily and it won’t last long as they are apprehensive about a complete lockdown soon,” said Anshul Pathania, secretary, Rohtak CBSE Schools’ Association.He said many parents were also hopeful of some relaxation in fees like last year hence they were in a wait-and-watch mode and not showing any interest in depositing the amount despite several requests. The schools were in a tight spot due to the spurt in the Covid cases, he added.Rajni, a parent, said except tuition fee, the schools were also demanding hefty annual charges and payment for smart classes. “The rising number of Covid cases on a daily basis gives credence to the possibility of a complete lockdown in the coming days. If this happens then the annual charges need not to be paid so I have not yet deposited the fees of my children,” she added.Meanwhile, Ravinder Nandal, president, Haryana Private School Sangh, said the trend was almost similar in every district of the state. “After the imposition of night curfew, parents are neither depositing the fees nor demanding school-leaving certificates of their wards. We don’t know what they are thinking but the back-to-back orders for the closure of schools up to Class VIII and the night curfew have completely broken the backbone of private schools,” said Nandal.Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Owners’ Association, said parents had categorically refused to pay the fees for online classes, forcing them to contemplate over relieving the teachers and other staffers of the schools, which were already reeling under a financial crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-schools-see-95-drop-in-fee-submission-239743
16-04-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Gunny bags’ shortage may stretch for 15 days more||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15With jute production taking a hit due to floods in West Bengal and a sharp rise in the international prices of high-density polyethylene (HDEP), the state has, so far, received only 75 per cent of its requirement of gunny bags and it could be 10 days to a fortnight before the entire supply comes in.Currently, no quick-fix solution seems to be in sight to deal with the complaints of shortage of gunny bags and the tardy pace of lifting from mandis across the state at a time when the procurement is in full swing.Of the 2.88 lakh bales of jute and HDEP required, 90,000 bales of jute have arrived, which are inadequate. The remaining supply is coming in at 2 to 2.5 per cent everyday.“The supply is coming in regularly and the situation is changing on a daily basis. As the procurement season progresses, we will make up for this shortfall on account of poor supplies from West Bengal,” says Anurag Rastogi, ACS (Food and Civil Supplies), Haryana.Besides the shortage of gunny bags, there is the problem of plenty in mandis as farmers are flocking to the purchase centres with their produce.Equipped to handle procurement to the tune of three lakh tonne a day in a season that is staggered over 40-plus days, as much as eight lakh tonne of produce is being procured daily, leading to the paucity of space in mandis.Though the season began with farmers arriving by appointment, the government was forced to withdraw its order and the mandis and purchase centres had to be thrown open following resentment among the growers.While this glut slackened the pace of lifting in the mandis, the government was forced to stop procurement in 18 mandis for 24 hours earlier this week. The government has decided to open more purchase centres even as Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar issued directions that deputy commissioners will be responsible for any lifting that spills over beyond 48 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gunny-bags-shortage-may-stretch-for-15-days-more-239744
16-04-2021||Parveen Arora---||15 more procurement centres in Karnal||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 15 Keeping in view the choking of main grain markets in the district owing to huge arrivals and tardy lifting, the district authorities have established 15 additional procurement centres. Earlier, there were 22 procurement centres, including 10 grain markets and two sub-yards. With these new centres, the number of purchase centres will increase to 37 in the district. These centres have been established in those areas where arrival is more and lifting is poor. Hanuman Rice Mill, Sunshine Rice Mill and KC Foods in Taraori, Vishnu Rice Mill, RN Foods and Mansadev Rice Mill in Nissing, Mahavir Rice Mill, Kanahiya Overseas and Satbhog Overseas in Assandh, Pawan Rice Mill, Nikhant Rice Mill and Krishan Rice Mill in Indri, Sankar Rice Mill and four-acre land near Satsang Bhawan on Karsa road in Nigdhu are among the additional procurement centres. After the allowing of unscheduled farmers, who were registered on Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal, but did not receive message to bring their crop, wheat has arrived in huge quantity in the grain markets.  Slow lifting and shortage of gunny bags have added to the problem and almost all the purchase centres are glutted. “To tackle the unprecedented situation owing to high arrival, we had sent a proposal to the state government to establish 15 additional purchase centres which the government has approved. We have now started these additional centres after which we now have 37 procurement centres. It will help in easing the situation in grain markets,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-more-procurement-centres-in-karnal-239745
16-04-2021||---||Haryana Board cancels Class X exam||Hisar, April 15A day after the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) cancelled the Class X examinations, the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) at Bhiwani has followed suit and decided to cancel the Board examinations for Cass X. Like the CBSE, the BSEH too has postponed the decision on the conduct of the examinations for Class XII.Jagbir Singh, chairperson of the BSEH, told mediapersons in Bhiwani today that the state government had taken a decision to this effect. The Board examinations were scheduled to start on April 20. However, in view of the surge in the Covid 19 cases in Haryana, the Board had taken a decision to this effect.The chairperson said the result of the matriculation classes would be prepared on the basis of the internal assessment of the students. He said the state government had taken the decision in the interest of the students. “About 3.50 lakh students were scheduled to appear in the Class X examination and 2.5 lakh students were set to take examination of Class XII,” he said, adding that a final decision about the holding of Class XII would be taken by the state government.Students and their parents were feeling relieved over the decision of the government regarding the examinations as they feared that the rising number of Covid 19 cases were posing a threat to the students.Kamal Singh, a social activist, president of the Yuva Kalyan Sangthan, said given the rising number of cases, the fear of getting infected was always there.However, the private school association is unhappy over the government’s decision as it demanded that the examinations should be conducted in alternative mode if the offline examination was not possible due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-cancels-class-x-exam-239746
16-04-2021||---||New restrictions on gatherings in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 15With a view to limiting gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus infections, the Haryana Government today ordered that not more than 200 persons could gather in open spaces during public functions and not more than 50 at indoor functions. Similarly, no more than 20 people would be able to attend funerals.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that due to the increasing number of cases in the country and the state, people had to take strict precautions. Last year, economic activity had stalled due to the lockdown, which took about six months to get back on tracks. Therefore, we have to keep in mind that the economic cycle should continue in the state and no one was adversely affected as well.Khattar was presiding over a meeting called to review Covid cases and vaccinations in Haryana today. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was also present at the meeting, while Haryana Health and Home Minister, Anil Vij joined through video conferencing.The CM said people also had to keep in mind as to what was unavoidable and what could be avoided. He said this time, the spread of Covid had started from educational institutions, so there was a need to be more vigilant, especially in these places.Khattar said it was the constitutional right of every person to protest and we have no problem with those who protest. However, at this time, due to Covid, life may be put in danger, so this is not the right time to protest. The CM appealed to the farmers that they should withdraw their movement on humanitarian grounds. If they have to hold or protest for any of their demands, they can do it when the situation improves. He also directed the Deputy Commissioners to contact the agitating farmers and try to persuade them. He appealed to the people of the state to only leave their homes whenever necessary and to wear masks, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing whenever they go out of the house. He said that there is proper arrangement of oxygen, ventilators and beds in the state. So people need not panic.The CM said that during a meeting held with the Governors of various states yesterday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken about activating the Red Cross. Similarly, we should also include volunteers, ex-servicemen and Saksham Yuva in the task of dealing with Covid. He said that the Prime Minister has talked about taking contact tracing to 30.He directed the deputy commissioners to establish procurement centres in rice mills, schools and sheds etc for the next 10-12 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-restrictions-on-gatherings-in-haryana-239747
16-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal hospitals face shortage of Remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 15Amid the unprecedented second wave of Covid-19, the district is facing an acute shortage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir.The stock of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) dried up four to five days ago. “Our stock has been exhausted and we have sent a demand for it. We are hopeful it will be available in a couple of days,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC.He said from January to March-mid, hardly one to two patients required Remdesivir daily, but now the situation had worsened and the requirement had increased manifolds. “Currently, we have 75 critical patients on oxygen support. We need Remdesivir for them,” said Dr Abhinav Dagar, nodal officer of Covid-19 at the KCGMC.The situation is almost the same in other private hospitals, which are treating Covid patients. They are approaching dealers to arrange doses, who are demanding high prices. “Our stock is about to finish and when we approached a dealer, he demanded more money,” said a private doctor.With hospitals running out of stocks, the patients are being asked to procure the drug from their own sources. “My father is Covid positive. He is on oxygen support at a private hospital. I have been told to arrange Remdesivir. When I approached a chemist, he demanded extra money to arrange it,” said a man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospitals-face-shortage-of-remdesivir-239748
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||No gunny bags, no payment to farmers: Selja||All the claims of the government for the procurement of wheat and mustard in the mandis of Haryana had proved to be hollow, said Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja.  She said neither the crops of the farmers were being procured in the mandis nor was there any provision for lifting. There was a chaos in most mandis as there were no gunny bags. She said the government had claimed that farmers’ crops would be paid within 72 hours of the ‘J-Farm’ being cut, but in reality, thousands of farmers of the state had not received payment since last week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-gunny-bags-no-payment-to-farmers-selja-239749
16-04-2021||---||18 deaths, 5,858 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 15With 5,858 fresh Covid cases and 18 deaths, the overall tally of the state reached 3.36 lakh today.Three deaths were reported from Faridabad, two each from Hisar, Ambala, Karnal, Bhiwani and Fatehabad, and one each in Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Gurugram.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram at 1,434, followed by 810 from Faridabad, 379 from Hisar, 370 from Karnal, 336 from Sonepat and 315 from Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-deaths-5-858-fresh-cases-in-haryana-239750
16-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||125 protesting farmers booked for forcing Aasoda toll plaza closure||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 15Protesting farmers continued to stage dharna at the Aasoda toll plaza on the KMP expressway for the second day on Thursday in order to foil any attempt by the administration to reactivate the plaza. Meanwhile, the police have booked 125 farmers in connection with the closure of the toll plaza yesterday.In the police complaint lodged by Prem Chand, Senior Manager (KMP expressway project), the farmers have been accused of manhandling toll plaza employees and threatening them of dire consequences. The complaint also alleged that the protesters disconnected the wires of the toll booths.A case under Section 109 (abetment), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging duty), 188 (disobedience to the orders), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 283 (danger or obstruction in public way) has been registered against Rakesh of Jind, Vikas of Hisar, Suman Hooda of Gurugram, Narendra Ahlawat of Gochhi (Jhajjar), Jasvir Bhatti and Ballu Mandothi along with 125 others.The administration had reactivated the Aasoda toll plaza on Tuesday in the presence of heavy police force. The next day, the farmers forced the toll employees not to charge toll from commuters and ensured free passage to the commuters.Meanwhile, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said the police action was just a tactic to scare them but they were not afraid of it and would ensure closure of the toll plazas across the state.“The police case will not affect our spirit in any manner as we are fighting a battle for a noble cause. Today too, we staged dharna at Aasoda toll plaza as a large number of police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed there with an intention to reactivate the toll but we will not let the administration do so,” said Suman.Jasbir Singh, SHO, Aasoda police station, said the case would be probed before making any arrests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/125-protesting-farmers-booked-for-forcing-aasoda-toll-plaza-closure-239751
16-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Haryana textile city Panipat jittery as migrants flee||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 15Fearing a rerun of the last year’s lockdown, migrant labourers have started returning to their native villages from the Textile City. A number of private buses are plying from the city to eastern districts of UP and Bihar daily. The development has created a dearth of labour, with industries reporting up to 40 per cent shortfall.Lockdown fearsLockdown fear is not the only reason, many are leaving because of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. — PS Sachdeva, President, Industry ASSNThe city has over 20,000 small and big industrial units, including export houses, with a combined turnover of around Rs 40,000 crore. Over three lakh migrant workers from Bihar, UP, West Bengal and other states are working here.Manoj of Sitapur district in UP, who along with his family members left for his native village today, said he had to face a lot of hardships following the sudden lockdown last year. “Given the scenario, we expect that another lockdown is imminent. I don’t want my family to go through the painful experience once again,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-textile-city-panipat-jittery-as-migrants-flee-239721
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arguments on Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s discharge plea completed in AJL case||Arguments on the discharge application of former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the framing of charges against him were completed today before the CBI Special Court, Haryana, in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) plot re-allotment case.Hooda and M/s AJL are accused in the case. Another accused, Motilal Vora, Congress leader and then chairman of M/s AJL, died recently.Ex-cm was present at daylong hearingFormer Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and M/s Associated Journals Limited (AJL) are accused in the case. Another accused, Motilal Vora, Congress leader and then chairman of M/s AJL, died recently.Hooda has been seeking discharge from the case. The former Chief Minister remained present throughout the daylong hearing on Thursday along with his lawyers RS Cheema, PK Sandhir and SPS Parmar.Hooda has been seeking discharge from the case. He remained present throughout the daylong hearing today along with his lawyers RS Cheema, PK Sandhir and SPS Parmar.CBI counsel Kanwar Pal Singh submitted before the court that then chairman of M/s AJL Motilal Vora and then Chief Minister BS Hooda hatched a conspiracy for the restoration of the resumed institutional plot in Sector 6, Panchkula. He added that before Hooda, former Chief Minister Bansi Lal had not considered the requests for the restoration of the plot.Vora did not make any request from 2002 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot though he became chairman in 2002 as he allegedly knew that the requests would be turned down in a non-Congress regime. At that time, there was an INLD government in Haryana. There was no request from the AJL even from 1998 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot.Hooda became the Chief Minister on March 5, 2005, and Vora requested for the restoration of the plot on April 7, 2005. Hooda re-allotted the plot on August 28, 2005.Officials of HUDA, the then Legal Remembrancer, and then Financial Commissioner Town and Country Planning Department had unanimously recommended that the plot could not be re-alloted without publishing a fresh advertisement at the current rate of Rs3,200 per sq yard. However, Hooda allegedly overruled them.The 97th meeting of HUDA was held on May 16, 2006, whose chairman was Hooda himself and the ex-post facto approval of the re-allotment had been accorded.On the defence of Hooda that he passed the re-allotment order under the provision of Section 30 (2) of HUDA Act, 1977, which grants revision powers, the CBI counsel said the same power had already been exercised by ML Tayal, then Commissioner and Secretary to the Haryana Government, Town and Country Planning Department, as the powers were delegated by the President of India under Subsection 2 of Section 30.The CBI has been claiming that Hooda as chairman of HUDA misused his official position as Chief Minister by re-allotting the plot at the old rates, as applicable in 1982, causing a wrongful gain of Rs67.65 lakh to AJL and corresponding loss to the government exchequer.On the contention of Hooda that there was an amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and 13 (1) (d), which pertains to abusing official position for pecuniary advantage for himself or others, could not apply to him, the CBI counsel reasoned that as the offences had been committed before the amendment to the Act, brought on July 26, 2018, the relevant section “has been correctly attributed”.He added that the AJL availed of two-term loans of Rs42.72 crore from Syndicate Bank, New Delhi, for making payments to the Municipal Corporation, Greater Mumbai, for their construction at Bandra and Mumbai and closure of an existing loan of Rs15.25 crore with a balance of Rs14.60 crore against a mortgage of land and building at Panchkula.According to the CBI, the loan could have been taken only for the purpose for which the plot was allotted.The purpose of allotment of the plot stood defeated as Hindi daily newspaper Nav-Jivan was not published from the premises, said the CBI.CBI Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg would pronounce the order on the discharge application and framing of charges on April 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arguments-on-bhupinder-singh-hoodas-discharge-plea-completed-in-ajl-case-239567
16-04-2021||---||Haryana cancels Class-X board exam, postpones Class-XII exam||Hisar, April 15Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar on Thursday announced the cancellation of Class X examination by Haryana Board of School Education.He said the examination of Class XII had been postponed.The result of Class X will be declared on the basis of internal assessment of students.The CBSE had also cancelled the Class X examination and postponed the Class XII examination on Wednesday in view of the increase in Covid cases.Also Read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cancels-class-x-board-exam-postpones-class-xii-exam-239427
