17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy CM urges PM Modi to resume talks with protesting farmers||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to resume talks with the farmers protesting the Centre's three farm laws.Chautala further said a team of three to four cabinet ministers may restart discussion with the farmers who have been camping at the Delhi borders for over 100 days."I would like to bring to your kind attention that our 'Annadattas' are on roads at Delhi border agitating in respect of newly enacted three farm laws of the Central government. It is a matter of concern that such agitation is going on for more than hundred days," Chautala wrote in the letter.Chautala said he believes every problem has a solution by way of mutual discussions. "The earlier discussion between the central government and farmers' union brought a few solutions to the concerns raised by Samyukt Morcha."In this regard, a team consisting of three to four senior cabinet ministers may lead the delegation for resuming talks with farmers so as to bring an amicable conclusion in this issue," he wrote in his letter dated April 15.The deputy chief minister wrote the letter days after state's home minister Anil Vij's missive to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, saying talks with peasants should be resumed to resolve the issue.Vij had said he was concerned as a large number of farmers were sitting on Haryana's borders amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in the state.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi—Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur—demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-resume-talks-with-protesting-farmers-240394
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice tests Covid positive||Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has tested positive for Covid-19, it was announced.A note in the list of cases to be heard on Monday reads: "Hon'ble the Chief Justice will not be holding court on April 19 and April 20, as his lordship has been tested positive of novel coronavirus." IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-chief-justice-tests-covid-positive-240359
17-04-2021||The government wants to develop Kurukshetra as a tourist hub. However||Kurukshetra’s roads in bad shape||Dr Deepak Kaushik, kurukshetraComplacency behind surgeComplacency has led to the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. With this belief that vaccine will now protect them, people are violating the guidelines. This laxity and carelessness has provided ample vacuum to coronavirus to spread its wings. The situation is turning from bad to worse everyday. In Hisar, the auto-market and the Rajguru remain crowded all day. People don’t bother to wear face masks and follow social distancing. People should not lower the guard and continue to follow the guidelines.Baljeet Singh Tekna, HisarPiped natural gas in P’kula a welcome stepA TNS report, “Panchkula set to get piped natural gas” (Chandigarh Tribune, April 15), is a welcome tiding for city residents. The existing LPG agencies give gas cylinders to consumers against a security, refundable on the surrender of the connection. We hope that the public sector — Indane, HP Gas and Bharat Gas — would ensure that their agencies do not harass consumers in refunding security when connection and cylinders are surrendered.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaRepair of key stretch to beginIt is a matter of great satisfaction that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to repair the road surface of the railway station as it is an important link between Hero Honda Chowk and Dwarka Expressway. A tender has been floated for the work. supply starts.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetras-roads-in-bad-shape-240304
17-04-2021||Yamunanagar||World Health Day celebrations at Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar||BMU holds seminar on taxationRohtak: The faculty of law at Baba Mastnath University (BMU) organised a seminar on ‘Insurance Law and Taxation’. Dr Naresh Mahipal from the University of Delhi explained the basic principle of insurance law, formation of insurance contract and those entitled to get claim. Dr Jawant Saini from MD University gave a detailed overview of the matters related to the Income Tax Act-1961. Dr Raj Kumar, head and dean of the law department, BMU, described various concepts of insurance laws, including marine insurance and public liability insurance Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-health-day-celebrations-at-mukand-lal-national-college-yamunanagar-240303
17-04-2021||Deepender Deswal---||After tardy lifting, rain adds to farmers’ worries||Tribune News Service Hisar, April 16 Showers that have occurred at some places have given farmers the jitters. They are waiting for the purchase of their wheat that is lying out in the open in the grain markets in the region. However, the authorities concerned are still grappling with the problem of lifting of wheat as the grain markets are virtually overflowing these days. According to information, light rain has occurred across the region including Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Jind and Fatehabad districts. The IMD had predicted about the rain and thundershowers today and has also predicted another spell of rain on April 20 and 21. Despite the efforts from the state government for smoother procurement, the problems are far from over as the arrival of wheat in the mandis is far more than the lifting being carried out from the mandis. The gap in arrival and lifting has created chaotic conditions at many mandis, admit officials involved in the procurement process. The data from Fatehabad district reveals that while 25.43 lakh quintals of wheat has been purchased in seven mandis in the district, only three lakh quintals have been lifted. Significantly, the lifting process has not even started in two of the mandis – Bhuna and Dharsul — where 2.43 lakh quintals and 1.87 lakh quintals of wheat, respectively, have been purchased by the procurement agencies from April 1 to 15. Thus, 11 per cent of the total procured wheat has been lifted and taken to godowns by the agencies in Fatehabad. Charan Singh, district marketing enforcement office at Fatehabad, admitted to slow lifting due to some technical glitches in the web portal. The lifting is comparatively better in Hisar and Jind as 20 per cent and 22 per cent of the wheat has been lifted in mandis in Hisar and Jind districts respectively.  Raju Maan, a farmer leader in Charkhi Dadri district, alleged that today’s rain has exposed the poor arrangements in the grain market in the town. He said that they have been urging the authorities to speed up lifting as the weather department had predicted rains, but to no avail. “The wheat stock lying in the open has got wet due to rain today,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-tardy-lifting-rain-adds-to-farmers-worries-240252
17-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Wind uproots farmer protesters’ huts, tents at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 16High velocity winds coupled with rain uprooted the huts and tents of protesting farmers camping at Tikri border on Friday.Water entered their camps leaving clothes, food items and other belongings of the farmers soaked. The farmers later repaired their huts and placed the clothes and other things in the open to dry.“We have suffered heavy loss due to the storm and rain in the evening. The temporary abodes of many farmers were damaged and all things kept in the camp got wet, but it will not affect our enthusiasm in any manner. We will not move from here without getting the three farm laws repealed,” said Anoop Chanaut, a farmer leader.He maintained they were fully prepared to brave every sort of weather. “We faced bone-chilling winter sitting in the tractor-trailers at Tikri during the initial days and now, we have made all arrangements to beat the summer heat and the rains. No one is worried about the weather,” Chanaut added.Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said some of the huts had been repaired by the farmers by helping one another. The remaining would be set up again in the morning as the electricity supply was not proper at this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wind-uproots-farmer-protesters-huts-tents-at-tikri-border-240253
17-04-2021||Panipat||Panipat DC: Speed up lifting of procured wheat||Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh today took a serious note of the slow lifting of the procured wheat at various grain markets here.No procurement for two daysMandis and procurement centres in Haryana will remain closed on April 17 and April 18. An official spokesperson said the farmers were requested not to bring their produce to the mandis on these days as no fresh procurement would not be made. The work of lifting the already procured wheat would, however, continue.Directing for speedy lifting of the procured wheat, he warned a transport contractor against laxity in lifting wheat at the Bapoli grain market.The DC visited Samalkha, Bapoli and purchase centres at Sanoli and Babbail. He heard problems of farmers and arhtiyas. Most farmers and arhtiyas complained against slow pace of lifting the procured wheat.At a meeting with market committee officials, the DC said almost 80 per cent of the wheat crop work had been completed in the district. He directed the officials to pace up the lifting of procured wheat and report to him if there was any laxity on part of any contractor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-dc-speed-up-lifting-of-procured-wheat-240254
17-04-2021||---||Kurukshetra: Farmers protest BJP leader Om Prakash Dhankar’s visit, detained||Kurukshetra, April 16 About 56 farmers were detained for having protested in front of BR Ambedkar Bhawan, where state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar was scheduled to attend a two-day training programme for party workers.  On getting information about the BJP’s event, farmers gathered outside the Ambedkar Bhawan and raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government. Meanwhile, a heavy police force was deployed to maintain law and order. The police tried to remove them as farmers resisted. A couple of farmers were injured. Soon, they were detained and taken to Police Lines where they were released. Later, the farmers blocked the road in front of the Police Lines for nearly an hour and demanded a medico-legal report (MLR) of injured farmers. Later, police officials reached the spot and managed to pacify them.  After removing the protesting farmers, the police provided a safe passage to BJP leaders. Besides Dhankar, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, CM’s political secretary Krishan Bedi and district party president Rajkumar Saini attended the event.  Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesman, said: “The police forcibly removed us from the protest site. A couple of farmers suffered injuries. We will continue to protest against BJP leaders and oppose their events.” Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ravinder Tomar said, “The police had designated a protest site for farmers, but they assembled in front of Ambedkar Bhawan after removing police barricades. In spite of repeated requests, they refused to leave. To maintain law and order, farmers were detained taken to the Police Lines. No force was used.” Dhankar said, “The Centre has been trying to resolve the matter. Workers of Congress and communist parties have been protesting in the name of farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-farmers-protest-bjp-leader-om-prakash-dhankars-visit-detained-240255
17-04-2021||---||49.86 lakh tonnes wheat reaches Haryana mandis||Chandigarh April 16 Around 49.86 lakh tonne wheat has arrived at the mandis and procurement centres in the state between April 1 and April 16. Out of this, 41.35 lakh tonne has been procured by the government agencies at the minimum support price (MSP). Around 1.99 lakh tonne wheat was procured at MSP by the government agencies today itself. So far, 4,33,262 J-forms of 1,60,270 farmers have been created and Rs 873.27 crore paid directly to the farmers till today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/49-86-lakh-tonnes-wheat-reaches-haryana-mandis-240256
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cases rising, farmers must call off stir: Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has urged farmers to call off their protest in view of the rising Covid cases across the country.Dire need to remain vigilantI urge my farmer brothers to end their agitation during this hour of crisis. The government has always been and is always ready to listen to their demands. There may be some differences of opinion, but right now, there is a dire need to remain vigilant.—  Manohar Lal Khattar, CM, Haryana“I urge my farmer brothers to end their agitation during this hour of crisis. The government has always been and is always ready to listen to their demands. There may be some differences of opinion, but right now there is a dire need to remain vigilant,” he appealed to farmers during his “Haryana Ki Baat” programme broadcast live today.He further said it was everyone’s democratic right to agitate, but the immediate concern was to protect everyone from the deadly virus.Khattar clarified that the industry would not be closed. “Unlike last year when industrial units were shut during the lockdown, no such restrictions will be imposed this time. We have learnt from the last year’s experience. Necessary steps will be taken for containing the spread of the virus,” he said.The Chief Minister said migrant labourers and workers residing in the state should not panic. “The government will ensure that all workers and labourers do not face any trouble. All possible help will be extended to them.”On the health infrastructure, he said oxygen cylinders, ICU beds, ventilators, masks and PPE kits were available in adequate numbers in all hospitals across the state. “Doctors and medical staff have been put on high alert. More than 30,000 people are tested daily. Contact tracing is also on,” Khattar added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-rising-farmers-must-call-off-stir-haryana-cm-khattar-240257
17-04-2021||---||Education institutions in Haryana shut till April 30||Chandigarh, April 16The Haryana Government today ordered that all government and private schools, colleges, coaching institutions, ITIs, libraries and training institutes will remain closed in the state till April 30.The state government issued several guidelines for containment of the Covid epidemic in the state to be implemented with immediate effect. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Disaster Management Department, said that an advance sum of Rs 10 lakh has been released for every DC in the state for enabling him/her to take urgent measures for Covid management.The district administration would ensure the establishment of the adequate number of Covid care centres and quarantine centres for those patients who do not need hospitalisation but are not capable of maintaining home isolation. Also, it would provide a sufficient number of oxymeters for use of patients during home isolation, he said.The new SOPs issued today say that Covid-appropriate behaviour like social distancing; wearing of face covers/masks, hand hygiene need to be observed by all (drivers and passengers) at all times for all passenger vehicles. While taxi and cab aggregators will be allowed to ply with a maximum of three passengers, auto or e-rickshaws have been allowed to ply with two passengers. For inter-state or intra-state travel, buses will ply at 50 per cent capacity with seats where passengers should not sit being marked clearly.Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality units/services will be opened in areas outside the containment zones only with the strict observance of appropriate Covid behaviour.Shopping malls are allowed to operate but only outside containment zones with adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Covid-appropriate behaviour will be observed in all markets including vegetable markets with the district administration also arranging Covid-testing centres at these places. Bank ATMs will be sanitised every two hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-institutions-in-haryana-shut-till-april-30-240258
17-04-2021||---||12 IAS officers to check virus spread in Haryana district||Chandigarh, April 16 The state government has deputed 12 IAS officers in various districts to review and monitor preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 surge with immediate effect. The responsibility will be in addition to their present duties. Sanjeev Kaushal has been deputed in Faridabad, Alok Nigam in Panchkula, Devender Singh in Karnal, TC Gupta in Gurugram, Amit Jha in Sonepat, SN Roy in Ambala, Dr Mahavir Singh in Jhajjar, Anurag Rastogi in Hisar, Vineet Garg in Sirsa, G Anupama in Kurukshetra, Apoorva Kumar Singh in Panipat and Rakesh Gupta in Rohtak. These officers will monitor active involvement of district administration in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, promotion of 19 testing and vaccination among general public. They will also look for addition of more private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, wherever required, increase in contact tracing of active cases and proper marking of micro-containment zones. They will review the availability of healthcare facilities, including isolation beds, oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators, drugs and consumables (masks, PPE kits and sanitisers) etc. at both government and private health facilities in their respective districts. They will also review arrangements for strict monitoring of Covid-19 patients under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-ias-officers-to-check-virus-spread-in-haryana-district-240259
17-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||266 Rohtak PGIMS staffers infected this year||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 16The PGIMS, Rohtak, which has been providing treatment to Covid-19 patients ever since the initial phase of the pandemic, is now in its grip itself.The PGIMS Director, State Nodal Officer for Covid-19 and a number of other doctors as well as healthcare staffers serving at the institute have tested positive for Covid.As per official sources, 768 healthcare staffers of the PGIMS, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, ministerial staff and cleanliness workers, have tested positive for Covid-19 till date.Sources say while 502 PGIMS staffers were found Covid-positive in 2020, 266 have already tested positive in the first 106 days of 2021.Frequent instances of re-infection (persons who have recovered from Covid-19 getting infected again) are also another cause for concern. Persons who have got themselves vaccinated are also getting infected.The State Nodal Officer for Covid-19 contracted the infection in June 20 and recovered from it in due course. After that, he got both doses of anti-Covid vaccine. He has been found infected again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/266-rohtak-pgims-staffers-infected-this-year-240260
17-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Only 12 samples from Haryana found with UK variant strain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Amid unprecedented surge in Covid cases in the state, just 12 out of samples of 276 patients sent by Haryana for whole genome sequencing (WGS) have been found positive for the UK variant strain.The samples were tested at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, said that 10 of these patients are from Karnal while two others are from Gurugram. In Karnal district, three patients found positive for UK variant are from the city, two from Taraori and one each from villages Mohri Jagir, Rasulpur Kalan, Gheer, Jundla and Sainik School Kunjpura. Both cases of Gurugram are from Delhi.“The details of these cases have been shared with officials of both the districts,” said Arora. The numbers of those found infected with UK variant strain is less than 5 per cent in sharp contrast with neighbouring Punjab and UT of Chandigarh where 80 per cent and 70 per cent respectively having been found with this strain.Haryana has already recorded 51,277 new cases of Covid in the first 16 days of the current month – 13,838 cases in the first week of April (from April 1 to 7), 25,304 cases in the second week (from April 8 to 14) and 12,136 cases during the last two days on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-12-samples-from-haryana-found-with-uk-variant-strain-240261
17-04-2021||Sonepat||Samyukt Kisan Morcha: Open jab centres at protest sites||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of agitating farmer unions, today demanded that the government should start vaccination centres and provide related facilities at the protests sites.“We appeal to the farmers to follow the necessary norms and guidelines like wearing masks and doing their bit to stop the spread of the virus. At the same time, we also request the government to fulfil its responsibility by starting vaccination centres and providing necessary facilities at protest places,” the SKM said today after a meeting over the future course of action of their stir;This is for the first time that the union has made such a demand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-open-jab-centres-at-protest-sites-240262
17-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||AJL case: Hooda discharge plea dismissed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16The court of CBI Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg today dismissed the discharge application of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda in AJL plot re-allotment case.The case fileAlso, the court framed charges against him under Section 120-B (for criminal conspiracy) read with Section 420 of IPC (for cheating) and Section 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act (for abusing official position for pecuniary advantage for others).M/s AJL, which got the plot, will also face trial.Another accused Motilal Vora, a Congress leader and former chairman of M/s AJL, was also an accused but died recently.Hooda’s counsel SPS Parmar said they would study the order and then decide about approaching the High Court.The case pertains to the re-allotment of a resumed institutional plot to M/s AJL in Sector 6, Panchkula, in 2005 by then CM BS Hooda at old rates prevalent in 1982, allegedly causing a loss of Rs 67.65 lakh to the state exchequer.The plot was resumed in 1992 as AJL didn’t carry out construction as required under the rules. The appeal of the company was dismissed in 1995 and its revision petition in 1996. In 1997 and 1998, the company approached then CM Bansi Lal for restoration of the plot but he refused to intervene as the matter had achieved finality with dismissal of revision petition.During the arguments, CBI counsel Kanwar Pal Singh told the court after the Congress came to power in Haryana in 2005, the then chairman of M/s AJL, Motilal Vora and the then CM BS Hooda hatched a conspiracy for the restoration of the plot.He pointed out that Vora didn’t make any request from 2002 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot though he became chairman in 2002 as he allegedly knew that the requests would be turned down in a non-Congress regime. Even, there was no request from AJL from 1998 to 2005 for the restoration of the plot.Hooda became CM on March 5, 2005, and Vora requested the restoration of the plot on April 7, 2005. Hooda re-allotted the plot on August 28, 2005.The officials of HUDA, the then Legal Remembrancer and then Financial Commissioner Town and Country Planning Department had unanimously recommended that the plot couldn’t be re-alloted without publishing fresh advertisement at the current rate of Rs 3,200 per sq yard. But Hooda allegedly overruled them, according to the CBI chargesheet.At heart of matter is the order of Hooda, dated August 28, 2005, which says, “…The Associated Journals Ltd is a renowned organisation founded by Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru. The Hindi daily “Navjivan” which this organisation plans to start will serve a huge public interest. It will also add yet another feature to the prestigious town of Panchkula. I, therefore, order that plot no. C-17, Sector 6, Panckula, be re-allotted to M/s Associated Journals Ltd at original rates plus interest thereon till date.”The ‘Navjivan’ was never published from the plot and the purpose of allotment stood defeated, said the CBI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajl-case-hooda-discharge-plea-dismissed-240263
17-04-2021||---||Defence Secy calls meeting on Ambala civil airport||Chandigarh, April 16 The construction of a civil airport at Ambala is set to take wings with the Union Government finally calling a high-level meeting of all stakeholders in New Delhi on April 28. To be chaired by Union Defence Secretary, the meeting would explore the possibility of setting up of the civil enclave (civil airport) at the Air Force Station, Ambala. The civil airport is the brainchild of Haryana Home Minister and Ambala Cantonment MLA Anil Vij, who had been pleading for the establishment of the civil airport on the land a substantial portion of which falls under the jurisdiction of the Air Force Station, Ambala. In February, Vij sought Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s intervention in the issues relating to land requirements for the airport at Ambala. The project was approved in December 2018. The district administration and the Air Force authorities had had been holding parleys to work out modalities for the same. The infrastructure of the Indian Air Force, including the runway, is set to be utilised for the proposed airport on the Jagadhari Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defence-secy-calls-meeting-on-ambala-civil-airport-240264
17-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Concept of co-sharer related to ownership, not encroacher: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 16 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an encroacher cannot claim he is a co-sharer for taking advantage of a rule permitting the regularisation of illegal occupation of the panchayat land up to 200 square yards. The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Girish Agnihotri asserted the concept of co-sharer was related to ownership and not to encroachers seeking the regularisation of their unauthorised possession by invoking the provisions of Rule 12(4) of the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulations) Rules, 1964.  The rule makes it clear that illegal occupation of the panchayat land can be regularised, provided the area is up to a maximum of 200 square yards. The Supreme Court has already ruled that the idea behind 200 square yards cap could be that small area of land occupied illegally could be regularised/ sold. The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners were seeking the quashing of an order dated October 6, 2020, passed by the Sonepat Deputy Commissioner (Panchayat), rejecting their claim under Rule 12(4) for regularising the construction of their houses on shamlat land.  Their claim was rejected after one of the petitioners was found to be in illegal occupation of 757.37 square yards, while the other petitioner was found to be illegally occupying 239.48 square yards. It was concluded that the area occupied by the petitioners was not covered by Rule 12(4), which provided for the sale of area up to maximum of 200 square yards.  The petitioners moved the High Court after losing up to the Supreme Court by introducing a ground foreign to the previous litigation. It was contended that the orders passed by the Deputy Commissioner were erroneous as he failed to consider that 757.37 square yards was being actually shared by four co-sharers and each was in possession of less than 200 square yards. Similarly, 239.48 square yards was being shared by two co-sharers. Dismissing the petition, the Bench ruled it was not only frivolous and devoid of any merit, but also gross abuse of process of law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/concept-of-co-sharer-related-to-ownership-not-encroacher-hc-240265
17-04-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||22K fail to submit family ID for continuation of pension in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 16As many as 22,000 beneficiaries in the district have failed to submit their Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) to the Social Welfare Department for the continuation of pension.Despite a notice by the office of Social Welfare last month, around 15 per cent of the total 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of various kinds of monthly pension in the district are yet to upload or submit their PPP to the department in the district, said sources in the department here.While submission of PPP has been made mandatory by the state government for availing the benefit of pension, a notice had been issued to all the beneficiaries last month in this regard, it is revealed.“Though a warning to stop the pension of such beneficiaries had been issued if they did not submit or upload their PPP by March 31, no decision to halt the benefit has been taken so far,” says Sushila, District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO).The PPP scheme was launched by the state government in July 2019. “The primary objective of PPP is to create authentic, verified and reliable data of all families as it identifies each and every family and keeps the basic data in a digital format,” says ADC Satbir Maan. He said the eight-digit family ID is linked to the birth, death and marriage records to ensure automatic updating of the data from time to time. The family ID, he said, was being linked with existing schemes like scholarships, subsidies and pensions so as to ensure consistency and reliability and at the same time, enabling automatic selection of beneficiaries of various schemes, subsidies and pensions.The total pensioners in the district have gone up to 1,47,767 this year from 1,35,764 last year. A total of 5,23,243 families in the district have enrolled for PPP so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22k-fail-to-submit-family-id-for-continuation-of-pension-in-faridabad-240266
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Discom to issue 16,000 tubewell connections||The government has directed power distribution corporations to issue tubewell connections. As many as 4,221 tubewell connections had been issued by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) in the first phase in 2020-21. Now in the second phase, tubewell connections will be issued to 16,635 consumers in all its nine circles (Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Rohtak and Jhajjar).An official spokesperson said that UHBVN has started the process of issuing tubewell connections to farmers on a priority basis.All farmers who have deposited consent money (Rs 30,000) in 2019 for issuing tubewell connections in the second phase would be informed soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discom-to-issue-16-000-tubewell-connections-240267
17-04-2021||Gurugram||16-yr-old student ends life in Gurugram, principal booked||The principal of a private school in Bhondsi and his brother have been booked on the charge of abetting the suicide of a 16-year-old girl student on April 9, the police have said.As per the complaint registered by the deceased’s uncle, the principal had allegedly humiliated and beaten up the girl for bringing a mobile phone to the school. She was a student of Class X in Vivek Bharti Senior Secondary School.“She returned home upset and did not talk to anyone. She was crying constantly,” the complainant said. Before she reached home, her family had received a call from the principal, who said that he had recovered a mobile phone from her possession and that it was proving to be a distraction.“The next day (April 9), the principal called us and asked us to shift my niece to another school. We tried to resolve the matter, but the principal was adamant on rusticating her,” the complainant said.He further said, “A few classmates of my niece told us that the principal not only humiliated her, but also assaulted her, twisted her arms and abused her in front of the entire class. He scolder her for her long nails and a ring. Even his brother scolded her. This left my niece scarred. When she returned home, she went to her room and did not come out for two hours. When her younger brother went to check on her, he found her hanging.”She was taken to hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.The complaint was filed on April 9, but the police registered the case yesterday night when villagers gathered outside the police station in protest. A case has been registered against school principal Manoj Raghav and his brother Manveer under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC.However, the principal claimed that the allegations were baseless. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-yr-old-student-ends-life-in-gurugram-principal-booked-240268
17-04-2021||---||Year on, contractors await payment for projects in Karnal||Karnal, April 16Even after the passage of more than a year, contractors of various development works here are running from pillar to post to get their payment of the works which they have done in the 35 newly regularised colonies in the CM’s constituency.Rs 12 cr pendingThe shortage of the budget is said to be the main reason behind the delay in the disbursement of the payment. A sum of Rs 12 crore is still pending of around 15 contractors. The bills were of Rs 15 crore, of which Rs 2.90 crore has been disbursed by the government.The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has sent the bills to the Department of Urban Local Bodies, but these have not been cleared, forcing the contractors either to stop or slow down the pace of works.The shortage of the budget is said to be the main reason behind the delay in the disbursement of the payment. A sum of Rs 12 crore is still pending of around 15 contractors. The bills were of Rs 15 crore, of which Rs 2.90 crore has been disbursed by the government.The contractors say in the absence of the clearance of bills, they are not able to continue their work. They have approached the officials concerned to release their payment, but no positive response was given to them, forcing them to halt the development works.“We have bought material from traders and they are demanding payment. We have to make payments to the labourers also, but we are informed by the officials that our files are pending at the Finance Department. We request the CM to clear our payment,” said another contractor. Meanwhile, the KMC authorities are hopeful the bills would be cleared at the earliest. “We have sent the bills to the headquarters and bills of Rs 2.90 crore have been cleared last month. After the clearance of these bills, the work on 10 development projects in ward numbers 4 and 3 has been started,” said Vikram Singh, Commissioner, KMC. He said the remaining bills would also be cleared at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-on-contractors-await-payment-for-projects-in-karnal-240269
17-04-2021||---||Pen-down strike by Faridabad civic body staff||Faridabad, April 16At least 5,000 employees of the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) have launched a pen-down strike to protest over the delay in the disbursal of their salary for March.The Municipal Employees’ Union has threatened to intensify the stir if the payment is not released by Monday. ‘’We have decided to observe a pen-down strike for four hours everyday till the authorities release our March salary,” says Ramesh Jaglan, president of the MCF Civic Employee Union Federation.He said many employees were facing financial hardships owing to the delay.Jaglan said the union had already submitted a representation and memorandum to the authorities concerned. The strike was launched by Class III and IV employees on Thursday.He said earlier also, the salary for February was given on March 31. ‘’The stir will continue if the salary is not released by Monday’’, he added.Admitting the delay in salary disbursal, Financial Controller, MCF, Vijay Dhamija said the Commissioner, MCF, had taken up the issue with the Urban Local Bodies Department. The matter would be resolved soon, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pen-down-strike-by-faridabad-civic-body-staff-240270
17-04-2021||Parveen Arora---||Karnal's KCGMC to get machine to detect new Covid strains||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 16 The Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) will have soon the facility to detect new strains of Covid as the state government has given its nod to the college authorities to purchase a genome sequencing machine through Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL). Currently, samples with travel history from abroad and close contacts are sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, but after the installation of this machine, there would be no need to send samples there.  As per the authorities, the new initiative would save time as the reports would come speedily. The estimated cost of the machine is around Rs 3 crore. “The Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Medical Education, has given nod for the purchase of genome sequencing machine, so that the determination of new strains of Covid can be done at the college level, saving energy and time,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC. He said that the process of procurement would be done by the HMSCL. Later, this machine could be used to detect any kind of cancer at the early stage. Besides, the machine could also be used for DNA sampling. Earlier, a couple of samples have been detected with UK strains in the district, he said. The KCGMC has been analysing around 2,000 Covid samples daily and, on an average, around 15 per cent samples have been detected positive daily in the past five days.  The KCGMC has two machines to analyse Covid samples. Of these, one is working and the other is being repaired.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnals-kcgmc-to-get-machine-to-detect-new-covid-strains-240271
17-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||2 booked for disrupting namaz in Gurugram||Gurugram, April 16Two persons allegedly tried to disrupt namaz being offered in a ground in Sector 46 here today.Those offering namaz later lodged a complaint against the accused at the Sector 50 police station.According to the complaint filed by Abdul Hasib of Gandhi Colony (Sector 39), Dinesh Bharti and Sudhir disrupted the namaz, inciting communal disharmony.“The accused came to Sector 46 in a Gypsy (HP 52B 6919). They threatened those offering namaz there. Earlier also, the same persons had disrupted namaz in Sectors 39 and 40,” Hasib said in his complaint.The accused have been booked under Sections 153A and 34 of the IPC. The police said action would be initiated against them after verifying the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-disrupting-namaz-in-gurugram-240272
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram: Dhaba owner, cook held for spitting on rotis, let off||Gurugram, April 16The Gurugram police nabbed a dhaba owner and his cook for allegedly spitting on rotis. The videos went viral following which arrests were made. An FIR has been registered and duo was let off on police bail.According to the complaint filed by a local news reporter, Bhagat Singh, who got a video on Whatsapp group yesterday in which the dhaba owner and his cook were seen spitting on rotis. He reached Alsifa Hotel in Sector 12 and found it to be true and called the police.After getting information, a police team led by Sub-inspector Krishan Kumar reached on the spot and detained dhaba owner Mohammad Ibrahim and his cook Usman Malik. During questioning they kept on denying the charges. An FIR was registered various sections of the IPC, Section 3 of the Pandemic Act and section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector 14 police station.“The video which went viral clearly shows that they were spitting on rotis. We are verifying the facts while both were let off on police bail”, said Krishan Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-dhaba-owner-cook-held-for-spitting-on-rotis-let-off-240273
17-04-2021||---||55-yr-old held for minor’s rape in Faridabad's NIT area||Faridabad, April 16The police have arrested a 55-year-old resident in connection with the alleged rape of a 16-year-old girl in a colony of the NIT area here.Accused Shyamal Mandal, who hails from West Bengal and has been residing in Parvatiya Colony here, was nabbed on the same day after a complaint was lodged by the kin of the victim on Tuesday morning.It is alleged that the accused, who drives an e-rickshaw, had known the victim and her elder sister for the past two years. He reportedly befriended the victim on some pretext and ‘raped’ her before she reported the matter to her kin. They lodged a complaint with the police on April 13, according to police sources.“The accused who was arrested on Tuesday evening has been remanded to judicial custody today,” said a police official. He said a case under the POCSO Act and Section 376 of the IPC has been registered after the statement of the victim was recorded by a Magistrate and the Child Welfare Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/55-yr-old-held-for-minors-rape-in-faridabads-nit-area-240275
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Six bookies arrested||Gurugram, April 16The police have booked six persons for allegedly making bets on an IPL match between Delhi Capitals and Rajasthan Royals on Thursday evening.They were arrested from different places. Eight cellphones, two laptops and two LEDs were recovered from their possession. The accused were produced in a local court today, which granted them bail.On a tip-off, a team of the crime unit, Sector-317, raided the Piramid building in Sector-70 and arrested Ashish Gupta and Nikhil Kalra, both residents of Gurugram.Nitin Manchanda and Inderjit were arrested from Sector-9 while Hisar residents Jatin and Himanshu were arrested from Vardhman Mantra Society.Three FIRs were registered in different police stations, said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (crime).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-bookies-arrested-240279
17-04-2021||Vijay C Roy||Haryana ranks 4th in input tax credit frauds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Recently, Gurugram Zonal Unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence arrested one Ravinder Kumar in connection with input tax credit (ITC) fraud worth Rs 43 crore.This is not a lone example, but Haryana has the fourth highest cases pertaining to issuance of fake invoices to get benefit of ITC from July 2017 to December 2020. As many as 3,852 fraud cases were unearthed across the country during this period. Maharashtra topped the list with 668 cases followed by Tamil Nadu (652), West Bengal (370) and Haryana (303), according to data tabled in the Lok Sabha by the Finance Ministry.MAHA tops the listTax officials said the use of fake invoices to avail ITC credit had been increasing and it was a cause for concern, especially at a time when revenue collection was depressed.In terms of quantum of fraud, Haryana is at number three. Frauds worth Rs 4,489.90 crore were detected in Haryana between July 2017 and December 2020. In total, Rs 35,620.40 crore of ITC fraud was detected across the country during the period. Delhi topped the list with fraud worth Rs 7,922 crore followed by Maharashtra (Rs 7,147.50 crore). The modus operandi, according to the department, is setting up of fake companies, creating fake invoices and collecting illegal input tax credit.In many such cases, officials found that GST registrations have been made by misusing KYC documents of other persons. A number of fictitious companies were floated by using PAN, Aadhaar and photographs of unknown persons to issue fake invoices and claim input tax credit.To curb the menace, the ministry has created Directorate General of Analytics and Risk Management to help with advance analytics and innovative technology utilising various data sources for a focused and targeted action by the enforcement wings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ranks-4th-in-input-tax-credit-frauds-240244
17-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||With IAS officers as witnesses, trial against Bhupinder Singh Hooda to start on May 7||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16With present and past IAS officers as witnesses, the trial against former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda will start on May 7 for criminal conspiracy, cheating and under the Prevention of Corruption Act in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) plot re-allotment case.Some of these officers had closely worked with him during his tenure as Chief Minister.Hooda still has time to file an appeal before the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the dismissal of his discharge application.The institutional plot of M/s AJL was resumed in 1992 as the company did not carry out construction as required under the rules. Ramshekhar (IAS officer) as Administrator (Panchkula), Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), rejected the appeal of the company in 1995.Former IAS officer ML Tayal, then Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, had dismissed the revision petition of the company in 1996, and the matter achieved finality.However, Hooda re-allotted the plot on August 28, 2005, after coming to power in an alleged conspiracy with then chairman of AJL Motilal Vora. He bypassed the opinion given by then Chief Administrator, HUDA, SS Dhillon, then Financial Commissioner, Town and Country Planning Department, Shakuntla Jakhu and even Joint Legal Remembrancer Jagdeep Jain.Dhillon, Jakhu and Jain are CBI’s witnesses in the case. Jain had given his opinion that the plot could not be allotted once the revision petition had been dismissed by Tayal and if allotment was to be made, it had to be at the current prices as per the procedure.The 97th meeting of HUDA was held on May 16, 2006, whose chairman was Hooda himself and the ex-post facto approval of the re-allotment had been accorded. Former IAS officer Prem Prashant, who was Chief Secretary in 2006 and had participated in the 97th meeting as vice-chairman, told the CBI that the matter for ex-post facto approval of the Chief Minister’s order, dated August 28, 2005, was not required to be put before HUDA, but instead if any ratification was required, it was to be placed before the Cabinet.He added that had he been informed about the noting on the files, he would have dissented as its approval by then Chief Minister did not make any sense. Former IAS officer RN Prashar, then Principal Secretary, Power Department, and member of HUDA, and former IAS officer N Bala Bhaskar, then PS to the Urban Development Department and also member of the authority, recorded that ex-post facto approval was a mere formality because re-allotment had already been made. Former IAS officer ML Tayal, then PS to the Chief Minister and member of the authority, told that he had “agitated at the meeting held on May 16, 2006, before the Chief Minsiter of Haryana and other members” that ex-post facto approval for re-allotment “was not correct” as he had himself dismissed the revision petition of the AJL in 1996. However, he was overruled, as he claimed.IAS officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, as Administrator (Panchkula), HUDA, told the CBI that there was no instance at the meeting where members of the authority had shown resentment in writing.Assistant District Attorney Navneet Singh Sodhi of HUDA told the CBI that the AJL case was the only matter where ex-post facto approval was taken after the orders of the revision authority.The CBI case is that Hooda could not have exercised the revision powers as the same had been exercised by former IAS officer ML Tayal in the case as the power was delegated to him under the HUDA Act.The CBI alleged that the AJL availed of two-term loans of Rs42.72 crore from Syndicate Bank, New Delhi, for making payments to the Municipal Corporation, Greater Mumbai, for their construction at Bandra and Mumbai and closure of an existing loan of Rs15.25 crore with a balance of Rs14.60 crore against mortgage of land and building at Panchkula.According to the CBI, the loan could have been taken only for the purpose for which the plot was allotted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-ias-officers-as-witnesses-trial-against-bhupinder-singh-hooda-to-start-on-may-7-240220
