18-04-2021||Kurukshetra (Haryana)||Protesting farmers show black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini||Farmers staged a protest here and showed black flags to Kurukshetra’s BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini when he came to participate in an event on Sunday.The protesters raised slogans against the Haryana government and Saini, and showed black flags to him on his arrival at the event.Earlier, the farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, assembled in the Theme Park situated near the Saini Bhawan here, where police officers tried to persuade them not to stage a demonstration.Subsequently, they marched towards the venue. A large number of police personnel swung into action and detained many of the protesters.Before being detained, farmer leader Jasbir Singh Manumajra accused the state government of curbing the right of people to hold a peaceful demonstration.Deputy Superintendent of Police Ravinder Tomar, who was on duty at the site, said the police acted when the farmers violated the condition of staging a peaceful demonstration at the assigned place and broke down the police barricades in a bid to enter the venue of the function.He said 70 protesting farmers were detained for a brief period.About two weeks ago, a group of protesting farmers had blocked Saini’s car and smashed its windscreen as he was leaving a BJP worker’s home at Shahabad Markanda, about 20 km from here.Farmer leaders have said they would continue with their “peaceful social boycott” of the leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies.The Centre says the new laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-show-black-flags-to-kurukshetra-mp-nayab-singh-saini-240848
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Union Jal Shakti Ministry advises Haryana to monitor water supply in real time||The Union Jal Shakti Ministry has advised the state of Haryana to identify sources of convergence and invest in sensor-based IoT technology for real-time monitoring and measurement of water supply under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).This was during a meeting held by the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation of the Ministry (DDWS) of the Ministry to discuss the Jal Jeevan Mission Annual Action Plan (AAP) of States for 2021-22.Haryana presented its AAP Jal Jeevan Mission via video conferencing charting its plan of action for the financial year 2021-22 as well as the saturation plan for the state.The state government was advised with regard to the Plan, and tilo emphasise on well-placed Information, Education and Communication (IEC) strategies to instil behavioural change amongst public.During the meeting the Haryana government reiterated its commitment to achieve the JJM target by November 1, 2022, much ahead of the national deadline.November 1 marks the Haryana Day—the day the state was carved out from Punjab.The JJM plans to provide piped drinking water to every rural household by 2024.A month-long exercise of taking up the Annual Action Plan of States/ UTs under Jal Jeevan Mission is done by a committee chaired by Secretary, DDWS and with members from different Central Ministries/ Departments and NITI Aayog to do a rigorous scrutiny of the proposed Annual Action Plan (AAP) prepared by States/ UTs before finalizing the same.Thereafter, funds are released to the states by the Centre throughout the year. For Haryana, the Committee advised the state to work on water sources sustainability as with increasing tap connections at household level the load on water requirement has to be accounted for. There is an urgent need for grey water management and behaviour change among people so that water, which is a limited resource, is used judiciously.Needless to say that in peak summer water scarcity is left the most and the increasing cases of Corona pandemic is forcing people to wash hands frequently which has put pressure on water supply at all times to fight the disease.Haryana State has 31.03 lakh rural households, out of which 26.93 lakh (86.8%) rural households are provided with tap connections as on March 31, 2021.During the meeting the state government informed that it plans plans to provide 4.09 lakh tap connections in 2021-22. The JJM gives a lot of emphasis on water quality surveillance and monitoring.It mandates that in every village five persons especially women to be trained for use of Field Test Kits, so that water can be tested in villages. Public Health Engineering Department/ Rural Water Supply department of States are ensuring supply of safe drinking water to rural homes and monitoring water quality on regular basis by testing in the laboratories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-jal-shakti-ministry-advises-haryana-to-monitor-water-supply-in-real-time-240847
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, wife test positive for COVID-19; hospitalised||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda test positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.They have been admitted to Medanta, Gurugram.The 73-year-old Congress leader and his wife are in Delhi and they will get themselves admitted to a hospital in Gurgaon as a precautionary measure, party MLA B B Batra told PTI."Hooda had mild fever on Saturday. Later, he and his wife got themselves tested for COVID-19 and their report was positive," he said.When contacted, Hooda told PTI over phone that he had fever but was feeling okay. He said that his and wife's COVID-19 test reports have come positive.On Friday, another senior Congress leader from the state, Randeep Singh Surjewala, had also tested COVID-19 positive.Last year Hooda's son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda had also contracted COVID-19.After the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, several top politicians from Haryana have contracted the infection. They include Chief Minister M L Khattar, his deputy Dushyant Chautala, state Home Minister Anil Vij and a few other ministers and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.--with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-bhupinder-singh-hooda-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised-240836
18-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Delhi weekend curfew spells chaos at Gurugram border||Gurugram, April 17With Delhi implementing its weekend lockdown from today, Gurugram’s Sarhaul border witnessed high drama today.The Delhi Police erected barricades on Rajokri side and stopped every vehicle without a valid pass. This left many persons infuriated and arguing with the police.The police however refused to budge and let every vehicle in only after checking valid passes, travel proofs etc. This led to congestion in the morning hours.“I work in a private company in Delhi and had applied for passes but did not get those. It was urgent to go to the office today as I wanted some important document. I kept on pleading for half an hour but was not allowed,” said Sunil Chandna, a resident of Sohna road, Gurugram.Similarly, many others spent the day arguing with the Delhi Police but were not allowed entry in Delhi. DCP, South-West, Ingit Pratap Singh was also present there.“As per the lockdown guidelines, we have erected barricades and are checking all private vehicles which were trying to enter Delhi. We filed cases under Section 188 of the IPC against those who disobeyed the rule,” said DCP, South-West, Ingit Pratap Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-weekend-curfew-spells-chaos-at-gurugram-border-240573
18-04-2021||Ambala||Youth ends life, 5 booked for abetment||The Ambala police have registered an abetment to suicide case against five people, including a policeman, after an 18-year-old youth committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in Ambala Cantonment on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Sonu, his wife Ashu, his daughter, Rajeev and Pankaj.  Randhesh Yadav, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, alleged that his younger brother Narayan committed suicide in his room.  “My brother was in contact with a girl but her parents (Sonu and Ashu) had some objections following which they had also got a fake case registered against my brother at women police station. The girl’s maternal uncle Rajeev is in the Haryana Police and he is presently deputed at women police station. They had been harassing Narayan,” the complainant alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-ends-life-5-booked-for-abetment-240574
18-04-2021||---||Gang member nabbed with 7 stolen dumpers||Panipat, April 17  The police have nabbed a member of an inter-state dumper thieves’ gang and recovered seven HIVA dumpers from him. He was using these stolen vehicles for supplying sand and dust from mining zones for the past two years. Also, a stolen vehicle was impounded by the Mining Department reportedly used for illegal mining.  Superintendent of Poilce Shashank Kumar Sawan said cops nabbed Sandeep of Tamshabad village in the Sanoli area from near Krishi Vigyan Kendra on the Chautala road on April 14.  During the checking of the documents of the vehicle from the dumper, it was found to be belonging to one Suresh Kumar of Hisar district and the chassis number and engine number were found different on the registration card and on the dumper, he added. The police lodged a case against him in the Chandni Bagh police station and took him on a two-day police remand for investigation. The accused Sandeep revealed that he came in contact of Om Prakash of Dhagana tehsil in Nagor of Rajasthan in January 2018. Om Prakash lured him by saying that he would give him stolen dumpers at a very low cost and would also manage to change the RCs and other documents from Punjab on his (Sandeep’s) name, the SP said. Sandeep revealed that he had bought eight dumpers from him in the past two years which were stolen from various places. It was also revealed that they got the forged documents of these vehicles from Punjab and then they used these in the supply of sand, dust and other building materials and in the mining too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-member-nabbed-with-7-stolen-dumpers-240575
18-04-2021||---||Covid cases touch new high in Haryana: 7,717 in 24 hrs||Chandigarh, April 17Fresh Covid cases touched a new high today in Haryana, as 7,717 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.In the past seven days alone (April 10-April 17), 36,353 cases were recorded, which is the highest so far for a week, with a rise of 11.5 per cent.In the previous week (April 3-April 10), 17,212 cases were recorded, with a rise of 5.8 per cent.The positivity rate jumped to 5.16 per cent today, while on April 10, it was 4.8 per cent and on April 3, it was 4.69 per cent.The recovery rate has been slipping. It was 88.01 per cent today, while on April 10, it was 92.76 per cent and on April 3, it was 94.95 per cent.The maximum fresh cases today were recorded from Gurugram at 2,549, followed by 987 from Faridabad, 646 from Sonepat, 507 from Hisar, 477 from Karnal and 349 from Panchkula.Also, 32 deaths were reported today with five each from Panipat and Faridabad, three each in Hisar, Karnal and Rohtak, two each in Gurugram, Ambala, Panchkula, Palwal and Jind, and one each in Fatehabad, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra.The active cases in the state reached 38,558, with 406 on oxygen support and 94 on ventilators.In the neighbouring Punjab and Chandigarh, the UK variant of Covid is blamed for the surge, but in Haryana only 12 out of 276 samples were found positive for the strain.Director General Health Services Dr Veena Singh told The Tribune, “As of now, we can’t say the UK variant is responsible for the surge. We are awaiting the results of more samples. The reports are taking time. We will soon have our own lab at the PGIMS, Rohtak.”At present, the samples have to be sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi.She added, “We have no shortage of beds, oxygen and Remsedivir. However, there was some pressure on hospitals for beds, but we will make the referral system stronger. We are focusing on the death rate, vaccination and awareness.”“The testing has crossed 40,000. We have administered more than 31 lakh vaccine doses. To bring a decline, the testing and vaccination should be robust,” she said.Meanwhile, due to rising cases, the state government has formed a state-level monitoring committee to monitor Covid-19 management in the state under Health Minister Anil Vij as chairman. Chief Principal Secretary to CM, Chief Secretary, DGP Haryana Police and ACS Revenue and Disaster Management will also be its members along with 12 more officials.“The first meeting of the committee will be held on Monday at 3 pm in my office,” said Vij.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-cases-touch-new-high-in-haryana-7-717-in-24-hrs-240576
18-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak hospital curtails mask supply to doctors||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 17Amid the rising number of Covid cases among doctors and other health workers, Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) has curtailed the supply of N95 masks to its departments, forcing doctors to buy it on their own. In all, 104 doctors — PGIMS Director Dr Rohtash Yadav, 60 nurses, 27 paramedical staffers, 31 bearers, 26 ministerial staff and 53 MBBS students — have tested positive for Covid in the past one-and-a-half months.Online classes for MBBS studentsThe PGIMS has decided to conduct online classes (theory, practical and demonstration) for MBBS students of the 2019 and 2020 batchs in view the rising Covid cases.Two of the doctors at the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, including state nodal officer for Covid Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, have been re-infected. One of them had received the first dose of the vaccine.“The second wave of Covid is more intense than the first one. In spite of that, the authorities have cut the supply of N95 masks by 40 per cent. Earlier, five masks were provided in a month. Now, the number has been reduced to three,” said a senior doctor on the condition of anonymity.Another doctor said, “The supply of masks has been curtailed at a time when several doctors and other staffers are in the grip of Covid. It is beyond my understanding. Who will treat Covid and other patients if doctors are not taken care of?”Neither Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya nor PGIMS spokesman Dr Varun Arora responded to phone calls.A senior officer admitted that the supply of masks had been cut, but claimed there was no dearth in the PGIMS. “The masks are being provided to departments as per requirement,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-hospital-curtails-mask-supply-to-doctors-240577
18-04-2021||---||New norms for govt offices amid surge||Chandigarh, April 17  Haryana Chief Secretary has issued new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the functioning of government offices given a surge in Covid patients.  Now, the officers of the level of Under Secretary or equivalent and below will be allowed to work from home and their attendance will be restricted to 50 per cent.  The rosters for their attendance will be prepared by concerned divisional or wing heads.  However, all officers of the level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent and above are required to attend office on regular basis.  In a letter to all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, DCs, MDs and Chief Administrators of boards and corporations and registrars of universities, dated April 16, it has been advised that officers who are attending office can stagger timings of entry and exit to avoid the rush in commuting as also in lifts and corridors. Those who are not attending office on a particular day have to make themselves available on telephone and other electronic means from their residence.  The people who are living in containment zones are exempted from coming to their offices.  Those attending office have to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask, physical distancing, use of sanitiser and frequent hand washing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-norms-for-govt-offices-amid-surge-240578
18-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Get jabbed: JJP tells women||Gurugram, April 17“Covid is a big threat to you and your family. You have to safeguard them. Ensure that your family follows mask norm and social distancing but also gets vaccinated," said JJP senior leader and MLA Naina Chautala while addressing women at a Jan Sanwaad meeting today.“The state government has implemented many beneficial schemes to uplift women. The work for women's empowerment will continue. With the implementation of 75 per cent quota in private jobs, every mother's son and daughter will get a job. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala has fought and got 50 per cent reservation for women in panchayat institutions and 33 per cent in providing ration depots,” said Naina.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/get-jabbed-jjp-tells-women-240579
18-04-2021||Nitish Sharma---||Tardy lifting of wheat: Uncertain weather cause for concern||Tribune News Service Ambala, April 17 Uncertain weather conditions coupled with tardy lifting have worried wheat farmers. They say they are in no position to store the produce in fields because of fear of showers and fire. Manakpur village resident Gulab Singh, who had sown wheat over 20 acres, said: “As the weather was uncertain, I harvested my crop on Friday and stored it in my home instead of taking it to the grain market as there is space crunch there. The government had also stopped procurement for two days. Harvested crop can’t be left in the fields due to the fear of fire.” Duni Chand, president of the Ambala City Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said: “Due to poor lifting there is no space left in the market. The weather has been uncertain for the last couple of days. If it rains, the stock will get moist. This will further delay the procurement.”  Of the 2 lakh MT of wheat procured in Ambala till April 16, around 45.15 per cent has been lifted. Rakesh Bains, spokesman for the BKU (Charuni), said: “The two-day ban on buying the produce has exposed government’s claims regarding smooth procurement. It seems officials are trying to run grain markets as government offices. They must understand that farmers are not in a position to store the harvested crop. The government must make arrangements and ensure smooth procurement.” District Food and Supplies Controller Rajeshwar Moudgil said, “We have asked contractors to increase the pace of lifting the procured produce. They have been told to increase the number of labourers and vehicles, and lift the maximum stock so that farmers and commission agents don’t face any inconvenience.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-lifting-of-wheat-uncertain-weather-cause-for-concern-240580
18-04-2021||---||Research to be focus area: New HAU VC||Hisar, April 17Prof BR Kamboj, the newly appointed Vice Chancellor of the Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), says his focus will be on better research and extension work for the farming community.“I urge university scientists to undertake research keeping in view the problems and needs of farmers and the changing global climate. There is need to develop varieties of high-yielding crops and modify crop agronomical package and practices so that farmers can earn more,” he told the media here today.Prof Kamboj also emphasised that his objective would be to strengthen research and extension education so that students and farmers could get the maximum benefit.He urged the youth to look for self-employment opportunities by acquiring training being imparted in the HAU. “The university is here to help you grow as an entrepreneur,” the VC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/research-to-be-focus-area-new-hau-vc-240581
18-04-2021||---||Denied entry, farmers block Haryana-UP border||Karnal, April 17Scores of farmers from Karnal district and Uttar Pradesh today blocked the Haryana-UP (Karnal-Meerut road) after they were allegedly denied entry in Haryana to sell wheat. These farmers had cultivated wheat in Uttar Pradesh.Word of assuranceI spoke to the Shamli District Magistrate and proposed to him to develop a holding area in Uttar Pradesh where farmers could wait until they were allowed entry in Haryana. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DCThey were allegedly stopped from selling their produce in Karnal district even after having registered themselves on the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal. The situation remained tense for around four hours and commuters had a tough time.Bir Singh, a local farmer who owns land in UP, said: “I had cultivated wheat on 15 acres. The police stopped me from entering Haryana. This is injustice.”Rajpal, another farmer, said his crop was registered on the portal, but he was not allowed to sell his produce.The state government has stopped procurement on Saturday and Sunday to streamline the process by lifting the procured wheat. After around four hours, the authorities from Uttar Pradesh reached the protest site and pacified the farmers by proposing a holding area in UP where farmers could wait until they were allowed entry in Haryana.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he spoke to the Shamli District Magistrate and proposed to him to develop a holding area in UP.“The state government has stopped procurement for two days. As a result, gate pass are not being issued. The lifting process has gathered pace and the situation will be streamlined by Monday,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/denied-entry-farmers-block-haryana-up-border-240582
18-04-2021||---||Ensure speedy lifting of crop, Dalal tells officials||Hisar, April 17The procurement of wheat has come to a halt because of glut in grain markets, tardy lifting of the procured produce, shortage of gunny bags and intermittent showers at several places in the state.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, who visited the grain market at Bahal in Bhiwani district, today urged farmers not to bring wheat to mandis on Saturday and Sunday. He, however, directed officials to ensure speedy lifting of the produce.“The produce is moist because of the showers. Once it dries up, it will be lifted,” said the minister.Farmers, however, said agencies had suspended the procurement, exposing the lack of arrangements. “The next harvesting season is going to be busy for us. So we want that the agencies lift the produce as soon as possible,” of the farmers said.Sube Singh, a farmer activist, said: “Farmers need to prepare their fields for the kharif season. They cannot wait for days for their crop to be purchased. The laxity on the part of authorities is resulting in inconvenience to farmers.”Bajrang Dass Garg, pradhan of the Haryana Pradesh Vyapar Mandal, said: “The procurement process has exposed that the authorities were not prepared for it. It seems that some government officials and contractors are deliberately delaying the lifting of the produce.”The minister told the media in Bhiwani government agencies had so far purchased 40 lakh metric tonnes of wheat, while payment had been made for 25 lakh metric tonnes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-speedy-lifting-of-crop-dalal-tells-officials-240583
18-04-2021||---||Child among 4 killed in Jind mishap||Hisar, April 17 Four persons, including two women and a child, were killed in a road mishap near Khapar village in Jind district today. The victims were riding a motorcycle which collided with a private bus coming from the opposite direction.  The victims were identified as Randhir, 40, who was driving the motorcycle, Roshni Devi, 60, Seema, 30 and a four-year-old child Lalit. They were going to Uchana town from Koth Kalan village when their motorcycle collided with the bus. All four died on the spot. The police registered a case of causing death due to rash and negligent driving against the bus driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-among-4-killed-in-jind-mishap-240584
18-04-2021||---||Resume talks with protesting farmers, Dushyant Chautala urges PM Modi||Chandigarh, April 17Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concern over the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three agricultural laws and urged him to resume talks with farm’ organisations.Discussion must to end deadlockIt is a matter of concern as ‘annadata’ has been sitting on the streets on the Delhi borders for more than 100 days over the agricultural laws. Every problem can be solved through mutual discussion. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief MinisterHe said the government should set up a committee of three to four senior Cabinet ministers for discussions with these organisations so that the demands of farmers could be amicably resolved at the earliest.It was a matter of concern as “annadata” had been sitting on the streets on the Delhi border for more than 100 days over the agricultural laws. Every problem could be solved through mutual discussion, he said.Chautala also briefed Modi about the procurement of rabi season crops in the state. He said Haryana was the only state in the country which was procuring six rabi season crops at the Minimum Support Price (MSP), including wheat, mustard, pulses, sunflower, gram and barley. He said in future also, the state government would continue to ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers on their crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resume-talks-with-protesting-farmers-dushyant-chautala-urges-pm-modi-240585
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Abhay alleges Rs 400-cr scam in procurement||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala today alleged a scam of Rs 400 crore in the procurement of wheat in the state and said farmers were being forced to part with an extra kg of foodgrains with every bag of 50 kg in the name of moisture content. Abhay told the media here today that when the procurement was to begin, the government promised hassle-free purchase and release of payment within 48 hours. However, over 50 lakh MT of wheat had already come to grain markets in Haryana, but farmers were waiting for their payments for five to six days, he alleged. Abhay further alleged the government first changed the moisture norms from 14% to 12% and now, the farmers were being made to part with 1 kg extra with each 50 kg bag on the pretext that the weight could reduce due to heat in the coming days. “When the produce was being purchased by following the parameters of 12% moisture content, how can the agencies demand an additional kg in the name of moisture?” he asked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-alleges-rs-400-cr-scam-in-procurement-240586
18-04-2021||---||Produce bought, but unending wait for payment||Karnal, April 17 Dalip Singh from Pabana Hasanpur had sold his wheat crop sown on 27 acres at the Munak purchase centre on April 12. However, he is still waiting for the payment, though the government had claimed that the payment would be credited to the bank accounts of farmers within 48 hours of procurement.  Similarly, Ram Kumar from Sarfabad Majra has sold 109 quintal of wheat on April 7 and 70 quintal on April 11, but the payment is yet to be credited to his account.  Like them, there are a number of farmers who have sold their produce, but are still waiting for the payment. The Food, Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs Department has disbursed Rs 136 crore against the procurement of wheat worth Rs 580 crore till April 15, while HAFED has transferred Rs 106 crore against the purchase of wheat worth Rs 431 crore.  DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the payment had got delayed due to the slow pace of lifting. “The procurement agencies have been asked to transfer the payments at the earliest,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/produce-bought-but-unending-wait-for-payment-240587
18-04-2021||---||Don’t hinder right to better education by insisting on NOC: HC to varsities||Chandigarh, April 17 Universities should not create unnecessary hindrance in the right of a citizen to improve his education by insisting on no-objection certificates from employers, the High Court has ruled.  Justice Arun Monga of the High Court has also made it clear that every citizen has a right to educate himself for better accomplishments, provided he is otherwise competent and meritorious to do so. The assertion by Justice Monga came on a petition filed by Neha Miglani and another petitioner against the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, and another respondent. The petitioner’s grievance was that similarly situated faculty members were allowed to do PhD, but she was denied permission.  Taking up the matter, Justice Monga asserted the court was of the view that the stand taken by respondent-NIT flew in the face of Rule 11 of the Model Recruitment Rules for Faculty of NITs. Its perusal showed it was self incumbent on the institute to strive to provide necessary facilities to the contract faculty to complete PhD either within the institute or outside. “That being the position, it is rather intriguing that the petitioner is not being granted the requisite NOC.” Justice Monga quashed the impugned order dated October 12, 2020, before directing the respondent-NIT to issue NOC in the petitioner’s favour. Before parting with the order, Justice Monga observed Kurukshetra University, vide letter/notification dated February 25, relaxed on its own the condition of seeking NOC for the prospective candidates. In the premises, the court did not see any reason why similar benefit should not be accorded to the petitioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-hinder-right-to-better-education-by-insisting-on-noc-hc-to-varsities-240588
18-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Offender’s age no ground for rejecting premature release plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17The age of an offender is no ground for the rejection of a premature release plea, the High Court has held. The ruling came in a case where the plea for premature release was turned down on the ground that the convict was young and his release would not be in public interest, while stipulating that his case would be reconsidered after two years.It is unwarranted: BenchThe rejection on the ground of the petitioner’s age appears to be unwarranted. It cannot be held against him, as there is no indication that he will commit a similar offence once released. — Justice Jaishree Thakur“The rejection primarily on the ground of the petitioner’s age appears to be unwarranted. Once the state government has laid down guidelines for premature release, it is incumbent upon it to give reasons for not applying the policy. The petitioner’s age cannot be held against him, as there is no indication that he will commit a similar offence once released,” Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled.Ranbir had moved the HC against Haryana challenging the denial of his premature release in terms of policy dated April 12, 2002. Justice Thakur’s Bench was told that the petitioner was nominated as an accused in a murder case registered in December 30, 2004, under Sections 302, 307, 353 and 186 of the IPC, along with the provisions of the Arms Act, at the Model Town police station in Panipat. He and the co-accused were sentenced to life imprisonment.He applied for premature release after 11 years of actual imprisonment and 14 years of total sentence, including remission. His request for premature release was turned down by a state-level committee on the ground that he was required to undergo 14 years of actual sentence, including the undertrial period.His case was considered again after 14 years of actual sentence, including the under-trial period, and 20 years of total sentence, including remission. But the matter was deferred for two years vide order dated April 28, 2020. Aggrieved, he filed the petition.The petitioner was convicted in February 2006. As such, policy dated April 12, 2002, would be applicable. It said the case was to be considered on completion of 14 years actual sentence, including the undertrial period, provided the total period, including remission, was not less than 20 years.Justice Thakur remitted the matter back to the Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, for fresh order after taking into consideration April 12, 2002, policy and in light of the HC observations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-offenders-age-no-ground-for-rejecting-premature-release-plea-240589
18-04-2021||Rohtak||No elective surgeries at Rohtak PGIMS||In view of the rapid rise in the number of Covid cases in the region, the Rohtak PGIMS authorities have decided to stop elective surgeries at the institute in order to prevent the spread of the infection.The PGIMS medical superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, said it had been decided to stop elective surgeries with immediate effect till further orders.Elective surgeries had remained stalled for months during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.A decision to curtail the OPD services may also be taken in view of the prevailing situation. The PGIMS Director and the state nodal officer for Covid tested positive recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-elective-surgeries-at-rohtak-pgims-240590
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha infected, Punjab and Haryana High Court suspends physical hearing||Amid an increase in Covid-19 cases and reports of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha testing positive for the virus, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today suspended physical hearing of cases. The High Court also made it clear that the District and Sessions Judges across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh would take a call on the mode of hearing cases after taking into consideration the prevailing local conditions.The High Court also made it clear that Chief Justice Jha would not be holding the court for at least two days from Monday. A note in the list of cases to be heard on Monday said: “Hon’ble Chief Justice will not be holding the court on April 19, 2021, and April 20, 2021, as his lordship has tested positive for Covid-19”. As of now, two more judges are down with Covid.An order issued later during the day said the Administrative Committee of the High Court has resolved that all the Benches would hear the cases through video-conference from April 19 for the time being.The order added the decision was taken by the Administrative Committee in consultation with the Additional Solicitor-General of India, the Advocates-General of Punjab and Haryana, UT senior standing counsel, the president and secretary of the High Court Bar Association, Chandigarh, and the president of the Senior Advocates’ Bar Association.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-justice-ravi-shanker-jha-infected-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-suspends-physical-hearing-240521
18-04-2021||Sonepat||Fissures in Samyukt Kisan Morcha over march to Parliament||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is likely to defer by a month its march to Parliament that the umbrella body comprising protesting farm unions from Punjab and Haryana had planned in the first half of May.The SKM, spearheading the protests against the three central farm laws, held discussions on holding the march at a meeting here today.Sources said while Haryana groups were firm on organising the march in May, a majority of the 32 unions from Punjab opposed it. The dissenting unions got into a heated debate with some leaders even threatening to walk out of the meeting, said sources.Though the SKM cited “unfavourable conditions” for deferring the event, sources said a section of union leadership emphasised on increasing numbers at the Delhi protest sites before finalising a date for the march. Another group argued the count of protesters would rise once wheat harvesting was over.Some leaders stressed such events should be avoided in view of an alarming nationwide surge in Covid cases. They also called for strict adherence to Covid protocol at the protest sites to curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fissures-in-samyukt-kisan-morcha-over-march-to-parliament-240523
18-04-2021||---||‘Private vehicle’ is not ‘public place’ under NDPS Act, says SC; acquits three men||New Delhi, April 17Holding that a private vehicle is not a ‘public place’ under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act), the Supreme Court has acquitted three men accused of possessing poppy, saying they were charged under the wrong section.The verdict came from a Bench headed by Justice UU Lalit which said recovery of a banned substance from a private vehicle parked on a public road wouldn’t be covered under Section 43 of the NDPS Act – the provision used for recovery of the banned substance.However, such cases can be covered under Section 42 of the Act, the Bench said allowing an appeal against an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that had upheld the conviction and sentence awarded to the accused under the NDPS Act.While Section 43 of the NDPS deals with the power of seizure and arrest in a public place, Section 42 gives a designated officer powers of ‘entry, search, seizure or arrest’ in a suspected narcotics case.Two bags of poppy straw were recovered from the accused while they were sitting in a jeep at a public place on a ‘kacha path’ at Rori-Jatana road under Rori police station in Haryana.Also read: The trial court acquitted Major Singh but convicted other three accused—Boota Singh, Gurdeep Singh and Gurmohinder Singh—under Section 15 of the NDPS Act and awarded them 10-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh.In their appeal before the top court, the accused contended that theirs was a private vehicle belonging to Gurdeep Singh and that it wasn’t a public conveyance, even though it was parked on a public road.Holding that evidence clearly showed that the vehicle was not a public conveyance, the top court acquitted the accused as they were charged under a wrong provision of the NDPS Act.“The Registration Certificate of the vehicle, which has been placed on record also does not indicate it to be a Public Transport Vehicle. The explanation to Section 43 shows that a private vehicle would not come within the expression ‘public place’ as explained in Section 43 of the NDPS Act. On the strength of the decision of this court, the relevant provision would not be Section 43 of the NDPS Act but the case would come under Section 42 of the NDPS Act,” the top court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-vehicle-is-not-public-place-under-ndps-act-says-sc-acquits-three-men-240416
18-04-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana restricts physical attendance in govt offices to 50 per cent||Amid a COVID spike, the Haryana government on Saturday has issued orders restricting physical attendance to 50 per cent in offices. In an order addressed to administrative secretaries, heads of departments, commissioners, deputy commissioners, managing directors of corporations and registrars of universities, the Chief Secretary told them to allow officers of the level of undersecretaries or their equivalent, and below to work from home, and their physical attendance in the offices be restricted to 50 per cent. The order said, that all officers of the level of deputy secretaries or their equivalent, and above are to attend offices regularly. The CS added that the officers attending the offices stagger their timings of arrival between 9 am and 10 am, to avoid crowding in the lifts and corridor. The officials, who don’t attend their office on a particular day have been told to keep them available on the telephone, and other electronic means of communication. All those residing in containment zones have been exempted from attending office. Those attending offices have been advised to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour, and also to avoid crowding in lifts, stairs, corridors, refreshment kiosks, parking areas and other common areas. The officers have been told to hold meetings through video conferencing as far as possible. Entry of outsiders and visitors to the offices is to curtailed appropriately. The Chief Secretary has also advised all employees above the age of 45 to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-restricts-physical-attendance-in-govt-offices-to-50-per-cent-240386
