19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to test pilgrims from Haridwar Kumbh, protesting farmers||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday said the pilgrims returning from the Haridwar Kumbh and the farmers protesting at the state borders with Delhi will be tested for coronavirus.Vij, who is also the Haryana health minister, reiterated that the state is not imposing any lockdown. He asked migrant workers not to pay heed to “any propaganda” and said they should continue to work like before.Though there is a possibility that many patients have come to the state from Delhi to get treatment here, they will treat everyone, the minister said, assuring people that the state Health Department has sufficient quantity of oxygen, beds and medicines.Vij told reporters after chairing a meeting of the state-level monitoring panel that the coronavirus testing of the pilgrims returning from the Haridwar Kumbh at all entry points has been made mandatory.The farmers sitting at Haryana’s borders with Delhi will be tested and vaccinated, for which health teams have been constituted, the minister said.In the past few days, Haryana has seen a surge in infections, with over 6,000 to 7,000 cases being reported daily.Vij said Haryana’s over 42,000 active cases currently are from Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonepat, the districts adjoining Delhi.He said elective surgeries in all hospitals will be stopped from Tuesday.“We need more doctors at this juncture as many of them will be visiting COVID patients, who are being treated in home isolation,” Vij said.He said the state-level monitoring committee reviewed the situation currently prevailing with regard to availability of beds, oxygen supply and medicine availability.Of the total active cases, around 30,000 are getting treatment in home isolation, he said.             “In every two days, our doctors will examine them and give them kits, necessary medicines and oximeters,” he said.“We have sufficient quantities of medicine and oxygen. As against our present requirement of 60 metric tonnes, we have 270 MT of oxygen available,” he said.Vij said the drug and police departments will ensure that there is no black marketing or scarcity of medical oxygen at hospital.Replying to a question, he said all private facilities have been directed that any patient reporting virus-like symptoms should be tested for COVID.For any kind of religious, political or social gatherings, guidelines will have to be strictly followed.Only 50 people will be allowed at an indoor event while the number has been put at 200 for outdoor programmes, he said, adding that large gatherings will not be allowed.Coronavirus care centres for critical patients will be set up in all medical colleges.On Remdesivir drug, he said, “We have sufficient quantity available”.He said the state-level monitoring committee will check if there is any black marketing of Remdesivir.“We will ensure that private facilities also get sufficient quantities of Remdesivir,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-test-pilgrims-from-haridwar-kumbh-protesting-farmers-241316
19-04-2021||New Delhi||IOC, BPCL to supply oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab||After Reliance Industries Ltd, state-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) have begun diverting oxygen produced at their refineries to supplement the availability of medical oxygen in states worst hit by COVID-19.In a statement, IOC said it has “begun the supply of 150 tonnes of oxygen at no cost to various hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab.”       “The first batch of the lifesaver medical grade oxygen was dispatched today to Maha Durga Charitable Trust Hospital, New Delhi,” it said. “Delhi is already facing an oxygen emergency situation.”  In the face of a massive surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic, IOC has diverted the high-purity oxygen used in its Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG) unit to produce medical-grade liquid oxygen at its Panipat refinery and petrochemical complex in Haryana.The throughput of the unit has also been scaled down for a more critical cause.In a separate statement, BPCL said it has started supply of 100 tonnes of oxygen at no cost.“The company will be supplying around 100 tonnes per month,” it said.With average daily cases of COVID-19 rising again since last one month, the demand for oxygen has significantly risen. In fact, in most parts of the country, the cases are hitting new peak, thereby disrupting the demand-supply scenario for medical oxygen.Last week, Reliance’s twin oil refineries in Jamnagar in Gujarat through minor process modification converted industrial oxygen into medical-use oxygen that can be administered to COVID-19 patients low on oxygen. In all, 100 tonnes of oxygen is being supplied from the Jamnagar refineries free of cost.BPCL is also supplying 1.5 tonnes per day of medical oxygen to Kerala from its Kochi Refinery.Last year, BPCL had supplied around 25 tonnes of medical oxygen when the average daily cases had risen in October-November.The Kochi Refinery has a provision to produce and store liquid oxygen of 99.7 per cent purity.Oil refineries can produce limited volumes of industrial oxygen in air-separation plants meant for nitrogen production. Scrubbing out other gases such as carbon dioxide can convert it into medical-use oxygen with 99.9 per cent purity.Reliance operates the world’s largest oil refining complex at Jamnagar in Gujarat.IOC Chairman S M Vaidya reiterated the firm’s unstinted support to the country at this critical hour in every possible way.“All through the pandemic, our prime focus has been to ensure the supply of essential fuels 24X7. We have also stepped up the production of raw material for PPEs, and we are now providing lifesaving medical oxygen to hospitals.“Our expertise and assets, including refineries, pipelines, petrochemical units, bottling plants, terminals and aviation fuel stations, will continue to serve the people despite the stiff challenges”, he added.As the COVID-19 cases in the country continue to rise, the demand for medical-grade oxygen too is growing rapidly. “The current initiative by IOC aims at supporting the states in fighting the battle against COVID-19,” the statement added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ioc-bpcl-to-supply-oxygen-to-hospitals-in-delhi-haryana-punjab-241298
19-04-2021||---||Private schools shouldn’t oppose govt order on closure: Minister||Karnal, April 18 Amid tight security, a programme was organised on Sunday to mark the 130th birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar by Valmiki Jankalyan Sangh and Haryana Valmiki Samaj Sabha in Sector 12.  The programme was chaired by Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar. Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan, Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, Nilokheri MLA Dharampal Gonder, Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and other BJP leaders were present on the dais.  Keeping in view the farmers’ protest, a large number of police personnel were deployed near the venue. While interacting with mediapersons, the Education Minister said that private schools should not oppose the move of the state government of keeping schools closed to prevent the spread of Covid.  “The state government has ordered the closure of schools and colleges due to surge in Covid cases. So, private schools should cooperate with the government. They should not oppose the move,” said Gujjar in reply to a question asked on the opposition by the managements of schools over the closing of schools till April 30. On being asked about the possibility of imposing weekend curfew in the state, he said that, at present, he cannot comment on it, but the situation has become worrisome and people should cooperate in tackling Covid.  “We are making efforts so that there would be no need for a lockdown,” he said. In reply to a question about private schools recommending books of private publishers instead of NCERT, he said that the department is strict in this regard and action would be taken against such schools which are recommending private publishers’ books. On the letter written by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Education Minister said that the Union Government was ready for talks and amendments in the laws, but the farmers are adamant on the issue. Earlier, while addressing the gathering, he highlighted the contribution of Dr Ambedkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-shouldnt-oppose-govt-order-on-closure-minister-241105
19-04-2021||Ravinder Saini---||Parking lots unused, vehicles block roads||Tribune News Service Rohtak, April 18 Despite construction of two parking lots near the Quilla road and Bhiwani stand markets, the problem of traffic congestion prevails. People continue to park their vehicles on the roads instead of using the parking space. The Rohtak Municipal Corporation authorities have put up ‘no parking’ boards at the Bhiwani stand, Quilla road, Railway road, Shouri cloth market and Mal Godam road. The authorities have carried out campaigns time and again to impound the vehicles parked in unauthorised zones and slap penalty on the violators.  They have also placed barricades in the middle of the Quilla market road to prevent the customers and shopkeepers from parking their vehicles there, but in vain. An MC official said shopkeepers did not want the customers to use the parking lots. They fear it would adversely affect their business as the customers would prefer to visit the shops located near the parking area, he said. “We park our vehicles either on the Maharaja Agrasen or the Bhagat Singh parking areas. We cannot force the customers to use the parking lots and walk to the shops. They want the parking facility right outside the shops to save their time. The MC authorities should not object to parking of vehicles outside our shops,” said Bittu Sachdeva, president, Quilla Road Traders’ Association. Sachdeva said they had, several times, demanded to remove barricades placed in the middle of the Quilla market, as it would not allow fire tenders or other four-wheelers to enter in case of an emergency. Surendra Goyal, Land Officer at the MC, said they held several meetings with market associations, requesting their cooperation in keeping the roads free from vehicles, but to no avail. “This attitude of shopkeepers has forced us to impound the vehicles. The parkings are free, but majority of customers and shop owners are not ready to use them,” said Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parking-lots-unused-vehicles-block-roads-241106
19-04-2021||---||Help desk for hearing-impaired at Karnal mini secretariat||Karnal, April 18Aiming at assisting hearing impaired people, who come to the Mini Secretariat, a help desk has been formed at the ground floor of the new building.Employees having expertise in sign language have been appointed, who will ensure that such people will be properly looked after. Their issues will be addressed without any delay. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav inaugurated the help desk.This step has been taken by the administration, following the complaints that officials were not able to understand sign language, leading to harassment of the hearing impaired.“A delegation of the hearing-impaired raised the problems being faced by them, so we have decided to start a help desk. We have given a room on the ground floor of the new building, where dedicated employees have been appointed for assistance,” the DC said.The hearing impaired people will have to visit only the help desk. Further work would be done by the employees appointed there, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/help-desk-for-hearing-impaired-at-karnal-mini-secretariat-241107
19-04-2021||---||Reservoir to store rainwater in Kurukshetra's Mukurpur village soon||Kurukshetra, April 18The Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has come out with a proposal to develop a Saraswati reservoir in Mukurpur village of Kurukshetra to store rainwater after channelising it from nearby villages, utilise it for agriculture and flow it into the Saraswati river in Kurukshetra.As per the information, the village has nearly 100-acres panchayat land and agreed to give 20 acres for the project.Board’s vice-chairman Dhuman Singh, said “A Saraswati reservoir will be developed in Mukurpur village. Soon a resolution for 20 acres, on which the reservoir will be developed, will be sent to the state government for further action. With its construction, the problem of the dark zone of Mukurpur area will be solved and the groundwater will increase. During rain, excessive amount of water reaches the village from nearby areas and it damages the standing crop. Under the project, rainwater will be channelised and stored in the reservoir.”Dharamvir Nain, a former sarpanch of the village, said, “It will be good if a reservoir is developed in the village. There is nearly 100 acres panchayati land, but the area is in dark zone. It will be beneficial for the village and farmers if the groundwater level is improved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reservoir-to-store-rainwater-in-kurukshetras-mukurpur-village-soon-241108
19-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan||MoU with IGIB to detect Covid strains||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 18The Haryana Government will sign an MoU with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) to identify the Covid-19 strains and variants prevalent in the state.As per medical experts, genomic sequencing is required to identify the strain of the virus, so as to ascertain which variant is spreading more rapidly and causing damage.“The process for the signing of MoU between the state and IGIB authorities is in progress and should be accomplished soon,” said Prof Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer for Covid-19.Kerala has already signed an MoU with IGIB for screening, surveillance and genomic sequencing of Covid-19, he said.“Detecting the variants of virus which spread more rapidly will help in tweaking the vaccines and development of the upcoming ones,” said Dr Chaudhry, Senior Professor and head, department of pulmonary and critical care medicine, Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.The process for procurement of genomic sequencing machine for PGIMS, Rohtak, is also under way, the Chaudhry said, adding that the tendering process was already on.On being questioned about the increasing cases of Covid-19 re-infection and people contracting the infection even after getting vaccinated, the medical expert pointed out that it could be attributed to three factors.“A person may get infected after taking vaccine as the generation of antibodies takes some time. The efficacy of the vaccines is also limited and the possibility of the vaccinated persons getting infected by some new variant of the virus can also not be ruled out,” he stated, pointing out that the anti-Covid vaccines do give us immunity, but don’t sterilise immunity.Chaudhry exhorted the people to not let their guard down after getting themselves vaccinated and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour to prevent infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mou-with-igib-to-detect-covid-strains-241109
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Police post inaugurated in Ballabhgarh||Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma inaugurated a police post in Sector 2, Ballabhgarh, today.After inaugurating the post, Sharma said people had entrusted him with the responsibility of security and development of the Assembly constituency and he was trying to live up to their expectations.He said the post had been built for the safety of the residents of Sector 2. Apart from this, a girls’ college was being built there. He said the post had been constructed to ensure the security of people and to maintain law and order in the area, including several housing colonies, Chawla Colony and National Highway Bypass. Thereafter, the minister inaugurated the work of a new tubewell at the boosting station located on the Vita Milk Plant road in Sector 2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-post-inaugurated-in-ballabhgarh-241110
19-04-2021||---||Shut KMP toll plaza near Tikri border in 3 days or face protest, admn warned||Jhajjar, April 18Farmers and the district administration are at loggerheads over the Aasoda toll plaza situated on the KMP expressway near the Tikri border. More than 200 farmers assembled at the toll plaza today against the administration’s decision to restart the operations in the face of the protest.The farmers served a three-day ultimatum on the toll operator and the administration to close the toll plaza. If it would not be closed before April 22, farmers would picket it again, they warned.They went back after protesting at the toll plaza for two hours.On April 13, the toll operator in the police presence of the police had resumed operations two-and-a-half months. The next day, the farmers protested and forced the operator to shut operations and gave free passage to commuters. Bahadurgarh SDM Hitendra Sharma and DSP Pawan Kumar were present there, but they remained mute spectators.Subsequently, 125 farmers were booked on the charges of rioting, unlawful assembly, criminal intimation, obstructing public servant in discharging their duty and disobedience to official orders.On April 15, a heavy police force was deployed at the toll plaza and the toll operator resumed charging the toll. This made farmers agitated and they again assembled at the toll plaza.A farmer leader said: “Farmers don’t want violence. A committee of farmers asked the SDM and other officials about the reason for resuming operations when we had told the operator to shut the plaza four days ago. The officials sought three days to resolve the matter. We requested them to close the plaza by noon on April 22, or else farmers will camp here permanently.”The SDM could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shut-kmp-toll-plaza-near-tikri-border-in-3-days-or-face-protest-admn-warned-241111
19-04-2021||---||Status quo in Yamunanagar mandis||Yamunanagar, April 18 In spite of a two-day ban on wheat procurement across the state, several grain markets in the district are still facing space crunch. Of the 1.85 lakh MT of wheat procured in 13 grain markets and purchase centres of the district, only 93,856 MT (50.63 per cent) was lifted till Saturday. Farmers have criticised the state government for having banned wheat buying on the weekend. Farmer leader Satpal Kaushik said the two-day ban on wheat procurement showed that the state government had failed to make arrangements for smooth procurement. “The agriculture sector is reeling under acute labour crunch. Therefore, it is impossible for farmers to load wheat in tractor-trolleys from their fields and then unload it in their houses,” he said.  Kaushik further said that the government should consult farmers and seek their suggestions before framing the procurement policy.  Another farmer Joginder Singh of Devdhar village said: “These days, it is difficult to store harvested crop at home. The harvesting machine puts the grains directly into a tractor-trolley. From the field, farmers take the produce to grain market directly instead of unloading it in their stores. Since there is glut in the mandis, where do we store the produce.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/status-quo-in-yamunanagar-mandis-241112
19-04-2021||---||Farmers oppose MP Nayab Singh Saini’s visit to Kurukshetra, detained||Kurukshetra, April 18About 70 farmers were detained today for having shown black flags to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini at Saini Samaj Bhawan here. He was in the city to attend an event in the honour of BR Ambedkar, whose birth anniversary was on April 14.Besides Saini, Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha and other BJP leaders attended the event.Congress workers protesting Farmers are our brothers. Those protesting at the Delhi borders are not farmers, but Congress workers.— Nayab Singh Saini, Kurukshetra MP  On getting information about Saini’s visit, around 200 farmers gathered at the venue and raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government and the Kurukshetra MP.The police tried to disperse farmers, but they did not move. Subsequently, they were detained and taken to the Police Lines. They were let off later.BKU (Charuni) activist Jasbir Singh Mamumajra said, “Farmers have requested BJP and JJP leaders numerous times to not hold any event till the movement is on, but they seem to be not bothered. The Kurukshetra MP has been holding back-to-back events in his segment. He has been trying to instigate farmers.”District BKU (Charuni) president Krishan Kumar said farmers were protesting peacefully and showing black flags to BJP leaders, but the police forcibly dispersed them.“The police and the district administration have been issuing challans to the public for violating Covid guidelines, but BJP leaders have been holding back-to-back programmes here without getting challaned. Farmers will meet the DC on Monday to discuss the matter. If farmers are stopped again from holding peaceful protests, we will block roads,” he said.Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ravinder Tomar said, “Initially, farmers said they would protest peacefully and wouldn’t disrupt the event. On their assurance, they were designated a site to protest. But they deviated from the plan and assembled near Saini Samaj Bhawan after having removed police barricades. In spite of repeated requests, they refused to leave.”The ASP claimed force was not used.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-oppose-mp-nayab-singh-sainis-visit-to-kurukshetra-detained-241113
19-04-2021||Jhajjar||Youth stabbed in Jhajjar village||A 31-year-old man, identified as Dharmendra, was stabbed to death allegedly by his two co-villagers at Rudiyavaas village near here on Saturday night.An old enmity was stated to be the reason behind the murder, with the police interrogating two persons, Sonu and Ramesh, on the complaint of Dharmendra’s kin in this regard. The crime was committed when Dharmendra was returning home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-stabbed-in-jhajjar-village-241114
19-04-2021||---||Wheat lifting picks pace in Karnal district||Karnal, April 18With the halting of procurement for two days, accompanied by the deployment of class-I officials and pressing into service of more vehicles, the lifting process has picked pace in Karnal district.As per the reports, around 57 per cent of the procured wheat had been lifted till Sunday evening from 30 per cent on Friday evening.Earlier, almost all grain markets and purchase centres were choked with wheat owing to poor lifting and its high arrival, forcing the government to stop the procurement for two days. Clouds and winds added to the woes of farmers, forcing the authorities to take steps for speedy lifting. During these two days when procurement and arrival were banned, a substantial chunk of the produce in was lifted.As per the authorities, around 76 lakh quintals of wheat arrived in different grain markets of the district.“We got registered an FIR against a transporter in the Jundla grain market for providing less vehicles. He had provided 24 vehicles against 40, for which he was given the contract of lifting,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, adding that during these two days, they had put up all machinery in service for speedy lifting, keeping in mind the bad weather conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-lifting-picks-pace-in-karnal-district-241115
19-04-2021||---||Cops attacked in Hisar over property dispute||Hisar, April 18 The police have registered three cases in regard to a clash between two groups over a property dispute in Patan village, near here last night. The accused also assaulted the police and resorted to arson and stone-pelting on cops last night. The police arrested 10 persons and took three of them on remand for two days today.  The scuffle started between two groups on Saturday over the possession of a house in Patan village of the district. The issue snowballed at night, as a group of assailants set fire to a tractor-trolley, a Bolero car, a motorcycle and smashed windowpanes of a police vehicle. A heavy police posse was deployed in the village and the Superintendent of Police Balwan Singh Rana too reached the spot. The police spokesperson said they had registered three FIRs, of which two were against both parties, while the third had been against 25 villagers and 60 unidentified persons of Patan village in Hisar.  The spokesperson said a case had been registered on the complaint of Sanjay, a resident of Patan village, against Dewat Ram, Sitaram, Rajaram, Misrilal and 10-15 unknown under Sections 147, 149, 323, 354-B, 452 and 427 of the IPC. The second case was registered on the complaint of 42-year-old Bhavana Devi, a resident of Gangwa village of Hisar, against Sanjay, his wife Kamlesh, and seven-eight unidentified persons under Sections 147, 149, 323, 354-B, 448 and 506 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-attacked-in-hisar-over-property-dispute-241116
19-04-2021||---||BJP leader Jai Singh Pal ‘manhandled’ in Ismailabad; 8 farmers booked||Kurukshetra, April 18Haryana Vimukt Ghumantu Jati Vikas Board vice-chairman Jai Singh Pal was allegedly chased, abused and manhandled by farm activists in Ismailabad area of the district on Saturday. A video of the incident is doing the rounds on social media.In the video, some farmers could be purportedly seen chasing and abusing the vice-chairman.A case has been registered against eight farmers under Sections 148, 149, 323, 341 and 506 of the IPC at the Ismailabad police station.Famers have been demonstrating against BJP and JJP leaders across the state in protest against the three controversial agricultural laws.Jai Singh, who was recently appointed vice-chairman of the board, had reached Ismailabad to attend a personal event organised by an RSS worker.On getting information about the BJP leader’s visit, some farmer activists reached the venue and allegedly manhandled him.Jai Singh said: “One of my acquaintances runs a Patanjali store in Ismailabad and he had invited me for tea. Around 5.30 pm yesterday, as I was about to leave, a group of people encircled my car and started hitting it with sticks. To save myself, I ran towards the house of a party worker, who lives nearby. The protesters caught me and misbehaved with me. Thanks to some locals, I managed to escape.”Farmers, however, said they would oppose every event of BJP leaders across the state.Meanwhile, the Pal community condemned the incident and demanded action against the farm activists. Community leaders decided to hold a meeting on April 22 to decide the future course of action if no action was taken by then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-jai-singh-pal-manhandled-in-ismailabad-8-farmers-booked-241117
19-04-2021||Sonepat||Fight Covid, not us: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws, today reiterated that protesting farmers would not return home until the Centre repealed the three legislations and ensured a legal guarantee on the MSP.“Instead of fighting farmers and labourers, the Centre should focus on fighting the Covid pandemic,” the SKM said in a statement.“The Modi government should make arrangements for migrant labourers who are returning home. If the Centre is really concerned about farmers, labourers and the public, it they should repeal the three laws immediately,” said Darshan Pal Singh, a member of the SKM.The SKM also condemned the Centre for the crumbling health infrastructure in the country. “It has not learnt anything from the last year’s experience,” it said.Meanwhile, the SKM honoured people living near the Singhu border.It also demanded vaccination centres at the protest sites and anti-Covid equipment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fight-covid-not-us-samyukt-kisan-morcha-241118
19-04-2021||---||Embezzlement of Rs 1.5 cr comes to fore in BPS Women University||Sonepat, April 18A scam of Rs 1.5 crore has reportedly come to the fore at Bhagat Phool Singh Women University in Khanpur Kalan of the district.The police have booked six employees, including the registrar of the university, for their alleged involvement in the embezzlement of Rs 1.5 crore. A case regarding the matter was registered on the complaint of a sub-inspector-level official of the CM’s flying squad.The police have booked Ritu Bajaj, registrar of the BPS university; Rajesh Manocha, financial officer; Seema Malik, clerk; Rajesh Verma, ex-financial officer; Ved Prakash Dua, accounts officer and Ajay Malik, data entry operator under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B of the IPC and Section 65 of the Information Technology (IT) Act 2008 at the Women police station, Khanpur Kalan.Sub-inspector Karambir Singh in the CM’s flying squad, in his complaint to the women police station, Khanpur Kalan, said the rent of the shops in the market of Bhagat Phool Singh Women University in Khanpur, electricity charges of staff quarters, farm fee of students, fee for applying for jobs, RTI fee, paper fee and late fee were deposited in cash after given receipt by hand and Seema Malik had been appointed as a clerk on the fee collection counter in the accounts department.The university had started fee collection through the online system and Ajay Malik, who was posted as a data entry operator/computer assistant had made a software for the online fee connection, while there were two computer programmers in the university.It was alleged that Seema Malik was involved in embezzling the funds in connivance with Ajay Malik and the then financial officer Rakesh Verma.“Seema Malik gives online receiving slips to the applicants, but deleted some of the slips from the software and made a total loss of Rs 1.5 crore to the university,” the complaint reads.Even, after the highlighting of the scam, the clerk Seema Malik had deposited Rs 26 lakh to the university.It was also mentioned that the CM’s flying squad had demanded the document regarding the scam from the university on March 16 last year and as per records, 812 receipts were issued by the computers but were found missing.Even, SI Karambir Singh of the CM’s flying squad said in the complaint that they were demanding records regarding the embezzlement of the funds from the registrar of the university.“Even, the records were not provided by officials despite sending reminders 29 times to them in the past 10 months to the registrar and personally meeting with the Vice Chancellor, registrar and the financial officer,” the complainant says.SI Shakuntla, SHO, PS Women, said six officials of the university had been booked for embezzling the funds, but the case had been sent to the SHO, Sadar, inspector Karamjeet Singh, for investigation as only an inspector-level official can investigate the case, she added.FEE SLIPS DELETED FROM SOFTWARE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/embezzlement-of-rs-1-5-cr-comes-to-fore-in-bps-women-university-241119
19-04-2021||---||Karnal waiter arrested for colleague’s murder||Karnal, April 18A waiter was arrested allegedly for murdering his colleague by pushing him down the stairs. The deceased was identified as Jagannath while the accused is Sonu of Nepal.Manglora police post in charge Satpal informed that both were waiters at a dhaba and used to stay in the basement of the dhaba.Due to night curfew, the dhaba was closed at 10 pm on April 16 and both went to basement where they consumed liquor.After sometime, both came out from the basement, the SHO said. When they were going back to the basement, Sonu pushed Jagannath. He was taken to hospital where he died of his injuries, the SHO added.The SHO said that the accused was arrested when he was trying to flee towards Ambala.He said that on April 16, Jagannath had taken the tip from a customer whom Sonu had served. That infuriated Sonu and he committed this crime.Over a tip||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-waiter-arrested-for-colleagues-murder-241120
19-04-2021||---||Decomposed body found||Karnal, April 18An unidentified body of a 34-year-old man was found in a drain. The body was in a gunny bag. As per the police, the body was decomposed and it seems to be around four to five days old.Kulbir Kaur, SHO, Taraori, said that on a tip-off, they recovered the body which was in a gunny bag. She said that the legs of the deceased were tied. “We have kept the body in the mortuary of the KCGMC and informed the nearby station. We are seeking help of the local residents to identify the body,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decomposed-body-found-241121
19-04-2021||---||Newly married woman dies, relatives block road in Kaithal||Karnal, April 18 Family members and relatives of a newly wedded woman, who had reportedly died under mysterious circumstances on Saturday, today blocked a road in Kaithal by keeping her body there. The situation remained tense for around half an hour and only after the assurance of the SDM, the kin lifted the body. Ram of Dhons village in the district informed the police that he his daughter Priyanka (23) was married to Abhishek of Keorak village on December 3 last year. He alleged that the in-laws of his daughter used to torture her for dowry, adding that she was murdered by them. SHO Sadar Kaithal Jai Bhagwan said they had registered a case under Sections 302, and 34 of the IPC against Abhishek, his mother Suman, uncle Suresh and brother Sandeep. He said the actual cause of the death would be determined only after the post-mortem report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/newly-married-woman-dies-relatives-block-road-in-kaithal-241122
19-04-2021||---||Rohtak PGIMS fixes cap on patients in OPDs||Rohtak, April 18  Having stopped elective surgeries, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) authorities here have also now curtailed the number of patients coming to its Outpatient Departments (OPDs) daily in view of the surge in Covid cases.  The number has been reduced up to 50 per cent with immediate effect till further orders. A total of 6,000 patients come daily to the PGIMS for treatment in 36 OPDs in different clinical specialties and super-specialties. Now, 3,000 patients will have to depend on private hospitals. As per orders issued by Medical Superintendent (MS) Dr Pushpa Dahiya, the cap would apply to existing number of patients or to the number of patients registered from 9 am to 11 am whichever is higher.  The decision fixes the upper limit of 50 patients at burn and plastic surgeries, cardiothoracic surgery, endocrinology, gastroenterology, hepatology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology, neurosurgery, oncology, paediatric surgery, pain clinic, respiratory medicine, rheumatology, sports medicines and urology.  Similarly, 60 patients (20 new and 40 old) will be treated in psychiatry, 100 in cardiology, dermatology and ENT, 150 each in general surgery, pediatrics, ophthalmology, obstetrics and gynaecology, 200 each in orthopaedics and radiotherapy while 300 patients in the OPD of general medicine.  Dr Varun Arora, spokesman of the PGIMS, said a cap on the number of patients had been fixed in order to prevent crowding, maintain social distancing and other Covid protocols in the OPDs as it was difficult to do so with a high number of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-fixes-cap-on-patients-in-opds-241123
19-04-2021||---||Haryana records 7,177 Covid cases, 29 deaths; Gurugram on top||Chandigarh, April 18With 7,177 fresh cases, the Covid tally was pegged at 3,56,971 in Haryana on Sunday.Gurugram continued to report maximum cases with 2,401 cases followed by Faridabad (998) and Sonepat (573).The death toll reached 3,415 with the state reporting 29 fresh deaths.Kaithal reported a maximum of four deaths followed by three each in Faridabad, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jind. While two deaths each were reported from Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Fatehabad, Kurukshetra reported one death.There are 42,217 active cases in the state while 3,11,339 patients have been discharged after recovery.While the Covid positivity rate is pegged at 5.23 per cent, the recovery rate is reported to be 87.22 per cent. The fatality rate is reported to be 0.96 per cent.Meanwhile, president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) Kumari Selja has said that the “failure” of the BJP-JJP government to tackle the Covid infections has created a grave crisis for people of the state.In a statement issued here today, she said the reports of the “collapse” of health services coming from different places in Haryana were shocking. If the government had strengthened the health system in the last one year, people would not have been waiting for hospitals, beds, ventilators, oxygen, medicines now, she alleged.Selja said the situation had deteriorated so much that neither patients were getting beds nor ventilators. There was also the lack of oxygen and essential medicines. So much so, a woman corona patient had died due to lack of beds in Agroha. Despite this, the government was not paying any attention towards strengthening the health services, she alleged.The crisis had exposed the government’s big claims about the improved health infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-7-177-covid-cases-29-deaths-gurugram-on-top-241124
19-04-2021||---||Haryana Government extends settlement scheme for builders||Chandigarh, April 18There is further relief for builders, who have been defaulting on the payment of external development charges (EDC) for several years, with the Haryana Government extending the one-time settlement scheme ‘Samadhan se vikas’ from April 15 to July 15.Under the scheme, the builders who pay 100 per cent outstanding principal EDC amount and 25 per cent of the accumulated interest and penal interest within six months will get waiver on the rest of the 75 per cent interest.The colonisers paying 50 per cent of the outstanding principal amount and 50 per cent interest and penal interest would get a waiver on 50 per cent interest. However, they’ll have to deposit the rest of the outstanding principal amount (50 per cent) in four six-monthly instalments with 8 per cent interest.The builders won’t have to pay any penalty in case of default of instalments within the prescribed period of two years for deposit of instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-extends-settlement-scheme-for-builders-241125
19-04-2021||---||Construction work begins at Narnaul hospital||Chandigarh, April 18Haryana Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment OP Yadav inaugurated the construction works of the new building of Civil Hospital, Narnaul, being upgraded from 100 to 200 beds.An amount of Rs 24.48 crore will be spent on its construction.He said it would take about two years to construct this seven-storeyed building along with the basement. The total covered area of the building will be 1,61,018 square feet. After the construction of the entire building, not only the people from Mahendragarh district but also residents of the adjoining districts will be provided excellent health facilities. All modern equipment and facilities will be provided in this building.Yadav said the state government was committed to providing better health facilities to the citizens of the district. At present, the hospital has a capacity of 100 beds. Due to insufficient bed capacity, the staff working there and the patients coming for treatment were facing great difficulties because of which he had placed a request to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, that had now been fulfilled. Yadav claimed that after the BJP came to power in 2014, the wheel of development had been running continuously in the Narnaul constituency and would continue in future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-work-begins-at-narnaul-hospital-241126
19-04-2021||---||All rural houses in Haryana to get piped drinking water by November 1, 2022||New Delhi, April 18The Haryana Government has informed the Union Jal Shakti Ministry that it will provide every rural household piped drinking water under the Jal Jeevan mission by November 1, 2022, much ahead of the national deadline.This was stated at a meeting convened by the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS) to consider the Jal Jeevan Mission annual action plan of the states for the year 2021-22.During the meeting, the state of Haryana presented its annual action plan (AAP) via video conferencing, charting its plan of action for the financial year 2021-22 as well as the saturation plan for the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-rural-houses-in-haryana-to-get-piped-drinking-water-by-november-1-2022-241127
19-04-2021||Ambala||World Heritage Day celebrated in Ambaa||Central varsity, NIFTEM sign MoUMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana, Mahendergarh, signed an MoU with the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM), Kundli, to promote research and development activities in the fields of applied research, industry oriented innovation, resource sharing, human resource development, exchange of faculty and students for training. “The MoU will help in providing skill-based training for budding entrepreneurs in food science and technology, food quality control and food processing,” said Prof RC Kuhad, Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-heritage-day-celebrated-in-ambaa-241129
19-04-2021||Illegal cuts have been made by villagers on the national highway from Narwana to Jind||Close illegal cuts on National Highway||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaClean Choked drainsTwo drains, one parallel to the old Inco factory, and another to the grain market boundary wall which emanates from Sonia Colony are full of wild grass, silt and hard material. Turbid water can hardly move. The drains stink and have become a place for breeding of mosquitoes. The administration should ensure the drains are cleared soon. Apart from these drains, Kaula minor, near the Sector-10 stadium, also demands attention.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityOvercrowding at hospitalThe Haryana Government’s latest order aims at limiting gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19, but a huge rush of people at the Kalpana Chawla Hospital, Karnal, is worrisome. It seems people are blatantly violating the protocol. The hospital authorities should be held accountable for such negligence. The state must keep a close watch on all potential hotspots.SK Gupta, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/close-illegal-cuts-on-national-highway-241130
19-04-2021||Mahendragarh||Minister Om Prakash Yadav refreshes memories with tea seller in Narnau city||Covid hits school functioningHisar: School education is deep in trouble due to the second wave of Covid. While the students who were expecting classroom studies to resume have got stuck in the second consecutive session, private school teachers and other staff in private schools are the worst-affected as the schools are unable to pay salaries to their staff. The private school association has been demanding that the government should allow them to hold classes. “We are facing acute financial crunch and thus have to cut down salaries. We have even sacked the staff as the schools are not getting fee from students. The parents argue that they will pay fee only when the schools start holding classes offline. Though we have organised online classes during the previous season, the parents are not convinced and bargain hard when we ask them to deposit the fee,” said a private school owner. He added that this session is likely to be worse than the previous year as we hadn’t even started the admission process when the government issued orders of the closing down of schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-om-prakash-yadav-refreshes-memories-with-tea-seller-in-narnau-city-241131
19-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||Haryana farmers show black flags to Agriculture Minister, Deputy Speaker||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 18Continuing their protest against the ruling BJP-JJP leaders of the state against the Centre’s three farm laws, farmers broke barricades to show black flags and raise slogans against the BJP leaders, including Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa and Sonali Phogat, who arrived for the Ambedkar Jayanti function here today.The police used mild force to restrain the protesters and keep them at some distance from the venue. The BJP leaders attended the event amid tight security. Seven protesters, including three women, were detained. They were released after the event.The drama unfolded when a group of farmers arrived at the venue on getting information about the arrival of the BJP leaders. The police raised barricades at various points to block the entry of protesters at the venue.As soon as the BJP leaders reached the venue, the farmers in small groups dodged the police and some of them manged to slip inside the venue. They showed black flags to the BJP leaders and raised anti-BJP slogans.Earlier, the police, led by SP Balwan Singh Rana, had a tough time restraining the protesters. The drama continued for nearly three hours till 5 pm. Shamsher Nambardar, a leader of the Kisan Sabha, said farmers managed to show black flags to the BJP leaders. He said even locals were unhappy over the function organised by the BJP today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-show-black-flags-to-agriculture-minister-deputy-speaker-240992
19-04-2021||Ranjit Powar||Direct Benefit Transfer: Restructure the system in farmers’ favour||AT the Centre’s insistence, Punjab has finally started making direct payments to farmers for their produce under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode during the ongoing wheat procurement season. Other states are already implementing this system, even as Punjab had been keen to route the payments through the arhtiyas (commission agents), as per the long-established practice. The arhtiyas in Punjab and Haryana initially registered a protest by proceeding on strike, but they relented after the state governments promised to safeguard their interests. Earlier attempts to introduce DBT had been resisted and were eventually shelved. Hopefully, DBT is now here to stay, reducing delays in payment to the farmer and letting him receive his earnings directly.Much has been said about the close-knit relationship between the farmer and the arhtiya. The arhtiyas insist that implementing the DBT will ‘destroy’ the farmer. It remains to be seen how the new system will change the dynamics of the farmer-arhtiya ties.Why this resistance to DBT by the arhtiyas, and why have successive governments in Punjab been silent connivers? What is the normative role of commission agents in any business? The arhtiya is a mere facilitator of the transaction between the farmer and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) or a private trader. He has absolutely no claim to the farmer’s land or grain. Why, then, was he entitled to receive payment on the farmers’ behalf?The arhtiyas in Punjab are paid a commission of 2.5 per cent (among the highest in the country) for their services during procurement, including handling and cleaning of the farmers’ grain when it arrives in the mandi, filling it in bags, weighing, stitching and subsequently loading the bags into trucks for despatch. They play an essential role in one of the most extensive government operations in Punjab, a predominantly agricultural state. Nevertheless, is it restricted to the official brief, or does it include a concealed, unkosher agenda?In addition to his officially designated duties, the arhtiya is also the modern-day moneylender, financing the farmer in times of need at interest rates ranging from 18 per cent to 37 per cent. The Punjab Government acknowledges the arhtiya as being the ‘ATM’ of the farmers! Do other businesses withdraw money from the ATM at an interest rate of 37 per cent? Why is the farmer forced to turn to the arhtiya to borrow money at exorbitant rates, pledging his earnings as collateral? Why is the farmer driven to self-destruction through such borrowings? Why have successive state governments played along with this exploitative system? Are cooperative banks set up to give easy access to credit at modest rates in rural areas defunct?Let us open this can of worms. The farmer brings his crop to the mandi yard, from where the arhtiya takes over. The crop is weighed and cleaned (often inadequately). It is put up for auction, bought either by a government agency at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) or a private trader. The arhtiya’s multi-pronged rapport with the purchase inspector is a major contributing factor that determines whether or not the grain qualifies for MSP. The purchased grain is next filled up in jute bags (often in the late evening when the farmer is absent) with a considerable error margin. In keeping with the rates of the parallel economy operating in the grain yard, a certain amount per bag is reportedly paid to the inspector of the purchasing agency, which is further said to be shared with a section of district and state-level administrative functionaries.The uneducated or semi-educated farmer feels incapable of dealing with the inspectors and relies on the ‘skilful’ arhtiya to sell his grain. He turns to borrowing money from the arhtiya at high rates because the banks usually do not help him get loans. For him the arhtiya is a necessary evil because there is a trust deficit and general lack of honest handling by state agencies.Exploitative side businessThe arhtiya insists on the farmer’s payment to be routed through him to be able to deduct his loans. Is the government pledged to cover the risk for his exploitative side business? There is some give-and-take here. The arhtiya is also the conduit for deducting the payoffs for the purchase agencies from the farmer’s payment check. Thus, all beneficiaries from the farmer’s earnings want to keep the system going to safeguard their share. The farmer, with no solid lobbies or effective organisations, has been the ultimate victim.A conversation with some farmers after the implementation of the DBT system has revealed that the arhtiyas insist on receiving signed blank checks from the farmers before auctioning their produce. Haryana has reassured the arhtiyas that they would be duly intimated one day prior to the disbursal of payment!Restrict arhtiyas’ roleNot surprisingly, a large number of commission agencies are owned by local politicians. It is a no-loss business with an assured income through two-three months’ work in a year. Though the arhtiyas are essential functionaries in the grain procurement process, their role needs to be restricted to official limits. The financial dynamics of the procurement system must be restructured in favour of the farmers, not of those exploiting him. Instead of unabashedly lauding the arhtiya as the ‘ATM’ of the farmers, let the state government activate ATMs where they should be — in the rural banks. Politicians and procurement agencies should clean up their Augean stables. DBT might change the scenario only if the state government genuinely works to safeguard the interests of the farmers.The author retired as Deputy Director, Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Punjab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/direct-benefit-transfer-restructure-the-system-in-farmers-favour-241017
