20-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||2,100 COVID patients untraceable across Gurugram||In what has added to the troubles of already overworked health and police authorities, over 2100 positive COVID patients are untraceable.Authorities say several many people across the city are either submitting wrong phone numbers or addresses while being tested or not taking their calls after being tested positive, making it hard of them to track them down. This has landed authorities in fix as cops and health officials are busy tracing them.It may be noted that ever since discontinuation of process of OTP generation while testing there have been repeated instances of people giving wrong contact details."This is a routine issue that we face. People need to submit right address right phone number and labs need to ensure same. Early identification and isolation will help not just patients but all others to stay safe. We will take stringent action against those violating the Covid protocols and isolation. The societies should ensure that nobody violates isolation," said CMO Dr. Virender Yadav.“A major part of our force is involved in tracing the Covid patients and their contacts. Yes many are untraceable and it takes us days to get to them so we urge people and labs to ensure that we get right contact details," added police commissioner K K Rao.Many societies too have raised complaints that residents do not immediately inform them about test status and neither isolate. This has lead to major spread in many societies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-100-covid-patients-untraceable-across-gurugram-241764
20-04-2021||New Delhi||83 more die in Punjab, 33 in Haryana as India witnesses 2.59 lakh more Covid cases||India's total tally of Covid cases climbed to 1,53,21,089 with 2,59,170 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while active cases surpassed the 20-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.The death toll increased to 1,80,530 with a record 1,761 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.Registering a steady increase for the 41st day in a row, the active cases increased to 20,31,977, comprising 13.26 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid recovery rate has dropped to 85.56 per cent.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,31,08,582, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.18 per cent, the data stated.According to the ICMR, 26,94,14,035 samples have been tested up to April 19 with 15,19,486 samples being tested on Monday. The 1,716 new fatalities include 351 from Maharashtra, 240 from Delhi, 175 from Chhattisgarh, 167 from Uttar Pradesh, 146 from Karnataka, 117 from Gujarat, 83 from Punjab, 79 from Madhya Pradesh, 53 from Rajasthan, 46 from Jharkhand, 44 from Tamil Nadu, 41 from Bihar and 38 from West Bengal and 33 from Haryana.A total of 1,80,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 60,824 from Maharashtra, 13,497 from Karnataka, 13,157 from Tamil Nadu, 12,361 from Delhi, 10,606 from West Bengal, 9,997 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,985 from Punjab and 7,437 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/83-more-die-in-punjab-33-in-haryana-as-india-witnesses-2-59-lakh-more-covid-cases-241667
20-04-2021||Karnal||Gate passes delayed, wheat growers hold protest in Karnal||Wheat growers protested the delay in the issuance of gate pass at the Karnal grain market on Monday.Meanwhile, the state farmers, who had cultivated the wheat crop in Uttar Pradesh, alleged that the authorities were not issuing them the gate pass. However, later they were given the passes.The state government had stopped the arrival of wheat for two days in order to clear the backlog, following which no farmer was allowedto bring their produce tothe grain market on Saturday and Sunday.With the procurement to be started on Monday morning, farmers started queuing up outside the grain market since late Sunday evening, leading to a jam-like situation outside the Karnal mandi. The police had to work hard to ease the traffic chaos.“I am in waiting in the queue since 11 pm on Sunday as I was expecting an early turn on Monday. But it’s already 10 am and the server is not working properly due to which no gate pass is being generated,” said Isham Singh, a farmer.Another farmer Rajpal said earlier in the morning, the server was not working, but now its speed was quite slow due to which scores of farmers had to wait for hours.Later, farmers of the district, who had cultivated wheat in UP, came there and said they were not issued the gate pass. “Earlier, we waited for two days at the Haryana-UP border, but then we were not given the gate pass, leaving us with no option but to protest,” said Naseeb Singh, a farmer of Karnal, who cultivated his wheat crop in UP.Meanwhile, market committee secretary Surender Kumar said due to a technical issue, the speed of the server was slow but now it was functioning properly.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, however, said he held a meeting with the farmers’ unions and resolved the issue of the UP growers. “As many as 200 tractor-trailers of the state farmers who have cultivated wheat in UP will be allowed daily,” the DC said, adding that now there would be no problem for local farmers and those who were bringing crops from UP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gate-passes-delayed-wheat-growers-hold-protest-in-karnal-241543
20-04-2021||Kurukshetra||2 farmers held for ‘assaulting’ BJP leader||A group of farmers today staged a dharna outside the Ismailabad police station against the arrest of two farmers in connection with the attack on Jai Singh Pal, BJP leader and Haryana Vimukt Gumantu Jati Vikas Board vice-chairman.They condemned the police for adding kidnapping charge to the FIR. The police had arrested Gundeep Singh and Amritpal Singh and booked them under Sections 148, 149, 323, 341, 365 and 506, IPC.As the news spread, farmers gathered in front of the police station and sat on dharna on old Ambala-Hisar road for hours. Meanwhile, a heavy police force was deployed to maintain law and order.Both the farmers were produced before a court that granted them bail.BKU (Charuni) district president Krishan Kumar said, “The police have wrongly added kidnapping charge to the FIR while no such attempt was made by the farmers.”Shahabad DSP Atma Ram said, “The farmers have demanded that Section 365 in this case be reviewed. There will be a fair probe.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-farmers-held-for-assaulting-bjp-leader-241544
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two IAS officers get additional charge||The state issued transfer and posting orders of two IAS officers with immediate effect.Garima Mittal, Chief Executive Officers, Smart City, Faridabad, and Additional Chief Executive Officer, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, has been given the additional charge of Faridabad DC during the training period of Yash Pal.While the additional charge of Commissioner, MC, Faridabad, has been to Jitender Yadav, Chief Vigilance Officer, Urban Estates, and Additional CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority.Ashok Kumar Bansal, ADC, Sonepat will look after the work of Sonepat DC as Shyam Lal Poonia has tested Covid-positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-ias-officers-get-additional-charge-241545
20-04-2021||Karnal||Assault accused attempts suicide||A 26-year-old man, an accused in an assault case, tried to commit suicide by consuming some poisonous substance outside the Sadar police station here.The condition of the man, identified as Rocky of Chapra Khera village of the district, is said to be stable. Family members alleged that the police took a one-sided action in an assault case, forcing Rocky to take the extreme step.Babita, wife of Rocky, alleged that there was a dispute going on between her husband and his uncle over a piece of land. “A brawl took place between them, after which both the families submitted complaints against each other. However, the police took action against my husband and other family members and didn’t pay any heed to our complaint,” she said.Refuting the allegations, officiating SHO Lakhbir Singh and said based on the medical report of Balwinder, they had registered a case against eight to nine persons, including Rocky, under Sections 148, 149, 323, 452, and 506 of the IPC.“The family members were called for interrogation, but Rocky consumed some poisonous substance outside the police station. He was taken to a hospital and his condition is stable,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assault-accused-attempts-suicide-241547
20-04-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||AJL case: Hooda’s contention on amended PC Act dismissed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The CBI Special Court, Haryana, clarified that the amended Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act of 2018 “does not apply to the offences which have already taken place under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988”.It added that “moreover, Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, does not reveal any intention of destroying the earlier provisions and there is no intention to obliterate the earlier law”.CBI Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg made these comments in the AJL plot allotment case, while dismissing the contention of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda that after the amendment in the PC Act, Section 13 (1) (d) stood repealed, which was related to abuse of official position.The order, by which charges were framed against Hooda, was made public today.Section 13 (1) (d) is an important ingredient in the case and Hooda even submitted the report of the select committee of Rajya Sabha on the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill, 2013 in his defence.Former CM, through his counsel PK Sandhir, argued that the applicability of the PC (Amendment) Act, 2018, was pending before the Supreme Court. He further submitted that no savings clause was included in the amended Act, so pending litigation before the enactment of the new Act became redundant.The PC Act was amended on July 26, 2018, and the chargesheet in the AJL case was filed on November 30, 2018. However, the CBI judge ruled, “…there is no impediment to frame the charge under Section 13 (1) (d) of the PC Act, 1988 since the offences in question alleged to have been committed prior to coming into force of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018.”The court said that atthe stage of framing the charge, it “has to prima facie consider whether there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused”.“The court is not required to appreciate evidence to conclude whether the materials produced are sufficient or not for convicting the accused… Whether or not those allegations are true, is a matter which cannot be determined at the stage of framing of charge,” the order said. It added that though evidence has to be proved at the stage of trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajl-case-hoodas-contention-on-amended-pc-act-dismissed-241549
20-04-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Bed shortage in Faridabad, Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19With Haryana witnessing a sharp spike in Covid cases, the availability of beds in Gurugram and Faridabad hospitals is fast dwindling. The active cases in Gurugram increased from 5,548 to 12,195 in the past week while, in Faridabad, the number of such cases has gone up from 1,947 to 5,548. Faridabad396 Isolation beds 188 ICU beds236 Occupied 90 OccupiedIn Gurugram district, there are 2,261 beds reserved for Covid patients. Only 10 of the 491 ICU beds are vacant. Of the 233 ventilator beds, only three are vacant. The number of beds with oxygen facility is slightly better, with and 138 of 1,533 such beds are vacant.Sources say that in Gurugram and Faridabad, it was observed that some patients had started paying up to reserve beds, causing a shortage.“To check this tendency, the district administration had formed a team and appointed Duty Magistrates assisted by medical teams to scrutinise records of patients getting admitted to hospitals,” said Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg.He admitted there were hardly any beds available in private hospitals of Gurugram. “Those not requiring hospitalisation are being discharged immediately. Once a patient is discharged, new one is admitted. In view of the high number of cases, the district administration has identified 17 hotels that can serve as Covid care centres as and when needed.”In Faridabad, of the 396 isolation beds, 236 are occupied. In all, 90 of the 188 ICU beds reserved for Covid patients are occupied, while 11 of the 35 ventilators are in use.Civil Surgeon Dr Randeep Punia, “We have formed a three-member committee which will inspect hospitals and identify patients who do not need hospitalisation. That way, beds can be made available to the needy.”He added a list of buildings which could double up as makeshift hospitals in case of an emergency was drawn up during the last wave of infection. “We have the equipment and the machines. If required, a facility of about 5,000 beds can be built,” he said.Meanwhile, Health Minister Anil Vij said, “The state has a capacity for 11,000 beds. The district administrations of Gurugram and Faridabad have been authorised to identify buildings and facilities, including hotels, for expansion. The situation is under control.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bed-shortage-in-faridabad-gurugram-241550
20-04-2021||---||Will open schools on May 1: Owners||Hisar, April 19Private school owners today protested outside the office of the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) in Bhiwani, demanding reopening of schools. They said they would reopen schools on May 1 even if the state government did not fulfil their demand by then.Schools seek stimulus packageAmbala: The Integrated Private Schools Welfare Association has requested the state government to reopen private schools and demanded a stimulus package. It submitted a memorandum of demands to Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel for CM Manohar Lal Khattar. “If a stimulus package is not announced soon, the maximum non-performing assets will be from the education sector,” the association said. TNSThey said private schools were still facing a financial crunch because of the Covid-induced lockdown last year. The decision to keep schools closed this year as well would spell more trouble not only for students, but also for the staff.The school owners handed over a memorandum of their demands to BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh.Haryana Private School Association president Ram Avtar Sharma said, “The government has closed schools till April 30. The next day, the admission process will be started.”“The government should open schools in two shifts so that social distancing among students can be followed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-open-schools-on-may-1-owners-241551
20-04-2021||Sushil Manav||More than 40k cases in week; 252 of UK strain in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The state witnessed more than 40,000 cases of Covid in the past week even as 252 more cases of the UK variant surfaced. This has been stated in a report from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) received today.Death rate goes upThe infection recorded in the past week are four times the cases recorded in January and February put together and 50 per cent more than the total cases registered in January, February and March.The mortality rate has also gone up considerably. In the past one week, 147 people passed away because of Covid. This is more than the number of deaths in February and March.In all, 10,414 cases witnessed from March 29 to April 4; 18748 cases from April 5 to 11; and 40,090 cases last week (from April 12 to 18).Though the cumulative positivity rate stands at 5.23 per cent, the current daily positivity rate has gone up to 16.66 per cent, the highest ever.The “R naught” (R0) value, which indicates how contagious is the disease, has surged to 1.24 from 1.00 to 1.01 during January and February.The number of active cases has reached 42,217.Health and Family Welfare Minister Anil Vij said, “The state has no plan to clamp lockdown in the state.”“Of the 42,000-odd active cases, about 30,000 are under home isolation. Doctors will visit them once in two days and provide them with kits containing preventive and curative medicines, and oximeters,” he said, adding there was 270 MT of medical oxygen against the demand for 60 MT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-than-40k-cases-in-week-252-of-uk-strain-in-haryana-241554
20-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Demand for oxygen doubles in Rewari||Tribune News ServiceRewari, April 19The spurt in Covid cases has doubled the need for oxygen in the district, forcing the authorities to act swiftly to fulfil the demand.There are 150 oxygen-supported beds in the district and 60 of these have been occupied by Covid patients.Sources said 100 oxygen cylinders were daily required at government and private hospitals in the district but the demand has now reached up to 200, following the second wave. In all, 92 persons got infected in the district on Monday.“The oxygen requirement was being fulfilled by a plant of neighbouring Bhiwadi industrial town but it suddenly halted the supply in view of the rising cases in Rajasthan. The development has put the district health authorities in a tight spot. Following which, Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav held a meeting with the health officials on Monday to take steps to deal with the situation,” sources added.The SDM approached several plants in and outside the state. Finally, a plant located in Manesar agreed upon supplying the oxygen cylinders.“People don’t have to worry as there is no shortage of oxygen supply in the district. Now, the oxygen will be supplied by a Manesar plant. Health officials have been directed to ensure the supply of medical oxygen in every hospital,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-for-oxygen-doubles-in-rewari-241556
20-04-2021||---||Anil Vij: Devotees returning from Kumbh will be tested||Chandigarh, April 19Health Minister Anil Vij today announced that devotees returning from Kumbh Mela would be tested for Covid at entry points of Haryana.He added that patients going to private and government hospitals with symptoms like cough, cold, sore throat or fever would also be tested. Surgery in civil hospitals has been discontinued.He made the announcements while presiding over the meeting of the state-level Covid Monitoring Committee today.He further said that the Health Department would take initiative to conduct Covid tests and to administer vaccine to farmers sitting on dharna on the Haryana border.For this, talks would be held first with the farmers’ leaders.He directed the Director General of Police and other officers that as per Covid rules issued by the government, a ban on the fairs organised in the state should be ensured till further orders.He clarified that no lockdown would be imposed in the state.The Health Minister said that for the care of critical patients of Covid, instructions have been given to create ‘Critical Corona Care Centres’ in all the government medical colleges of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-devotees-returning-from-kumbh-will-be-tested-241558
20-04-2021||Hisar||Health team attacked for taking samples in Hansi village||The Hansi police have registered a case against unidentified villagers in Singhwa Khas who assaulted a Health Department team which was taking random samples of people for Covid test in the village yesterday.The police said that the health team was taking samples on random basis in the village when a group of 50 villagers arrived on the spot and directed them to leave the village. The team had to return from the village.Later, the police registered a case against unidentified villagers under Sections 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 on the complaint of Dr Ramjot Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-team-attacked-for-taking-samples-in-hansi-village-241560
20-04-2021||Karnal||Vaccination drive: Religious bodies roped in to cover all eligible||Aiming at reaching out to all eligible people for Covid vaccination, the Health Department has not only roped in managements of various religious sects, including the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan, Nirmal Kutia, Nirankari Bhawan, temples, gurdwaras and others, but also taking the help of members of the different social organisations to cover maximum eligible people in the vaccination drive. These religious and social organisations are not only motivating, but also bringing eligible persons to the vaccination centres.As per the authorities, there are around 4.5 lakh eligible people in the age group of 45 and above and frontline workers in the district. Of them, around 1.75 lakh have been vaccinated so far. The department is facing challenge as people are not coming forward for vaccination due to the harvesting season, Navratras and Ramzan.Besides, the health authorities are facing the heat of the farmers’ agitation as in Assandh, Nissing and Indri, people are opposing the drive in support of farmers’ agitation. “We are trying our best to cover all eligible people in the ongoing vaccination drive. “Tika Utsav was organised from April 11 to 14, thousands of people were covered,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccination-drive-religious-bodies-roped-in-to-cover-all-eligible-241562
20-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Lockdown in Delhi, industry takes a blow in Bahadurgarh||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 19The six-day lockdown enforced in Delhi in view of the rapid increase in Covid cases will force industrialists in Bahadurgarh town to shut their units as 40 per cent of labourers and around 60 per cent of senior officials come from the national capital.Lockdown will add to woesThe industrial sector has already been hit hard by the farmers’ agitation. Since the Tikri border has been closed for more than four months, the cost of transportation and other services has increased. The lockdown in Delhi will add to the woes. — Sushil Agarwal, General Secy, Bahadurgarh Industries’ AssociationOne-third labour leftAbout 40 per cent of labourers come from the bordering areas of Delhi, while many have started returning to their native places. This leaves less than one-third of labour here. In this scenario, it is difficult to run the production chain at full capacity. — Narendra Chhikara, Senior Vice-President, Bahadurgarh Chamber of commerce and IndustriesBahadurgarh, which is located on the Delhi-Haryana border, has more than 5,000 industries, where around 2.5 lakh labourers work.Even if industrialists think of lodging all labourers in Bahadurgarh so that the production continues, it would not be feasible considering the enormous number of labourers. Those living in Bahadurgarh have started returning to their native places, fearing lockdown in Haryana.“The industrial sector has already been hit hard by the farmers’ agitation. Since the Tikri border has been closed for more than four months, the cost of transportation and other services has increased. The lockdown in Delhi will add to the woes,” said Sushil Agarwal, general secretary, Bahadurgarh Industries’ Association.Narendra Chhikara, senior vice-president, Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said: “About 40 per cent of labourers come from the bordering areas of Delhi, while many have started returning to their native places. This leaves less than one-third of labour here. In this scenario, it is difficult to run the production chain at full capacity.”The most hit will be the footwear industry. Bahadurgarh is the footwear hub of India with 800 small, medium and large-scale units. Shoes, sandals and slippers from Bahadurgarh are exported to Somalia, South Africa, the UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia and several other Asian countries.Raj Kumar Gupta, president, Footwear Park Association, Bahadurgarh, said the imposition of lockdown in Delhi would turned the situation from bad to worse.“Industrialists are already facing shortage of raw materials. Now, there will be shortage of manpower. Industrialists are in a tight spot. They have no option, but to shut their units until the situation improves,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-in-delhi-industry-takes-a-blow-in-bahadurgarh-241564
20-04-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Babus nearing retirement can’t take major decisions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The BJP-JJP government has clipped the wings of senior bureaucrats, including IAS and HCS officers, at level of administrative secretaries and heads of departments (HoDs) on the verge of retirement. Now, they will not able to take any policy decision, including financial, two months prior to their retirement.To stop misuse of positionApparently acting on complaints of the misuse of authority by senior officers just before their superannuation, state’s Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan today issued orders barring these officers from taking any major decisions.It was highlighted that the officers at the level of administrative secretary/HoDs had been issuing orders relating to appointments, promotions, transfers, tenders purchases and disciplinary matters “which do not pass the muster in terms of integrity, transparency, probity and impartiality” during two months prior to their retirement.The posts of administrative secretaries are usually manned by senior IAS officers while the posts of the HoDs are either manned by HCS officers or senior technocrats.“Such actions have invited complaints of financial irregularities, loss to the state exchequer, appointment of undeserving persons, nepotism and favouritism tarnishing the image of the state government,” the order asserted.Now, the “outgoing” administrative secretaries will submit such cases to the Chief Secretary for prior approval while the HoDs will submit these cases to the next competent authority.To strictly enforce these orders, disciplinary action under the Haryana Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 2016, had been envisaged against those violating the government orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/babus-nearing-retirement-cant-take-major-decisions-241565
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Hyena rescued from Aravallis dies||Gurugram, April 19 A hyena which was found injured in the Aravalli forests area of Faridabad on Sunday and rescued by the Wildlife Department died on Monday. The preliminary investigation hints at accident leading to serious injuries on his right leg. According to Charan Singh, wildlife inspector, Faridabad, they had got information about the injured hyena from near Badkhal forest area. The animal was then rescued and sent for treatment in Devashrya animal hospital. “The animal was undergoing treatment but succumbed to injuries. The actual cause of death will be confirmed after the post-mortem examination. Prima facie, it seems like the animal must have been injured due to an accident. The hyena is also blind so it might not have been able to find food,” said Ravi Dubey, member, People for Animals Trust, Faridabad. The accident has once again brought to fore the long pending demand for a wildlife corridor. The area laden with various roads is proving to be deadly for animals venturing around and many beasts, including leopards, have died in accidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hyena-rescued-from-aravallis-dies-241566
20-04-2021||---||Two held for cheating pump owners||Kaithal, April 19The Kaithal police have arrested two persons for allegedly cheating several petrol pump operators to the tune of around Rs 1.5 lakh through digital payment platform ‘PhonePe’.The accused have been identified as Sushil Kumar, PhonePe worker and a resident of Mohari in Karnal district, and Vishal of Sankara district, Kaithal. The police have recovered Rs 5,000 cash, two mobile phones and a motorcycle from their possession, said Lokendra Singh, SP Kaithal.Giving details, he said that they have received a complaint from a petrol pump operator in Kaithal that oil was filled but the payment made through the digital platform was not credited in the pump owner’s account. The accused had transferred more than Rs 15,000 to their account through five fraudulent transactions.During investigation, the accused revealed that Sushil was a worker of PhonePe company and used to deal with installation of PhonePe QR codes at interested petrol pumps in Kaithal, Karnal and Kurukshetra districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-cheating-pump-owners-241567
20-04-2021||---||Dalit kids’ killing: CBI court discharges all 11 accused||Chandigarh, April 19The CBI special court on Monday discharged all 11 accused in the 2015 Sunpedh killing case, in which two Dalit children were burnt to death at a village in Faridabad district.The court also dismissed the protest petition of the children’s father, Jitender, against the closure report of the CBI.2015 CASE FILECBI special Judge Sushil Garg said, “It is pertinent to mention here that mere suspicion against the aforesaid accused persons is not sufficient to proceed against them as distinguished from the grave suspicion. Mere suspicion cannot take the place of proof.Defence counsel Abhishek Singh Rana said, “From the very beginning, we have maintained that 11 people have been falsely framed. But the CBI has failed to nab the real accused.”The 11 people who got discharged had to stay in the jail for three months after the case was registered. There is a 12th accused too, who is a juvenile.The state government had handed over the case to the CBI on October 22, 2015, which filed the closure report in 2019.The CBI court observed that the forensic reports from Karnal, New Delhi and Hyderabad stated that “there is no forcible entry into the house and into the bedroom by any outsider”. “All forensic experts are unanimous that the fire originated from inside the bedroom from the centre of the bed and the room was bolted from inside when the fire erupted. There was no indication of outsiders having come inside the room. There was no sign of disturbance outside the room,” read the report.The court also noted that the polygraph tests of the accused were not deceptive, but those of Jitender and his wife Rekha reflected deception “indicating that they are hiding some vital information instead of revealing the truth”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dalit-kids-killing-cbi-court-discharges-all-11-accused-241568
20-04-2021||Kurukshetra||20-yr jail for minor’s rape||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Manish Dua has sentenced a man to 20-year imprisonment for raping a 15-year-old girl. The court has sentenced Abdul Salim, a resident of Kurukshetra, under Sections 376 (3), 506 and 452 of IPC. He had raped the minor in 2019 when she was alone at home. The court has also slapped a fine of Rs 31,000, a release of Kurukshetra police said. Deputy District Attorney Bhupender Kumar informed that on April 24, 2019, a woman in her complaint stated that Abdul Salim had entered her house and raped the minor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-yr-jail-for-minors-rape-241569
20-04-2021||---||Four held for making fake passport papers||Kurukshetra, April 19The Kurukshetra police claim to have arrested four people, including a gangster, for using forged documents to get a passport.The accused have been identified as Harmanpreet Singh of Punjab, Mohit Guglani of Pehowa, Sumit of Punjab, and Vikram of Ambala City.On March 20, SSP Amritsar Rural had informed the Kurukshetra police that Harmanpreet Singh is a gangster. It had come to light that Harmanpreet Singh got a passport which was issued from Passport Office Chandigarh and the address mentioned on this passport is in Pehowa, Kurukshetra. He used forged documents for getting this passport.On April 16, the Kurukshetra police had brought gangster Harmanpreet Singh on production warrant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-held-for-making-fake-passport-papers-241570
20-04-2021||Kurukshetra||UIET selected as host institute||21 faculty, scholars felicitatedFaridabad: Continuing its efforts to enhance research quality, and to foster research culture, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, on Monday gave away JC Bose excellence '2nd research awards' to 21 faculty members and research scholars to give recognition to their research work. The award comprises a certificate of merit, and cash prizes between Rs 50,000 and Rs 5 lakh are given for the publication of research papers in the science citation index (SCI) or science citation index expanded (SCIE) research journals listed as per the university research policy. The research awards were distributed at a function organised in the online mode by the university and cash rewards were given for 17 selected research papers authored by the faculty and research scholars of the university during 2019-20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uiet-selected-as-host-institute-241575
20-04-2021||Trees alongside roads in Kaithal town touch the overhead 11||Tree branches touch overhead wires in Kaithal||Satish Seth, KaithalFollow all Covid protocols and help Panchkula admnThe state administration had handled the Covid pandemic very well last year, which had led to people having faith in the administration. This faith should not be shaken and the citizens should appreciate the work of the government. The people should put their step forward by following all Covid protocols to curb the spread of the disease.Priyam Aggarwal, PanchkulaMobile app to keep count of trees a good moveIt is heartening to note that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority will soon launch a mobile application to maintain a count of trees and monitor their growth. As a matter of fact trees plays a key role in the life of human beings .Their cutting leads to many environmental problems. A good move indeed.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tree-branches-touch-overhead-wires-in-kaithal-241576
20-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha launches ‘Phir Delhi Chalo’ to bolster agitation||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 19Aiming to strengthen its agitation against the central farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to launch ‘Phir Delhi Chalo’ movement from April 24, the day the farmers’ protest completes 150 days.The SKM, a joint forum of farm unions spearheading the protest, on Monday coined the new slogan to ramp up numbers at the protest sites on the Delhi border. A special convention had been planned on May 10 and farm leaders from across the country would participate in it, the forum said. Union leaders said the date for the scheduled “Parliament march” would be announced at an appropriate time.Ashish Mittal, SKM member, said as farmers were away for wheat harvesting, their focus would first be on calling them back. He said the BKU (Ugrahan) had called upon its members to start reaching Tikri border from April 21.Farm activist Yogendra Yadav alleged the government was hatching a conspiracy in the garb of anti-Covid measures to quell their stir. “They used the same trick last year. We will not let it happen,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-launches-phir-delhi-chalo-to-bolster-agitation-241490
