21-04-2021||Panchkula||19-year-old jumps off building in Panchkula after parents test positive for COVID-19||A 19-year-old jumped off the seventh-floor terrace of his building in Panchkula’s Sector 20, police said on Wednesday.  Suryansh Pathak was a first-year engineering student whose parents both tested positive recently for COVID-19. His body was handed over to his family after autopsy, Sector 20 police station SHO Inspector Dalip Kumar said.Police officially maintain they’re investigating the reason for his suspected suicide, but sources in the department claim that it was possibly because of a fear of having contracted COVID-19.No note has been found indicating reasons, police say.SHO Dalip Kumar cautioned against jumping to conclusions. “It’s very easy to assume he ended his life over COVID-19. But the case is still being investigated,” he said.  It is very easy to say that he ended his life over the COVID scare, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-year-old-jumps-off-building-in-panchkula-after-parents-test-positive-for-covid-19-242226
21-04-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Sisodia says Haryana official blocked oxygen supply; state govt rejects charge||Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia accused the Haryana government on Wednesday of blocking medical oxygen supply to Delhi, where several hospitals scrambled to save lives of coronavirus patients amid its shortage for the second consecutive day.The Haryana government vehemently refuted the allegations, underlining that no one in the administration had hampered anything.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said the AAP government had been demanding that the Centre increase Delhi’s quota of oxygen from 378 metric tonnes to 700 metric tonnes. Read also: Haryana being forced to give oxygen to Delhi: Anil VijThe central government, which decides the quota of oxygen for states, is yet to take a step in this direction, the deputy chief minister said.“We again demand that the Centre increase our oxygen quota to 700 MT in view of the increased consumption. Patients from several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, are admitted in city hospitals,” Sisodia said.He claimed that an official of the Haryana government stopped oxygen supply from a plant in Faridabad.Sisodia said a similar incident occurred in Uttar Pradesh a day ago and it led to a crisis in some hospitals, adding the oxygen supply had been restored now. He demanded that states should get their allotted share of oxygen without others interfering into it.Reacting to it, Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan told PTI: “No supply has been stopped to Delhi. This is not true.”Earlier in the day, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij alleged that a tanker carrying medical oxygen for COVID patients in hospitals, which was going from Panipat to Faridabad, was “looted” by the Delhi government and said all oxygen tankers will now move with police escort.Several hospitals in Delhi alleged that the Haryana government was not allowing vendors to supply oxygen to them and there was only limited stock left as hundreds of coronavirus patients battled for their life in these facilities.“The vendor, as per its representative, is not being allowed by the Haryana government to supply oxygen cylinders and liquid oxygen to Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Pusa Road. Supply left is sufficient only for five hours,” the official said.A spokesperson of St Stephen’s Hospital said: “The Haryana government has not been allowing our vendor to supply oxygen to us. Of the 350 patients in the hospital, around 200 are on oxygen support,” he alleged.Manipal Hospitals CEO said Pramod Alagharu their supplier was willing to supply oxygen from its Faridabad unit. “However, an officer has taken control over the plant. We have only 12 hrs of supplies left,” he said.Faridabad Deputy Commissioner Garima Mittal denied the allegations.“There is absolutely nothing like that. Some storage tankers of the company were reaching Faridabad plant from Meerut and once they reach as usual, they will fill and supply,” Mittal told PTI.From the Faridabad plant, the supplies go to 32 hospitals, out of which 25 are in Delhi, Vardhan said, adding that the supply would reach in routine.Some major government and private hospitals in Delhi received a fresh stock of medical oxygen in the early hours of Wednesday, averting a crisis just in time, according to officials.This stock should last till 9 am on Thursday, an official said.Delhi reported a record 28,395 coronavirus cases and 277 deaths on Tuesday, with the positivity rate shooting up to 32.82 per cent—meaning every third sample came out positive.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sisodia-says-haryana-official-blocked-oxygen-supply-state-govt-rejects-charge-242220
21-04-2021||Rohtak||947 Rohtak PGIMS staffers hit by Covid, treatment of patients still on||Several doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers serving at Rohtak PGIMS are getting down with Covid-19 regularly, and a steep hike has been witnessed in the cases during the recent days.As per official figures, as many as 947 staffers of the institute have tested positive for Covid-19 to date. These include the PGIMS director, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, the convener for Covid-19 at PGIMS, and the PGIDS Principal. A doctor and a bearer, who were Covid-positive, have died recently.Still, patients from different parts of Haryana and neighbouring states are being treated for Covid as well as other diseases at PGIMS. Covid-sampling and a vaccination drive are also going at the institute in full swing.“We are doing our best in the given circumstances. While the Trauma Centre is already functioning as a dedicated Covid hospital, the Department of Psychiatry building has also been converted into a Covid hospital. If necessitated, the Super-specialty Block will also be made a Covid facility,” asserts PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya.A senior faculty member maintains that the doctors, paramedics and students of postgraduate (PG) medical courses at the PGIMS, who also serve as resident doctors, have been working relentlessly ever since the emergence of the pandemic.“Especially the departments of Gynaecology and Anaesthesia have been giving exemplary services during the pandemic,” he points out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/947-rohtak-pgims-staffers-hit-by-covid-treatment-of-patients-still-on-242189
21-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Haryana being forced to give oxygen to Delhi: Anil Vij||Haryana's Health and Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday claimed that the state was "being forced" to give oxygen to Delhi.Vij said the state would meet its needs, before providing oxygen—required to treat COVID-19 patients—to other areas."Yesterday, one of our O2 tankers was looted by Delhi Govt that was going to Faridabad. From now, I've ordered police protection for all tankers," he said.Vij also addressed the Remdesivir shortage in the state saying that there were two depots selling the anti-viral drug."I have deployed drug dept officials there. Movement of every vial will be recorded. Chemists have been informed to check Aadhar card before giving Remdesivir injections. We have already arrested 4 people," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-being-forced-to-give-oxygen-to-delhi-anil-vij-242177
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||DRDO to set up 2 Covid hospitals in Panipat, Hisar: Anil Vij||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will set up two dedicated Covid Hospitals in Haryana of 500 beds each at Panipat and Hisar, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday.DRDO will setup two Dedicated Covid Hospitals in Haryana of 500 beds each at Panipat and Hissar. Western Command has been asked to provide Doctors and other Medical staff. Work to start immediately.  In a tweet, Vij said the Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and other medical staff.Haryana has registered a sharp increase in coronavirus cases in the last three weeks.On April 20, the state recorded 7,811 new cases of COVID-19, its biggest single-day spike so far, while 35 people succumbed to the viral disease on Tuesday.The number of active cases in the state is currently over 50,000.Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat districts, all falling in the National Capital Region, have seen a sharp jump in new cases recently, even as some others like Panchkula, Karnal and Kurukshetra also added to the surge.Vij and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier sought to assure the people on the COVID-19 situation, saying there was no need to panic and that the state has adequate beds, oxygen and medicines available. --with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drdo-to-set-up-2-covid-hospitals-in-panipat-hisar-anil-vij-242143
21-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Covid: High Court puts Punjab, Chandigarh on notice over ‘grim’ situation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20Taking cognisance of the “grim” situation in the region following surge in Covid cases — including the non-availability of beds in the hospitals and “depleted” oxygen supply, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the state of Punjab and Chandigarh on notice after impleading the two as party-respondents in an ongoing petition on the pandemic management. The newly added respondents were given two days’ time to address the Bench on the issues after seeking instructions. The state of Haryana also undertook to file a status report on the requirement and supply of oxygen to the hospitals.As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh, senior advocate and amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla contended there was a complete chaos due to the situation arising out of Covid-19 spread and the government guidelines were not being followed in the region. Beds were not available to those seeking admission to the hospitals and the supply of oxygen was “severely depleted”.Praying for impleading Chandigarh and Punjab as parties as the conditions were “equally grim” in the two states and the UT, he further submitted that the situation demanded the Court’s immediate attention.He also brought to the Court’s notice the “casual attitude of the general public even at a stage when spread of Covid-19 was reaching its peak”. The Bench was told that the public places were crowded and the government guidelines were not being followed. “The situation, to say the least, is alarming,” he added.Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal submitted appropriate steps were being taken, as submitted in an affidavit filed by Haryana Home Department Secretary Pankaj Yadav. At the same time, he did not dispute that something more was required to be done to bring the situation under control.He added that a state-level monitoring committee headed by the Haryana Health Minister had already been constituted to look into various issues, particularly timely supply of oxygen to the hospitals.He added daily requirement of oxygen, as on date, was 70/80 MT, while the production in the Haryana was 270 MT. The directions came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-high-court-puts-punjab-chandigarh-on-notice-over-grim-situation-241817
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid helplines in all Haryana districts soon: OP Dhankar||To help Covid-affected people, the BJP today announced to run helplines in Haryana.Holding a press conference in Chandigarh, state BJP chief OP Dhankar said 14-hour district-level helplines would be run to provide needy patients beds, medicines, oxygen and other medical facilities.The helpline numbers will be announced for all 22 districts. Besides, “Aapoorti Helpline” will be run to help any family where all members are infected. They might need food or any other help. This helpline will also run for 14 hours. For this, the party will depute a service team comprising two members in all 90 constituencies.“At around 300 procurement centres across the state, the ‘Kisan Morcha’ people will distribute masks and sanitisers to the farmers.”The “Yuva Morcha” of the party would prepare a directory at the district level of those who got infected with Covid in the past so that they could be contacted in case of the need of plasma, he said.“We planned all these measures during a daylong discussion on Monday. Even MPs and MLAs have been asked to pitch in,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-helplines-in-all-haryana-districts-soon-op-dhankar-241824
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||No lockdown in Haryana: Khattar||Putting an end to the ongoing lockdown rumours, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that no lockdown would be imposed in the state.The Chief Minister urged the labourers and workers to remain relaxed and keep doing their work. There is no need to panic, he said.Khattar was interacting with people of the state today during the “Haryana ki Baat” programme held through live telecast.“To ensure adequate medical arrangement for the Covid-19 patients, the state government has recently held discussion with the DRDO officials for setting up a 500-1000 bedded dedicated COVID hospital in Panipat,” informed the Chief Minister.He said now testing in the state had been increased.He said from April 20, 2021, till next five days, a mega vaccination drive would be run across the state.This time, the state government had decided to directly transfer the procurement money in the verified accounts of the farmers within 72 hours. So far, about Rs 2,785 crore had been paid to the farmers.He said till now, the payment of only one farmer had been delayed by one day, while the payment of three farmers had been delayed by nine days. Similarly, there are large numbers of farmers whose payments had been delayed by one day. Therefore, the state government had given an amount of Rs 7,80,000 as interest to 10,769 farmers for the delayed payments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-lockdown-in-haryana-khattar-241835
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Biggest spike of 7,811 cases in Haryana||The state reported the biggest spike of 7,811 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 3,71,624. With 34 more deaths, the toll reached 3,448.Gurugram reported a maximum of 2,344 cases followed by Faridabad (1,245) and Karnal (547). Hisar and Jind reported a maximum of five death each followed by Gurugram, Karnal and Fatehabad (4 each), Panipat (3), Faridabad, Ambala and Sirsa (2 each) and Kurukshetra, Bhiwani, Palwal and Kaith (1 each).There are 49,772 active cases in the state while 3,18,369 patients have been discharged after recovery.While the Covid positivity rate is pegged at 5.38 per cent, the recovery rate is reported to be 85.67 per cent. The fatality rate is reported to be 0.94 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biggest-spike-of-7-811-cases-in-haryana-241842
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Since Feb, UK variants found in 60% samples||Sixty per cent samples of the patients infected with Covid-19 from Haryana sent to Central labs for genome sequencing in February, March and April have been found positive for the UK mutant variants.In the samples taken during the month of March, 77 per cent of the samples were found positive for the UK mutation variants.310 test positive in three monthsWhile none of the samples sent to the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia, in Dec 2020 and Jan this year showed any mutant variant, 310 samples of Feb, March and April have so far been found positive for the UK variantsWhile none of the samples sent to the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), a part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), in December 2020 and January this year showed any mutant variant, 310 samples of February, March and April have so far been found positive for the UK variants.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana, said the state had sent 1,640 samples to the CSIR-IGIB for genome sequencing since December 2020.Of these, 710 samples had so far been sequenced, while 718 were pending with the lab for the sequencing.A total of 212 samples were not selected for sequencing by the CSIR-IGIB, the officer said.“The highest 76.53 per cent samples were found positive for mutant variants from those sent in March, as 261 out of the 341 samples sequenced so far had tested positive. Forty seven out of the 102 samples sequenced in April and two out of the 77 sequenced in February were also found positive for the mutant variant 501Y.V1, making it 310 out of 520 in the three months. None of the 63 samples of December 2020 or 127 of January 2021 had any mutant variant,” said Arora.The variant has largely been detected in samples from Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Karnal, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sirsa and Hisar, the districts which incidentally have observed an unprecedented surge in recent days.The virus mutant 501Y.VI, SARS-CoV-2 variant VOC 202012/01 (variant of concern year 2020 month 12 variant 01) or B.1.1.7 was first detected in the UK and is associated with increased transmissibility.Arora said the state expected to receive the report of the samples pending with the CSIR-IGIB soon.The Centre had recently told the states to send randomly picked samples to the INSACOG labs for genome sequencing to know about the mutant variants active in various states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/since-feb-uk-variants-found-in-60-samples-241845
21-04-2021||Rohtak||Pvt hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients||Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Capt Manoj Kumar has ordered the managements of all private hospitals in the district to reserve 50 per cent of the beds available with them for Covid patients.The owners/managers of the private hospitals have been asked to ensure the compliance of the orders issued today under the Epidemic Act1897 and Disaster Management Act 2005.The District Magistrate has directed the local Civil Surgeon to get a list of the number of beds available at the private hospitals prepared and ensure effective implementation of the said orders.In separate orders issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, the District Magistrate has made it mandatory for all hospitals and pharmacies located in the district to display the government-approved price lists of the medicines required by Covid patients. “No hospital/pharmacy will sell medicines required by Covid patients without displaying the government-approved pricelists with immediate effect,” the orders stated.All SDMs, Senior Drug Control Officer, Drugs Control Officers, Civil Surgeon, Deputy Civil Surgeons, SHOs and local monitoring committees and teams have been directed to ensure compliance with the orders. Strict legal action will be taken against those found violating or defying the orders.Meanwhile, the DC has asked the local traders and merchants to abide by the Covid protocol and ensure the maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour by their customers. He also urged the residents to take the necessary precautions to stay safe from Covid, which is spreading more rapidly compared to the last phase.“The district administration is making the necessary arrangements to check the spread of coronavirus. As of now, nearly 1,500 hospital beds are available for the Covid patients in the district and efforts are being made to increase the number to 3,500. Adequate oxygen is available in the district and the availability of Remdesivir will be increased,” he said.The DC stated that duty magistrates as well as police officers had been appointed to ensure the maintenance of law and order during night curfew in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-50-beds-for-covid-patients-241854
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Situation under control: Official||Financial Commissioner Sanjeev Kaushal reviewed the arrangements to contain the Covid surge in Faridabad district on tuesday.He said: “The Covid situation is under control. There is no shortage of oxygen and the district magistrates are monitoring the situation regularly.”Kaushal said 30% beds in the district should be reserved for Covid patients in both private and government hospitals even as about 60 to 70% of them needed isolation, not hospitalisation. “Patients in isolation should be provided kits having medicines, an oximeter and a list of dos or don’ts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/situation-under-control-official-241860
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker to study High Court stay order on Kalka ex-MLA’s conviction||Legislative Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Tuesday said he could react to the impact of the stay on Congress leader Pardeep Chaudhary’s conviction by the Himachal Pradesh High Court only after getting the copy of the order.Chaudhary was convicted in a rioting case by a Baddi court in January this year where he was sentenced to three-year imprisonment. As a result, he was unseated from the Kalka seat of the Haryana Assembly under the Representation of People Act. As per Section 8(3) of the Representation of People Act, a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release.But on Monday, the High Court stayed the conviction order against him.When asked whether Chaudhary’s membership would be restored, Gupta replied, “I have also come to know about the stay on the conviction through newspapers. We have to studythe order. Only then we can comment about the impact of the HC order.”Meanwhile, Pardeep Chaudhary could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-to-study-high-court-stay-order-on-kalka-ex-mlas-conviction-241872
21-04-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Fake salt firm unearthed||The Chief Minister’s flying squad busted a fake salt factory in Palwal today.Forty three sacks of ready fake salt, salt wrappers of Tata salt, equipment and machines were seized from the place.The accused, meanwhile, managed to flee from the spot.An FIR was registered at the City police station, Palwal, in this regard.According to the complaint filed by Pankaj Gupta, director of Greves Protection Private Limited, the fake company was being run near Teejo wala mandir.Following the complaint, a raid was conducted at the company in which 43 sacks of fake salt and salt wrappers were seized.An FIR was registered against the company operator Sandeep Bhati.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-salt-firm-unearthed-241873
21-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Punjab residentt booked for obtaining passport on forged papers in Haryana||Another case of obtaining a passport on the basis of forged documents has come to light in Pehowa of Kurukshetra.The Kurukshetra police have registered four FIRs in the recent past in the Pehowa City police station.In an FIR registered on Monday evening, Harinder Singh of Punjab had shown himself as Pehowa resident. He got his passport in February 2020 and showed himself as a resident of Diwan Colony, while no such person resides at the given address. He was booked under various Sections of the IPC and Passports Act.Similar FIRs were registered against Taranjeet, alias KD, of Uttarakhand, and Yuvraj Singh of Punjab. The police said while the criminal records of Harinder and Yuvraj were yet to be known, Taranjeet was presently lodged in a jail in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand.The Kurukshetra police on Monday had arrested Mohit Guglani of Pehowa, Sumit of Punjab and Vikram of Ambala City for their involvements in preparing passports using forged documents for Punjab-based gangster Harmanpreet Singh, against whom a case was registered.DSP (Headquarters) Subhash Chander said: “We had arrested Mohit, Sumit and Vikram for preparing forged documents. Mohit had prepared documents for Harinder, Harmanpreet, Yuvraj and one more person, whose records are being traced. There is another case in which Taranjeet had also got a passport using fake papers but Mohit had denied making them for him. We have applied for his production warrant and he is expected to be brought on April 27.”“The clients were provided by Sumit, while Mohit used to prepare forged documents and then Vikram Verma, who was posted through a private firm at the passport office, used to facilitate them. The passports were prepared from August 2019 to February 2020,” he added.The DSP said: “We will investigate and then take action against the people involved in this racket. The involvement of more officials of the passport office can’t be denied.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-residentt-booked-for-obtaining-passport-on-forged-papers-in-haryana-241874
21-04-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Gurugram: Hackers steal Rs 57 lakh from five ATMs in 20 days||Unidentified hackers stole more than Rs 57 lakh from five ATMs of the PNB Bank in different areas of the city by installing a chip or disconnecting cables in them.An FIR was registered on the complaint of the bank at the cyber crime police station.As per a joint complaint, Rs 57.50 lakh were stolen from five ATMs in the city within the last 20 days. ATM service provider FSS Private Limited wrote a mail to the bank officials that they had deposited Rs 31,58,100 at the offsite ATM located at Ardee City on March 30, from where Rs 25.40 lakh was stolen fraudulently after installing a chip at the machine.Similarly, Rs 1.60 lakh was stolen from the Sector 14 ATM after using electronic equipment on the data cable of the machine. Rs 4.5 lakh were stolen from the ATM at Omaxe City Mall Centre, Sohna Road, where an extra socket was found with the data cable. Another Rs 16.20 lakh was stolen from the ATM in the Rajendra Park area and Rs 9.80 lakh from the ATM located the South City Arcade.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against unknown accused under Sections 380 and 420 of the IPC and Section 66 of the IT Act at the cyber crime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-hackers-steal-rs-57-lakh-from-five-atms-in-20-days-241875
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Navraj Sandhu appointed Haryana State Police Complaints Authority chief||Mehta is CM’s media adviserThe state government has appointed Vinod Mehta as principal media adviser to CM Manohar Lal Khattar. TNSRecruitment tests put offThe government has postponed the recruitment tests for District Attorney (Group A), Assistant Professor for zoology, physical education, Punjabi, Sanskrit, chemistry (Group B) and election tehsildar. TNSMember appointedDPS Beniwal, ex-Chief Engineer in Haryana Public Health Engineering Department, has been appointed member of Haryana Water Resources Authority. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/navraj-sandhu-appointed-haryana-state-police-complaints-authority-chief-241876
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Five venues to host ‘Khelo India’ games||The fourth edition of ‘Khelo India Youth Games-2021’ will be organised in Panchkula, Ambala, Shahabad, Delhi and Chandigarh from November 21 to December 5, 2021, in which various sports activities the under-18 category will be organised. Besides this, BRICS Games 2021 will also be organised during ‘Khelo India’. BRICS countries include Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.The decision was taken at the first meeting of the executive committee constituted for the ‘Khelo India Youth Games-2021’ held under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan here today. Satya Narayan Meena, Senior Director, Khelo India, Sports Authority of India, also attended the meeting through video-conferencing.The Chief Secretary directed the officers concerned to expedite the work related to infrastructure development required for organising these games.The Chief Secretary further directed that the launching ceremony of the Khelo India Games should be organised in compliance with the rules of Covid guidelines.He said in the ceremony, eminent players and representatives of the states whose traditional games will be performed should also be invited. Along with this, High Commissioners of the participating countries should also be invited for the ceremony.At the meeting, OSD, Khelo India, Pankaj Nain informed that 25 sports would be organised in these games to be held in Haryana, including five traditional sports such as gatka, kalaripayattu, thang-ta, mallakhamba and yogasana.He informed that about 8,500 participants would take part in ‘Khelo India’ games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-venues-to-host-khelo-india-games-241787
21-04-2021||Karnal||Karnal 5th in Saksham Education scorecard||Karnal district has improved its ranking in the Saksham Education scorecard and reached to fifth position in March in the state.The ranking is declared on the basis of different parameters, including digital and online initiative for improvement in study, student and teacher outreach, mentoring and training, monitoring and district review, focus of the month, board preparation, and uploading of the online exams data.Ranking based on parametersThe ranking is declared on the basis of different parameters, including digital and online initiative for improvement in study, student and teacher outreach, mentoring and training, monitoring and district review, focus of the month, board preparation and uploading of the online exams data.In February, Karnal was at the second place from bottom, but efforts of the Education Department and district authorities bore fruit and the district has jumped 16 slots and reached to the fifth position. Besides, Karnal has been declared as the top mover of the month by the Saksham Haryana Cell.Declared top mover of the monthWith 96.8 per cent Panchkula is at the top in the state, followed by Kaithal (94.8), Jhajjar (93.5), Kurukshetra (92.9), Karnal (90.4), Rohtak (90), Fatehabad (87.7), Mahendragarh (87.4), Jind (87.2), Rewari (84.2), Bhiwani (86.1), Charki Dari (85.5), Sonepat (85.3), Panipat (85.2), Yamunanagar (84.6), Faridabad (82), Ambala (81.5), Sirsa (76.9), Gurugram (75.5), Hisar (74.3), Palwal (73), and Nuh (68.8), said the data.Amrutha Datla, Chief Minister Good Governance Associate (CMGGA), said 20 per cent score is given in the digital and ed-tech parameters, under which the number of students and teachers registration is counted on Avasar and Samiksha. As much as 15 per cent marks for the students and teacher outreach through Shiksha Mitr, linking students who do not have access to cell phones/ Internet connectivity with a family member/friends/ neighbours who can support them in online learning. Besides students’ whatsapp groups is created where the teachers can share home learning content and ensure education though online mediums. 25 per cent marks is given for mentoring by the authorities of the department, 20 per cent is given for reviewing by the DC, SDM and other officials to motivate and ensure good learning outcomes for students. The remaining 20 per cent is given for identification of weak schools and board preparation.Nishnat Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, congratulated officials of the Education Department and said in one month, the officials and teachers worked hard, due to which the district got success in improving the ranking. Yadav further stated that they were hopeful that the district would further improve its ranking and rise to the top slot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-5th-in-saksham-education-scorecard-241789
21-04-2021||Ambala||Ambala path lab raided||A team of the Health Department on Tuesday conducted a raid at a private pathology lab for alleged irregularities in reporting of Covid-19 test results in Ambala City.As per the information, there were allegations of preparing negative reports of Covid-19 against the path lab, following which a team of the Health Department and police held a raid and checked the records of the lab. The reports were reportedly not being uploaded online. There were complaints of overcharging against the lab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-path-lab-raided-241790
21-04-2021||Jhajjar||Night curfew: 27 nakas set up in Jhajjar dist||Tightening the noose around violators of night curfew, the local police have installed 27 nakas at various places in the district to check public movement at night. PCR vans and riders have also been deployed in the sensitive area to ensure strict enforcement of the night curfew. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/night-curfew-27-nakas-set-up-in-jhajjar-dist-241791
21-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||2,100 Covid patients untraceable in Gurugram||In what has added to the troubles of already overworked health and police authorities over 2,100 positive Covid patients are untraceable. In times when people are being urged to reveal their positive status and isolate across the city, are either submitting wrong phone numbers or addresses while being tested or not taking their calls after being tested positive. This has landed the authorities in a fix as police and health officials are busy tracing them.Ever since the discontinuation of the process of OTP generation while testing, there have been repeated instances of people giving wrong contact details.“This is a routine issue that we face. People need to submit the right address with phone number and labs need to ensure the same. Early identification and isolation will help not just patients but all others to stay safe. We will take stringent action against those violating the Covid protocols and isolation. The societies should ensure that nobody violates isolation,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.“A major part of our force is involved in tracing the Covid patients and their contacts. Yes, many are untraceable and it takes us days to get to them so we urge the people and labs to ensure that we get the right contact details,” added Police Commissioner KK Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-100-covid-patients-untraceable-in-gurugram-241792
21-04-2021||Hisar||Admn’s order to check sale of Remdesivir on black market||Following complaints about the sale of the Remdesivir vaccine and other life-saving drugs on the black market, the district administration has directed the drugs controller authorities to carry out raids at suspected places and medical stores on the basis of tip-offs about the stocking of such drugs in the district.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni held a meeting with the the Health Department officials, drugs controller, private hospitals and lab owners, besides civil officials today to take stock of the situation in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the district.The DC released the rate list of the RT-PCR and other Covid sampling tests for the private labs. She said the administration had been getting complaints of overcharging by certain labs. She warned the offenders that strict action would be taken against them in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admns-order-to-check-sale-of-remdesivir-on-black-market-241794
21-04-2021||Ambala||Linear accelerator machine for cancer patients in Ambala soon||A linear accelerator machine, which will be used to treat cancer patients, is all set to reach the Tertiary Care Cancer Centre, which is being established on the premises of Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. The machine which has been imported from the UK has reached India recently, the process for customs clearance is on. The machine is being brought at a cost of over Rs 18 crore.Dr Vikas Gupta, a cancer specialist at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, said, “The linear accelerator machine is used to provide radiotherapy to cancer patients and it will prove beneficial for the patents of this region. Currently, patients go to Chandigarh for treatment. The machine has reached India and the process for customs clearance is on. It is a very high-end machine and it will be the first such machine at a government hospital in Haryana.”Abhay Kumar, project manager for the Tertiary Care Cancer Center, said, “The building for the cancer centre is ready. A specially designed bunker has been constructed for the linear accelerator machine as per the guidelines from the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board. The thickness of the walls of the bunker is from 1.5 metre to 2.2 metre. A CT stimulator machine has been already installed. “Dr Vinay Goel, nodal officer for construction of Tertiary Care Cancer Centre, said, “There are different modalities to treat cancer, including chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy. The linear accelerator machine will provide radiotherapy to cancer patients. The machine is expected to reach Ambala by the end of this month and we are in touch with the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board as it requires the permission of the board on various steps and its commissioning.The accuracy of the machine is very high. Fire NOC for the building has also been received today.”An official said, “Patients not only from Haryana but from UP, Himachal, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are expected to reach Ambala for treatment and there will be requirement for residential facilities too in the coming years as the patients and their attendants need to stay for several days for radiotherapy treatment.State Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, who had laid the foundation stone of the Tertiary Care Cancer Centre in July 2018, said, “All latest facilities are being brought here for the treatment of cancer patients. All efforts are being made to make the centre functional soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/linear-accelerator-machine-for-cancer-patients-in-ambala-soon-241795
21-04-2021||Karnal||CWC: Karnal reports 10 cases of child abuse every month||The cases of child sexual abuse continue unabated in Karnal district. In most of the cases, culprits are known to the victims.The data of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) revealed that on an average, 10 cases of the children being sexually abused were reported in the district every month in 2020 and 2021.As many as 117 children were sexually abused last year, while 34 in 2021 till March 31, the data stated. It further revealed that 130 children were sexually abused in 2019, 111 in 2018, and 61 in 2017.“The incident leaves children traumatised. We try our best to bring the children out of trauma, which they have gone through while being sexually abused,” said Umesh Chanana, chairman CWC.SP Ganga Ram Punia said they register a case immediately after receiving a complaint. “We also ensure the quick arrest of the accused,” he said, adding that the women police personnel of the Durga Shakti team also conduct seminar in schools to spread awareness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cwc-karnal-reports-10-cases-of-child-abuse-every-month-241796
21-04-2021||Karnal||13 students awarded cash prize in Karnal's Guru Nanak Khalsa College||Digital makeathon eventKurukshetra: Students of University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukshetra, have secured third place in the Infosys Digital Makeathon 2021 organised by Infosys, Chandigarh. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, KUK, the Director of UIET, KUK, and Dean Engineering and Technology, KUK, Prof CC Tripathi congratulated the students and the convener. Prof Tripathi informed that the event was organised every year by Infosys Pvt Ltd with the main objective to reduce distance between the industry and technical educational institutions. Interaction was to be established so that the students did not face any kind of challenge in the industry after completing their education. Dr Nikhil Mariwala, head, ECE department, TPO of UIET, and convener of the team shared that the online competition was held in Chandigarh last month and was attended by 48 teams from all top engineering institutes of north India, in which the team Robo Ninjas comprising third year students from UIET, KUK, Satyam Pandey, Ankit Jaspal, Akshat and Hari om of UIET Institute solved the problem of health wearable by designing a reliable and fashionable health wearable technology. While facing all aspects of the Infosys jury, the team won a prize of Rs 6,000 and was declared second runner-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-students-awarded-cash-prize-in-karnals-guru-nanak-khalsa-college-241797
21-04-2021||Due to the shortage of gunny bags lakhs of quintals of wheat stocks are lying in the open at Mela Mandi||Wheat stocks lying in open at Narwana mandi||Stop illegal sale of Covid drugRemdesivir is illegally being sold in Gurugram district as hoarders have stocked it in large quantity so that they may sell it to the needy at very high prices. Really, such greedy businessmen have put the common man in more trouble. It is the duty and responsibility of the administration of Gurugram to catch them and these elements and punish them. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramBranches touch high-tension wires in Ambala CanttOn the busy Mahesh Nagar police station lane in Ambala Cantt, there are two examples of ‘blatant negligence’ of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN). Between the police station and Punjab National Bank, one electricity pole has fallen and a few yards ahead, tree branches are touching the high -tension electricity wires. Despite my telephonic complaints each to the lineman and the Junior Engineer and two complaints to the SDM, nobody has bothered to rectify the problem. The authorities concerned should take action at once before any untoward incident happens. — Dr Vinay Kumar Malhotra, Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-stocks-lying-in-open-at-narwana-mandi-241798
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers opposed to Covid test, but open to vaccination||Farmer leaders camping at the Singhu and Tikri borders in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws are opposed to Health Minister Anil Vij’s offer of sending medical teams to conduct Covid tests, but welcomed his idea of vaccinating protesters.The Sonepat and Jhajjar district administrations approached the farmers’ unions today after Vij directed officers to hold talks with them regarding testing and vaccination.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will take a decision in a meeting soon, but farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal from Punjab said testing by health teams from Haryana was unacceptable.“They (doctors from Haryana) will carry out tests and declare some of us Covid-positive and then force us to wind up the protest. We will not fall in the trap. We have a hospital here and more than 40 doctors are available round the clock. Not one farmer has died of Covid at the Delhi borders. The Haryana Government was not bothered about us all these months. Why are they worried about our health now?” said Rajewal.Apprehensive of getting tested, SKM leader Dr Darshal Pal said protesting farmers had no symptoms, so the question getting tested should not arise.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, was also against testing.“Covid is a farce. Testing protesting farmers under the pretext of Covid is a ploy to wind up the protest. The Centre wants to malign the protest in the same manner it maligned the Tablighi Jamaat last year,” he said.At the Tikri border, Joginder Ugrahan of the BKU (Ugrahan) was also doubtful of the government’s intention of testing the protesters. “No farmer has died of Covid. So, why the need to test them? Having said that, the government’s offer of vaccinating farmers is welcome. The SKM will convene a meeting and take a call,” he said.Meanwhile, Sonepat Superintendent of Police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa and Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Ashok Bansal met farmer leaders. During the meeting, the leaders rejected the administration’s offer to call off major programmes scheduled for the next few weeks and “nearly” rejected the RT-PCR tests, but accepted the offer for vaccination, sources say.The Jhajjar administration led by Deputy Commissioner Jitender Dahiya met farmer leaders from the Tikri border. “We have conveyed our concerns. The leaders want to deliberate on the matter and sought time till tomorrow,” said the DC.The SKM had, in a statement issued yesterday, said farmer leaders would cooperate with the district administration and sensitise protesters about Covid safety norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-opposed-to-covid-test-but-open-to-vaccination-241799
21-04-2021||Rohtak||Revoke ‘protesters to pay’ Act: Farmers||Farmers under the banner of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and other farm organisations on Tuesday staged a dharna outside the DC office against the recently passed Bill for recovering damages to public and private properties from protesters.They also submitted a memorandum to the district authorities demanding the repeal of the Bill. Women too decried the law by describing it as draconian and a weapon for framing peaceful protesters.Mahapanchayat amid Covid surgeHisar: Farmers organised a mahapanchayat at the Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district, mobilising people to join protest sites at the Delhi borders. They were not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. The mahapanchayat demanded withdrawal of the three farm laws, compensation to farmers who lost their crop due to fire recently and withdrawal of the “protesters to pay” Act. TNSAddressing the protesters, AIKS vice-president Inderjit Singh recalled the British raj times when punitive measures used to be taken to contain the freedom struggle. “The BJP was following authoritarianism with an intention to devastate those who would try to raise the voice against the regime. The act for recovering damages to public and private properties from protesters has been enacted for the same purpose,” he alleged.Inderjit said the protest was organised at every district headquarter following the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to mount pressure on the authorities to scrap the contentious law and withdraw police cases against farmers.A similar protest was also organised in Jhajjar city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revoke-protesters-to-pay-act-farmers-241801
21-04-2021||Hisar||BJP leader Pawan Beniwal quits party over farm protest||BJP leader Pawan Beniwal, who contested two Assembly elections on the party ticket from the Ellanabad Assembly segment in Sirsa district, quit the BJP after meeting the protesting farmers at a dharna site in Sirsa district today.Beniwal, who contested againsy INLD leader Abhay Chautala in 2014 and 2019, said he was feeling “suffocated” in the BJP for the past some months as the ruling party was not taking any interest in the development of the segment. Besides, his pleas with the party leadership to find an amicable resolution to the farmers’ issue too fell on deaf ears. “I find it difficult to stay in the party which is not ready to listen to the voice of the large number of farmers who are on agitational path in a democratic way for the last many months.”Beniwal had left the INLD to join the BJP in 2014 when the party fielded him against Abhay Chautala.Meanwhile, at a Congress event in Gurugram today, former minister Attar Singh Saini from the Hansi segment, former MLA Balwan Singh Daulatpuria from Fatehabad joined the Congress in the presence of the state Congress in charge Vivek Bansal and state Congress president Kumari Selja.Surender Nehra, son of former minister Jagdish Nehra from Sirsa district, and a leader Bir Singh who had contested the Assembly poll from Rania on the BSP ticket too joined the Congress at the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-pawan-beniwal-quits-party-over-farm-protest-241802
21-04-2021||Karnal||Labourers return home, Karnal paddy growers worried||Agricultural labourers have started returning to their native places in view of the sudden increase in Covid cases and the apprehension that the lockdown will be imposed again.The state government has ruled out lockdown, but labourers are not convinced.Lal Singh, a labourer waiting for a vehicle on the NH-44, said: “I came to Karnal for wheat harvesting and paddy transplantation. There is still time for paddy transplantation and the fear of lockdown looms. So I have decided to return home. I cannot afford to remain stuck here if the lockdown is imposed.”Farmers, on the other hand, are a worried lot as they stare at a possible labour shortage during the paddy transplantation. It seems last year’ script will play out this time as well.In 2020, labour was in short supply after the lockdown was imposed across the country. Farmers had arranged special buses to ferry labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh for paddy transplantation.Local farmer Malak Singh said, “Last year, we arranged special buses to ferry labourers from Bihar. It was a costly affair. This time, we are not in a financial position to arrange a special bus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourers-return-home-karnal-paddy-growers-worried-241807
21-04-2021||Rohtak||77K acres in Rohtak yet to be registered on portal||More than 77,000 acres under wheat cultivation in the district are still to be registered on the “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal in spite of three opportunities given to farmers. The registration is mandatory for selling crops at the MSP.Sources say the district has 2,57,571 acres of cultivated area of wheat, but 1,80,564 acres have been registered on the portal. The situation, however, is different when it comes to other rabi crops such as mustard. Of the 22,919 acres under mustard cultivation, 22,890 acres have been registered on the portal.“Formalities and technical glitch are the main reasons for the low registration. The server was down when farmers tried to register their crops,” said Preet Singh, district president, All-India Kisan Sabha.Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said several farmers cultivated wheat for their personal use, hence they didn’t show interest in getting the crop registered on the portal. “The portal is still open and farmers can get their crops registered,” he added.Harsh Girdhar, vice-president, Haryana Anajmandi Arhtiyas Association, claimed many farmers did not get their crop registered on the portal in protest against the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/77k-acres-in-rohtak-yet-to-be-registered-on-portal-241815
