24-04-2021||---||Offices to remain closed in six districts of Haryana: CM||Chandigarh, April 24  CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that all government and private offices in six districts of Haryana -- Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Rohtak, Karnal and Sonepat -- would remain closed, due to rising Covid cases.  Even the industry has been asked to work in shifts.  He clarified that no lockdown would be imposed in Gurugram and Faridabad. “The work from home should be followed, wherever it is possible,” he said.  The CM chaired the state-level Covid Monitoring Committee today.   “Covid figures have been rising day by day and the government has put all its strength to control it,” he said while addressing a press conference.  For vaccinating the population above 18 years, the government hospitals would administer doses free of cost. It will cost Rs 880 crore to the state exchequer. However, in private hospitals, people have to pay Rs 600 per injection.  “The vaccination drive will start from May 1 for people above 18 years. It will be registration-based. People can choose to go at private or government facilities,” said the CM.   On oxygen demand, the CM said with the help of the Centre, the shortage had been met. “We had raised the demand of 180 MT but are getting 162 MT. In the future, we may need 200 MT for which the centre would be approached to meet the shortfall,” he said.  “We have issued an order for oxygen from Bokaro through the train. About 6,000 MT oxygen supply would come from there. We will keep oxygen in reserve too,” said the CM. A team has been set up to monitor oxygen supply across the state. New plants will be set up for oxygen production. All private hospitals have been asked to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid patients. Earlier, the reservation was 30 per cent.  He also informed that at PGIMS, Rohtak, 1,000 beds, and in other medical colleges, 1,250 beds with oxygen had been added. He said that doctors and other staff were being deputed from the Army and an arrangement of 200 beds would be made at Atal Bihari Hospital in Faridabad.  After 6 pm, the markets have been ordered to be closed. The maximum gathering has been reduced to 50 from 200. The OPD will be limited in all hospitals. He said the DCs had been authorized to impose Section 144 of CrPC wherever required. They have been asked to deal strictly where the cases were higher. The procurement centres will be exempted.  The DCs can decide about liquor shops, he clarified.   To oversee the expansion of beds and hospitals, IAS officer PK Das has been appointed.   When asked about more farmers, Khattar said they would appeal them not to join protest sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/offices-to-remain-closed-in-six-districts-of-haryana-cm-243577
24-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Covid: 400 apply for bed on Gurugram portal, 4 get it||Gurugram, April 23Within four days of its launch, the Gurugram administration app received over 400 requests for beds. However, only four applicants got them while 14 are on the waiting list.The administration has formed a special team to verify the eligibility of bed seekers and are giving preference to those with Gurugram address on their Aadhaar cards. Of the 400 applicants, 230 had proof of Gurugram address. Of them, 20 were found eligible for beds, and four finally got it.“There is no need to panic as we are ensuring that every person with a valid need for bed gets it. Yes, many people are applying for beds in panic but we have a team to analyse the patient situation and make recommendation for beds,” said Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg. What left applicants harried was that to secure hospital admission, an Aadhaar card with a Gurugram address appeared mandatory. The district administration portal https://covidggn.com/. asks for a patient’s ICMR/SRF ID from their test report and Aadhaar number and address among other details. Patients must also specify if they have any comorbidities, as well as mention their SpO2 level and CT value. They can give three hospital preferences from a list of 43 hospitals treating Covid patients in Gurugram.Though applicants not having a Gurugram address were not rejected on the portal, but only those with a Gurugram address on their Aadhaar cards received follow-up calls from the control room.Gurugram is struggling with an acute shortage of hospital beds. The city today recorded over 4,300 cases and 9 deaths. It has recorded more than 15,000 cases and 32 deaths past week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-400-apply-for-bed-on-gurugram-portal-4-get-it-243348
24-04-2021||Karnal||Caseload grows, Karnal admn on toes||With the increasing number of Covid cases, the demand for beds has also increased in the district. People not only from Karnal, but from across the state and Delhi are approaching the hospitals for beds.Facilities to come upAt present, 30 ICU beds of 124 are vacant, while 132 non-ICU oxygen beds are available in the 12 dedicated Covid hospitals of the district, official data revealed on Friday evening.Keeping in mind that the situation can be worrisome in coming days, the district authorities have decided to increase the number of beds for the Covid patients.All private hospitals have been directed to reserve 50 per cent of the non-ICU beds and 70 per cent of the ICU beds for Covid patients. Besides, a 250-bed Covid care centre for patients with mild symptoms is being set up at the Community Centre of Phoosgarh, on the outskirts of the district. An additional 60-bed Covid ward with oxygen and monitor support is also being established at the KCGMC.“We update the status of beds daily on edishakarnal.in and people can get the information regarding the availability in the dedicated Covid hospitals from this portal,” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, adding that the link could be checked on karnal.gov.in.Yadav said there was no shortage of oxygen in the district. At present, the hospitals have a requirement of 15,000 litres daily and the agency concerned was providing it. “We have appointed Zila Parishad CEO Gaurav Kumar as the nodal officer to monitor the availability of oxygen,” the DC added.Meanwhile, the chemists have also been directed to ensure that no hoarding of Remdesivir, the anti-viral drug, was done. Besides, directions have also been given not to charge extra money for masks and sanitisers. Support from the IMA doctors has also been sought by the district administration.Dr Kamal Bhushan Jain, president, Karnal IMA, assured the authorities of all kind of support.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said on Friday, the district witnessed the highest-ever 617 infections, taking the active case tally to 4,065. “Four persons died, while 402 patients recovered. The recovery rate of the district is 86 per cent. We are hopeful that with the increasing infrastructure we will be able to provide better healthcare facilities to the Covid patients,” Dr Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/caseload-grows-karnal-admn-on-toes-243241
24-04-2021||Karnal||Resurgence raises demand for plasma||With the Covid cases rising exponentially, the demand for plasma has also increased. The plasma bank of the Kalpana Chawla Governmnet Medical College (KCGMC) is being regularly approached by patients belonging to Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Chandigarh, Ghaziabad and other places for it.On an average four or five family members of patients approach the KCGMC plasma bank daily to arrange for plasma. So far, the KCGMC has provided 10 units of plasma for patients. However, there has been no demand for plasma from the patients at the KCGMC.“We had a stock of 10 units that we have provided to patients in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad. We are here to serve society and try to provide plasma to anyone who approaches us,” said Dr Sachin Garg, in charge of the plasma bank, KCGMC.Now, the bank has no stock and to meet the increasing demand, it has started calling the recently recovered patients to donate plasma.“We are contacting those who have completed 28 days after getting the Covid negative report. Members of various NGOs are also helping us in this initiative. Two or three persons are going to donate plasma. We are hopeful that in coming days we will have enough stock to cater to the needs of other cities as the KCGMC has no requirement at present for the plasma,” said Dr Garg.Dr Garg said the plasma therapy was effective at the initial stage. After 10 days of infection, it is not much effective.The number of active cases in the district is 4,065 while 215 people have lost their lives so far due to Covid-19, as per the data of the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resurgence-raises-demand-for-plasma-243248
24-04-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak pvt hospitals ‘turn away’ patients||Private hospitals in the district are reportedly turning away Covid patients due to unavailability of beds and other facilities in view of the surge in cases.As a result, a number of hapless patients and members of their families keep on making rounds of hospitals to get admission, but most of them return empty-handed.“I took my ailing father, who has tested positive for Covid, for treatment to a private hospital last night. He was put on oxygen and given some medication. After some time, hospital staff started mounting pressure on me to get him shifted elsewhere because their hospital lacked facilities,” said a woman.Attendants of Covid patients said several private hospitals were turned away critical patients, citing lack of isolation beds and other constraints. On the other hand, hundreds of beds at Covid care centres are vacant.Dr Manish Sharma, principal of Gaur Brahman Ayurvedic College in the district’s Brahmanwas village, said: “The Covid care centre on our premises has 100 beds. It is also equipped with medical oxygen and other facilities. There is a team of doctors working round the clock. We are prepared to admit Covid patients and take care of them, but no patient has come to our centre so far.On the apparent lack of coordination between the authorities and private hospitals, Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said, “The DC has constituted a committee to look into the complaints of irregularities by private hospitals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pvt-hospitals-turn-away-patients-243249
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile vax drive begins in Haryana||The drive was carried out in Ambala, Kaithal, Panchkula, Jind, Hisar, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, where the NGO provided mobile vehicles, refreshments and safety kits for vaccinators.Director General Health Services Dr Veena Singh flagged off the drive from Nanakpur, Panchkula. The teams are also taking samples. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-vax-drive-begins-in-haryana-243250
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Police to keep tabs on crowded markets in Haryana||Home Minister Anil Vij has directed all police commissioners and SPs to deploy police force at crowded places like markets, shopping centres, playgrounds so that Covid-19 guidelines can be strictly adhered to.Presiding over a review meeting of police officers, Vij said the Covid-19 rules framed by the government should be strictly enforced.He directed strict adherence to the orders related to closure of shops after 6 pm daily, the imposition of Covid curfew from 10 pm to 5 am, and attendance of 50 people for indoor and 200 people for outdoor programmes.Vij said he had directed duty magistrates and local municipal officers to keep a check on clubs, banquet halls, wedding ceremonies and public functions so that the number of people invited to the programmes does not exceed the maximum limit. He said strict action would be taken against the owners of the venues if rules were violated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-to-keep-tabs-on-crowded-markets-in-haryana-243251
24-04-2021||Ambala||Treat education as essential service: Private schools to PM||National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), a body of private schools in the country, has requested the Prime Minister to treat education as an essential service and has sought an allowance of Rs 4,000 per month for teaching and non-teaching employees of private schools.Kulbhushan Sharma, president of NISA, said, “Due to economic slowdown, loss of jobs and uncertainty, parents have stopped giving school fee. The repercussion is the collapse of the entire ecosystem. Schools are becoming financially unsustainable and are closing down. There are reports of teacherstaking up menial jobs for survival. The situation is causing deep damage to the strong trust-based relationship of school, teacher, parents and students, which once broken, will do irreparable damage to society.”The alliance has requested the Prime Minister that education should be treated as an essential service as it is the basic right and need of every child and has asked for immediate financial allowance of Rs 4,000 per month to teaching and non-teaching employees.Kulbhushan said, “Not only the teaching and non-teaching staff, but lakhs of people who are involved in the businesses of transportation, stationary, schools dress and book selling are also feeling the heat. We understand that the government wants to protect children but at the same time, it should understand that this is going to be the second consecutive year when schools are closed and it will have a very bad impact on the future of the children.”The alliance, in its memorandum to the PM, claimed that the country has approximately 30 crore children in the school-going age group of 6 to 14 years. More than 70 per cent of private schools are low-cost private schools charging average monthly fee below Rs 1,000 per month.“There are about two crore direct and five crore supportive stakeholders associated with the education system. The government should formulate a policy and save education as well as the people associated with the system,” said the NISA president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/treat-education-as-essential-service-private-schools-to-pm-243252
24-04-2021||People are not at all bothered about the gravity of the present problem and its future consequences. Masks on necks rather than on mouth||Need to stop Covid blame game||Land relief process must be simplifiedThe process for landlords to receive the increased compensation amount of their acquired land through treasury is quite complex and lengthy after it is presented to the court by the respective departments of the government. With the Covid pandemic prohibiting the entry of clients into courts, the task has become even more difficult. In digital payments, it is okay for landowners to submit their required documents like PAN card, Aadhaar card and bank passbook, etc to the court, but after their unique ID code is generated they have no justification to go to the treasury. In the treasury, the landlords are unnecessarily harassed and there is a loss of interest due to delay and this process is only leading to corruption. The Punjab and Haryana High Court should simplify this process by abolishing the role of treasury. It will be more appropriate that the original or increased compensation of the acquired land be deposited in any nationalised bank in the name of the court concerned. Moreover, arrangements should be made to release the amount directly into the bank accounts of landowners as per the instructions/order of the court. Shakti Singh, KarnalP’kula road in pathetic conditionThe road entering Panchkula from the Housing Board side is in a pathetic condition as it has developed cracks and potholes. It is in need for immediate repairs. The road was blocked for 15 days to erect the “ugliest” welcome gate and commuters suffered a lot when traffic was diverted without planning and directions. My suggestion to the administration is to recarpet this patch during night without making the public suffer by blocking the traffic and stretching a night’s work to several days. Secondly, the traffic lights on the intersection of Sectors 8 and 18 are always defunct, leading to a chaos during peak hours. If at all, cops can be seen standing under trees issuing challans only instead of directing the traffic. At least, the traffic signals on this roundabout should be made functional in case there is staff shortage to manage the situation. Madan Gupta Spatu, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-stop-covid-blame-game-243253
24-04-2021||Kurukshetra||World Earth Day celebrated||Webinar on environmentYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College celebrated International Earth Day through a webinar. College principal Maj Harinder Singh Kang said the webinar was dedicated to Swaran Singh, vice-president of the college, a great philanthropist and environmentalist who passed away on Wednesday. He said trees were also planted on the campus in his memory to mark this day. He said the webinar was hosted by the DIAS SDG lab of the college to commemorate the 51st Earth Day in which eminent people working in this field expressed their views.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-earth-day-celebrated-243254
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh help Haryana overcome oxygen crunch||Haryana today received its supplies of oxygen from Baddi (Himachal Pradesh) and Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) for the first time after the current crisis that led to resistance from the local authorities there. The state expects to get its allocated quota from Roorkie by the evening.Looking into the hurdles faced in the past two days following surge in demand, the state government has stationed its own officials at Baddi (HP), Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) and Roorkie (Uttarakhand) to ensure hassle-free supplies from the three states.Gurugram hospital looks to CentreHaryana Home, Health and Family Welfare Minister Anil Vij confirmed that the state has already received its allocated quota of 20 MT oxygen from Inox Barotiwala (Baddi) and 20 MT from Inox, Bhiwadi.He said the supply of 25 MT oxygen from Air Liquide, Roorkie, is expected to arrive by the evening.The Centre had, on April 21, issued a supply plan of medical oxygen for the states under which Haryana was allocated 162 MT oxygen.Of this, 80 MT is to come from Air Liquide, Panipat; 7 MT from Jindal Steels, Limited, Hisar; 20 MT from Inox Barotiwala; 20 MT from Inox Bhiwadi and 25 MT from Air Liquide, Roorkie.“I have appointed Dr Saket Kumar, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, Haryana, as the nodal officer for supply of medical oxygen and told him that neither our government hospitals nor the private distributors should face any issues related to medical oxygen,” said Vij.Meanwhile, shortage of drug Tocilizumab persists across the state, like in other parts of the country.A senior officer of the FDA said that the availability of Tocilizumab is unlikely before May 1.“Drug manufacturer company Cipla distributes Tocilizumab manufactured by Roche Pharma and the consignment of the drug is likely to arrive in India on May 1,” he said.Tocilizumab is an immunosuppressant, commonly used for rheumatoid arthritis, and marketed as actemra by Swiss pharma company Roche. The drug is an anti-IL-6 receptor-a monoclonal antibody that is indicated for the treatment of IL-6-mediated inflammatory disorders. It calms the inflammatory storm in the respiratory system by blocking IL-6 receptors.While Gurugram and Faridabad continue to face an acute shortage of ICU, ventilator and oxygen beds for Covid patients, the situation is relatively better in other parts of the state.“We don’t have any shortage of beds in the government sector. Nor there is any shortage of Remdesivir in government hospitals and medical colleges. As far as the private hospitals are concerned, they have to arrange their own stocks of Remdesivir,” Vij added.Meanwhile, Director General of Health Services, Haryana, Dr Veena Singh has constituted committee of doctors/ consultants at the district level to monitor the use of Remdesivir. “It has been reported that the injection Remdesivir is being used indiscriminately by doctors in Haryana,” Dr Veena Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rajasthan-himachal-pradesh-help-haryana-overcome-oxygen-crunch-243255
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||High Court to states: Put in place pandemic control measures||As India witnessed the world’s highest single-day spike with more than 3.32 lakh new Covid cases, the High Court today directed the states of Punjab and Haryana, along with the UT Chandigarh, to put in place pandemic prevention and control measures. Among other things, the UT and the states were asked to depute health and municipal staff to initiate punitive action against those wearing masks below the nose.Follow mask etiquette: CourtThe states also undertook to prevent fleecing by hospitals and other medical institutions and act promptly on grievances of the public. Shaken out of administrative inertia by the High Court after its decision to monitor pandemic control measures, the states also made it clear that judicial members would be included in their grievance redressal district nodal committees.As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Haryana Additional Advocate General Ankur Mittal submitted that nodal agencies in every district, headed the deputy commissioners, were already functional. The Legal Services Authority secretary — a judicial member — would also be its part. The committee would hold a meeting in every district daily. The administration would respond promptly to calls on the helpline number or received by any committee member.Punjab state counsel VM Gupta added the state had no objection to the committee’s formation on similar lines. He submitted designated helpline number 104 had already been assigned for all types of grievances. “We, thus, direct that needful be done at the earliest,” the Bench added.Assurances of deputing more personnel to attend to the calls and activation of the PCRs/beat system were also recorded by the Bench, with a direction to give wide publicity to the numbers for making the public aware and instill confidence.Advocate Navkiran Singh brought to the court’s notice that certain private hospitals were charging exorbitant fee and fleecing the public following lack of control by the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-to-states-put-in-place-pandemic-control-measures-243256
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||11,854 new Covid cases, 60 more succumb in Haryana||Haryana reported a single-day spike of 11,854 Covid cases and 60 deaths, taking the tally to 4,02,843 and the toll to 3,643 on Friday.Gurugram reported a maximum of 4,319 cases, followed by Faridabad (1,450) and Sonepat (915).Gurugram reported nine deaths, followed by Faridabad (8), Hisar and Panipat (7 each) and Jind and Sonepat (6 each).While five deaths were reported from Panckula, four deaths were reported from Bhiwani and three from Fatehabad. Kurukshetra and Yamuna Nagar reported two deaths each. There are 64,057 active cases in the state while 3,35,143 patients have been discharged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-854-new-covid-cases-60-more-succumb-in-haryana-243258
24-04-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||4 held for trying to sell O2 cylinder for Rs 90K in Gurugram||The CM Flying Squad today arrested four persons who wanted to sell nine oxygen cylinders for Rs 90,000 each. The market value of one is Rs 12,000.After getting a tip-off, a special team, including the drug controller and the police, was set up. The team arranged a decoy customer who contacted the gang members. The members called him in Sector 38 and finalised the deal for the 48-kg cylinder at Rs 90,000. The squad arrested two persons when the decoy customer was given a cylinder.The accused revealed that their gang leader Bhupender Yadav was in Awas Society in Sector 39 here. A raid was conducted and the gang leader along with his one associate was nabbed from the flat.The arrested accused have been identified as Bhupender Yadav, Rajesh, Satyam and Dharmender.“Yadav revealed that he was running a healthcare solution business, but had recently started black marketing of oxygen cylinders. They brought 10 cylinders and sold one for Rs 70,000 yesterday. We have recovered nine oxygen cylinders and a car from their possession and are questioning them. An FIR has been registered against all four at the Sector 40 police station,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-held-for-trying-to-sell-o2-cylinder-for-rs-90k-in-gurugram-243259
24-04-2021||Panipat||325 kg narcotics seized, in Panipat, one arrested||The police have nabbed a man allegedly for drug peddling and seized 325 kg and 465 gram of ‘ganja patti’ and a truck from him. A case has been registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused has been identified as Shakeel of Malakpur village in Kairana of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh.After getting a tip-off, the team of Crime Investigation Agency (CIA-1) nabbed Shakeel with 23 packets of ‘ganja patti’ from near Karhans village turn in Samalkha.During primary interrogation, accused Shakeel informed that he, along with one of his fellow driver, brought the consignment in a truck from Andhra Pradesh. Both planned to smuggle the drug in small quantities to avoid arrest and parked the vehicle at Udyog Vihar in Gurugram, the SP said.Along with Shakeel, the police team went to Udyog Vihar, Gurugram, and seized the truck. The team brought the vehicle back to Panipat in which 296 kg ‘ganja patti’ was found.The accused was produced in court and has been taken on police remand, said Inspector Rajpal, in charge, CIA-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/325-kg-narcotics-seized-in-panipat-one-arrested-243260
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||900-gm heroin recovered in Sirsa||In a major breakthrough, the police have busted an inter-state drug racket and arrested three persons from Sirsa district.The police also recovered 900 gram of heroin that was to be supplied in Rajasthan and Punjab areas, besides Ellenabad in Sirsa.Giving this information here today, a police spokesperson said the recovered heroin was worth crores of rupees in the international market.The heroin was seized by a team of the Anti-Narcotics Cell during checking of vehicles at a check-post on the Hisar road.The arrested persons have been identified as Amandeep Singh, a native of Punjab; Gurmeet Singh of Rajasthan; and Nanak Singh, a resident of Ellenabad in Sirsa.Initial investigation revealed that they had brought the contraband from Delhi for supply in Rajasthan, Punjab and Ellenabad. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Amandeep and Gurmeet Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/900-gm-heroin-recovered-in-sirsa-243261
24-04-2021||Sonepat||Farmers' protest: Youths gherao Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, want Parliament march announced||Scores of protesting youth farmers on Friday gheraoed the farmer leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Kisan Andolan office at Kundli here.The protesting youths also sat on dharna there for around two-and-a-half hours and demanded the announcement of the programme for ‘Parliament march’ which the SKM had announced earlier. The SKM leaders pacified the youths and sent them back to their protesting place.Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik raps Centre on farmers’ stirThe SKM meeting was also postponed today due to some internal issues.A meeting of farmer leaders of the 32 protesting farmer groups of Punjab and a meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) was scheduled for today at the Kisan Andolan office in Kundli.After the meeting of the leaders of the 32 groups, the leaders of SKM, including Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU leaders from Uttar Pradesh and others, entered the meeting hall but the meeting of the SKM was postponed due to some internal reasons, said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal).As the SKM leaders came out of the meeting hall, scores of young farmers reached there in trolleys and gheraoed the farmer leaders. They forced the farmer leaders to listen to their demands before going outside the Kisan Andolan office.The maximum youths among the protesters were from Punjab. Some youths are from Haryana, said sources. Some youths were associated with Lakha Sidhana, gangster-turned-social activist, some belong to Student for Society (SFS) organisations and some youths were associated with Navdeep Singh Jalbera of Ambala.The youths demanded that the farmer leaders should announce the programme for ‘Parliament march’. The farmer leaders tried to pacify the youths, but they were not ready to hear them out.After that, the farmer leaders held a meeting at the spot and decided not to talk on any issue with the youths today, said sources. The youths were pacified and sent back to their protesting sites.Darshan Pal Singh, president, Krantikari Kisan Union and a member of SKM said, “We have pacified the youths that their sentiments are welcome but their way of expressing those is wrong. This is a movement of farmers and no decision will be taken under any pressure.” Their demand would be discussed in the next meeting of SKM, maintained Darshan Pal.Notably, the SKM had announced the ‘Parliament march’ programme earlier but due to some internal reasons, the programme was delayed by the SKM leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-youths-gherao-samyukt-kisan-morcha-leaders-want-parliament-march-announced-243263
24-04-2021||Hisar||Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik raps Centre on farmers’ stir||Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik has described the attitude of the Centre towards the farmers’ agitation as “tyrannical” and “condemnable” while adding that attempt was made to “torpedo” and “defame” the agitation instead of opening up dialogue with the protesting farmers.The Governor has responded to a letter by Independent MLA from Charkhi Dadri Sombir Sangwan who is also ‘pradhan’ of Sangwan khap. Sangwan — on behalf of the kisan mahapanchayat held on April 11 at Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani district – had written a letter to Malik seeking his views regarding the farmers’ stir.Sangwan told The Tribune today that he got a two-page letter from the Governor on Whatsapp today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meghalaya-governor-satyapal-malik-raps-centre-on-farmers-stir-243264
24-04-2021||Yamunanagar/Ambala||Rain affects wheat harvesting, purchase||Untimely rain affected procurement and lifting of wheat from grain markets of the district today. Of the 3.06 lakh MT of wheat procured in 13 grain markets and purchase centres till April 22, 1.86 lakh MT (60.66 per cent) was lifted.About 1.2 lakh MT (39.34 per cent) of wheat were lying in grain markets on Thursday evening. The pace of lifting was slow today because of bad weather, said sources.Several bags were soaked in the rain.Shiv Kumar Sandhala, district president, Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association, claimed agencies are not lifting the produce within 72 hours of procurement, resulting in delay in payment to farmers.He also claimed arhtiyas were facing shortage of gunny bags.Untimely rain also affected harvesting as combine harvesters could not function in wet fields.Anil Kumar, a farmer from the district’s Lal Chhappar village, said: “Now, combine harvesters will be used after a couple of days once the fields dries up.”In the Ambala City grain market, thousands of bags of wheat were soaked in rain today morning. The good news is that not much damage has been reported.Arhtiyas said untimely rainfall would further hamper procurement and lifting of the produce.Labourers were seen dragging rain-soaked bags and draining out rainwater from the grain market.Duni Chand, president of the Ambala City Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said: “The produce is supposed to be lifted within 72 hours of procurement, but the stock keep lying in the open for six to seven days. Agencies must lift their procured stock from the markets on time. The agencies should increase the number of trucks for transporting the produce.”Meanwhile, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) workers led by party’s vice-president Prakash Bharti and district chief Shishpal Jandheri visited the grain market and criticised the state government for poor lifting.District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) Rajeshwar Moudgil said, “Nearly 65.55 per cent of the stock has been lifted. Efforts are being take this figure to 75 per cent. Wet bags are being dried up. Market committee officials have been asked cover all bags.”Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said, “Nearly 90 per cent of the total produce has been brought to Ambala grain markets. This year, the procurement has been around 2.97 lakh MT against last year’s procurement of 2.38 lakh MT.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-affects-wheat-harvesting-purchase-243265
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officer transferred||The government today transferred HCS officer Vandana Disodia from the post of Additional Director (Admin), Elementary Education, to Additional Secretary in the Planning Department. In another order, Sachin Gupta, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Ambala, and Administrator, MC, Ambala Sadar, was given additional charge of Sub Divisional Officer, Ambala (Cantt) and Estate Officer for Management of Government Land in Excised Area, Ambala (Cantt). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-officer-transferred-243266
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda slams Haryana govt over chaos in mandis||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today criticised the government for the chaos in the mandis.He advised the government to improve the procurement process as all its claims had fallen flat and farmers of the state were suffering.The former Chief Minister, who has been hospitalised due to Covid, said he had been receiving complaints from all over the state that the procurement had not been timely, lifting had been delayed and farmers had not yet received payments for their crops.“Besides the government’s apathy, bad weather has increased farmers’ troubles as about 30 lakh metric tonnes of wheat is lying under the open sky in the mandis due to the lack of lifting as the ready-to-lift scheme launched by the government has failed completely. The government claimed that under this scheme, the contractor would have to lift the wheat from the mandi within 48 hours, but heaps of wheat are lying in the mandis,” he said.“The government should compensate the farmers for the loss caused by wheat getting wet in the rain and till then, tarpaulins should be provided in the mandis,” he said.Highlighting the shortage of gunny bags, he said farmers were not even able to find a place to keep grains in the mandis which was delaying purchases.“Claims by the government that farmers would be paid within 48 to 72 hours has also been proved to be false and only a few selected farmers have been paid so far though the procurement started from April 1,” he said.“Farmers are facing government neglect everywhere, whether in the field, in the mandi or at the Delhi border. The farmers have to be the priority for the government otherwise it would pay the price for ignoring them. The government must understand that any country or state will be happy only when its farmer is happy,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-slams-haryana-govt-over-chaos-in-mandis-243267
24-04-2021||Ambala||10 mobile phones seized near Ambala prison||As many as 10 mobile phones were recovered from three packets, which were thrown inside the Central Jail, while another was recovered from a jail inmate in the past 24 hours.DSP, Security, Central Jail, Rajiv Kumar, said on Thursday two packets, which were thrown inside the jail located in Ambala City, were recovered with the help of dog squad in which eight mobiles, three chargers, and an earphone were kept. Another packet was recovered near tower number-3 in which a mobile phone, along with a SIM card, and a charger were kept. During inspection, the Vigilance team recovered a mobile from inmate Anwar.On Friday, a packet was recovered near tower number-9 in which a mobile, and a damaged charge were kept. Four cases have been registered under the Prisons Act at the Baldev Nagar Police Station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-mobile-phones-seized-near-ambala-prison-243268
24-04-2021||Jind||Two dead  after drinking poisonous lassi in Jind district||Two persons died and five others are in a critical condition after consuming lassi in which accidently a lizard fell and was blended in Padana village of Jind district on Friday.After making lassi, the family had distributed it among the neighbours, which was a daily routine. Around nine persons fell ill soon after consuming it. They were rushed to different hospitals. Later, the family spotted a piece of the lizard in the container. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-dead-after-drinking-poisonous-lassi-in-jind-district-243271
24-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gang nabbed trying to sell oxygen cylinder for Rs 90,000 in Gurugram||Amid the rising cases of COVID-19 and an acute medical oxygen shortage across the country, the CM flying squad on Friday busted a gang of black marketers of oxygen cylinders and nabbed four accused.The team recovered nine oxygen cylinders from their possession which they wanted to sell for Rs 90,000 per cylinder while the market value of one of Rs 12,000.The CM flying squad got secret information about the black marketer gang of oxygen cylinders and a special team was formed with drug controller and police of Sector 40 police station.The team arranged a decoy customer who contacted the gang members.The members called him in Sector 38 and they finalised the deal of 48 kg cylinder in Rs 90,000. At the decided spot when the decoy customer reached with the team, they asked them to take cylinder from Brezza car and the team nabbed two people.The accused revealed that their gang leader identified as Bhupender Yadav is present in flat 101 in Awas society in Sector 39.A raid was conducted and the gang leader along with his one associate was nabbed from the flat. The four accused were arrested and nine oxygen cylinders were recovered.The arrested accused are identified as Bhupender Yadav, resident of village Kishanpura in district Jind, Rajesh, resident of Patikara village in district Mahendergarh, Satyam of Bihar and Dharmender Punia of Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan.“The gang leader, Bhupender Yadav, revealed that he runs his healthcare solution business but started black marketing of oxygen cylinder in this crucial time. They brought 10 cylinders and sold one in Rs 70,000 yesterday. We have recovered nine oxygen cylinders and Brezza car from their possession and are questioning them. An FIR has been registered against all four at Sector 40 police station,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-nabbed-trying-to-sell-oxygen-cylinder-for-rs-90-000-in-gurugram-243139
