25-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Four die from oxygen shortage at Gurugram hospital||Four critically-ill COVID patients died in a Gurugram hospital on Sunday, police said—a development the family puts down to oxygen shortage at the hospital.Police said that the four were patients at the privately-owned Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road. A relative of one of the victims called to alert the police, which in turn confirmed the deaths from the hospital.“Four patients died in Kathuria hospital and we are at the hospital now. The cause behind death is not clear yet and we are talking with the hospital and families of the deceased. We will take action according to the complaint”, said ASI Ranvir Singh, the investigating officer in the case.Police said doctors' statements confirmed that the patients were critical.Families meanwhile say that the patients died because of oxygen shortage---a claim seemingly countered by the district administration, which says the hospital still had three hours of supply. The administration issued a statement saying that they were trying to arrange for more oxygen for the hospital, but said nothing about the deaths.Sources at the hospital however say they had alerted government authorities at noon on Sunday that they were running out of oxygen and appealed for more.Hospital authorities could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-die-from-oxygen-shortage-at-gurugram-hospital-244076
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt offices to function with 50% staff||Amid a spike in Covid cases, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that all IT sector and corporate offices in six districts — Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Panchkula, Karnal and Sonepat — would remain closed till May 3. The government offices in all districts will work with 50 per cent staff.He said no lockdown would be imposed in Gurugram and Faridabad, but work from home would be followed wherever possible. Chairing a state-level meeting, the CM asked the state industry to work in shifts. “Covid cases have been on the rise and the government is taking steps to control it,” he said. For vaccinating the population above 18 years, government hospitals would administer doses free of cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-offices-to-function-with-50-staff-243678
25-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Admn ropes in saints to spread awareness||Don’t fleece migrants, travel agents warned Hisar: After getting complaints of charging of excessive fare on transportation from migrant labourers heading home, the district authorities have cautioned the tour and travel agencies to cancel their permits. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admn-ropes-in-saints-to-spread-awareness-243794
25-04-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij gets first dose of Covaxin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-gets-first-dose-of-covaxin-243793
25-04-2021||Jhajjar||BJP ex-MLA Dariyav Singh Rajora passes away||Ex-MLA and BJP leader Dariyav Singh Rajora (75) passed away at his house in Jhajjar city on Saturday after suffering from a prolonged illness. People from all walks of life attended his last rites and paid tributes to the departed soul. Ram Kumar Rajora, son of the deceased, said his father was elected MLA from Jhajjar (Reserve) in 1991 on the ticket of Lok Dal, while he romped home victorious second time as an Independent candidate in 2000. TNSChandigarhNotice to HPCC spokesmanHaryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja on Saturday issued a show-cause notice to party spokesperson Amardeep Singh Brar. Media coordinator of the state unit Nilay Saini said Brar violated the constitution of the party by speaking against its leaders on the electronic media on Friday. Brar has to explain his position within 48 hours. TNSJJP appoints 10 dist chiefsThe JJP on Friday appointed 10 districts presidents of its youth wing in a bid to strengthen its organisational structure. Ravinder Sangwan, state JJP unit chief, said Ravi Dahiya would head the Sonepat unit and Vipin Yadav Rewari unit. The other district chiefs are: Jai Prakash Bhali (Rohtak), Silk Punia (Hisar), Uttam Ghanghas (Karnal), Upendra Kadian (Jhajjar), Jasdeep Singh (Ambala), Teju Rao (Gurugram), Deepak (Panchkula-Urban) and Amit Saini (Panchkula-Rural). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-ex-mla-dariyav-singh-rajora-passes-away-243792
25-04-2021||Sunit Dhawan---||Good Samaritans set up 200-bed facility in Rohtak||Tribune News Service Rohtak, April 24 With the healthcare facilities getting overloaded due to the rapid rise in the Covid cases in the recent past, a group of social organisations and philanthropists have joined hands to set up a 200-bed quarantine centre in Rohtak. The centre has been established with the efforts of Swami Parmanand of Jan Sewa Sansthan (JSS), Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal, local industrialist Rajesh Jain and Naresh Dhall among other volunteers of MTFC, a voluntary social organisation.  “Following an appeal by the district administration, the building of a JSS school located on the Bhiwani road on the outskirts of Rohtak city has been converted into a residential quarantine facility,” said Swami Parmanand. The Covid patients who do not have adequate space and resources to stay in isolation, owing to financial constraints will get lodging, food, medicines, books and Wi-Fi facilities free of cost for 14 days, he said.  Apart from this, cooked food will be supplied on the doorstep of the families where all members have tested positive for Covid. “Meals will be prepared on the JSS premises and volunteers will distribute food packets on the doorstep of the Covid-hit families,” Dhall said.  As per the managers of the centre, the persons desirous of availing the facilities can come to the centre with their Covid report and Aadhaar card.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/good-samaritans-set-up-200-bed-facility-in-rohtak-243689
25-04-2021||Jhajjar||Finally, farmers at Tikri get vaccinated||The district administration finally succeeded in persuading protesting farmers camping at the Tikri border to get vaccinated against Covid. In all, 10 farmers received the jab at a vaccination booth today. The booth was set up three days ago, but no farmer turned up during the first two days even as the number of farmers at the Tikri border continued to increase.  Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of the BKU (Lakhowal), said: “In the Thursday’s meeting with administrative officials, farmers’ organisations had made it clear that they did not have a problem with anyone getting vaccinated. The outfits had also said they would not force anyone to get the jab. It would be a personal choice.”  He added many farmers had already got themselves vaccinated in Punjab.  The number of farmers is increasing at the Tikri and Singhu borders as the harvesting is over.  Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said, “A team of doctors was in constant touch with protesting farmers and motivated them to get vaccinated. It is good some farmers have come forward, leading by example. It is hoped that the number will increase.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/finally-farmers-at-tikri-get-vaccinated-243690
25-04-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha opens one side of Delhi border for emergency services||Sonepat, April 24The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday claimed to have opened one side of all highways at the Delhi border, where farmers have been camping for months to protest the new laws, to ensure free passage for oxygen tankers and ambulances amid the Covid crisis.Farm leaders, however, alleged that the Delhi Police hadn’t removed the barricades so far.Notably, in a meeting of the SKM leaders with the officials of the Haryana Government in the PWD Rest House in Rai on Thursday, it was decided that barricades from one side of the road would be removed for free passage to the emergency vehicles — ambulances, oxygen vehicles and fire brigades.In a joint statement, the SKM leaders — Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Maula, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yudhvir Singh and Joginder Singh Ugrahan — said it had been almost 150 days for the farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi. Covid is spreading rapidly in Delhi and patients have died due to the lack of oxygen in many hospitals.Extending condolences to all those who died due to the virus or are infected, the SKM leaders said we had opened one side of the road and emergency services were availabe at every protest site.Although the Delhi Police have not removed the barricades, the vehicles coming or going to the Capital are not facing problem on the part of the farmers, the leaders claimed.Farmers are helping Covid warriors to reach their destination, the SKM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-opens-one-side-of-delhi-border-for-emergency-services-243691
25-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||Patient load up, health infra starts to crumble in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 24With the Covid crisis deepening, the district health infrastructure, it seems, is unable to cater to the rising number of patients in the district.An aged woman was rushed to the local Civil Hospital, but had to wait for nearly three hours on the footpath before getting a bed. Her family members said the hospital refused to admit her, stating that all beds were occupied.The woman was brought to the Civil Hospital from Hansi after her condition deteriorated on Friday evening. Her family contacted eight private hospitals before finally getting a bed after the recommendation from a prominent personality. The medical staff have taken her sample for the Covid test and the report is awaited.Meanwhile, Dr Ramesh Punia, a biologist in the Civil Hospital, said he was getting flooded with phone calls asking for the availability of beds in government and private hospitals in the district. “I am feeling helpless as the Covid cases are increasing every day,” he posted on Facebook.Hisar DC Priyanka Soni said, “We have added 100 beds and six hospitals have been turned into dedicated Covid centres. Five helpline numbers have also been launched for any Covid-related queries.”In Jind, 7-day wait for Covid reportThe Health Department has issued a notice in Jind, stating that the Covid test reports of people gave their samples on April 17 was available while those who submitted on April 18 and onwards had to wait. This indicated that the waiting period for the test report is about one week in Jind. The report of 3,129 samples is awaited in Jind district. TNS60 more succumb, 10,491 new cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patient-load-up-health-infra-starts-to-crumble-in-haryana-243692
25-04-2021||Parveen Arora---||Oxygen shortage has Karnal hospitals on toes for hours||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 24 Oxygen crisis prevailed in the city for around four hours today owing to delay in its supply. The situation could be gauged from the fact that the oxygen stock of four hospitals out of the total 14 dedicated private hospitals was almost exhausted and the stock of two was about to get over in two hours. This created panic among the hospital authorities as well as the attendants of around 110 patients who were under treatment there. However, later supply from Roorkee gave some respite to the hospitals. Sources said Roorkee and Panipat had been assigned to cater to the needs of oxygen of Karnal by the government, but on Thursday, Karnal did not get the supply which was sent to Jhajjar. With the gap of one day supply of oxygen, hospitals, fully packed with Covid patients, started crying for oxygen. A number of ambulances and other vehicles queued up outside the godown of the oxygen supplier on the NH-44 this morning. “We have to remain on toes for four to five hours to get oxygen supply. We had to rush our ambulances and employees to the agency godown to get oxygen,” said a doctor of a private hospital. Similarly, an employee of a private hospital, said he reached around 7 am at the godown and got the supply of 15 cylinders till evening, while the requirement was of more than 40 cylinders per day. Senior drug controller Parjinder Singh was assigned the duty to streamline the medical oxygen supply in the private as well as the government hospitals.  Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said that in the morning, there was a shortage, but now the situation was under control. “We are expecting more supply from Panipat and Roorkee,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-shortage-has-karnal-hospitals-on-toes-for-hours-243693
25-04-2021||Gurugram||High drama in Manesar as oxygen tanker ‘intercepted’||High drama and panic gripped a Manesar area as a tanker carrying medical oxygen was allegedly intercepted and detained by the Rewari police. The police insisted it was empty and was impounded on the orders of the SDM.The IMT industrial association raised the issue before senior officials. Manesar-based Star Gas Company, which donated 10,000 litres of oxygen to the district administration, has been distributing oxygen to public at their Manesar plant for the past many days. The tanker of the company went to Rajasthan to get gas, but was stopped while heading back to Manesar by the Rewari police.Members of the IMT industrial association started posting on Twitter and sending WhatsApp messages, alleging the Rewari police had stopped the vehicle, while many stood waiting for oxygen outside the company premises. People alleged they waited for the tanker, but the police not only detained it for hours, but also sent it to Panipat for refilling. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-drama-in-manesar-as-oxygen-tanker-intercepted-243694
25-04-2021||---||Corporate offices to be closed in six worst-hit districts||Chandigarh, April 24  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that the IT sector and corporate offices in six districts — Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Panchkula, Karnal and Sonepat — would remain closed till May 3 up to 9 pm due to rising Covid cases.  The government offices in all districts will operate at 50 per cent attendance. Even the industry has been asked to work in shifts.  He clarified that no lockdown would be imposed in Gurugram and Faridabad. “Work-from-home should be followed, wherever possible,” he said.  The CM chaired a state-level Covid Monitoring Committee today.  “The Covid figures have been rising by the day and the government has put all its strength to control it,” he said while addressing a press conference.  For vaccinating the population above 18 years, the government hospitals would administer doses free of cost. It will cost Rs 880 crore to the state exchequer. However, in private hospitals, people have to pay Rs 600 per injection.  “The vaccination drive will start from May 1 for people above 18 years. It will be registered-based. People can choose to go at private or government facilities,” said the CM.  On oxygen demand, the CM said with the help of the Centre, the shortage had been met. “We had raised the demand of 180 MT, but are getting 162 MT. In future, we may need 200 MT for which the Centre would be approached to meet the shortfall,” he said.  “We have issued an order for oxygen from Bokaro through the train. About 6,000 MT oxygen supply would come from there. We will keep oxygen in reserve too,” said the CM. A team has been set up to monitor oxygen supply across the state. New plants will be set up for oxygen production. All private hospitals had been asked to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid patients. Earlier, the reservation was 30 per cent.  He also said that at the PGIMS, Rohtak, 1,000 beds, and in other medical colleges, 1,250 beds with oxygen had been added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/corporate-offices-to-be-closed-in-six-worst-hit-districts-243695
25-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Despite Covid surge, SDM offices flooded with wedding requests||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 24The SDM offices in Rohtak, Rewari and Narnaul cities have received 2,300 applications in the past few days for permission to hold wedding ceremonies, adhering to Covid SOPs.The situation has forced the employees at the SDM offices to work till late in evening, following the marginal gap between the submission of requests and the wedding dates. In all, 1,500 persons in Rewari, and 400 each in Rohtak and Narnaul, have so filed applications for the marriages scheduled this week.The permission for organising wedding functions is mandatory to ensure compliance of the Covid protocol. Maximum 50 persons are allowed in a closed area and the number is 200 for open spaces. No function is allowed after 6 pm, as per the latest guidelines, said an employee at the SDM office, Rohtak.“More than 250 applications have come in the past two days, forcing us to work up to 8 pm at the office,” he said.Manoj Yadav, SDM, Narnaul, said the MC had deputed one of its employees at his office to expedite the process. “Moreover, the office of the DSP (who issues the NOC to his department) was also located at the upper floor of his office, so the applicants need not go to other places to complete the formalities.”“Various teams have been formed to carry out surprise inspection at weddings. Some persons have also been issued show-cause notices for violating the protocol,” Yadav said.Rakesh Kumar, SDM, Rohtak, said granting nod for weddings without any delay was a priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-covid-surge-sdm-offices-flooded-with-wedding-requests-243696
25-04-2021||Ambala||Man booked for seeking info on Army movement||The Ambala police have booked a person for allegedly trying to obtain information about the movement of an Army unit by claiming himself to be an Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer.A case has been registered against Rahul, who claimed to be an assistant director in the IB, on the complaint of Colonel CB Rai, Officer Commanding, 2 Corps, Ambala.According to sources, Colonel Amit Mohanne, Commanding Officer, 2 Corps Provost Unit, received a call on his official landline number in which the caller, claiming himself to be Rahul, assistant director in the IB, Ambala, sought military-related information.The Colonel gave a number to him and asked the caller to contact the official concerned for the needful. Later, the caller contacted the other official and started enquiring about the movement of the Army unit by claiming himself to be an IB officer. The official didn’t divulge any information to him, but asked the caller to visit the office.Meanwhile, the IB office, Ambala, was contacted to ascertain if any person named Rahul, assistant director, IB, was posted there. It was found that no such person of this designation was posted in Ambala. The Army officer, in his complaint, stated that since the caller made deliberate calls to landlines and mobile with an aim to extracting military information, there was a requirement of establishing the detailed identity of the caller.A case was registered under Section 170 and 419 of the IPC at the Ambala Cantonment police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-seeking-info-on-army-movement-243697
25-04-2021||---||Bar Council sets aside Faridabad DBA election||Chandigarh, April 24The Election Tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) set aside the election of the District Bar Association (DBA), Faridabad, held on November 10, 2020, and ordered to hold fresh election within 15 days from April 30 after making the compliance of all necessary orders and rules.The tribunal also directed the formation of a three-member committee to conduct the poll.The election will be conducted amongst the candidates who were contesting on November 10, 2020 for their respective posts.The tribunal passed the order on the petition filed by an advocate Rajesh Bainsla. He alleged that the election was conducted in violation of the directions of the Bar Council of India (BCI), violation of the election rules of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana and was also in utter violation of the direction of the two observers appointed by the Bar Council of India.The petitioner had contested for the post of the president. He also alleged that proper procedures were also not adopted while appointing the returning officer.Meanwhile, the respondents refuted all allegations and claimed thatthe election was heldafter following all rules and procedures.After hearing of the arguments of both parties, examining the records and witnesses, the tribunal, headed by chairman Lekh Raj Sharma, reached the conclusion that the directions of the Bar Council of India and observers were not followed while conducting the election and ordered to set aside the election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bar-council-sets-aside-faridabad-dba-election-243698
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||e-property cards for 1,308 villages in Haryana||On National Panchayati Raj Day, PM Narendra Modi today launched the distribution ofe-property cards to house owners of 1,308 villages of Haryana, under the SVAMITVA Yojana, from New Delhi through videoconferencing. CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala also attended the event from Chandigarh. Modi distributed e-property cards to 1,76,579 people from 1,308 villages of Haryana. The Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar for 2019-20 was conferred upon Ambala district along with the Pataudi block, Gurugram, Siwan block, Kaithal, the panchayat of Kahnaur village in Rohtak, Shamri Lochab village, Sonepat, and Naryala village, Faridabad. Meanwhile, the Badhana gram panchayat, Jind, received the Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-property-cards-for-1-308-villages-in-haryana-243699
25-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||24 years later, HC upholds I-T Dept move to encash ‘benami’ FD receipts||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 24 Deepika and Hina were minors when they filed a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court for setting aside the Income Tax Department’s action of encashing their four fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) of Rs 20,000 each. Nearly 24 years after they moved the High Court, a Division Bench has upheld the action of the authorities after terming the transaction “benami”. After hearing the matter for just about four months, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma said it was astonished to observe that four FDRs, each made in 1996, belonged to the petitioners, along with others, who were not even having account in any bank and were living in penury. The delay in the matter may sound exceptional, but is not extraordinary. The National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has more than 6,74,250 lakh pending cases. It is suspected that many of the petitioners in these cases are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsels are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions. Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively; and with the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The HC, as of now, has 46 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. Two Judges are scheduled to retire this year upon attaining the age of superannuation. Taking up the matter despite adverse Covid conditions, the Bench observed the only moot question arising for consideration before the Court was whether the petitioners’ father/mother were having source of income for generating FDRs of huge amount of Rs 20,000 each way back in 1996. The pleadings of the petitioners were “blown away” from the statement of their own mother and guardian recorded in January 1997 before the income tax authorities. She clearly stated neither she, nor her deceased husband, had a bank account/locker. Her husband was getting Rs 600 to Rs 700 per month and they had a hand-to-mouth existence. The Bench added that it had no hesitation in holding that it was only a ‘benami’ transaction made by the employer in the name of his employee-driver. It was not the petitioners’ case that their mother/father had been continuously filing ITRs showing such income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-years-later-hc-upholds-i-t-dept-move-to-encash-benami-fd-receipts-243700
25-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Constable, wife dupe man of Rs1.8 lakh||A Constable and his wife have been booked for duping a man of Rs 1.8 lakh on the pretext of arranging a guard’s job. The accused, Vikrant and Shalu of Jhajjar’s Kheri Khumar village, were booked under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC at the Bilaspur police station on April 22 on the complaint of Sandeep of the district’s Aambwala village. In his complaint, Sandeep said he had met Vikrant through a common friend. “One day, Vikrant told me he had good relations with several officers and he could arrange a government job for me. He demanded Rs 1.8 lakh for it. In March 2020, I deposited the money in the bank account of Vikrant’s wife.” As the time elapsed, Sandeep relaised he had been duped. “Vikrant threatened me with dire consequences when I demand for my money back,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/constable-wife-dupe-man-of-rs1-8-lakh-243701
