26-04-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of medical oxygen in the state, says Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday asserted that there is no shortage of medical oxygen in the state while assuring people that the state government was geared up to ensure people do not face any problem amid the raging coronavirus pandemic.Khattar visited Panipat, Rohtak and Hisar to take stock of things amid the surge in the number of virus cases.The chief minister, who was responding to questions of reporters during a visit to Panipat, ruled out any shortage of medical oxygen in the state.“There is no oxygen shortage neither in Hisar or at any other place,” said Khattar as his response came when his attention was drawn to some deaths in three private hospitals in Rewari, Gurugram and Hisar allegedly due to oxygen shortage.He, however, said that magisterial probe has been ordered in these incidents.Notably, the kin of most of the patients who died in the incident had levelled allegations of oxygen shortage.With Haryana seeing an influx of patients from Delhi and elsewhere in the wake of the sharp rise in number of coronavirus cases, Khattar while responding to a question said, “We will treat them irrespective of the fact from wherever they may be.”Meanwhile, according to a state government statement here, Khattar said strict directions have been given to ensure maintaining of essential services like medical oxygen, antiviral drugs like Remdesivir, etc. and to take strict action against anyone indulging in black marketing or hoarding.The chief minister also visited the site in Panipat where a 500-bed dedicated COVID hospital is to be set up.He directed Deputy Commissioner, Panipat, Dharmender Singh to get the hospital constructed at the earliest.He also visited Hisar, where he gave necessary directions for setting up another dedicated COVID 500-bed hospital.Both these facilities are being set up with assistance from Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Speaking in Rohtak after taking stock of essential health services for COVID-19 patients at PGIMS, Rohtak, Khattar said no coronavirus patient will be allowed to suffer due to lack of medical oxygen.The chief minister said Haryana’s daily quota for medical oxygen has been increased to 200 metric tonnes (MT) which was earlier fixed at 162 MT by the Centre. The Central government has been requested for 240 MT of oxygen, he said.Khattar said that industrialist Naveen Jindal, who is a former MP, has also said that he will send 5 MT of liquid oxygen and people will not be allowed to suffer from the lack of the life-saving gas.He said that in view of the raging COVID-19 pandemic, an additional 650 beds are being arranged at PGIMS, Rohtak, whereas earlier 350 beds are already available for COVID-19 patients.He also said 1,250 additional beds are being arranged in different medical colleges of the state and space has already been identified for setting up 500 such beds.The structure will be erected there in the coming three-four days and soon all these beds will be available for the COVID-19 infected patients, he said.He said private hospitals are being monitored at the state level so that these do not admit more patients than their capacity and the oxygen supply for COVID-19 patients remains constant.He said COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms who do not require oxygen should remain in isolation in their homes. A health kit is being provided by the Health Department so that all of them can take care of themselves properly at home, he added.The chief minister said in this hour of crisis, the entire administration and the people of the state should work together to defeat this pandemic.In view of the surge in demand of medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients, the Haryana government on Monday appointed nodal officers/District Drug Controller officers at the district-level to ensure that there is adequate supply and proper distribution of oxygen in all the districts of Haryana, an official statement said.As per the statement, Haryana would be getting supply of 50 MT of oxygen from Jharkhand’s Bokaro, which would be used for emergency and treatment of critical COVID-19 patients.In Hisar meanwhile, Khattar held detailed discussions with top officials including Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, V Umashankar; Deputy Commissioner, Hisar, Dr Priyanka Soni and other officers for exploring the possibilities of setting up a 500-bed hospital in the premises of O P Jindal Modern School.The chief minister directed that immediate action should be initiated for setting up this hospital.In Panipat district, the 500-bed hospital would be set up in the premises of the Indian Oil Corporation Refinery, the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-shortage-of-medical-oxygen-in-the-state-says-haryana-cm-khattar-244531
26-04-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS resumes admission of Covid patients||The Rohtak PGIMS authorities, who had stopped the admission of Covid-positive patients at Trauma Centre on Sunday night due to acute shortage of oxygen, have resumed admitting patients on Monday.“The confirmed as well as suspected patients of Covid-19 are now being admitted at the triage area of the Trauma Centre, which has been functioning as a dedicated Covid Hospital,” said the PGIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya in a Press statement issued around noon today.As per sources, the PGIMS earlier used to get liquid oxygen from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan. However, it now gets it from Himachal Pradesh, which is far away as compared to Bhiwadi. As a result, the supply of liquid oxygen gets delayed due to long-distance and logistical issues.“The PGIMS also has a tie-up with a Hisar-based plant for supply of oxygen cylinders. However, the supplier has expressed an inability to provide the requisite number of cylinders as he has to supply these to private hospitals as well and the demand for oxygen has increased manifold,” maintain sources.Questioned about the oxygen crisis at the PGIMS, the Medical Superintendent stated that the consumption of oxygen had increased sharply, due to which an acute shortage had taken place.“We are deploying oxygen cylinders along with liquid oxygen supply to maintain the requisite pressure of oxygen being given to the Covid patients admitted at the Trauma Centre. The heavy consumption of oxygen can be gauged from the fact that 32 oxygen cylinders got emptied in less than an hour,” said Dr Pushpa.She further pointed out that apart from the oxygen crisis, the shortage of healthcare professionals was also a big issue at the institute.“As of now, nearly 500 healthcare workers serving at the PGIMS, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, bearers, sweepers and ministerial staff, are down with Covid,” said the Medical Superintendent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-resumes-admission-of-covid-patients-244469
26-04-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij appeals IMA to provide doctors, paramedical staff||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday appealed to Haryana IMA to provide doctors and paramedical staff as the state wants to set up extra hospitals to treat Covid positive patients, especially in Gurugram.Speaking to media persons here, the minister said “We want to set up extra hospitals at places of need especially in Gurugram. We had a discussion and some people have agreed to make arrangements in Gurugram. While one person has agreed to set up a 400-bedded hospital and provide all equipment, another person has started setting up a 200-bedded hospital, but we need doctors.I have requested the IMA to provide doctors and paramedical staff. We will make the other arrangements. In Haryana currently, Gurugram is the only place where we have issues and even in Gurugram, nearly 70 per cent of patients are from Delhi. But we have to make arrangements and we will definitely do whatever we can.”Earlier in the morning, the minister also tweeted saying: “Haryana IMA is humbly requested to come forward in this Corona crisis. We want to create extra Corona Hospitals at places of need. For that, we are in need of more Doctors. Please come forward.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-appeals-ima-to-provide-doctors-paramedical-staff-244457
26-04-2021||Rewari/Gurugram||Eight Covid patients die in Haryana, families hold protest||In Haryana, eight Covid patients — four in Rewari and an equal number in Gurugram — died at two private hospitals on Sunday. Blaming shortage of oxygen for the deaths, the kin of the deceased in Rewari held a protest on the hospital premises. The Deputy Commissioner has set up an inquiry under the ADC to probe the deaths and submit a report in 48 hours.“Our oxygen tanker was held up in Bawal this morning. We made several calls to the offices of the district administration but there was no response. As of now, we have 90 Covid patients in our hospital,” said hospital director Dr Virat, adding that an oxygen tanker had reached the hospital after the deaths.Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh said, “The district health officials told me that the oxygen quota for Rewari district was suddenly reduced. I have spoken with the Secretary (Health) and demanded the oxygen supply be restored with immediate effect,” he stated.The deaths at Gurugram too were said to be due to oxygen shortage even though the administration claimed the hospital had oxygen for three hours and that arrangements had been made to augment supplies. The police began investigations following a complaint. Four patients died at Kathuria Hospital, but the reason is unclear, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-covid-patients-die-in-haryana-families-hold-protest-244163
26-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Transporters make hay as migrants head home||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 25Private transporters are doing a roaring business in Rohtak city these days with factory workers and others making a beeline to their native villages, fearing a complete lockdown in the coming days.The transporters, who have put up hoardings such as “Bihar bus service”, “Rohtak to Bihar” in industrial areas and other localities, are charging much more than the normal fares from such commuters.“Over 600 labourers have been migrating daily via private buses on the payment of Rs 1,800-2,000 per head, which is around double the normal fare. Thousands of labourers have migrated from Rohtak so far,” said Sanjeev Singh, leader of construction workers and joint secretary of the Purvanchal Ekta Sewa Samiti.Seats on these buses can be booked by dialling the phone numbers mentioned on the hoardings. The fare is collected at the time of boarding the bus.Eight to nine buses carrying migrants leave for Bihar and UP from new vegetable market, Jind bypass, Hisar bypass and Delhi bypass daily. A transporter said they charged around Rs 1,800 from every commuter, while those in Delhi were charging Rs 2,500-3,500.Another transporter said, “It is around Rs 2,000 these days and is likely to rise to Rs 3,000-3,500 in May as there is a strong possibility of a complete lockdown after the West Bengal poll,” he added.ADC Mahendra Pal, however, said the issue was not in his knowledge. “Action will be taken against the transporters if they are charging more than normal fare,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transporters-make-hay-as-migrants-head-home-244167
26-04-2021||The picture has been taken in the HSVP ground in Sector 8 at 1 pm on Friday after the rainfall stopped. Thousands of bags are lying unguarded while those not covered with waterproof tarpaulin get wet||Government apathetic to farmers’ suffering||Withdraw inflated power chargesPeople are writhing with miscellaneous miseries caused by the ferocity of the second Covid wave. To add to the woes, the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), under its “Advanced deposit scheme”, is messaging the consumers to deposit the revised electricity charges by April 26. More shocking is that, the DHBVN never declassified the criteria adopted while calculating the monopolistic increase. It has been noticed in many cases that the power bill showing equal charges have now been revised disproportionately. This is highly autocratic and worrisome error on the part of the DHBVN. In a nutshell, the above diktat is a kind of electrocution to the consumers. The state/DHBVN should immediately rescind this fleecing draconian decision. Baljeet Singh Deep, HisarPublic toilet in dilapidated conditionThe public toilet located on the Ambala-Jagadhri road near Indira Chowk is in a dilapidated state. The front screen wall has fallen down, tiles and urinal floor is broken and dirty with no water supply. It is not only an eyesore, but also a source of stink. The authorities concerned need to pay attention to it and solve the issue at the earliest. Colonel RD Singh (retd), Ambala CantonmentIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-apathetic-to-farmers-suffering-244242
26-04-2021||Rohtak||Health worker cycles 45K km||Ambulance donatedAmbala: Ambala district has received a fully equipped ambulance which was donated by Chandigarh International Airport Authority Limited. Dr Sheelkant Pajni, a senior medical officer at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, informed that CEO Chandigarh Airport Authority Limited Ajay Kumar handed over the ambulance on Sunday under the CSR activity. While one ambulance has been given to Ambala, another fully equipped ambulance has been given to Mewat. Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The ambulance will be deployed in Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital and we have further apprised the Airport Authority about further requirements.”Teachers help mate’s kinRewari: Guest teachers working in various departments at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here have decided to donate their one-day salary for extending financial aid to the kin of their fellow teacher — Jitendra Rathi — who died of Covid last week. Jitender was engaged with the geography department and his wife is a research scholar at the IGU. Karamwati Yadav, president, IGU Guest Teachers Association, said, “We all stand with the bereaved family in this time of crisis and have given a little contribution in the shape of financial aid.” Prof SS Chahar, Dean (Academic Affairs), said, “Many regular teachers have also come forward to help the family. Hence, we have written to the head of all departments for providing names of those who want to contribute to this noble cause.”PR exercise to fight CovidHisar: As the cases of Covid continue to surge in Haryana, the Department of Haryana Public Relations has decided to change its format of issuing press releases for the media regarding Covid. In the new format, Public Relations Offices at the district level have put facts and the content in their press notes in an optimistic way. Instead of putting simple facts about the number of positive cases and deaths due to Covid, the PROs from various districts on Sunday mentioned the number of recovered and discharged Covid patients in the introduction besides giving other details of the new cases and samples taken etc. The press releases also have details of the sampling and testing spots in respective districts, availability of oxygen and Remdesivir injection and about the vaccination drive. The press notes of the district PRO offices also contain an advisory about food intake to be taken by Covid-positive persons and other precautions. Contributed by Sunit Dhawan, Nitish Sharma, Ravinder Saini and Deepender Deswal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-worker-cycles-45k-km-244240
26-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Two KU teachers awarded||Govt urged to help pvt schoolsYamunanagar: Vijay Kapur, chairman, DAV Schools, Yamunanagar, and social activist said school education had suffered tremendous loss due to Covid thus private schools were unable to pay full salaries to their staff. He said parents were not paying full fees to schools due to online classes as all students don’t have access to laptops. He said the state government could not give education to all people through government schools, thus it should help students of private schools also for supplementing the cause of literacy. He urged the government to give due importance to school education as future of India would be shaped in classrooms.World Veterinary Day celebratedKarnal: The National Academy of Agriculture Sciences (NAAS), Haryana chapter, Karnal, in collaboration with the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), conducted a webinar on “Response to Covid crisis for improving animal and human health among rural households” coincident with World Veterinary Day. In the welcome address, Dr ML Madan, convenor, NAAS Haryana chapter and former DDG (Animal Science), ICAR, conveyed to the participants the theme of the webinar and how the unprecedented Covid crisis had necessitated the role of veterinarians for improving animal and human health. More than 100 participants took part in the webinar. NAAS president Dr T Mohapatra discussed about the impact of Covid on the farming community in the country and how the veterinarians and scientists could play greater role for protecting the lives of rural households. He suggested that with emerging pandemics and 70% of diseases being zoonotic in nature, there was a need for genome sequencing of all viruses and developing big data analytics and predictive modelling to face the future challenges.Y’nagar toddler sets world recordYamunanagar: Jasreen Kaur Bamrah, a two-year-old girl of Yamunanagar, has been awarded with the International Book of Records medal and a certificate for identifying 112 cartoon characters in three minutes and 46 seconds. She has also been awarded with the title of “smartest and most inspiring baby” by the Champion Book of World Records. She won this title for answering maximum general knowledge questions. Girl’s father Malkeet Singh Bamrah and mother Harpreet Kaur Bamrah said their daughter had so far been awarded with five trophies, seven medals and 75 certificates, including national and international level. “We started her schooling at home when she was one year old,” Malkeet said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-ku-teachers-awarded-244237
26-04-2021||Rohtak||Crop gutted in 2 villages||Fire damaged standing wheat crop in two villages of the district today. The crop reportedly got damaged in Lakhanmajra and Singhpura Khurd villages.Meham MLA Balraj Kundu visited the affected farmers and inspected their fields.After taking stock of the situation, the MLA called up the officials concerned and asked them to get the damage assessed so that the affected farmers could get the due compensation.Kundu provided on-the-spot financial aid to three affected farmers, Dal Singh, Kailash and Vikas, of Singhpura Khurd village.Yamunanagar: Three acres of wheat crop and two acres of sugarcane were burnt in fire in the district’s Araiyanwala village on Saturday because of alleged sparking in electricity wires. The affected farmer, Charan Singh, demanded compensation. “I have lost my crop in fire. The state government must compensate me,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-gutted-in-2-villages-244235
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent||100 jhuggis gutted in Gurugram village||Gurugram, April 25As many as 100 jhuggis were gutted in a massive fire that broke out in Sector 52 near Wazirabad village around midnight on Saturday. No casualty has been reported.More than 10 fire engines were pressed into service to doused the flames. Meanwhile, 30 jhuggis were also saved by the fire brigade team. Short circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the fire.According to officials, they received a call at 12.38 am about the fire in slums where more than 400 people are living.Soon, the entire area was engulfed in flames as the fire officer suspected that the incident took place due to illegal electric supply, which caused a short circuit in the area. The flames spread rapidly to other jhuggis due to blasts in mini gas cylinders.After getting information, 10 fire tenders from Sector 29, Udyog Vihar, Sector 37, Bhim Nagar and DLF station rushed to the spot. Firefighters brought the situation under control in five hours.“Teams of several fire stations were deployed in the rescue and evacuation operations near Wazirabad village in Sector 52. The fire was most probably caused by an electric short circuit but itis still being investigated,” said Isham Singh Kashyap, senior fire officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-jhuggis-gutted-in-gurugram-village-244234
26-04-2021||---||Safidon nursing institute ‘violates’ Covid  regulations||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 25The government nursing institute at Safidon town in Jind district is holding classes even as the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (PBDSUHS) in Rohtak has issued directions to conduct online lectures, in view of Covid-19 crisis.According to the information, the institute has around 425 students, all girls. Students said they had been pleading with the authorities to allow them to go home as they were ready to join online classes. “We have submitted a collective request in writing to the principal of the institute, but the authorities are forcing us to stay in the hostel and attend offline classes,” a student said.Dean, academic affairs, PBDSUHS, Rohtak, issued directions to all directors and principals of the PGIMS at Rohtak and other affiliated institutes on April 22 that the university had decided to conduct online classes for MBBS/ BDS/pharmacy/nursing/physiotherapy and other paramedical courses with immediate effect.The students said nearly 30 girls at the institute had got infected in the past few days. The management allowed them to go home, while some had been quarantined at the hospital, they said.Vikram, an administrative official of the institute, said it was the decision of the competent authority at the institute to conduct offline classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/safidon-nursing-institute-violates-covid-regulations-244233
26-04-2021||---||3 booked for carving out illegal colony in Yamunanagar district||Yamunanagar, April 25Three persons have been booked on the charge of having carved out an unauthorised colony in the revenue estate of the district’s Arnauli village.On the complaint of District Town Planner Amit Madholia, a case was registered against Iqbal Hassan of Mussimbal village, Meena and Manju, both residents of Arnauli village.They were booked under Sections 3 and 7 (A) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975, at the Sadar police station, Jagadhri, on April 24.The complainant told the police that the revenue estate of Arnauli village is notified as Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Urban Area declared under Section 7 A of the 1975 Act.“The accused had carved out plots in an agriculture land without obtaining a licence from the Director of the Town and Country Planning Haryana,” alleged the complainant. He further said violators were issued showcause notices on January 18, 2021, but they had failed to reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-carving-out-illegal-colony-in-yamunanagar-district-244232
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Four arrested for IPL betting in Gurugram||The Chief Minister’s flying squad nabbed four bookies who were allegedly betting on an IPL cricket match at a guest house in Sector 38 here on Friday night.An FIR was registered and the team recovered four mobiles, a TV, set-top box and Rs 33,460 from their possession.The accused were betting on a match between the Mumbai and Punjab teams.The arrested persons were are identified as Rocky Makkad, Sunil, Kashish Gupta and Abhishek Rajput.An FIR was registered against the accused under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act at the Sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-arrested-for-ipl-betting-in-gurugram-244231
26-04-2021||---||Couple among 3 booked for duping Ambala man of Rs31.74 lakh||Ambala, April 25Three travel agents have allegedly duped a local man of Rs 31.74 lakh on the pretext of providing him a job and permanent residency (PR) in Canada.The accused have been identified as Rishabh, his wife Shivani and uncle Sanjeev.In his complaint to the police, Gaurav of Ambala Cantonment alleged that he came in contact with the trio, who claimed to be the owners of Live Holidays Travel Company. He was offered a job of chief manager of a company’s branch in Canada and also the permanent residency. He was offered a monthly salary of 5,000 Canadian dollars.The accused sought Rs 40 lakh in eight instalments and informed him that he would be provided training before sending him to Canada and the entire process will take two years. Gaurav was told that he would have to pay Rs 5 lakh for each training class.In November 2018, he was sent to Malaysia, but was not provided training any there. After making him roam, he was told that his training is over and he will get a certificate in India and was sent back. Later, he was sent to some other countries, including Dubai, Thailand and Tanzania on the pretext of training. Gaurav alleged that after returning when he asked Rishabh to send him to Canada, the latter refused owing to Covid.Later when Gaurav contacted the Canadian Embassy, he came to know that there is no company named Live Holidays Travel in Canada. He claimed that when he asked the agents to return hismoney, he was threatened with dire consequences and implicating him in a rape case. Gaurav claimed he had given Rs 31.74 lakh in six instalments so far.A case has been registered against the trio under Sections 406, 420, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-among-3-booked-for-duping-ambala-man-of-rs31-74-lakh-244230
26-04-2021||---||Four booked in Rs1-crore cheating case in Yamunanagar district||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, April 25The police have booked four persons of a family on the charge of duping two brothers of Rs 1 crore on the pretext of selling them their 3-acre agricultural land.On the complaint of Nirmal Dutt of Mansoor Pur village of Yamunanagar district, a case was registered against Naresh Kumar, his wife Santosh and their sons Rahul and Vipul, all residents of Radauri village in Yamunanagar district.They were booked under Sections 406, 420 and 506 of the IPC at the Radaur police station on April 23.Sale deed not executedNaresh Kumar and his family members took Rs 1 crore in instalments, but started making excuses when told to get the sale deed of 3 acres registered in the Dutts’ name.The complainant told the police that Naresh Kumar of Radauri was their relative.He said Naresh came to their house in 2017 and told them that he wanted to sell his 3-acre land.“We showed interest in buying the land. Therefore, an agreement was reached between my brother Khili Ram and Naresh Kumar for buying the land on December 16, 2017,” the complainant said. He said Naresh Kumar and his family members took Rs 1 crore from them in instalments, but they didn’t get the sale deed of 3 acres registered in their name by making excuses.“Later, Naresh Kumar and his family members threatened us with dire consequences when we demanded our money back. Besides, they threatened to implicate us in some false case,” the complainant alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-booked-in-rs1-crore-cheating-case-in-yamunanagar-district-244229
26-04-2021||---||Now, constable arrested in Kurukshetra passport scam||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 25The Kurukshetra police have arrested a police constable for his alleged involvement in preparing passports using forged documents in Pehowa.The accused has been identified as Constable Ashok Kumar, who was posted at the Pehowa City police station. He was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand.DSP, Traffic, Narender Singh said “Five cases were registered in connection with the passports obtained using forged documents. The police have arrested three people, including prime accused Mohit Guglani, Vikram and Sumit, in this regard. During the remand, Mohit disclosed that Ashok had helped them in obtaining passports using forged documents. The constable didn’t carry out the proper verification for passports. On the disclosure, the constable has been arrested.”The police have also recovered a laptop and Rs 1 lakh from Mohit and Rs 15,000 and a diary from Vikram, in which he used to maintain the record of such passports.Special Detective Cell incharge Vikram Singh, who has been investigating the case, said “The constable has been arrested on Sunday and we have got his one-day remand. We will ascertain how much money he charged and how many such verifications he has done.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-constable-arrested-in-kurukshetra-passport-scam-244228
26-04-2021||---||In face of farmers' protest, BJP postpones Ambedkar Jayanti event in Jind||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 25A day after the ruling BJP “deferred” its Ambedkar Jayanti event in Jind district, farmers’ organisations organised a function to mark the the Dalit icon’s birth anniversary at the Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district today.State BKU youth wing president Ravi Azad and district BKU president Azad Singh Palwan attended the function.The Ambedkar Jayanti falls on April 14, but the local BJP unit had announced to mark the event on April 25 and invited state party president Om Prakash Dhankar and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh. However, district unit chief Rajkumar Mor yesterday announced to “postpone” the event, citing surge in Covid cases.Farmers’ organisations have been opposing BJP and JJP leaders in protest against the three farm laws. They said they would not let BJP-JJP leaders enter Jind district.Social leaders Kamal Chauhan and Amar Nath said Ambedkar was a symbol of democratic values and social equality. “Unfortunately, some political forces are trying to create fissures in society and undermine the democratic values. We will not let this happen. All sections of society are united in the fight to save agriculture from the clutches of the corporate sector,” said Chauhan.Palwan said, “Farmers had dared BJP leaders to enter Jind district leaders. They did not turn up after farmers gave a call to oppose them.”Azad said farmers would continue to oppose the events of the ruling coalition leaders till the three laws were revoked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-face-of-farmers-protest-bjp-postpones-ambedkar-jayanti-event-in-jind-244227
26-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon and Ravinder Saini||Khattar’s advice on Sec 144 puts question mark on farmers’ agitation||Tribune News ServiceSonepat/Jhajjar, April 25With Haryana Chief Minister authorising Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to take a call about the imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC to avoid public gatherings in their respective districts in view of the Covid pandemic, the development has put a question mark over the continuation of the farmers’ agitation with thousands of farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri borders for the past five months.Sonepat DC Ashok Bansal said the prohibitory orders would be enforced on getting the directives from the government in black and white. “Thereafter, no one will be spared whether they are farmers or any others if they are found violating Section 144,” he added.While Jhajjar DC Jitendra Dahiya said Section 144 was already in force in the district following the farmers’ agitation and the new directives were for crowded places. He avoided answering the question about whether the prohibitory orders applied to protesting farmers at Tikri border or not.Meanwhile, Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader while reacting to the CM directives about Section 144, said it might be a new plot of the state government to spoil their agitation which was getting stronger with every passing day.“We are not afraid of such orders and will not move back without getting the three farm laws repealed. The government is now under pressure and wants to instigate us to indulge in violence, but we will not do so even when the police cane charge us. Our protest will continue in a peaceful manner until the demands are met,” Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattars-advice-on-sec-144-puts-question-mark-on-farmers-agitation-244226
26-04-2021||---||Withdraw laws if concerned about rising cases: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 25Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni today said that if the Centre was concerned about the rising Covid cases and the health of protesting farmers, it should withdraw the controversial farm laws.“Due to rising Covid cases and rumours, the Parliament march has been postponed. It will be wrong to organise the march in the present situation. Farmers will continue to protest till their demands are met. We will prefer dying there. If the Centre is really concerned about the rising Covid cases and health of farmers, it should withdraw the black laws,” he told the media here.He visited the district’s Kanwla village to participate in the Kisan Majdoor Ekta Sammelan. “The authorities wanted to test protesting farmers for Covid, but we refused point blank. Their hidden agenda is to end the protest on the pretext of the Covid pandemic,” Charuni said.Addressing the gathering, he said: “Labourers, farmers and Dalits are being exploited, but we blame each other. Farming will be captured by a few corporates. The new laws will promote hoarding and black-marketing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-laws-if-concerned-about-rising-cases-gurnam-singh-charuni-244225
26-04-2021||---||Farmers’ protest completes 150 days||Sonepat, April 25The farmers’ protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders completed 150 days on Sunday.“Our protest is an example of unity and commitment towards a just cause. The Centre tried several tactics to defame the protest, but farmers held their ground during the past 150 days.“They will not step back without getting the three farm laws repealed,” said Pargat Singh, a leader of the BKU (Rajewal).Other Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said farmers had already won the battle ethically and morally by protesting peacefully for five months. “The victory will be complete once the Centre repeals the three farm laws and assures legal guarantee on the MSP,” said Dr Darshan Pal, an SKM leader.Another SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers had already opened one side of the road for emergency services in view of the rising Covid cases and cleaned it today, but barricades put up by the Delhi Police had not yet been removed.On the KMP expressway, meanwhile, the authorities tried to re-start toll plazas again today.Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a BKU leader, said: “No toll will be charged till farmers are protesting. If the state government and toll operators try to charge the toll, they will face protest by farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-completes-150-days-244224
26-04-2021||---||Manager nabbed for selling oxygen cylinders on black market in Sonepat||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 25The police here on Sunday arrested a manager of M/s Shri Ganesh Air Products Private Limited for allegedly selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant rates by taking advantage of Covid crisis.The police also recovered 170 oxygen cylinders from the factory. The accused, identified as Kashish, was produced before a court which sent him to judicial custody.“On getting a complaint against the man, the Deputy Commissioner constituted a team comprising Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) , a medical officer and drug control officer to execute a raid at the factory. The team sent a decoy customer to the accused and a deal was struck for Rs 25,000 for an oxygen cylinder.The accused was nabbed while handing over the cylinder to the decoy,” said the police spokesman.He said the accused disclosed during interrogation that his company dealt in oxygen cylinders for industrial use, but following the rising demand of the gas due to the Covid situation, he started selling cylinders to Covid patients at higher rates to make a quick buck, the spokesman added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manager-nabbed-for-selling-oxygen-cylinders-on-black-market-in-sonepat-244222
26-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Food home delivery for infected in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 25For Covid-positive patients under home isolation, the district administration has come out with an initiative of food delivery at the doorstep.There were some requests from home-isolated patients that they have no one to cook or bring groceries for them and that they can’t go outside as it will put other persons at risk. Following the requests, the administration roped in over 20 tiffin service providers who will provide home delivery of food to Covid patients at nominal charges. The patients will be able to order lunch and dinner.Tiffin service to rescue in AmbalaThe service providers will charge Rs50 to Rs90 for a vegetarian thali with no delivery chargesThey have been told to ensure that the food is provided as per prescribed diet and in disposablesAmbala SDM Sachin Gupta said, “On the directions of DC Ashok Sharma, we have roped in tiffin service providers across the district to provide food to Covid patients on their doorstep. Their numbers are being shared with the patients. Currently, there are five such service providers in Ambala City and Cantonment while three each in Naraingarh, Shahzadpur, Barara and Saha blocks. More of them will be included soon so that patients get healthy food at nominal charges.”The DC said, “We take feedback from the home-isolated people over the phone regularly and ask if they are facing any issues and also if the doctors were reaching timely or not. Meanwhile, we came to know that in some cases, the entire family has tested positive. In other cases, people who living alone were facing some issues in getting food.“So we decided to rope in tiffin service providers who will provide food items on the doorstep of Covid patients. They will charge a nominal price for the food and nothing for delivery. The food will be provided in disposables and no utensils or tiffins will be exchanged. The patients are being provided the pamphlets on which the contact details of the tiffin service providers have been mentioned along with the price,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/food-home-delivery-for-infected-in-ambala-244221
26-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||In Gurugram, 20 PCR vans now ambulances||Gurugram, April 25Out to do its bit in the ongoing pandemic, the Gurugram police on Sunday converted its 20 (police control room) PCR vans into ambulances and deployed water cannon vehicles to sprinkle sanitiser in the crowded areas of the city.The decision was taken at a high-level videoconferencing meeting chaired by Commissioner of Police KK Rao.DOING THEIR BITThe police have invited suggestions and complaints on black marketing of oxygen, medicinesAll DCPs and ACPs have been deployed in their respective areas for supervisionThe police are not only making people aware of Covid protocols but also providing them medicinesAddressing the cops, Rao said they would also increase the strictness in dealing with the protocol violations, including wearing of masks, and issued a dedicated helpline number — 9999999953 — for the general public. The 24x7 helpline will be available for calls, SMS or through WhatsApp. The police also invited suggestions and complaints about the black marketing of oxygen and medicines.“Many people are facing difficulty in getting an ambulance or are unable to afford it. Hence, 20 PCR vans of the Gurugram police have been converted into ambulances for the convenience of people and necessary equipment has been installed in these vehicles. All these ambulances will be free to serve the patients with confirmed beds in the hospital. These are being deployed at different places in the district so that people can be helped without any delay,” he added.Rao said more than half force of the Gurugram police was deployed for Covid duty. The police are not only making people aware of social distancing and sanitisation but also helping them by providing medicines as suggested by doctors.“We are using our water cannon vehicles for disinfection. The vehicles were deployed in crowded areas and are being used for sprinkling chemical provided by the MC for sanitisation. All DCPs and ACPs have also been deployed in their respective areas for supervision,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-20-pcr-vans-now-ambulances-244200
26-04-2021||---||Traders to adopt 6 Covid centres in Rohtak district||Rohtak, April 25To reduce the load on the government and private hospitals, Rohtak District Magistrate-cum-District Disaster Management Authority Chairman Capt Manoj Kumar has roped in local industrialists to adopt six Covid care centres in the district.“We held a meeting with the local industrialists during which they were requested to take care of the basic amenities and facilities like potable water, toilets and bedding etc,” said Capt Manoj.The DM has also deputed local officials to coordinate with the industrialists in this regard and ensure the provisions of the aforesaid facilities at the Covid care centres.Actor chips inBollywood actor Yashpal Sharma has come forward to spread awareness regarding the Covid pandemic in the state. Sharma, who belongs to Haryana, has recorded audio clips in chaste Haryanavi dialect to make local residents aware of the severity of the disease and the ways and means to prevent it.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner has directed all three SDMs in the district to visit the government as well as private hospitals in the district to take stock of the availability of oxygen and redesivir etc and submit their reports by 6 pm daily.As per the orders issued in this regard, Rohtak SDM will visit the hospitals on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays; Meham SDM Major Gayatri Ahlawat on Thursdays and Saturdays and Sampla SDM Shweta Suhag on Fridays and Sundays.The SDMs have also been asked to assess the total capacity of the hospitals, the number of admitted patients and the availability of beds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-to-adopt-6-covid-centres-in-rohtak-district-244188
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Biggest spike: 64 more die of Covid in Haryana||Haryana reported the biggest single-day spike in deaths with 64 deaths on Sunday, taking the death toll to 3,767. Meanwhile, the state reported 10,985 fresh cases, taking the total number to 4,24,319.Gurugram reported a maximum of 3,410 cases followed by Faridabad (1,560) and Hisar (940).A maximum of 11 deaths were reported from Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (10), Hisar (7), Karnal (6), Ambala and Sonepat (5 each), Sirsa (4), Rewari and Panchkula (3 each), Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Kaithal(2 each) and Jind and Fatehabad (1 each).There are 74,248 active cases in the state, while 33,46,304 patients have been discharged after recovery.The Covid positivity rate is pegged at 5.95 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biggest-spike-64-more-die-of-covid-in-haryana-244187
26-04-2021||---||Remdesivir sold for Rs 23,000; one held in Gurugram||Our CorrespondentGurugram, April 25The CM squad and drug department nabbed a person who was allegedly black marketing Remdesivir injections in Rewari. His accomplice is on the run.The arrested accused has been identified as Tilak Raj, a resident of Choki Berli village and working as a salesman at a mobile shop in Rewari.He was selling Remdesivir injection for Rs 23,000 after taking it from the main accused who is working as a staff nurse in a Rewari-based private hospital.The staff nurse has been identified as Rahul, a resident of Choki Berli village. He is on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remdesivir-sold-for-rs-23-000-one-held-in-gurugram-244186
26-04-2021||---||Hoarders of essential items to face strict action: Haryana Deputy CM  Dushyant||Chandigarh, April 25Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Sunday wrote to Union Minister of Public Distribution and Food Piyush Goyal, urging the Centre to bring certain commodities under the Essential Commodities Act due to the Covid crisis.He urged the government that oxygen, oxygen cylinders, remdesivir, tocilizumab, injectable anticoagulants such as enoxaparine etc should be included in the list of essential commodities for at least six months.Dushyant strictly warned persons who are hoarding essential commodities and selling these at higher prices in the midst of the sensitive time of the pandemic.Helpline numbersNeed life-saving drugs or want to report a person found selling oxygen cylinders on the black market?Call 7087089947 or 1800-180-1314Call centre set upThe state government has set up a 24-hour call centre-cum-helpline to monitor the oxygen supply to hospitals. The Civil Surgeons will receive a call twice a day to keep tabs on the availability and requirement of oxygen.He said strict action would be taken against the violators and instructed the officials of the Food and Supplies Department to frequently monitor the availability and supply of the essential commodities.The Deputy Chief Minister, who also holds the portfolio of the Department of Food Supplies and Consumer Affairs, today took a review meeting of the departmental officers and gave the necessary guidelines.Chautala reviewed the availability and pricing of essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hoarders-of-essential-items-to-face-strict-action-haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-244184
26-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Situation no different in Karnal, waiting list for beds gets longer||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 25With the increasing number of Covid cases, the waiting list for ICU beds is getting longer in the district. At Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), around 20 patients are on the waiting list and they are being treated in the emergency ward.The situation is the same in almost all dedicated Covid hospitals of the district. In every private hospital, five to seven patients await ICU beds. Their attendants continuously call senior doctors, hoping against hope that their patient would get an ICU bed. But doctors are helpless.Making effortsAll ICU beds are occupied, but the district Health Department is making efforts to manage the situation. In all, 14 private hospitals have been turned into Covid facilities. — Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil SurgeonThe district administration’s portal mentions that all 155 ICU beds are occupied by Covid patients, 15 per cent of them are from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. As for the non-ICU beds with oxygen support, 91 out of 413 are vacant.“I receive several calls from prominent personalities of the city, requesting for an ICU bed, but I am helpless. There are no beds. Critical patients are the priority,” said a doctor of a private hospital.Another private doctor said people with heavy hearts are approaching them for beds, but they could not do anything as the beds are already occupied. Patients from UP and Delhi are coming to Karnal for beds, he added.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “All ICU beds are occupied, but the district Health Department is making efforts to manage the situation. Apart from the KCGMC, 14 private hospitals have been turned into Covid facilities.”DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The district administration has directed private hospitals except for dedicated hospitals to reserve 70 per cent of the ICU beds for Covid patients. More hospitals will be turned into Covid care centres.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/situation-no-different-in-karnal-waiting-list-for-beds-gets-longer-244171
26-04-2021||---||Rohtak hospitals face shortage of ICU beds||Rohtak, April 25With no availability of the ICU beds at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and 11 private hospitals, the Covid crisis has deepened in the district despite all efforts by the administration to tackle the situation.The circumstances have forced families of the Covid patients requiring critical care to find out the availability of the ICU beds in surrounding districts while the hospitals are also getting calls from Gurugram, Delhi and Faridabad for the ICU and oxygen-supported beds.Acute crunch}Even after having increased the number of ICU beds from five to 15, the situation remains critical. Not a single bed is vacant. People from Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad contact us for ICU beds, but we cannot admit every patient. — Doctor of private hospitalAs per information uploaded at the state government’s portal, Rohtak district has a total of 87 ICU beds and 143 ventilators to treat Covid patients. Merely four ICU beds were available at Civil Hospital in Rohtak city on Sunday, while all other ICU beds at the PGIMS and all 11 private hospitals were occupied by patients.“We have extended the ICU bed facility from five to 15 in my hospital, but the situation is critical and none of the ICU beds is available. People from Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad are contacting us daily for ICU beds, but we are unable to admit every patient due to the non-availability of the ICU beds,” said a doctor of a prominent hospital in Rohtak city.He said though the district administration was helping them to sort out the oxygen issue, all private hospitals were still struggling for getting adequate supply of oxygen. The situation might deteriorate if the supply was not improved in the coming days, he added.The PGIMS medical superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, and PRO Varun Arora neither received the calls nor responded to SMS sent to them for getting their comments over the prevailing situation.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar has roped in all three SDMs to monitor the availability of medicines and oxygen in government and private hospitals. They would visit the hospitals daily to check the supply and the stock of oxygen and remdesivir. They would also submit a report in this respect by 6 pm daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-hospitals-face-shortage-of-icu-beds-244143
26-04-2021||Rewari||4 COVID patients die in hospital in Rewari due to oxygen shortage, probe on to ascertain it||Four patients died in a private hospital here on Sunday allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen even as the district administration launched an investigation to find out the reason behind the deaths.After the incident, the relatives of some of the patients, who were admitted to the hospital functioning as a designated COVID facility, held a protest outside the building complex alleging there was a grave shortage of medical oxygen.“Three patients died in ICU while one patient died in the ward. We have limited oxygen supplies. We are repeatedly telling administration about this and have been sending them reminders,” a hospital official told reporters outside the building.“We are sending empty oxygen cylinders to the vendors to load them again. Since 9 am, we are telling the authorities that we have limited stock,” he said.He said the hospital has a per day consumption of 300 medical oxygen cylinders. “There are 114 COVID patients admitted in the hospital,” he said.Deputy Commissioner, Narnaul, Ajay Kumar, who is currently officiating as DC of Rewari district, said the allegations of oxygen shortage and four deaths were made by the hospital.“Sub Divisional Magistrate, Rewari, Chief Medical Officer, Rewari and other officials are at the hospital to find out exact reasons that led to these deaths. They (hospital) are claiming that there was oxygen shortage. However, from the administration's end, regular supply has been given. So, we are finding out where the gap arose, all this is being investigated,” Ajay Kumar told PTI over phone.Meanwhile, a relative whose aunt was admitted to the hospital could be seen pleading with some police officials outside the hospital telling them to do something immediately to ensure the facility gets adequate stock of medical oxygen.Notably, Haryana has seen a surge in coronavirus cases and fatalities during the current month. The demand for medical liquid oxygen has also increased in hospitals. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-covid-patients-die-in-hospital-in-rewari-due-to-oxygen-shortage-probe-on-to-ascertain-it-244065
