27-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Covid crisis worsens in Gurugram; MP for curfew, administration seeks medical volunteers||Gurugram, April 27As medical manpower is exhausting in Gurugram, the local administration has appealed to retired and self-employed medical and paramedical personals to join the fight against Covid-19.Those interested in lending a helping hand have been asked to register and provide services as and where required.Gurugram has been recording an average of 3,500 cases daily for the last four days and there has been an immense rush for hospital beds and oxygen. Many hospitals have been reporting not just exhaustion of their resources but also manpower with many themselves falling prey to the disease. This has made administration to look for extra help.“We are facing our biggest challenge and city needs to fight it unitedly. People especially medical personnel need to come forward and help in any which way they can. I appeal to volunteers, retired doctors, MBBS students and nursing staff to come forward to help people in this difficult time. They can register them on- http://bit.ly/Medical/Volunteer_GGM,” said DC Garg.Meanwhile, Gurugram MP Rao Inderjeet Singh expressing concern over deteriorating condition of city has moved to the CM seeking a complete curfew. Asking state government to deviate from its efforts to avoid lockdown, Singh has demanded curfew to break transmission and give breather to health infrastructure. Local MLA Sudhir Singla has also written to the CM and PM seeking special measures for thwe city. He has claimed that everything is collapsing and he feels helpless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-crisis-worsens-in-gurugram-mp-for-curfew-administration-seeks-medical-volunteers-244972
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 11,000 liquor bottles seized in Haryana||The Haryana Police on Tuesday seized over 11,000 liquor bottles that were allegedly being smuggled to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in two separate incidents, officials said.Acting on a tip-off, they impounded a truck from Rohtak district and seized 4,644 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) packed in 387 cartons. The consignment was found concealed under packets of potato chips, police said.The driver of the vehicle, Rajbir alias Raju, a resident of district Sonepat, was arrested, they said, adding that the seized liquor was to be smuggled from Rohtak to Bihar.In another incident, the police seized 6,372 IMFL bottles in Nuh district. The consignment was being smuggled in a truck from Sonepat to Uttar Pradesh.When the police team signalled a truck bearing UP registration number to stop on Nuh-Taoru road near village Bawla, the driver tried to escape.Police chased the vehicle and intercepted it. The driver, Shokeen Khan, and his accomplice Haider Ali, both residents of Nuh, were arrested in this connection. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-11-000-liquor-bottles-seized-in-haryana-244952
27-04-2021||Rohtak||2 COVID patients dead due to oxygen shortage: Rohtak hospital||Two covid patients died at a private hospital in Rohtak on Tuesday due to oxygen shortage, said hospital authorities.After the hospital advised attendants to shift their patients to other hospitals, a protest erupted outside its premises.Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla denied the deaths due to shortage of oxygen."There is no shortage of Oxygen in the district and it is being supplied in adequate quantity to every hospital," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-covid-patients-dead-due-to-oxygen-shortage-rohtak-hospital-244933
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt sets up control room to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen||In view of a rise in COVID-19 cases, the Haryana government has set up a control room here to ensure equitable distribution and an adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen in the state.          The government also said that all efforts are being made to increase the production of medical oxygen.  Amid the rapid rise in COVID-19 cases and while realising the need to meet the current surge in demand for medical oxygen across the state, the Haryana government has set up the control room at the Civil Secretariat here, an official statement said.  “Further, to ensure equitable distribution of oxygen allocated by the government of India for Haryana and ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen within the state, a state-level oxygen control room has been set up,” it said.    The control room is also mandated to perform other vital functions, including ensuring safe movement of oxygen tankers from manufacturing plants to districts and ensuring each district is informed of daily allocation is issued by the health department, the statement said.  It will also ensure each district issues its own distribution plan and operates an early warning system, it said.Haryana on Monday recorded the biggest single-day jump in COVID-related fatalities with 75 deaths while the state also registered yet another big jump in infections with 11,504 cases.  The state has recorded a big spike in cases in April and as of April 27, the state has over 80,000 active cases.The demand for medical oxygen has also risen manifold in the state in recent days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-sets-up-control-room-to-ensure-uninterrupted-supply-of-medical-oxygen-244930
27-04-2021||New Delhi||'Shooter Dadi' Chandro Tomar contracts coronavirus, admitted to hospital||Octogenarian shooter Chandro Tomar, nicknamed 'Shooter Dadi', has tested positive for COVID-19 and admitted to a hospital due to difficulty in breathing.The Twitter page of the 89-year-old legendary shooter, hailing from the Baghpat village in Uttar Pradesh, posted the development."Dadi Chandro Tomar has tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to a hospital due to breathing problem. God protect all - Family," a tweet on her page read.'शूटर दादी' चंद्रो तोमर जी के कोरोना संक्रमित होने के समाचार प्राप्त हुए है। ईश्वर से मैं उनके शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ की कामना करता हूँ। @realshooterdadi pic.twitter.com/y8VCVZUoIA  Chandro was already 60-plus when she picked up the gun for the first time but went on to win many national competitions, even inspiring a Bollywood movie on her life.She is believed to be the oldest woman sharpshooter in the world. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shooter-dadi-chandro-tomar-contracts-coronavirus-admitted-to-hospital-244927
27-04-2021||---||Ambala procures 200 empty  oxygen cylinders from suppliers||Ambala, April 26The district administration on Monday procured 200 empty oxygen cylinders from industrial gas suppliers and directed them to ensure that no cylinder is supplied for industrial use.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said there were some requirements related to empty gas cylinders so they had procured 200 cylinders from industrial suppliers, which would be handed over to the Civil Surgeon.“With an increase in the availability of gas cylinders, we will be able to increase oxygen-supported beds in the district. As of now, there is no shortage of oxygen. We are creating a 100-bed facility in Mullana. We have directed the market associations to ensure that the Covid guidelines are being followed,” the DC added.Earlier in the day, the DC held a meeting with industrial gas suppliers and asked them to ensure that no oxygen cylinder is supplied for industrial use or given to individuals.ETO Vijender Dhankar has been appointed as the nodal officer and directed to keep a close watch on the supply of oxygen. If any vehicle was found moving with oxygen for industrial supply, it should be impounded and action be initiated, the DC added.Later in the evening, the Deputy Commissioner along with SSP Hamid Akhtar and Civil Surgeon Kuldeep Singh visited MM Hospital and CHC, Mullana, where a Covid ward and a dedicated centre are being run.More macro-containment zonesThe district administration has declared Jandli, Luxmi Nagar, Parshuram Nagar and Sector-9 in Ambala City, and Dayal Bagh, Palam Vihar and Ram Nagar in Ambala Cantonment as macro cantonment zones. The gathering and movement of people in these areas have been strictly prohibited. Markets, shops and religious places will remain shut till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-procures-200-empty-oxygen-cylinders-from-suppliers-244718
27-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Blood plasma bank in Ambala soon||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 26Amid the rising Covid cases, the district administration has set up a call centre to identify plasma donors and prepare their database.The centre has been set up at Digital Library, Ambala city, with the help of four teachers from ITI and Polytechnic Women, Ambala City. More than 400 calls were made since Sunday afternoon till Monday afternoon and 30 persons gave their consent. These persons will be screened to check if they are medically fit to donate plasma.Additional Senior Medical Officer, Ambala, Dr Sukhpreet Singh said “On the directions of the Deputy Commissioner, a centre has been established and recovered Covid patients are being called and asked about their consent to donate plasma. There is a plan to set up a plasma bank in Ambala.”SDM, Ambala City, Sachin Gupta said, “While making the calls, the teachers are motivating people and telling them how plasma is important in saving the lives of critically ill patients. The objective is to make at least 400 calls per day so that within three weeks from now, the district has a final repository of recovered patients, who would be willing to donate plasma.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-plasma-bank-in-ambala-soon-244719
27-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Delhi patients’ attendants a new challenge for department||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 26Already struggling to tackle the increasing number of Covid cases, the Health Department is up against another challenge as the attendants of Covid patients from Delhi are being detected positive in random sampling.As per the information available, around 30 per cent of the beds of private hospitals in the city are occupied by patients from Delhi. Their attendants are roaming in the city, staying in hotels and dharamshalas, posing high threat of spreading Covid among residents of Karnal district.There are around 360 ICU and non-ICU beds in 16 private hospitals of the city. Of those, around 110 beds are occupied by patients from Delhi, said sources in the department.Keeping this in mind, the health authorities conducted random sampling in hotels and dharamshalas on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. In it, four persons, who were attendants of a positive case, were detective positive. Now, the Health Department is keeping vigil on attendants also.“After the issue came to our notice that attendants of Delhi patients are staying and roaming in the city, we got random sampling conducted in which four attendants tested positive,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon.He appealed to the attendants to get themselves tested and take necessary precautions to tackle the surge.Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, also appealed that the attendants should be considerate about other people and should take necessary precautions.Most test positive in random sampling||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-patients-attendants-a-new-challenge-for-department-244720
27-04-2021||---||30-bed ICU being set up at Kalpana Chawla hospital||Karnal, April 26With the increasing demand for ICU beds, the authorities have started the process to set up an additional ICU of 30 beds at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), taking the number of the ICU beds to 86 at KCGMC. It is expected to be functional by Tuesday evening.At present, the KCGMC has 56 beds and all are filled with the patients of four districts of the state and patients from Delhi and other areas. Besides, the health authorities have turned 16 private hospitals into dedicated Covid hospitals where there are 233 non-ICU beds with oxygen support and 127 ICU beds, says the data of the administration website.Besides, a 50-bed Covid care centre for mild symptom patients will be established at Panchayat Bhawan. Earlier, a Covid care centre with the capacity of 250 beds was established at community centre in Phoosgarh.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said that they have been making efforts to increase the number of beds. The establishment of an additional ICU and setting up of Covid care centre is part of the efforts.Section 144 imposedDistrict Magistrate Nishant Kumar Yadav on Monday imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in wake of increasing number of Covid patients and also to ensure the safety of the residents. Under this Act, the assembling of four people or above is prohibited.One-Week lockdownKeeping in view the increasing number of cases in Sector-7 and Sector-8 part-II, Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma recommended the sectors as macro-containment zones. There are a total of 350 cases in both areas. DM Yadav has imposed lockdown in both sectors for a week.Financial aidMP Sanjay Bhatia along with Gharaunda BJP MLA Harvinder Kalyan, Assandh Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi and Indri BJP MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap reviewed the preparedness of the district to tackle the dreaded virus. The MP has extended support of Rs 25 lakh for 30 ICU beds at the KCGMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-bed-icu-being-set-up-at-kalpana-chawla-hospital-244721
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Protest against Khattar foiled, 35 detained in Faridabad||More than 35 persons, including Congress activists, who assembled to protest the Chief Minister’s visit to Gold Field Hospital, Chhainsa, were detained today in Faridabad. They were released an hour later.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar went to Faridabad’s Chhainsa village on Monday to take stock of the situation at a hospital.People here planned to show black flags to the Chief Minister, accusing the government of not preparing for the pandemic. Local Congress leader Rakesh Tanwar, along with his supporters, staged protest and raised slogans against the government. They were rounded up about 20 minutes before the arrival of CM Manohar Lal Khattar.The protesters were taken away in a police van and sent to City police station, Ballabhgarh, where after noting their details, they were released after the CM left for Gurugram. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-against-khattar-foiled-35-detained-in-faridabad-244722
27-04-2021||---||More oxygen-supported beds||Chandigarh, April 26Amid the shortage of oxygen and beds in hospitals, Haryana has decided to add 3,850 more oxygen-supported beds.Senior IAS officer PK Das, who has been specially deputed for increasing the bed strength, said in the next seven days, 2,750 oxygen-supported beds would be added in medical colleges. At present, there are 1,750 such beds.“About 100-beds will be added in Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hospital in Faridabad by Thursday which will be manned by the Army personnel,” said Das.He added that oxygen in gas form is available at the Panipat IOCL refinery and Jindal Steel facility in Hisar. But for transportation, it has to be converted into liquid state. “We are planning to set up 500-bed facility each in Panipat, near the IOCL refinery and Hisar near the Jindal Steel facility. The oxygen will be directly supplied there. These will be temporary hospitals. These will come up in the next 15 days. The work has started,” he said.“We are carrying out analysis of our needs in the coming days by extrapolating figures,” he said. On oxygen shortage, he held a meeting with Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Vijayendra Kumar, for diverting industrial oxygen for medical use.“We will need over 200 MT oxygen per day in the coming days. At present, we are getting 162 MT per day. I hope we will be able to meet the demand through industry,” he said.He said the state had enough number of ventilators.On the shortage of beds in Panchkula and Gurugram, he said a temporary hospital would come up in Gurugram. “The Command Hospital under the Western Command would be approached for help,” he added.Rohtak: CM Manohar Lal Khattar has said the state government was making all-out efforts to supply medical oxygen in adequate quantity to Covid patients.“Haryana has an oxygen quota of 162 MT. It has been increased to 200 MT. Besides, 240 MT of oxygen has been sought from the Centre. The number of beds earmarked for Covid patients was being increased from 350 to 1,000 at the PGIMS,” he told the media after having taken stock of the healthcare services at the PGIMS here today.CM inspects site for hospitalHisar: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday inspected Om Prakash Jindal Modern School, the site which has been finalised for a temporary Covid hospital here. It will be one of the two 500-bed hospitals announced by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The other one will be in Panipat. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-oxygen-supported-beds-244723
27-04-2021||---||Vij: Deaths in Hisar, Rewari to be probed||Chandigarh, April 26Health Minister Anil Vij has said Covid-related deaths in Hisar and Rewari would be investigated.It is alleged that Covid patients died because of shortage of oxygen.“The inquiry reports will be available by tomorrow,” Vij said after the state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting today.He further said MBBS and final-year PG students studying in medical colleges would be deployed for Covid duties.The minister ordered that 20 vehicles of Dial 112 would be deployed in each district as ambulances.Vij appealed to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Haryana chapter, to help the state with doctors and paramedical staff in view of the surge in Covid cases.He tweeted: “Haryana IMA is humbly requested to come forward in this Corona crisis. We want to create extra Corona hospitals at places of need. For that, we are in need of more doctors. Please come forward.”Vij later told the media, “The government wants to set up more hospitals at places were the situation is critical, especially in Gurugram. We had a discussion and some people have agreed to help. One person has agreed to set up a 400-bed hospital and provide medical equipment in Gurugram.”Meanwhile, the state government has demanded about 20,000 remedesiver injections from the Centre. So far, 1,000 out of 20,000 injections have been made available. About 3,000 injections will be available by Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-deaths-in-hisar-rewari-to-be-probed-244724
27-04-2021||---||75 die; testing dips||Chandigarh, April 26With 11,504 new Covid cases and 75 deaths, the overall tally of the state reached 4.36 lakh today.However, only 35,523 samples were taken today. It is far lower than what was on Sunday when 46,989 samples were taken. On Saturday, 49,069 samples were taken, as per a media bulletin.Among casualties, Hisar reported maximum of nine, followed by seven each in Gurugram and Sirsa, six each in Faridabad, Fatehabad and Sonepat, four each in Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Jind, three each in Karnal, Panipat and Rewari, two each in Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Kaithal and one in Nuh.Gurugram reported maximum fresh cases numbering 3,555, followed by Faridabad 1,545, Hisar 908, Sonepat 711 and Karnal 673.As many as 6,211 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and at present, there are 79,466 active cases in the state.Lockdown in 3 Faridabad zonesGurugram: The Faridabad administration has imposed lockdown in three micro-containment zones for a week. There are 3,291 patients in zone 1, 2,389 in zone 2 and 1,751 in zone 3. District Magistrate Garima Mittal has imposed the lockdown till May 2 up to 6 pm. Besides, she imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-die-testing-dips-244725
27-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||257 bodies cremated in Rohtak this month||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 26Pushed to the brink, crematoriums in the district are being overwhelmed by the horrific wave of Covid. In the past week, the district recorded a six-fold increase in the number of cremations of Covid patients, a grim reminder of the pandemic that has devastated the country.On April 19, eight Covid victims were cremated. And seven days later, the number rose to 50.Sources say 257 bodies have been cremated with Covid protocols in Rohtak city this month so far. The number was 65 till April 18. Another 192 bodies were cremated in the next eight days.Initially, a crematorium near the Vaish Education Society was used for cremating eight bodies in two shifts in a day. As the number of deaths increased, the MC raised the cap to 16 a day. Still that was insufficient to perform the last rites of all Covid victims. So, the MC dedicated another crematorium on the Jind road to Covid victims.The delay in cremating the bodies has added to the agony of families already devastated by loss of their loved ones. They have to wait for at least a day for the last rites, while mortuaries of the PGIMS are running out of space.Pradeep Godara, MC Commissioner, said: “Two crematoriums have been dedicated to Covid victims. Now, 52 bodies can be cremated in a day. It is hoped that there will no delay in performing the last rites.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/257-bodies-cremated-in-rohtak-this-month-244726
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran’s parents  die of Covid||The parents of former Congress minister and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry passed away in Delhi today.People close to the family said Choudhry’s father Brig Atma Singh (retd) died in the morning, while her mother Sarla Devi passed away in the evening.It is learnt that both died due to Covid.Posting a tweet in the night, Choudhry said, “It is quite painful to see both my mother and father passing away on the same day.”DSP passes awayJhajjar: DSP Ashok Kumar posted at Badli died of Covid at an extension centre of AIIMS in the district’s Badhsa village on Monday. He was 50. He was admitted to the hospital last week after having tested positive. Ashok’s cremation was performed at Thana Khurd village in Sonepat district. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kirans-parents-die-of-covid-244727
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nod for gatherings to be given in day||The Haryana Government today streamlined the procedure for providing permission to organisers of public gatherings in consonance with the current Covid containment guidelines.  Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, Sanjeev Kaushal, said the organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations would submit their application in the office of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) in any suitable form – in hard copy or through e-mail on official e-mail ID provided by the DCs. The office of the DC would, on the same day of the receipt of the application, send the soft copy of the application through e-mail to the Commissioner of Police, Superintendent of Police or Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, and Municipal Corporation, Council or Committee concerned, for obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC). If the office concerned does not have any objection, they would provide their NOC by 11 am the next day. In case any office fails to provide the objection on the application by 11 am, the application would be deemed to have been cleared. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-for-gatherings-to-be-given-in-day-244728
27-04-2021||---||UHBVN eases norms for power connection||Chandigarh, April 26The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has made the process of getting new electricity connection easier. Now, there is no need to give a test report from a licensed contractor or a self-certified document for power connections up to 50 kW. Earlier, the load cap was 20 kW. While applying online, it has to be mentioned that a licensed electrical contractor or a designated government officer has tested the internal wiring of a premises and that the test certificate is available with the applicant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uhbvn-eases-norms-for-power-connection-244729
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||26 HCS officers transferred||Haryana Government has issued posting and transfer orders of 26 HCS officers and one HPS officer with immediate effect. Kuldhir Singh, CEO, Zila Parishad, Rewari, and CEO, DRDA, Rewari, has been posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Kaithal, and CEO, DRDA, Kaithal.  Kamal Preet Kaur, CEO, ZP, Kaithal, and CEO, DRDA, Kaithal, has been posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Rewari, and CEO, DRDA, Rewari. Dalbir Singh, CEO, Zila Parishad, Jind, and CEO, DRDA, Jind, has been given additional charge of Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Jind.  Bharat Bhushan Gogia, Estate Officer, HSVP, Rohtak, has been posted as District Municipal Commissioner, Kurukshetra, while Meenakshi Dahiya, Deputy Secretary, Urban Local Bodies Department, has been posted as Deputy Secretary, Finance Department. Mahesh Kumar, Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Bhiwani, has been posted as CEO, Zila Parishad, Rohtak, and CEO, DRDA, Rohtak. Dr Kiran Singh, Joint Director (Admn), Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes, Haryana, and Deputy Secretary, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department, has been given additional charge of Member Secretary, Vimukt Ghumantu Jati Vikas Board. Sandeep Aggarwal, Sub-Divisional Officer Civil, Hodal, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Bhiwani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-hcs-officers-transferred-244730
27-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Daily positivity rate surges to 22 pc, transmission rate up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26The daily positivity rate has surged to over 22 per cent and reproductive number to (R Naught value) 1.36 in Haryana, as the state witnessed 60 per cent increase in weekly cases and double the number of deaths in the last seven days over the preceding week.Haryana saw 67,348 new cases during the week from April 19 to 25 against 40,090 cases during the week from April 12 to 18, which is more than 60 per cent surge in seven days.During the same period, deaths due to Covid-19 surged to 352 from 147, an increase of 139 per cent in a week.Also, 352 mortalities during the past seven days were the highest-ever deaths in seven days in the state ever since the pandemic began in March 2020.According to the weekly status report of Covid-19 in Haryana compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (ICDP) of the Health and Family Welfare Department, the highest daily positivity rate touched 22.15 per cent during the last week.During the past seven days, the Health Department collected 3,09,224 samples, of which 67,348 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19), making it a weekly positivity rate of 21.77 per cent.With 32.01 per cent, Faridabad district has the highest positivity rate where the authorities tested 29,820 samples for 9,546 positive cases.Sonepat 29.42 per cent (18,116 samples for 5,332 cases) is another district with higher positivity rate, while Panchkula, with 2,317 positive cases from 14,766 tests, had a relatively lower positivity rate of 15.69 per cent.Meanwhile, the transmission rate in the state has also surged from 1.04 in the beginning of April and 1.27 during the week ending April 18 to 1.36 during the week that ended yesterday.The transmission rate, also referred to as reproductive number, or simply termed as R Naught (R0) value, is an estimate of the total number of healthy persons being infected by an already infected person.The transmission rate of 1.36 in case of Haryana means that a group of 100 persons will pass on the infection to 138 other healthy persons.High mortalityA total of 352 mortalities in past seven days were the highest-ever deaths in seven days in the state ever since the pandemic began. The transmission rate of 1.36 in state means that a group of 100 persons will pass on the infection to 138 healthy persons||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/daily-positivity-rate-surges-to-22-pc-transmission-rate-up-244731
27-04-2021||---||SKM to supply food to Delhi hospitals||Sonepat/Jhajjar, April 26 Under the coordination of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM ) constituents, farmers sitting on several borders of Delhi will distribute food packets and other important goods to the hospitals of Delhi.  Giving this information through a press note, SKM leaders said farmers on the Ghazipur border had already started distributing food at the bus terminals, railways stations and hospitals of Delhi.  The packing process will be started on the Singhu border tomorrow while a group on the Tikri border has announced the launch of essential services and asked people to contact the morcha if anyone in Delhi has a problem regarding the availability of food. “The citizens of the country are themselves helping each other when the government machinery has collapsed. In Delhi, when people are in a bad condition of health, serving each other is an example of fraternity and unity. Vehicles of oxygen or other services are coming on the way of the farmers’ protest. Volunteers are helping those vehicles to reach the destination with full help. The farmers’ movement honours human values,” said Dr Darshan Pal, a SKM leader. Abhimanyu Kohar, another farmer leader, said they were fighting for secure and fair prices of their crops and it was not illegitimate. It may be the aim of the government to suppress the agitation of the farmers to keep the corporate houses happy, but the farmers would not withdraw from this movement until the repeal of the three laws and the legal recognition of MSP, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-to-supply-food-to-delhi-hospitals-244732
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sandhu is chief of police plaint authority||The Haryana Government today appointed retired IAS officer Navraj Sandhu as the Chairperson of Haryana State Police Complaint Authority with immediate effect. An official spokesman said that in addition, retired IPS officer Kamleshwar Kumar Mishra and retired IAS Ramesh Chand Verma have been appointed as members of the authority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sandhu-is-chief-of-police-plaint-authority-244734
27-04-2021||Rohtak||Space crunch for bodies at Rohtak hospital||With the instances and mortality of Covid cases increasing by the day, the bodies of Covid patients from Rohtak and other districts of Haryana are piling up at the PGIMS here. The capacity of the sites earmarked for the cremation of the bodies of Covid patients is also limited, which aggravates the situation. As per sources, nearly 50 bodies were lying at the institute on Monday, though only eight bodies of Covid patients could be kept at the PGIMS mortuary and four at the trauma centre. The sources maintained that  the dissection hall at the institute’s mortuary was being prepared to accommodate more bodies. Dr Sarita Maggu, Acting Director, PGIMS, stated that the situation was tough, but under control. “Our doctors and staff members have been working relentlessly to tackle the unprecedented situation witnessed due to the prevalence of the pandemic. All possible arrangements are being made for the cremation of the bodies of Covid patients as per the prescribed protocol,” said the director. Dr Pushpa Dahiya, medical superintendent, PGIMS, stated that the bodies were being sent to the sites earmarked for cremating the bodies of Covid patients on a regular basis, but their capacity was limited. “We have appealed to the municipal authorities of the nearby districts as well as social organisations to help in getting the bodies cremated,” she affirmed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/space-crunch-for-bodies-at-rohtak-hospital-244735
27-04-2021||---||Jind doc’s effort to help woman in vain||Hisar, April 26The deputy civil surgeon of the Jind Civil Hospital is earning kudos for his quick action to rush a woman who needed urgent medical assistance on a stretcher by grabbing her in his hands at the gate of the hospital in the Jind town today.The woman, however, could not be saved as she died during the treatment. She was anaemic and eight-month pregnantThe video of Dr Ramesh Panchal lifting the woman in his hands and rushing up to the stretcher has gone viral on the social media.Dr Panchal said he spotted the woman sitting in a vehicle as her attendant was waiting for a stretcher. “I looked around and found no supporting staff of the hospital. Sensing the critical state of the patient, I decided to lift her in my hands and rushed her inside the hospital,” he said.The woman had tested negative in the RT-PCR test for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-docs-effort-to-help-woman-in-vain-244736
27-04-2021||---||Keep marriage halls ready for emergency: CS||Chandigarh, April 26Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan has directed the deputy commissioners of all districts to identify and keep ready two or three marriage palaces, banquets or other big spaces in their respective districts for emergency use.He directed the DCs to set up quick-response teams and appoint nodal officers and send a report to the headquarters as soon as possible.He directed to open grocery and chemist shops as per the roster system even after 6 pm in crowded areas.The Chief Secretary was presiding over a meeting of the crisis coordination committee here today. Reviewing the availability of oxygen, he said the DCs could appoint a nodal officer for proper allocation of oxygen supply to small hospitals with the help of the IMA in their respective areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/keep-marriage-halls-ready-for-emergency-cs-244738
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Man booked for manhandling live-in partner, her kin||Gurugram, April 26A Delhi Police commando has been booked for allegedly manhandling his live-in partner and her relatives. The accused is currently deployed in the security of a minister.According to the complaint filed by the victim, a south Sikkim native working as a staff nurse at Medanta Hospital, she had been in live-in relationship with Ramesh Chettri, also a native of south Sikkim, for the past five months. She had gone to Bengaluru and returned on Saturday.She said Ramesh came to pick her from the Delhi airport, where a fight broke out between them.She said after the fight, she came to her sister's house at Chakkarpur village, where Ramesh also came late in the evening. He forcibly entered her sister’s house and stabbed her husband Bikash. He again came back on Sunday morning and threatened to kill all of them.On the basis of the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the Delhi Police commando under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 452 (house trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-manhandling-live-in-partner-her-kin-244741
27-04-2021||Ambala||Honour for arts teacher||National webinar on Eng literatureKurukshetra: To mark UN English Language Day, Markanda National College, Shahabad, (M) organised a national webinar on “Indian Literature in English”. Dr Sandeep Sheoran outlined the theme of the event and commenced the proceedings. Dr Bimlesh Singh, Associate Prof, Central University of Bihar, Motihari, was the keynote speaker. Dr Vikram Kharab, department of English, Kurukshetra University, discussed the trends of modern writings in Indian literature. Scholar from across the country presented their research papers.Date sheet for PG coursesKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University (KU) has finalised the examination schedule of postgraduate courses of university teaching departments/institutes and some courses being run in affiliated colleges/institutes. Dr Hukam Singh, Controller of Examinations, said PG examinations would commence from May 17. The date sheet has been uploaded on the university website. He said the mode of the examinations would be intimated one week before the commencement through admit cards/roll number slips keeping in view the prevailing situation of Covid-19 at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honour-for-arts-teacher-244744
27-04-2021||THE state government is regularly updating||Need to follow SOPs||Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaPandemic of mismanagementDR Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS-New Delhi, recently stated that the nation is paying the price for utter negligence by successive governments, which never gave priority to the health sector. The health infrastructure has been in a pitiable condition for long. The situation has come when patients are lying on footpaths and in ambulances and no one is attending to them. In Haryana, hospitals are referring Covid patients to Rohtak or Agroha, which are already overcrowded. The authorities have mismanaged the Covid situation.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaContaminated Drinking waterUnderground water in Sector-23, Panchkula, contains a high TDS level, which is bad both for kidneys and gallbladder. The reason: a garbage dumping ground in the area. A sum of Rs 200 crore has already been spent on the Kaushalya Dam to ensure safe drinking water supply to the Ghaggar par sectors. If there is a direct connecting pipe from the dam to Sector-32 water works (Gumtha village), the problem will be solved to a great extent.Kewal Krishan Singla, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-follow-sops-244755
27-04-2021||---||Selja calls for jabbing on war footing||Chandigarh, April 26HPCC president Kumari Selja today wrote a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressing concern over the fast spreading Covid infection in Haryana.Selja called for a war-level vaccination campaign in the state to overcome the infection as soon as possible. Along with this, she also asked for adequate supply of oxygen in the hospitals of the state.In the letter, Selja said that the state of Haryana was going through a big crisis at this time as Covid infection is spreading rapidly.“The number of deaths is increasing day by day. At the moment, the vaccine is only a ray of hope. But the speed at which Covid vaccination is taking place, it will take several months,” she said.She suggested that MBBS and nursing final year students could be used in Haryana to run the vaccination campaign on a war footing. For this, these students should first be vaccinated and after that, they should be trained and inducted into this campaign. She alleged due to shortage of oxygen, people were dying in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-calls-for-jabbing-on-war-footing-244756
27-04-2021||Vishav Bharti & Sushil Manav||Only 1 oxygen hospital plant working in Punjab, none of six in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26Even as the Centre announced installation of three oxygen plants in Punjab last year, it could set up only one. The Centre was to install 162 plants across the country under the PM Cares Fund. The three plants in Punjab were to be installed at the government medical colleges in Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar. The plant at the Faridkot college became functional last month.Tanu Kashyap, MD, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, said they had submitted a site preparation certificate to the Centre on December 31 last year. “We were told the vendor who was allotted the contract had backed out and that government agencies would do the needful,” the MD said.Still worse, none of the oxygen plants announced for six Haryana districts — Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Ambala, Sonepat and Panchkula — are functional. Machinery for the plants was supplied to the district hospitals nearly two-four months ago. Hisar Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said the company responsible for the installation was to be blamed for the delay. A senior doctor in Ambala, who did not want to be quoted, said the company had assured them that the plant would become functional by Wednesday. Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, Karnal Civil Hospital, said the hospital authorities had provided the site for the plant in January and the machinery too had arrived in February. “However, till date , we have no information when the engineers of the company will arrive for the installation work,” Dr Sharma said.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said the oxygen plants would be functional within a day or two. “I have been informed that merely inspection by a central team is pending. That done, the plants will become functional,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-1-oxygen-hospital-plant-working-in-punjab-none-of-six-in-haryana-244684
27-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||5 die in Hisar for want of oxygen, probe on||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 26Five Covid-19 patients died at Soni Burns Hospital here today due to oxygen shortage. While the hospital management blamed it on delay in supplies, DC Priyanka Soni called it sheer negligence on part of the hospital.“We have three oxygen suppliers in the district. Had the hospital contacted us, we would have made arrangements for the supply,” she said, adding that a magisterial inquiry into the deaths had been ordered and the matter referred to the District Medical Board. Refuting the negligence charge, Dr Rajat Soni of Soni Burns Hospital claimed he had repeatedly sought the assistance of the district authorities for the oxygen supply and posted messages on the WhatsApp group created for the purpose. An official source said Dr Soni posted messages at 4.07 am, saying that patients on the ventilator would die because of the delay in supply and that oxygen at the hospital would last only 30 minutes. A senior health official replied within 10 minutes and rushed to the plant for ensuring the supply. At 4.50 am, the hospital posted another message to inform that four patients had died. The fifth patient died 30 minutes later. Among the deceased was a resident of Mansa district in Punjab. The families of the victims held a protest outside the hospital. 3 more deaths in Rewari hospitalThree more Covid patients have died at Virat Hospital in Rewari because of oxygen shortage. “Their condition worsened on Sunday after the hospital ran out of oxygen. They were put on ventilator but two died at night and the third on Monday morning,” said hospital director.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-die-in-hisar-for-want-of-oxygen-probe-on-244679
27-04-2021||---||Haryana Cong MLA Kiran Choudhry’s parents die of Covid-19||Chandigarh, April 26Congress MLA from Tosham, Kiran Choudhry on Monday lost her parents to Covid-19.Her father Brig Atma Singh (retd) and mother Sarlat Devi passed away in Delhi due to Covid.While the father passed away in the morning, the mother succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cong-mla-kiran-choudhrys-parents-die-of-covid-19-244540
27-04-2021||---||5 Covid patients die in Hisar hospital; families allege oxygen shortage||Deepender DeswalTribune News ServiceHisar, April 26A desperate plea from a Hisar hospital in the small hours of Monday morning sent district officials scurrying a nearby oxygen plant.“Patients on ventilator will die because of delay in oxygen supply,” the text on Whatsapp said.  “Only 30 minutes of oxygen left.”  The SOS made district administration swing into action---two officials were at a plant within 10 minutes.  Even all their hurry could not guarantee timely supply---40 minutes after the said text, while a hospital vehicle waited in vain for critical oxygen, four patients breathed their last. A fifth died 30 minutes later.The cause for such delay? A snag, forcing the plant to close down for two hours and wasting precious time.According to sources, the oxygen manufacturing plant developed snag and remained close for nearly two hours, leading to the delay in supply to the hospital. One of the patients was from Punjab’s Mansa, another from Delhi, and three from Hisar.  Angry and inconsolable, their families blamed the delay on the hospital and district officials. As they gathered outside the hospital in protest, local police were dispatched in heavy numbers to prevent any escalation.Manoj, brother of one of the victims, said he’d pleaded with the hospital and even managed to find one in another hospital. But even that proved in vain—by then, his 43-year-old brother was counting his last breaths.  The hospital charges, he said, were exorbitant—Rs 25,000-30,000 a day.He claimed the hospital charged Rs 25,000 for getting remdesivir injections—a scarce commodity that remains one of the most sought-after drugs in India during the pandemic despite international experts having discredited it for no proven record of being effective against the deadly coronavirus—from the black market.“We are being fleeced. We pay through our noses to ensure the hospital guarantees the lives of loved ones. And then this happens. This is negligence,” a patient’s relative said as protesters gathered outside the hospital.The hospital however denies any willful negligence on its part.“We’ve been asking the district administration for oxygen,” said Dr Rajat Soni, who was authorised to speak on behalf of the hospital. “We kept a vehicle waiting outside the plant. I kept the district administration updated on the condition of my patients.” He claimed he even accompanied a patient’s relative to another hospital to find a cylinder.The district authorities also deny they had any role in the delay, blaming the hospital for neglecting to alert them in time about oxygen shortage. Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni ordered a magisterial inquiry into what caused the deaths and also referred the case to the District Medical Board for Negligence for an investigation into possible negligence on the part of the hospital.She said: “We have three oxygen suppliers in the district. Had that hospital rang us up, we would have provided the supply”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-covid-patients-die-in-hisar-hospital-families-allege-oxygen-shortage-244443
