28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gets additional supply of medical oxygen||The government of India has increased the supply of medical oxygen of Haryana to overcome its shortage, an official said on Wednesday.The oxygen quota has been increased from 162 to 232 metric tonnes per day by the government of India, the official spokesperson told the media here.The official communication in this regard was received on Tuesday.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gets-additional-supply-of-medical-oxygen-245377
28-04-2021||Deepender Deswal||NCR, Punjab patients flood Hisar hospitals||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 27Hisar hospitals are flooded with queries for admission, ICU beds and ventilators from Covid patients in Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and the National Capital Region, including Gurugram and Noida.Sources said out of around 1,000 Covid patients admitted to 31 hospitals in Hisar, around 350 (35 per cent) are from outside Haryana. Hisar hospitals are also getting patients from adjoining districts of Jind, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani. One of the hospitals here has 20 patients from Delhi.Sources say some of the hospitals are admitting patients beyond their capacity. “The death of five patients at a private hospital yesterday is a case in point. Among the deceased patients, one was from Mansa (Punjab) and another from Delhi. The hospital did not have adequate oxygen cylinders to deal with the emergency situation, leading to a tragedy,” said a hospital official.A Civil Hospital official said, “We are receiving calls for beds with oxygen from Delhi and NCR. Managing the situation is becoming difficult for us. Most of such patients contact us through their Hisar-based relatives and we cannot deny medical care to anyone in case vacant beds are available.”“The portal meant to show the availability of beds mentions that Hisar has 1,137 beds (865 beds, 272 ICUs and 150 ventilators) and 239 of these are vacant. On checking the availability, patients from Delhi and NCR rush to Hisar for treatment,” said a relative of a Covid-19 patient.Hisar DC Priyanka Soni admitted that patients from Delhi, NCR and other states were coming to Hisar. Keeping in view the patients’ number, the district has been allotted around 8 MT oxygen daily. “Hospital admitting patients beyond their capacity have been warned and told to follow the norms strictly,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncr-punjab-patients-flood-hisar-hospitals-245167
28-04-2021||---||In Ambala, banks told to establish  help desks||Ambala, April 27Following a rapid rise in cases, the administration has directed all banks in the district to establish help desks for customers and ensure strict compliance of the Covid protocol.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma, in his orders, said a huge rush was being observed in the banks and to contain the Covid spread, the lead district manager has been directed to ensure that help desks were established with sufficient staff at the entrance for catering to the needs of visitors. “A token system should be introduced for customers.” The banks have also been directed to ensure that no central AC is used.Meanwhile, Naraingarh SDM Vaishali Sharma imposed a fine of Rs15,000 on a marriage palace for flouting the Covid norms. As per information, a wedding was organised at Chawla Palace on Monday and the number of guests was more than the permissible limit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-ambala-banks-told-to-establish-help-desks-245231
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Impose Sec 144,  Vij directs DCs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/impose-sec-144-vij-directs-dcs-245219
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana nod to Rs9.4 cr for Covid measures||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-nod-to-rs9-4-cr-for-covid-measures-245218
28-04-2021||DESPITE the rising Covid cases in the state||Throwing norms to the wind||Farmers’ stir must end nowTHIS refers to “Khattar’s advice on Sec 144 puts question mark on stir” (The Tribune, April 26). Surely, banning the assembly of more than four persons is a better option to curfews and lockdowns to tame the Covid monster. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and others must shed bolt defiance of logic and law in the guise of farmers’ agitation. There is no room for protests in the current situation. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaLet’s be kind to natureEVEN after the visit of a WHO team to China, nothing concrete has been found about the origin of Covid-19, although the most prevalent presumption being the transmission of the virus from mammals ie, bats to humans. Indiscriminate butchering of birds, animals, reptiles, mammals, beasts, aquatics etc in slaughterhouses might be the core reason and probable cause of origin of the dangerous virus. Let’s stop transgressing our boundaries by respecting the nature, living, non-living, moving and unmoving beings, which will make this world far safer and humane. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/throwing-norms-to-the-wind-245217
28-04-2021||Hisar||University gets award||Media adviser to HAU VCHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) has appointed Dr Sandeep Arya as the media adviser to Vice Chancellor (Prof) BR Kamboj. Dr Arya is associate professor in the forestry department. Dr Arya thanked the VC for reposing faith in him.Online UG/PG exams postponedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, has postponed the online UG/PG examinations, which were scheduled for May 1. The Controller of Examinations, Dr BS Sindhu, said the decision had been taken in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/university-gets-award-245215
28-04-2021||Ambala||Mystery over woman’s death||Mystery shrouds the death of a woman whose body was found in Ambala Cantonment. Her paramour was found injured at the same spot.The deceased has been identified as Manisha while the injured as Manjeet.SHO, Ambala Cantonment, Vijay Kumar, said the man had been admitted to the Civil Hospital. As per preliminary investigation, both of them belonged to Panipat and had been in a relationship for the past couple of years. They had reached Ambala with the motive of ending their lives. Further investigations are on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mystery-over-womans-death-245211
28-04-2021||Ambala||Linear accelerator  for cancer centre||A linear accelerator, which will be used to treat cancer patients, today reached Tertiary Care Cancer Centre being established on the premises of the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. The machine has been imported from the UK at a cost of Rs 18 crore.Dr Vinay Goel, nodal officer for the construction of the centre, said, “The machine was delivered today and we will inform the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board in this regard, which is a mandatory exercise.Currently, patients from the region go to Chandigarh for treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/linear-accelerator-for-cancer-centre-245207
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||e-auction of flats||The state government has appointed an employee in every office of the Executive-Engineer and the Estate Manager of the Housing Board, Haryana, to help the public with information related to e-auction of flats. Anshaj Singh,Chief Administrator, Housing Board, said: “The daily e-auction of flats started on April 19. Its details are available on the board’s website, hbh.gov.in. “The board has provided a helpline number 0172-3520001, on which information can be obtained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-auction-of-flats-245206
28-04-2021||Karnal||3 nabbed for selling remdesivir in black||2 Thanesar sectors containment zonesKurukshetra: The administration has declared Sectors 7 and 13 in Thanesar as macro-containment zones due to high-positivity rate. The assembly and movement of people in these areas are strictly prohibited. All markets, shops and religious places will remain closed. TNSSKM pays tributes to Covid victimsSonepat: The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday paid tributes to those who died due to Covid. “In collaboration with the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth Brigade, we distributed food outside Raja Harish Chandra Hospital. On Wednesday, 20 stretchers will be donated to the hospital,” Dr Darshan Pal, an SKM leader, said in a press release. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-nabbed-for-selling-remdesivir-in-black-245203
28-04-2021||Parveen Arora||Delayed reports pose threat of virus spread||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 27Covid-suspected people have to wait for two-three days for their test results. The delay in getting the report not only poses the threat of the spread of the dreaded virus, but also leaves the patients on tenterhooks.Some of them move around despite the home quarantine advice till the results arrive, while others stay put at home, but mingle with their family members, posing a threat to the latter who might also spread it outside.2,500-3,000 samples being taken in a dayThe Health Department daily collects around 2,500-3,000 samples in various parts of the district. The testing is done at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). Earlier, one out of two machines was out of order, but now it has started functioning.Sagar Arora, a resident of Narsi village, had symptoms of Covid and got himself tested on April 24, but had to wait till April 26 late evening for his report that came as positive.He confined himself in a room, but the delay in the report gave him tension. “The report should come by next day, so that proper treatment could begin in time,” said Arora. He said quick results not only help in speedy treatment, but also help in breaking the transmission chain. Like Sagar, hundreds of people have to wait for their report for two to three days. “I gave my sample on April 21 and the report came on April 23 as negative, but I had to spend two-days in a room, which was a difficult time for me to remain cut off from my family,” said the 35-year-old man.The Health Department daily collects around 2,500-3,000 samples in various parts of the district. The testing is done at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). Earlier, one out of two machines was out of order, but now it has started functioning. The authorities claim the capacity of the lab is being increased. “At present, two machines are working. Since the load of samples is high, we are going to increase the capacity of the lab. Two more machines will start functioning soon, for which we have started the process,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delayed-reports-pose-threat-of-virus-spread-245035
28-04-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala’s science apparatus manufacturers stare at losses||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 27Amid the closure of educational institutions due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, science apparatus manufacturers stare at huge losses.Exporters from the Ambala industry say 80 per cent of their customers are educational institutes and engineering colleges. They had started receiving orders of late, but with the unprecedented surge in cases, the schools and colleges have been shut again.Sanjay Gupta, president of the Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufactures Association, says, “A sense of uncertainty prevails in the market. After a bad phase last year, the manufacturers had started receiving orders in months of February and March and we were expecting good demand till June at least, but schools and colleges have been shut again. If the situation continued for some time more, the manufacturers will be forced to curtail their manpower.”There are more than 1,500 small and big units in Ambala providing jobs to nearly 20,000 persons. The annual turnover of the Ambala science apparatus industry was Rs 2,000 crore, which witnessed a decline of 50 per cent last year.Another manufacturer said the business had come to a standstill. The payments for the months of February and March were still stuck and new queries were almost nil. The suppliers of raw material had been seeking their payments. The markets of Delhi and Mumbai from where raw material used to come had been lying shut. Moreover, the input cost had escalated due to an increase in the prices of steel and electronic components, which buyers were not willing to pay. The industry was going through a tough phase, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambalas-science-apparatus-manufacturers-stare-at-losses-245037
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Girl ‘killed’ by jilted lover in Faridabad||A 24-year-old girl was allegedly murdered by her jilted lover in a hotel in Faridabad on Sunday evening. Two empty bullet shells were also recovered from the spot. An FIR has been registered against the accused at the Sector 7 police station.The police said they received a call from Grand Plaza, Sector 7A , around 8 pm on Sunday. A crime team was sent to the spot, which recovered a cellphone and two empty bullet shells from the hotel room. The deceased was identified as Kavita (24), a resident of Pehruka village in Palwal district. She was employed with Kalyani Hospital, Ballabhgarh.The victim’s father alleged that Pawan, a resident of Nagalia village in Palwal district, had been stalking her daughter for the past couple of days. “Earlier, my daughter had told me that Pawan had been pressurising her to marry him and also threatened to kill her if she rejected his proposal. We warned Pawan, but he did not mend his ways.”He alleged that his daughter went to duty on Sunday, but did not return home. He has accused Pawan of killing his daughter. On the basis of his statement, Pawan has been booked. He is still at large. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-killed-by-jilted-lover-in-faridabad-245038
28-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Need to appoint more docs to save people: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 27 As the Covid cases continue to surge unabated, the Punjab and Haryana has asserted that the need of the hour is to get more doctors for saving the citizens from the pandemic.  The assertion came as the High Court directed the state of Haryana to consider an MBBS doctor eligible against one of the 12 posts of medical officer still lying vacant in the general category. “The situation in the country is such where the doctors are needed the most. Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, it is the need of the hour to get more doctors to discharge the duties to save the citizens of the country from the pandemic of Covid-19,” Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted.  Referring to the facts of the case, Justice Sethi added it was for this very reason that the government initially advertised 447 posts of medical officer, but later on decided to fill 642 posts out of the same selection. The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after Dr Rashi Agrawal filed a petition through counsel Manoj Kumar Sood challenging the action of the state of Haryana and other respondents in not considering her claim for appointment against one of the 642 posts of medical officer.  Taking up the matter, Justice Sethi asserted the question before the Bench was whether the petitioner, allowed to compete and undergo the full selection process for appointment to the post, could be declared ineligible on the ground that the registration certificate by the Delhi Medical Council given to her was submitted after the last date of filing application form.  Elaborating, Justice Sethi added the court was to consider whether delay on the Delhi Medical Council’s part in awarding the registration certificate could defeat her right to seek appointment against the post, despite being fully eligible and candidates with lesser merit being appointed already. Justice Sethi added once the petitioner was not ousting any candidate, who fulfilled the requisite qualifications envisaged in the advertisement, she was entitled to be considered eligible for appointment against one of the 12 posts keeping in view the peculiar facts of the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-appoint-more-docs-to-save-people-high-court-245039
28-04-2021||Hisar||HHRC seeks report on deaths due to O2  crunch||Taking suo motu cognisance of death of Covid patients due to shortage of oxygen in Hisar, Rewari and Gurugram districts, the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has served a notice on the Director General, Health Services, and the civil and police administration of the three districts to submit a report within two weeks. The HHRC, comprising its chairperson Justice SK Mittal (retd), and members Justice KC Puri (retd) and Deep Bhatia, noted that five persons died in Hisar, and four each in Rewari and Gurugram in private hospitals allegedly due to the shortage of oxygen. “Prima facie, …it appears that the deaths of the patients suffering from Covid are taking place due to shortage of medical oxygen supply. If there is no shortage…, how the deaths are taking place in various districts, including Hisar, Gurugram and Rewari? If the patients are dying due to shortage of oxygen, …it’s a serious violation of the human rights of the public and the commission cannot shut its eyes over the matter as a silent spectator,” the HHRC wrote in a letter to the authorities concerned today. The next date in the matter is May 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hhrc-seeks-report-on-deaths-due-to-o2-crunch-245040
28-04-2021||ibune News Service||Karnal admn rolls out ‘oxygen on wheels’||Karnal, April 27The death of 13 Covid patients due to lack of oxygen in private hospitals of Gurugram, Rewari and Hisar has pushed the district administration to start an oxygen bank, which it calls “oxygen on wheels”. It is a truck that can carry 100 cylinders. The initiative was rolled out today.“The purpose is to ensure smooth supply of medical oxygen to hospitals treating Covid patients,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.At present, 17 city hospitals, including Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, are treating Covid patients and these require 13 MT of oxygen every day.The DC said, “Hospitals receive supply from Roorkee and Panipat. Besides, two agencies have been roped in. One has started the operation, while the other is yet to begin functioning. To ensure smooth supply, ‘oxygen on wheels’ has been launched.”Hospitals will have to submit a demand for oxygen and it will be delivered. In case of emergency, 15 cylinders will be provided.In a repeat of Sunday, several city hospitals ran short of oxygen today.“In the morning, there was a shortage of oxygen. After a few hours, oxygen was supplied and the situation was brought under control,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-admn-rolls-out-oxygen-on-wheels-245042
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||11,931 cases, 84 more die in Haryana||With 11,931 fresh Covid cases and 84 deaths in the last 24 hours, the state’s tally today reached 4.48 lakh.The maximum deaths (10) took place in Gurugram and Hisar, followed by nine in Ambala, eight each in Rohtak and Jind, seven in Fatehabad, six in Bhiwani, four in Karnal, three each in Faridabad, Sonepat, Panchkula and Sirsa, and two each in Rewari, Kurukshetra, Palwal, Nuh and Kaithal.Gurugram alone today contributed 3,684 fresh cases, followed by 1,330 in Faridabad, 940 in Sonepat, 725 in Karnal and 642 in Hisar.A total of 7,184 people recovered in the last 24 hours, while the active cases swelled to 84,129. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-931-cases-84-more-die-in-haryana-245043
28-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Admn claims ample O2, hospitals say otherwise||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 27Notwithstanding the district authorities’ claims of having adequate oxygen, several private hospitals in Rohtak and Jhajjar have not only stopped admitting new patients but have also advised the ones undergoing treatment to shift elsewhere, citing supply crunch.A private hospital in Bahadurgarh town, Jhajjar, has pasted a notice requesting attendants to make arrangements for shifting their patients somewhere else as it is running short of medical oxygen supply. “Even after repeated requests to the authorities concerned, regular supply of oxygen cannot be maintained. The present stock is not enough to treat the patients on oxygen support,” the notice reads.The situation has left the attendants in a tight spot. They are making all possible efforts on their level to get oxygen cylinders by posting messages on social media and contacting the suppliers.“One of my relatives is on oxygen support at a private hospital in Rohtak. Doctors suddenly requested us to shift the patient as the hospital is running out of oxygen. Now, we are making rounds in other hospitals but no one is admitting new patients,” said Rohtash, an attendant.Rajesh, another attendant, said his son-in-law from Delhi was getting Covid treatment in Bahadurgarh but the doctors there on Tuesday expressed their helplessness, citing the shortage of oxygen. “We don’t understand what to do in this situation,” he added.Pammy, another attendant, said he along with the relatives of some other patients met Jhajjar DC on Tuesday, requesting him to ensure adequate supply to the JJ Hospital in Bahadurgarh.“How can we treat the patients when the oxygen is not available in ample quantity? We have requested the attendants with a heavy heart to make arrangements to shift their patients elsewhere,” said doctor at a private hospital.Meanwhile, Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said there was no dearth of oxygen in the district and it was being supplied to every hospital in adequate quantity. Similar is the statement of Jhajjar Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya.Patients’ kin protest oxygen ‘shortage’Rohtak: Attendants of patients on Tuesday created ruckus outside Oscar Hospital, situated at Medical Turn here, in protest against the alleged shortage of oxygen. They blocked the road by placing empty cylinders of oxygen and also raised slogans against the district administration. Rohtak SDM Rakesh Kumar, along with police officials, reached the spot and pacified the protesters by assuring them to resolve the issue. The blockade caused inconvenience to the public. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admn-claims-ample-o2-hospitals-say-otherwise-245044
28-04-2021||Jind||Protesters get  vaccinated||Farmers protesting at the Khatkar toll plaza against the three farm laws got themselves vaccinated here today. Azad Singh Palwan, BKU district chief, said: “We urge farmers to cooperate with the Health Department for the vaccination.” “Some rumour-mongers are spreading false propaganda that farmers are against the vaccination drive. No farmer is against it.”  Palwan hit out at the ruling leadership for contesting elections and making laws to snatch the land of farmers.   A medical officer at the Civil Hospital said a camp was held at the toll plaza and all protesters were jabbed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-get-vaccinated-245046
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Limit to register land deed online up||The Haryana Government has enhanced the limit for issuing online appointment token for the registration of land deeds from 100 to 200 per day for the office of Sub-Registrar, Wazirabad (Gurugram). Wazirabad is the tehsil with the maximum registrations in Haryana numbering over 11,370 in a year. An order to this effect has been issued by Financial Commissioner Revenue and Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Sanjeev Kaushal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/limit-to-register-land-deed-online-up-245049
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen control room set up at Civil Sectt||Amid Covid surge and keeping in view the need of meeting the current demand for medical oxygen, the state government has set up an oxygen control room at the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh.  An official spokesperson said the control room was mandated to perform several vital functions, including ensuring safe movement of oxygen tankers from manufacturing plants to the districts concerned. Other functions are mapping of manufacturing plants and monitoring their transition from industrial oxygen to medical use, along with checking messages on Oxygen War Room, a WhatsApp group, andinitiate timely action. For the mapping of liquid oxygen manufacturing plants and monitoring their production and diversion tomedical use, the government has appointed HaryanaState Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation MC Anurag Agrawal for industrial estates and MSME director Vikas Gupta forthe rest of the state. Vijayendra Kumar, Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, has been appointed as the nodal officer for the state oxygen control room. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-control-room-set-up-at-civil-sectt-245050
28-04-2021||Our Correspondent||MP presses for curfew in Gurugram||Gurugram, April 27As medical manpower depleting in Gurugram, the local administration has appealed to retired and self-employed medical and paramedical persons to join the fight against Covid.Those interested in lending a helping hand have been asked to register and provide services as and where required.“We are facing our biggest challange and the city needs to fight it unitedly. People, especially those in medical field, need to come forward and help in any way theycan. I appeal to volunteers, retired doctors, MBBS students and nursing staffto come forward to help people in this difficult time. They can register at http://bit.ly/Medical/Volunteer_GGM,” said Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg.Meanwhile, Gurugram MP Rao Inderjeet Singh, expressing concern over the deteriorating condition here, has asked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for a complete curfew to break the virus transmission.MLA Sudhir Singla has also written to the Chief Minister and the Prime Minister, seeking special measures for the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mp-presses-for-curfew-in-gurugram-245052
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre to provide extra wheat to poor||The Centre has decided to provide AAY, BPL and OPH ration card holders of Haryana 5 kg of wheat per member per month free of cost in addition to the essential food items being distributed to them under the National Food Security Act 2013 for the month of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). An official spokesperson said essential items were being distributed through 9,690 depots to as many as 1,22,51,366 beneficiaries of a total of 27,04,855 ration cards in the state. Out of these 27,04,855 ration cards, the number of ration cards of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY-Pink) were 2,48,134 and members 9,98,340, below povertyline (BPL-yellow) number of ration cards 8,92,744 and members’ 41,00,546 and|other primary family (OPH-Khaki) ration cardsnumber was 15,63,947 and members’ 71,52,480. He said in addition to the essential commodities being distributed by the state government, it had also been decided by the Central Government to provide 5 kg wheat per member per month free of cost to AAY, BPL, and OPH cardholders under PMGKAY. He said from May 1, 2021, this wheat will be available free of cost at all ration depots to consumers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-to-provide-extra-wheat-to-poor-245053
28-04-2021||Rohtak||Dead won’t come back by arguing over numbers, focus on relief for those suffering: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said it was pointless to argue over COVID-19 fatality figures as the dead won’t came back to life, and the focus should be on providing relief to those suffering now.Khattar was replying to questions on the alleged under-reporting of deaths due to coronavirus—at many places the scenes at crematoriums and burial grounds do not reflect the official numbers.“The kind of difficult situation we are going through, we don’t have to play with data. Our entire focus should be on how people will recover and how we can provide them relief,” he told reporters in Rohtak on Monday.“And those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” he said at one point, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether the official number of deaths was correct.The opposition Congress was quick to slam his remarks with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying, “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler.”            “There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency, so that the deaf BJP government can hear the echo,” he said.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi also condemned the CM’s comment.“These remarks are shameful. I strongly condemn the thinking of the chief minister,” the Congress leader tweeted.Khattar had visited Rohtak, Panipat, Hisar and Faridabad to review the supply of oxygen and other facilities for COVID patients.“We will do everything possible so that lives are saved. Whether the deaths are less or more, there is no point getting into this debate,” he said.“Whether we are able to set the systems right is the question. From our side, we are setting the systems in place,” he added.Khattar said nobody had expected this kind of a situation.“Who knew this pandemic will come, neither you knew nor we. To fight this, we need everyone’s cooperation including yours, mine, the patients’. Therefore, these issues should not be the topic of any controversy.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dead-wont-come-back-by-arguing-over-numbers-focus-on-relief-for-those-suffering-khattar-244971
28-04-2021||---||Haryana rules sale of apartments on super area fraudulent and unfair||Chandigarh, April 27The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA), Gurugram, has termed the sale of property on super area as “fraudulent and unfair trade practice” asserting that the sale of apartment or building would be done only on carpet area.Addressing a press conference, KK Khandelwal, Chairman of HARERA, asserted that the definition of super area as provided in various builder-buyer agreements was vague and there were wide variations in the definitions. “The practice of sale of real estate on super area basis is misleading, ambiguous, opaque and gives rise to confusion and complexities and at times result into avoidable litigation,” he said.To ensure sale of plot, apartment, or building, as the case may be, or sale of real estate project, in an efficient and transparent manner and to protect the interest of consumers in the real estate sector, these regulations have been made by the Authority.Carpet areaKhandelwal stated that before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 came into existence there was lack of a legal description for the term “carpet area”. The Act provided specific/concrete definition of carpet area which now has addressed the vagueness and uncertainty in this regard. The definition of carpet area as provided under section 2(k) of the Act means the net usable floor area. Following have been excluded from the definition of carpet area: externals wall, service shafts, balcony; verandah and open terrace. However, the internal partition walls of the apartment are not excluded as they form a part of the integral structure i.e., carpet area. The definition of carpet area has now been made transparent and leaves no scope for any ambiguity categorically specifying the property, he asserted.All walls which are constructed or provided on the external face of an apartment shall be regarded as “external wall”. All walls or independent columns constructed or provided within an apartment shall be regarded as “internal partition wall”.In case of ongoing projects where the promoter has allotted real estate units on super area basis prior to coming into force of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, he shall disclose what all components exactly constituted super area and also whether the super area as promised in the builder buyer agreement entered into between the allottee and the promoter has actually assigned existed as per builder buyer agreement or not. This is to prevent any fraud with the allottee when the unit is sold on super area basis. In case where the conveyance deed of the units has not been executed, the promoter shall also indicate carpet area in addition to the super area and its details/constituents, Khandelwal saidNo conveyance deed of a real estate unit shall be registered except on the basis of carpet area, he said, adding that in cases where the real estate unit was allotted to the allottee prior to the Act coming into force, the promoter shall at the time of registration of the conveyance deed has to make disclosure of all the components constituting the super area. However, the conveyance deed shall be registered only on carpet area basis.Sameer Kumar, Member, HARERA, briefed that any agreement for sale on any other basis except on carpet area shall amount to indulgence in unfair trade practice/fraudulent practice by the promoter and shall attract appropriate action as per the relevant provisions of the Act. The real estate agents shall facilitate sale or purchase of an apartment or building in any real estate projects on carpet area basis and not on super area basis or on any other basis. If any real estate agent is found indulging in sale/purchase on super area, he shall be presumed to be engaged in unfair trade practice and his/her registration to act as a real estate agent may be revoked or/and penal proceedings may be initiated against him as per provisions of the Act.Total price/cost will remain unaltered even if the unit is to be registered on carpet area basis. It will not alter the sale consideration. He further said the revenue authorities are expected to notify collector rate only on carpet area basis as now the sale on any other basis is illegal, Sameer Kumar said.Khandelwal made it clear that regulations shall be applicable to all real estate projects, irrespective of the fact that they are registered/registerable or exempted from registration. Any sale of real estate project on any other basis except on carpet area basis after Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, coming into force shall be declared as null and void by the Authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rules-sale-of-apartments-on-super-area-fraudulent-and-unfair-244949
