29-04-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana records 97 fatalities, 13,947 cases||Haryana on Thursday recorded 97 COVID-19 fatalities, its biggest single-day spike that took the toll to 4,118, while 13,947 fresh cases pushed the total count to 4,74,145, according to a health department bulletin.On Wednesday, Haryana had recorded 95 fatalities and 12,444 cases, which was the previous biggest single-day jump in COVID-19 deaths and infections.According to the daily bulletin, Gurgaon district saw a huge surge in cases with 5,042 infections, its highest single-day infection count.The latest deaths included 12 from Hisar, 11 each from Ambala and Jind and nine each from Bhiwani and Gurugram districts.In addition to Gurgaon, other districts that reported a big spike in cases include Faridabad (1,563), Hisar (822), Sonepat (840) and Karnal (750).The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state is 93,175. So far, 3,76,852 people have recovered and the state has a recovery rate of 79.48 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-97-fatalities-13-947-cases-245956
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana oxygen quota up 70 MT||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said the Centre had increased the state’s daily oxygen quota from 162 MT to 232 MT in view of the prevailing Covid situation.“The enhanced quota will come from Odisha,” said Khattar, denying Remdesivir shortage in the state. “I have asked the Health Department to issue guidelines so that there was no unnecessary prescriptions of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.” Equating the second wave with a tsunami, he said industrial units would soon be given licence to produce oxygen.Addressing a press conference, he said, “During the first wave, the maximum cases per day had reached around 3,100. But yesterday, the state recorded 11,931 Covid cases, which is around four times the peak witnessed during the first wave.”He said they had prepared health facilities keeping in view the peak figures for the first wave, “but now we are geared up to tackle the latest situation too”. “There is no shortage of oxygen, but its availability in the liquid form (required for transportation) is a challenge. We are working to put a network in order,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-oxygen-quota-up-70-mt-245630
29-04-2021||Rohtak||VIPs lodged in comfortable suites, commoners struggle to find beds||While the stable VIP patients recline on their soft and comfortable beds in high-end hospitals, the not-so-privileged common people, even those in critical condition, are making rounds of hospitals amid the rising number and severity of Covid cases in Rohtak.With most of the well-known hospitals being jam-packed, even patients suffering from Covid or other diseases are being denied admission for the want of beds with oxygen support and ventilators.“My brother-in-law, who lives in Delhi, developed complications, even when he tested negative for Covid. He was taken to several hospitals in Delhi, but could not get admission. We brought him to a private hospital in Rohtak around 2 am on Sunday. The hospital staff provided some emergency aid, but expressed their inability to admit him as no ventilator was available. They asked us to take him away. We took him to three other hospitals, but none had any space. Eventually, he died,” said Sanjay Khurana, a local social worker.Owners and managers of hospitals said the number of cases had increased sharply and it was not possible to accommodate all patients, owing to practical limitations.“The number of beds is limited and the supply of oxygen is irregular and uncertain. As most of the patients require high oxygen flow, we cannot admit people beyond our capacity,” said a doctor working at a private hospital.Let alone getting admitted to a hospital, the residents have to wait in long queues even to get their RT-PCR test done if they have any symptoms.“I took my wife for an RT-PCR test. There were long queues of people awaiting their turn to give samples at the PGIMS as well as private testing centres. We finally succeeded in getting her tested after waiting in two queues — first for the registration and then for giving the samples,” said Ashwani Kumar, a teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vips-lodged-in-comfortable-suites-commoners-struggle-to-find-beds-245523
29-04-2021||Karnal||Covishield shortage in Karnal district||As the registration for Covid vaccination for all above 18 started today, the district is facing a shortage of Covishield. As a result, the authorities will have to conduct inoculation at limited centres.Except the areas that fall under three CHCs, including Kunjpura, Indri and Ballah, the remaining parts of the district are being covered with Covishield. Earlier on some days, around 5,000 doses of Covishield were used in 24 hours as the number of centres was high compared to now.As per the officials, the stock will last for one or two days. When the supply was in stock, vaccination was organised at 50 centres, but now it’s being conducted at a few places.Due to shortage, people had to return empty-handed from the centres. “I went to get my staff inoculated today, but I was told that there is no vaccine at the centre,” said a local.The authorities claim that the supply would be available in a few days. “We are regularly in touch with the higher-ups to ensure adequate amount of vaccine,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covishield-shortage-in-karnal-district-245524
29-04-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak ‘Padman’ renders yeoman service to needy||Jagdeep Jugnu, a local who has been providing free sanitary pads to the underprivileged girls and women amid Covid, has turned out to be a real-life hero.Jugnu, who runs Path Society, a voluntary social organisation, has been supplying 400 to 500 packs of sanitary pads every month to girls and women, who cannot afford these. So far, he has supplied nearly 7,000 packs of sanitary pads.Donating Covid essentials tooJagdeep Jugnu has been supplying home-stitched masks, soap bars, toothpastes, sanitisers and slippers to the slum dwellers so as to check the spread of CovidThe social activist has also been supplying home-stitched facemasks, soap bars, toothpastes, sanitisers and slippers to the slum dwellers so as to check the spread of Covid.“Creating awareness among slum dwellers about health and hygiene is a big challenge. Dr Parveen Malhotra of Rohtak-PGIMS, retired college principal Ved Prakash Sheoran and certain other members and organisations of the civil society have been providing the financial support and motivation needed for the social endeavours,” he says.Jugnu and his wife Sunita also run an informal training school named ‘Abhinav Toly’ for the underprivileged, where they teach children and also train them in music, dance, drama, photography and beauty grooming, etc.They have recently set up a library at their Belarkha village in Jind district to inculcate the habit of reading, especially among the children.“Our students also volunteer and participate in social activities, and seeing them become sensitive towards human concerns and contributing their mite gives immense satisfaction,” says Sunita.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-padman-renders-yeoman-service-to-needy-245525
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Protest over oxygen crunch in Gurugram||High drama prevailed outside the MC Commissioner’s house as family members of Covid patients, admitted to Pushpanjali Hospital, staged a protest against depleting oxygen supply there.Not just Pushpanjali, four city hospitals issued an SOS of oxygen shortage to the administration.Resentment prevailed outside the Pushpanjali hospital in the Civil Lines in the morning where around 30 Covid patients were on oxygen support. It was when doctors informed the family members of the patients that they had only three-hour oxygen and patients should be shifted elsewhere that the uproar started. The family members got enraged and started a protest outside the hospital. Soon they reached outside the residence of MC Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and parked their vehicles in the middle of the road.A police team reached the spot and assured the protesters regarding the arrangement of sufficient oxygen in the hospital after which they removed the blockade. Later, the administration contacted the hospital and arranged the oxygen supply. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-over-oxygen-crunch-in-gurugram-245526
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rights panel calls for separate rehab centres for kids||With over 500 children attending de-addiction services across 17 districts of Haryana in 2020, the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) has called for the setting up of separate drug de-addiction centres for kids.The Commission has compiled a “Drug De-addiction Centres’ Data Report 2021” where it came out that a total of 537 children were treated at 41 rehabilitation centres in 17 districts of the state in 2020. A total of 215 attended OPD, 268 took counselling and 54 required admission at the in-patient level.5 districts proposedBased on the findings of the Drug De-addiction Centres' Data Report 2021, the HSCPCR has recommended five districts for setting up of centres, including Rohtak, Gurugram, Panipat or Sonepat, Panchkula and Sirsa or Fatehabad.Hisar reported the maximum cases (122), followed by 110 in Rohtak and 102 in Panchkula. Also, 171 male and 60 female children have been attending OPD in these centres on an average in a month.For the survey, the Commission had sent out a detailed questionnaire to the de-addiction centres. The report pointed that while nearly all the centres saw an inflow of child patients, most attended OPD or took counselling.Only a handful of centres saw children being admitted at the in-patient level. The report added it might be due to the lack of willingness of parents or lack of specialised staff or facilities for allowing children at in-patient level, particularly during the early stages of the addiction.HSCPCR chairperson Jyoti Bainda, said, “The children need special psychological care and mixing with adult patients at general de-addiction centres can be counterproductive. The specialised centres must be established with a focus not only on provide treatment, but also to prioritise education and vocational rehabilitation.”In a letter to the Social Justice and Empowerment Department, dated April 22, she said, “If possible, a separate helpline number should be started where children can call and seek help if they don’t feel comfortable talking to anyone around them.”“The capacity of overall health system particularly mental health services needs to be enhanced for tackling drug de-addiction in children. Specialised rehab centres for children should be opened but in a hub-and-spoke model. One or two big institutes could monitor and train smaller facilities. There should be a chain referral system,” said Prof Atul Ambedkar, National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS, New Delhi.The State Drug Dependence Treatment Centre at Rohtak alone catered to 108 children last year, including 52 in OPD, 52 for counselling and four were in-patients. On substance use, it reported heroin or smack along with cannabis as the commonly used drugs.At Ankush Foundation, Hisar, 86 kids attended rehab services with 32 in OPD, 43 took counselling and 11 required admissions. It reported heroin, inhalants and cannabis as commonly used drugs.The replies from the centres reflected that besides smoking and cannabinoids, children also fell prey to correction fluid and polish thinners, pointed out the report.Earlier, the National Survey on Extent and Pattern of Substance Use in India 2019, conducted by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, also pointed out that the number of children who need help for inhalant use is the fifth-highest in Haryana.Bainda has also written to Chief Secretary for implementing Sections 77 and 78 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 in drug peddling cases involving children. She complained that the cases were being filed only under the NDPS Act while there were special laws for giving liquor, narcotics or psychotropic substance to children or using them as peddlers and suppliers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rights-panel-calls-for-separate-rehab-centres-for-kids-245527
29-04-2021||I wish to draw your attention towards the irresponsible attitude of the water supply department of Ambala Cantonment. A few days ago||Broken road a threat to commuters||Hoarders must be punishedIndia is grappling with an unprecedented public health crisis due to the Covid surge. The situation is worrisome. Most of the hospitals are running short of medicines, oxygen cylinders with the increasing the flow of patients. Thus the healthcare system has come under immense pressure. But some anti-social elements have been indulging in hoarding of essential items like oxygen and medicines, etc. I was shocked to learn that an oxygen cylinder was being sold at Rs90,000 against the market price Rs12,000 while remdesivir was costing Rs23,000. Such elements are enemy of the society and they must be punished. Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaEmpty flats to be Covid centresIt is heartening and satisfying to learn that a tie-up between Medanta Hospital and M3M, a real estate developer, has been done in Gurugram under which beds with oxygen facility will be arranged in empty flats. Covid patients who are less serious will be shifted from Medanta Hospital to this facility. Through this move, 300 to 400 patients can be served and saved. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/broken-road-a-threat-to-commuters-245528
29-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Meet on biomedical systems held||KU passes Rs500 cr budgetKurukshetra: The executive council of the Kurukshetra University in its online meeting held under the chairmanship of Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva passed a budget of Rs500 crore for 2021-22. The government will grant Rs180 crore for recurring expenditure and Rs40 crore for non-recurring side. The budget and the audit report of the KU were earlier approved by the Finance Committee of the Haryana Government in its online meeting on April 23. The executive council also approved the annual report-2020 of the KU. Later in the evening, the university court in its meeting approved the audit report, budget for 2021-22 and the annual report of the KU.CUH endorses roadmap for NEPChandigarh: Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Haryana (CUH) Prof RC Kuhad claimed that they had emerged as the first university in the country to come out with a roadmap for the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. During a recent meeting, all members of the CUH council endorsed the roadmap. The NEP-2020 has defined various goals and targets to be achieved within the stipulated period of time and the CUH was committed to implementing the policy in a phased manner as defined in the roadmap, Prof Kuhad said. To achieve the desired results, the university will incorporate all relevant guidelines/instructions issued by the UGC, AICTE, NCTE, and other regulatory bodies, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meet-on-biomedical-systems-held-245529
29-04-2021||Karnal||Karnal hospital to double oxygen storage capacity||To ensure smooth supply of oxygen for 300 more beds, an additional storage capacity of 10,000 kg oxygen will be set up at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC).At present, the KCGMC has the storage capacity of 10,000 kg oxygen which is capable of supplying interrupted oxygen to around 270 beds including 70 ICU beds.Lockdown in Karnal areas“Since we are going to increase the number of ICU beds as well as non-ICU beds, we have decided to increase the storage capacity of oxygen at KCGMC,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner after inspecting the site for expansion.After selecting the site for erecting the tank, he directed the authorities to start the work at the earliest. It is expected the work will be completed in three weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospital-to-double-oxygen-storage-capacity-245530
29-04-2021||Hisar||Man dies for want  of oxygen in Jind hospital||A Covid patient died at a hospital in Ghaziabad in UP for want of oxygen as the supply got interrupted by cops in Jind district on Monday night.A relative of the patient, Rajender Singh, has lodged a complaint with the SP, Jind, that he got a call from his relative that one of their family members was admitted to hospital and needed oxygen as the hospital’s oxygen supply was likely to finish by 3-4 am. He said he arranged two oxygen cylinders and sent a person Gurpreet Singh to deliver oxygen to the patient in a hospital in Ghaziabad from Dhuri town in Punjab.87-year-old dies, kin allege lapseAn 87-year-old Covid patient died hours after he was shifted from Soni Burn hospital to the Civil Hospital in Hisar on Wednesday. His son said his father was on oxygen support in the hospital but had to wait outside the Civil Hospital for nearly an hour. “My father was admitted later, but his oxygen level plummeted, which resulted in his death,” he said, alleging negligence by the authorities in his father’s death. TNSThe complainant alleged the vehicle carrying oxygen was stopped near the Gatauli police chowki in Jind district by the police around 11 pm. The driver tried to convince the cops that he was on way to supply oxygen to a patient who was in a critical condition. However, he said, the cops did not listen to him and the patient died for want of oxygen.Singh has demanded action against the cops who halted the vehicle.The DSP Pushpa Khatri, however, said they had got a complaint from the person which alleged the police had stopped the vehicle carrying oxygen cylinders for a patient. She said the Jind police chief had ordered an inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-dies-for-want-of-oxygen-in-jind-hospital-245533
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||95 deaths, highest so far in Haryana||With 12,444 fresh Covid cases and 95 deaths in the last 24 hours, the overall tally of Haryana reached 4.60 lakh on Wednesday. The total number of deaths have so far crossed 4,000.The maximum deaths took place in Hisar 12, followed by 10 in Sirsa, nine in Fatehabad, eight in Jind, seven each in Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani, six in Panchkula, five each in Faridabad and Ambala, four each in Sonipat, Rohtak and Kaithal, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Palwal and one in Nuh.The total number of deaths due to Covid so far has reached 4,021.A total of 7,618 got cured in the last 24 hours, while the active cases reached 88,860 on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/95-deaths-highest-so-far-in-haryana-245534
29-04-2021||Ambala||Vij: Use halls, schools to up bed capacity||Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said the DCs across the state had been directed to increase bed capacity and contact local IMA members for manpower.Taking to the media, Vij said: “We have been increasing bed capacity for which DCs have been directed to create temporary hospitals, utilise banquet halls, ‘dharmashalas’ and schools. Around 1,200 PG and MBBS students are also being roped in for smooth functioning of additional beds.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-use-halls-schools-to-up-bed-capacity-245536
29-04-2021||The Defence Research and Development Organisation on Wednesday started constructing a 500-bed hospital in Panipat’s Bal Jatan village.||DRDO starts building hospital in Panipat||The hospital will be constructed in two phases. The first phase is expected to be completed in 10 days.It is one of the two hospitals the DRDO has proposed in the state. The other one will be in Hiasr district.“The Public Works Department has assigned the construction to an agency, which will build makeshift structures,” said Panipat DC Dharmendra Singh.The DC said the work to lay the oxygen pipeline would be started on Friday and it would be complete within a week.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had visited the Panipat site two days ago and took stock of constructio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drdo-starts-building-hospital-in-panipat-245538
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir  for hospitals only: Haryana Govt||The state government today directed pharmacists and drug distributors to sell remdesivir and tociluzimab only to hospitals having ICU beds and ventilators.An order issued by the Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, said the two emergency-use drugs could not be sold directly to patients in home isolation or to those admitted to hospital not having ICU or ventilator support.The Commissioner also asked pharmacists and distributors to send the record of purchase and distribution of the two drugs to the State Drugs Controller, Haryana, for smooth supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remdesivir-for-hospitals-only-haryana-govt-245539
29-04-2021||New Delhi||Haryana requests Railways to run Oxygen Express||The Haryana Government has requested the Railways to run Oxygen Express to transport liquid medical oxygen.Currently, tankers are being loaded in Faridabad which will be sent for filling to Rourkela. “As of now, it is planned that two Oxygen Express trains with a capacity of five tankers each will be run specifically for Haryana,” the Railways said.It said over 510 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen had been delivered to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi so far.The first Oxygen Express train was pushed into service on Aril 19 when seven trucks left Mumbai for Vizag to load oxygen. These trucks were loaded on flat wagons and carried to the loading location.Each tanker of the Oxygen Express trains can carry around 16 tonnes of medical oxygen and these trains travel at a speed of around 65 kmph.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-requests-railways-to-run-oxygen-express-245540
29-04-2021||Karnal||1 more crematorium in Karnal for Covid patients||The district authorities have increased the capacity of the crematorium on the Baldi bypass to 20 bodies per day following the surge in Covid deaths. Besides, one more crematorium at Kambopura is dedicated to Covid patients.This month, about 120 Covid patients have been cremated. Of them, 59 were from Karnal, while the remaining belonged to Delhi and other places.“The bereaved families from Delhi or other places prefer to cremate the bodies here,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-more-crematorium-in-karnal-for-covid-patients-245541
29-04-2021||Jhajjar||In containment zone, Jhajjar club hosts wedding||DC Jitender Dahiya and SP Rajesh Duggal, along with other officials, today inspected all six micro-containment zones in Bahadurgarh here to take stock of the situation.The officers recommended an FIR against a club at Omaxe City, where a wedding function was being organised. They also found six shops open, flouting containment protocols. The officers later visited private hospitals.“Sixty per cent of the active cases in the district are from Bahadurgarh. So, Noona Majra village, HSVP Sectors 2, 7 and 9, Omaxe City and Dayanand Nagar have been declared containment zone to break the chain of Covid,” the DC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-containment-zone-jhajjar-club-hosts-wedding-245542
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||1L tonnes wheat procured||The Haryana Government today procured 1.03 lakh tonnes of wheat through various procurement agencies at MSP. An official spokesperson said so far, a total of 81.6 lakh tonnes of wheat had arrived at 396 mandis/ procurement centres of the state. Out of this, 77.77 lakh tonnes of wheat have been procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1l-tonnes-wheat-procured-245543
29-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar nursing college to serve as Covid hospital||A nursing college in the district is being converted into a 125-bed hospital to boost the health infrastructure amid the second wave of Covid.The college, Yamuna Institute of Nursing, is situated along the Yamunanagar-Panchkula national highway at Gadhauli village.All 125 beds at the hospital will have oxygen support.“Twenty five percent of the beds will be reserved for the ICU. There will be seven ventilators and 20 beds with Bi-PAP (bi-level positive airway pressure) and high flow nasal cannula facilities,” said Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar. The management of the nursing college has tied up with medicine doctors who will render their services. It has also recruited other staff.“I visited the college recently to inspect the work, which is under way at a war footing. The hospital will be ready by next week,” said Dr Dahiya.At present, the district has 19 healthcare facilities — 10 government and nine private — for treating Covid patients. These 19 hospitals have 124 ICU beds, 209 non-oxygen beds and 274 oxygen-supported beds. Besides, the district has 29 ventilators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-nursing-college-to-serve-as-covid-hospital-245544
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Auto majors to aid govt with oxygen needs||Automobile major Maruti Suzuki has advanced its maintenance shutdown from June to between May 1 and May 9.The car manufacturer says it will support the government with oxygen used in manufacturing process. Also Suzuki Motorcycles, Hero Moto Corp and Munjal Showa have also declared shutdown till May 2 in their plants.Maruti Suzuki’s production in all factories will close for maintenance during this period. The company has been informed that Suzuki Motor Gujarat has taken the same decision for its factory.“As part of the car manufacturing process, Maruti Suzuki uses a small amount of oxygen in its factories, while relatively larger quantities are used by the manufacturers of components. In the current situation, we believe that all available oxygen should be used to save lives,” said a spokesperson of Maruti Suzuki.Two-wheeler manufacturers Hero Moto Corp, Suzuki Motorcycles India and Kherki Daula plant are also shut till May 1. Munjal Showa Company has also declared shutdown, a major manufacturer of the parts of Hero Moto Corp. Hero Moto Corp said Munjal Show had also declared a shutdown till May 2 in both plants. The industries have advised their workers to stay at home. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/auto-majors-to-aid-govt-with-oxygen-needs-245545
29-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Admission stopped in hospital as +ve doc found treating patients||The district administration has directed Radhakishan Hospital in Kurukshetra to stop the admission of new Covid patients in the hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said on the directions of the Deputy Commissioner, a team was constituted and the inspection of Radhakishan Hospital was done. It was found that a doctor who tested positive on April 26 had been treating patients instead of isolating himself, thus violating the Covid protocol. Moreover, as per the state government’s notification, it was mandatory for the private hospitals to give details about the Covid patients to the Civil Surgeon’s office, but no information was being shared. The hospital had been directed to stop admission of new cases as it had violated the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulation Act.The Civil Surgeon said, “The hospital currently has nearly 80 patients, of which nearly 90 per cent are from other states. Our priority is to ensure that the patients don’t face any inconvenience and they get good treatment. If the directions are not followed, action will be taken as per the rules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admission-stopped-in-hospital-as-ve-doc-found-treating-patients-245547
29-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Now, Kurukshetra patients can consult docs over phone||The Kurukshetra district administration has come out with telemedicine service to address queries related to Covid and other health queries of patients and suspected patients in the district.As per information, two doctors in two shifts have been deployed and they will give consultation six hours a day and also provide prescriptions on WhatsApp. The number of doctors will be increased after seeing the response from local residents.Under training IAS officer Jaya Sharda said, “Toll-free number 7496972507 has been launched from Tuesday and doctors will be available six hours a day from 11 am to 2 pm and then from 3 pm to 6 pm on the helpline. Covid patients and other people who have any kind of Covid symptoms will be able to call and seek video calling as well. After consultation, the prescription will be sent through WhatsApp. We are hoping that it will help in decreasing Covid panic, reduce stress in hospitals and also provide timely consultation to Kurukshetra residents as per their convenience.”Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Ashima Takkar, nodal officer for 1950 helpline in the district, informed, “The administration has already been running a 24x7 Covid helpline on which local residents can ask queries related to the availability of beds, oxygen, medicine and Covid protocol. Over 8,000 Covid-related queries since January and over 1,000 complaints have been received and addressed on the helpline. Over 20 employees have been deployed in the control room which was set up in the courtroom of CTM office on the directions of deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-kurukshetra-patients-can-consult-docs-over-phone-245548
29-04-2021||Karnal||Missing SI’s body found in canal||The body of a sub-inspector (SI) Sanjay Dahiya, who had gone missing on April 23, was found in the Delhi parallel canal in Gohana in Panipat district today.A missing complaint had been registered at the City police station in Sonepat on the complaint of his wife.HAD GONE ON DUTYThe SI, who was around 50-yr-old, was posted at the IGP Karnal office as an assistant.“The actual cause of the death will be determined after the post-mortem,” said Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, SP, Sonepat. Sources said Sanjay had gone on duty on April 23, but did not return home. He had told his wife that he would come soon when she had called him up around 9.30 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-sis-body-found-in-canal-245550
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||HRERA: Sale of property only on basis of carpet area||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA), Gurugram, has termed the sale of property on the basis of super area as a “fraudulent and unfair trade practice”, asserting that an apartment or a building would be sold only on the basis of carpet area.KK Khandelwal, HRERA chairman, has told the media that the definition of super area as provided in various builder-buyer agreements was vague. “The sale of real estate on the basis of super area is misleading, ambiguous, opaque, and gives rise to confusion and complexities and, at times, results into avoidable litigation,” he said.To ensure that a plot, an apartment or a building is sold in a transparent manner, the HRERA has made certain regulations. Khandelwal said that before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, came into existence, there was no legal description for the term “carpet area”. The Act provided a specific definition of carpet area.The definition of carpet area as provided under Section 2(k) of the Act means the net usable floor area. Externals wall, service shafts, balcony, verandah and open terrace have been excluded from the definition of carpet area.As for ongoing projects allotted on the basis of super area before the 2016 Act came into force, the promoter needs to disclose what all components constitute super area and whether or not super area as promised in the builder-buyer agreements exist.No conveyance deed of a real estate unit shall be registered except for the basis of carpet area, Khandelwal said, adding that in cases where the real estate unit was allotted prior to the 2016 Act, the promoter shall at the time of registration of the conveyance deed has to make disclosure of all components constituting the super area.Sameer Kumar, a member of the HRERA, said any agreement for sale on any other basis except for carpet area shall amount to indulgence in unfair trade practice by the promoter and would invite action as per the 2016 Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hrera-sale-of-property-only-on-basis-of-carpet-area-245551
