30-04-2021||---||More ‘Oxygen Expresses’ on way to Haryana, MP, Telangana, UP: Indian Railways||New Delhi, April 30The Indian Railways on Friday said that more 'Oxygen Express’ were on their way to Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, as cumulative liquid medical oxygen (LMO) carried by the transport monolith reached to 664 MT and 126 MT more are on the track.In an official statement the Ministry of Railway said, the transport monolith has been continuing with its ‘Oxygen Express journey’ and trying to save as many lives as possible and is “in full preparedness to run even more such trains based on the requests from state governments”.It said, “Haryana will receive its first and second Oxygen Express soon. Two trains, one from Rourkela to Haryana carrying 47.11 MT LMO in 3 tankers and another one from Angul to Haryana carrying 32 MT in 2 tankers are on their way to their destinations. These trains will deliver much needed oxygen supply to the residents of Haryana in a safe and timely manner.”According to the Railways, Madhya Pradesh would receive its second Oxygen Express carrying 47.37 MT LMO from Bokaro to Sagar and Jabalpur in four tankers. “Train started from Bokaro on 29 April 2021 and is currently moving uninterrupted towards its destination. Train is expected to reach its destination by today evening,” it added.Noting that Uttar Pradesh has continuously been replenishing its Oxygen supply, it said the state will receive its seventh Oxygen Express, which is expected to start shortly from Bokaro carrying three tankers of LMO. “In order to further boost up the oxygen supply, the UP government has also requested to transport 10 feet ISO containers loaded with Liquid Oxygen from Jamshedpur to Lucknow,” it said.Advance and additional planning are required to transport ISO containers and Railways Officials are currently working on the best possible options to move ISO containers safely and securely, it said, adding that it is expected that ISO containers carrying liquid medical oxygen would start loading on May 1, 2021, at Jamshedpur.So far, the Indian Railways has delivered more than 664 MT of LMO to Maharashtra (174 MT), Uttar Pradesh (356.47 MT), Madhya Pradesh (64 MT) and Delhi (70 MT).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-oxygen-expresses-on-way-to-haryana-mp-telangana-up-indian-railways-246344
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar receives first dose of COVID-19 vaccine||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday took his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine here, and appealed to all eligible people to get inoculated.                   “Come! Contribute towards building a safe and healthy nation and making India Corona free,” said Khattar after taking the first dose.“Took first dose of COVID-19 vaccine today,” he tweeted.आइये! एक सुरक्षित व स्वस्थ राष्ट्र के निर्माण और भारत को कोरोना मुक्त करने की दिशा में अपना योगदान दें। आज COVID-19 वैक्सीन की पहली खुराक ली।मैं प्रदेशवासियों से अपील करता हूँ, कि आप सभी टीका अवश्य लगवाएं तथा अपने आस पास के लोगों को भी टीका लगवाने के लिए प्रोत्साहित करें। pic.twitter.com/KEJKyZT3AR  Khattar appealed to all eligible people to get vaccinated.“I appeal to the people of the state, that all of you must get the vaccine and encourage the people around you to also get the vaccine,” Khattar further said in his tweet.The 66-year-old BJP leader had contracted COVID infection in August last year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-246320
30-04-2021||---||Day after Covid patients are made to wait, Haryana health minister says VIP movement in hospitals shouldn't affect treatment||Chandigarh, April 30Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said all Chief Medical Officers should ensure that treatment and admission of Covid patients were not affected during the movement of VIPs in the hospitals.Also read: Patients made to wait outside ward during Khattar’s visitThe first priority was the patients and their treatment, Vij tweeted. All CMO should ensure that treatment and admissions of Corona patients are not effected during VIP movements in the Hospitals. Our first priority is the patients and there treatment.  The tweet was posted in the wake of Thursday's incident at Jind civil hospital when two patients had to wait outside the hospital during the visit of the chief minister as the police had restricted the entry to the hospital.Later, the chief minister asked the CMO that the patients should not get affected in the name of security protocols.In another tweet, the minister appealed to social, political, religious and other organisations in Haryana to open 'roti bank' (food bank) for Covid patients admitted to various hospitals."All social, political, commercial, religious and any other organisations in the state of Haryana are requested to run ROTI BANK for Corona Patients admitted in Hospitals as is being done at Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. If they like, they can visit Roti Bank at Ambala Cantt," he said.'Roti bank' is the initiative of an NGO under which free meals are provided to patients and one of their attendants at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-covid-patients-are-made-to-wait-haryana-health-minister-says-vip-movement-in-hospitals-shouldnt-affect-treatment-246301
30-04-2021||In the name of renovation of this ancient famous temple called Rani Talab||Ancient temple in a shambles||United efforts needed to beat CovidIn order to overcome the ongoing second wave of Covid that is raging all over the country, people will have to work in tandem. First, everyone should avoid rumours or false propaganda related to Covid and vaccines. Second, each person must have a strong will to beat Covid. Moreover, infected people need to take proper treatment and prevention measures. And lastly, everyone needs to perform their duties faithfully and need to be patient. Shakti Singh, KarnalDog sterilisation drive a jokeApropos of the news report “Dog sterilisation drive in Panchkula” published in Chandigarh Tribune on April 16, the campaign has turned out to be a joke. Recently, I called on the number mentioned in the article, 98762-52622, followed by the visit of an executive after a few days, wherein I appraised him about the consistent problem of stray dogs running after vehicles, barking during night and getting ferocious at the drop of a hat, which is quite dangerous and irksome. However, he told me to make a video of the incident and forward it to him before any action could be initiated. It seems citizens now have to run after dogs and make videos to get them sterilised. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaDon’t rough up doctorsIt is unfortunate state of affairs that the incidents of assault on the medics at the hands of family members of Covid patients are being reported every day. This is quite unethical and should be regretted. A doctor drives to his workplace carrying a solitary aim of saving lives and they wholeheartedly immerse in accountability for doing justice to their profession. If any mishap occurs, the doctor should not be blamed for it. Words fall short to appreciate the medical fraternity. The second wave is worse and to curb this deadly virus, we should show solidarity instead of mudslinging. Baljeet Singh Deep, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ancient-temple-in-a-shambles-246259
30-04-2021||Hisar||Course on research management ends||College awarded for cleanlinessYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Girls College has been awarded the 'One District One Green Champion' award by the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), Ministry of Education, Government of India. Principal Anu Atreja said earlier also, the college was declared as a 'swachh institute' by the MGNCRE. She said the Swachhta Action Plan committee of the college was formed in August, 2020, and various cleanliness initiatives were undertaken. "The assessment is done on the basis of swachhata and jal shakti evaluation sheet submitted by the institute," the principal said.Two GJUST students placedHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Mumbai-based Axis Bank organised by the training and placement cell. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Avnesh Verma congratulated the students. The e-campus placement drive was conducted by Chhavi Walia, HR head of Axis Bank. Twelve MBA students of 2020 batch participated in this drive. After an online test followed by an interview, two students — Pooja Detwal and Raman Chawla — got selected for their branch in Rewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/course-on-research-management-ends-246258
30-04-2021||Karnal||Five police vehicles to double up as ambulances in Kaithal||With the sudden surge in Covid cases in the district, the Kaithal police have turned its five new Innova cars, received under Dial-112 initiative, into ambulances.“We have received five Innova cars for Dial 112 purpose. Since, the district is witnessing a rise in Covid cases, so we have decided to keep these vehicles on standby as ambulances, if the need arises,” said Lokendra Singh, SP, Kaithal.Admn to roll out ‘oxygen on wheels’Kaithal DC Sujan Singh said the district administration was all set to roll out “oxygen on wheels”. It’s an oxygen bank on a truck that can carry 100 cylinders. The move is aimed at ensuring the uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals.DSP Raj Singh has been appointed as the nodal officer, while district welfare inspector Darshna Devi as the assistant nodal officer for the purpose. Their mobile numbers have also been displayed at various places for the convenience of the general public, the SP said.“At present, the situation is under control but we have kept the vehicles on standby to be used as ambulances in future. Our police personnel, who are already working at the front, will now serve the society by ferrying patients to the hospitals,” he added.EASI Sher Singh; HC Rajiv Kumar; EHCs Rahbir Singh, Vikas, Sudhir, Rajesh Kumar and Karambir; and Constables Dilab Singh, Shakti Singh and Harpreet Singh; have been appointed on these vehicles, the SP said.The district has 16 ambulances in the referral system, of them 3 are being usedfor Covid patients.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh has appointed RTA Satyawan Mann as the nodal officer for the smooth supply of medical oxygen to hospitals. The DC also deployed Civil Surgeon Dr Om Parkash and DIC deputy director Vijay Luxmi for the requisition of cylinders from industry and medical areas. Drug inspector Suresh Chaudhary will assist them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-police-vehicles-to-double-up-as-ambulances-in-kaithal-246172
30-04-2021||---||Don’t admit patients beyond capacity, private hospitals told||Ambala, April 29Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said private hospitals had been admitting patients beyond their capacity. The government has issued a letterto the private hospitals,asking them not to admit Covid patients without permission or action will be initiated against them.The CM said this at a Covid review meeting held at the Civil Hospital, Ambala city.He said: “It has come to our notice that private hospitals have been admitting Covid patients without permission and licence. We are not saying that they can’t treat patients but if the government is informed then we will be able to resolve the problems. We have also learnt that these hospitals have been admitting patients beyond their capacity. After occupying all beds, they start using all oxygen cylinders with no backup. Later, they run out of cylinders and then run for refilling. The government has prepared a schedule and has been providing oxygen cylinders accordingly.”Taking to the media, the CM said: “There have been some issues due to the low availability of medicines, including remdesivir and tocilizumab. Currently, the quota of remdesivir is available. A board of doctors has been constituted and tocilizumab will be provided on the recommendation of the board as there are just 160 injections left in stock.”Earlier, the CM held a meeting, where he was informed about the availability of beds, ventilators, medicines and other equipment. He also inspected the oxygen generation plant, which is expected to start operations in a few days.He directed the authorities to update the data of the availability of general beds and those with oxygen support, and ventilators in real-time and display it. The CM also directed the officials concerned to ensure that there was no black marketing of medicines, oxygen cylinders and essential food items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-admit-patients-beyond-capacity-private-hospitals-told-246173
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Phase II, ‘jail radios’ established in 4 districts||Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Haryana, Rajeev Arora on Thursday inaugurated the second phase of setting up ‘jail radios’ in the prisons of all districts across the state.In the second phase, four ‘jail radios’ were set up inside the prisons of four districts, namely Karnal, Hisar, Gurugram and Rohtak.Arora said the programmes were focused on the activities of the jail and the inmates and would be presented by the inmates only.Dr Vartika Nanda, chairperson of the journalism department at Lady Shri Ram College and founder Tinka-Tinka Foundation, said an hour-long programme, focusing entirely on prison activities andrun by inmates, would be broadcast daily through the ‘jail radios’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-phase-ii-jail-radios-established-in-4-districts-246174
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Power corpn offices closed for  72 hours||In view of the surge in Covid cases, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has decided to sanitise all the offices, including head office, field offices and remaining offices, after office hours today. As a result, the offices will remain closed for the next three days i.e. Friday, Saturday and Sunday.Hence, no employees / officer/ official or consumer of the field office should come to the UHBVN office. Any necessary work can be communicated through online portal or social media. All offices will re-open on May 3.The official spokesperson of UHBVN said Covid cases were increasing daily due to which the employees working in the office had also been infected. So, all UHBVN offices are being sanitised to curb the virus spread. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-corpn-offices-closed-for-72-hours-246175
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Digvijay is JJP secy general||The JJP today made appointments in its state unit elevating Digvijay Chautala, younger brother of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, to the post of secretary general. While Kuldip Multani was appointed as senior vice-president, Ramesh Khatak, Jagroop Singh, Chhano Devi, Balinder Singh Landa, Nafe Singh Mann, Randeep Kaul, Rao Abhimanyu and Capt Chhajju Ram the vice-presidents. Satbir Lakra will be treasurer while Randhir Singh will be office secretary — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/digvijay-is-jjp-secy-general-246177
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Beware of cyber criminals selling oxygen: DGP||The Haryana Police have cautioned people against fraudsters who could dupe them on the pretext of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs through e-commerce portal OLX and other social media applications during the current Covid situation.Issuing an advisory here today, DGP Manoj Yadava said the widespread requirement of remdesivir injections and oxygen cylinders had become an ideal situation for cyber criminals, who were trying to manipulate people.Modus OperandiTo make a quick buck, the cyber fraudsters were adopting modern techniques to cheat the gullible and needy. Those who were engaged in the online black marketing of oxygen on OLX were based in the area around Haryana, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh.He advised the people to exercise caution and not to entertain any such offer available on OLX and other applications to avoid such frauds.“The police have also launched mobile number 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314 where people can share any information on black marketing of oxygen cylinders, remdesivir and other life-saving drugs.”The DGP also warned against the hoarding, illegal buying or selling of oxygen cylinders and other drugs. Those found involved in such activities would be dealt with as per the law, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/beware-of-cyber-criminals-selling-oxygen-dgp-246178
30-04-2021||Karnal||Handloom traders to shut shops for 10 days||Six handloom associations of Panipat district have decided to keep their shops closed for the next 10 days in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases here. None of the traders of these markets will open their shops between April 30 and May 9. Panipat reported 521 cases on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 4,791. “We will not wait for the lockdown to be imposed by the government. We decided to keep our shops closed at a meeting held between representatives of six associations,” said Harjinder Singh, president, Guru Nanak Handloom Market. He said the situation was getting worse and there was shortage of oxygen cylinders, beds and ventilators. “We took the step to break the chain of Covid as several people visit their markets daily.” Kuldeep Singh, a trader, said other traders should follow suit for the safety of their family and the public. “If the markets are closed, nobody will come out from their houses and the chances of the virus spread will also minimise.”  Rakesh Chaugh, another trader, said the government should impose lockdown as the situation was getting out of control. and it would be in the public interest. “We will also approach other businesses for shutdown,” said another trader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/handloom-traders-to-shut-shops-for-10-days-246179
30-04-2021||Gurugram||Teen charred to death in Gurugram||A 16-year-old boy was burnt alive, while his two friends had a narrow escape after an overspeeding car overturned after hitting a tree and caught fire on Thursday.  As per the police, the incident took place around 4 pm on the Rajpura-Jatauli road when three friends, Mohit (15), Priyanshu (17) and Dev Chauhan (16), residents of Jatauli, were travelling in a Swift car. Dev, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle, resulting in the mishap. He died on the spot. A case was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teen-charred-to-death-in-gurugram-246180
30-04-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Team Deepender, a ray of hope for the sick||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29At a time when Covid cases are spiraling out of control and hospitals and cremation grounds are shrinking under the unprecedented load of patients and the dead, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda and his 250-plus team’s efforts have come as a ray of hope to those finding every other door shut on them.8908404040 Helpline for those willing to donate plasma From arranging beds to organising oxygen cylinders, from arranging plasma to providing food at the doorstep of Covid families irrespective of which corner of the state the demand comes from, he and his team are all over — doing their bit, making a difference, touching lives and providing yeoman service when the agony of pandemic times is overwhelming.Also helping BJP, RSS menUsing Twitter to reach out to people, Deepender Hooda began building up his team when the second wave of Covid came knocking in Maharashtra.“Team Deepender was set up in 2012 as a non-political body and we provided all possible help by giving ration and helping migrants during the first wave. As soon as the cases began rising in Maharashtra recently, we roped in 10 volunteers from every district to create a network while we had the time. These were completely different from party workers. They were essentially people who had the wherewithal to extend help in case of a crisis — a farmer who could spare grain, a president of a chemist association, somebody willing to give back to society and extend all sorts of help,” the MP who has become the go-to person for assistance, says.Before the pandemic messed up Delhi, Hooda’s ground work was complete. “We began with just about 50 requests for help a day. This number has grown to 5,000 in three weeks of which nearly 2,000 requests are coming from Delhi. I hardly get sleep and our team is delivering oxygen and medicine well past midnight or into the wee hours,” he explains, adding that seven people are constantly monitoring the requests flooding his Twitter account and responding to those.Just being there is making a difference for the people running from pillar to post for beds, harried by black marketeers making a quick buck out of the people’s misery.Deepender Hooda, Rajya Sabha memberReceive 5,000 requests a dayWe began with just about 50 requests for help a day. This number has increased to 5,000 in three weeks. About 2,000 requests are from Delhi. My team is delivering oxygen and medicine well past midnight or into the wee hours Deepender Hooda’s Twitter handle is flooded with messages of gratitude and that’s where he and his team members are drawing energy to keep going through trying times.Holding two meetings a day, the team organises its resources through the day.“Though our focus has been Haryana and its people, we are helping out with resources even in Delhi whenever possible,” he said.While his parents, CLP leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Asha Hooda, are still recuperating in hospital after getting infected, the MP is leaving no stone unturned in procuring drugs.As he and his team work tirelessly, Deepender is very clear that this is the time to be there for the people and that politics and blame games can wait until another time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/team-deepender-a-ray-of-hope-for-the-sick-246181
30-04-2021||Karnal||Karnal hospital gets 30-bed ICU||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday visited Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and reviewed the preparedness in dealing with Covid patients.On the occasion, he inaugurated a 30-bed ICU With this, the number of the ICU beds at the KCGMC has increased to 90.“The KCGMC has the most number of ICU beds in the state. Soon, 20 more ICU beds will be added,” said Khattar.During a meeting with KCGMC officials, the Chief Minister gave nod to an oxygen generation plant with a capacity of 3,500 liters per day. An estimated Rs 5 crore will be spent on its construction.At present, the KCGMC has a storage capacity of 10,000 kg. Its capacity will be doubled in the coming days.Later, he told the media the state had apprehended a surge in cases, but the country had been hit by a tsunami. — TNSOxygen wastage at KCGMC: AdmnThe Karnal district administration conducted an audit on consumption of medical oxygen at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and found it being wasted. “I have received the KCGMC report regarding deficiency and the officials concerned have been told to fix it,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospital-gets-30-bed-icu-246182
30-04-2021||---||New protocol: Hospitals with less than 10 beds can’t admit patients||Chandigarh, April 29  Amid the crunch of hospital beds and oxygen shortage, the Health Department has issued a new protocol for the rational use of hospital beds and calculation of oxygen demand.  The health facilities are under strain as the peak of the second wave has been four times the peak of the first one.  As per a letter issued to all DCs and civil surgeons of the state by the Director General Health Services (DGHS), Dr Veena Singh, on behalf of Additional Chief Secretary Health, the hospitals having less than 10 beds in each district will not be allowed to admit and treat Covid patients, except Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Karnal, Hisar and Sonepat, where the minimum number fixed is 15-20 beds.  “However, it shall be ensured that the total the number of beds for Covid patients does not decrease in any district. The number of beds, if decreased by disallowing the hospitals with less than 10-20 beds, as mentioned above, shall be added in the larger hospitals,” said the instructions.  The addition of beds or private health facilities for providing treatment will be done based on the requirement of additional health facilities in the district, and the availability of prerequisite infrastructure, manpower, oxygen supply, and essential drugs with such health facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-protocol-hospitals-with-less-than-10-beds-cant-admit-patients-246184
30-04-2021||---||Colleges, ITIs shut till May 31||Chandigarh, April 29 In view of the surge in Covid cases, all colleges, coaching institutions, ITIs, libraries, training institutes, government or private in Haryana, will remain closed up to May 31. Apart from this, all anganwadi centers and creches, under Women and Child Development Department in the state, shall also remain closed up to May 31. Haryana Chief Secretary, Vijai Vardhan, who is also the chairperson of the State Executive Committee issued orders in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/colleges-itis-shut-till-may-31-246185
30-04-2021||---||97 more dead, record 5,042 cases in Gurugram||Chandigarh, April 29With 13,947 fresh Covid cases and 97 deaths, the overall tally of Haryana today jumped to 4.74 lakh.The maximum deaths were reported from Hisar 12, followed by 11 each in Ambala and Jind, nine each in Gurugram and Bhiwani, seven each in Faridabad, Panchkula, five each in Karnal, Palwal and Fatehabad, four each in Rohtak and Kaithal, three in Sirsa, two each in Sonepat and Kurukshetra and one in Nuh.So far, 4,118 deaths due to Covid have been recorded.In fresh cases, Gurugram set a record with 5,042 cases, the highest so far, followed by 1,563 from Faridabad, 840 from Sonipat and 822 from Hisar.The active cases in the state jumped to 93,175 today. Also, 9,535 got cured in the last 24 hours. The overall positivity rate increased to 6.48 per cent.A total of 48,705 samples were taken today.As per official bulletin, there were 1,267 critical cases in 12 medical colleges of the state.Meanwhile, Health Minister Anil Vij has directed officials of the Health Department to ensure that all government and private laboratories in the state prepare the Covid test report within 24 hours of collecting the samples so that the patients get timely medical facility.31 juveniles test +veAmbala: Thirty one juveniles tested positive at an observation home in Ambala City on Thursday. As per the Health Department, 85 samples, including 71 of juveniles, were tested, of which 31 samples were found positive. The juveniles who tested positive have been isolated. The district, meanwhile, also recorded highest single-day spike of 487 fresh cases and 11 deaths on Thursday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/97-more-dead-record-5-042-cases-in-gurugram-246186
30-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Convict’s family entitled to right to live, rules High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 29 In a significant judgment liable to change the way the families of the convicts are dealt with, the High Court has ruled that they cannot be penalised and punished for the acts of the offenders. “The person who has committed such an act is personally responsible for the consequences thereof and members of his entire family cannot be penalised and made to suffer a punishment for his offence. The rest of the family is entitled to have a right to live which is envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution and stands on a much higher pedestal than the gains and losses envisaged in a commercial agreement,” Justice Arun Monga of the HC ruled.  The matter was placed before Justice Monga after a petition was filed for quashing an order dated March 16, 2020, whereby an LPG distributorship of a firm — operational for 33 years — was terminated. Directions were also sought for reconsidering the application of the proprietor’s wife for substituting her as the proprietor in the distributorship. Justice Monga’s Bench was told the proprietor was held guilty by a Sessions Court and convicted for murder under IPCSection 302 before being awarded life imprisonment, vide judgment dated October 19, 2019. An appeal against his conviction was pending before the HC and could not come up for hearing “due to heavy pendency of cases before this court”.  Subsequently, the wife’s application seeking the reconstitution of the distributorship was rejected by an oil management company (OMC). The distributorship was also terminated vide the impugned order resulting in the filing of the petition. Justice Monga observed that the “Guidelines for Reconstitution of LPG Distributorship, 2018” framed by the OMC made it clear the company was cognisant of a situation where proprietor/partner of a distributorship was rendered incapacitated by virtue of conviction. In that event, the nominees were entitled to apply for reconstitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/convicts-family-entitled-to-right-to-live-rules-high-court-246187
30-04-2021||---||Patients made to wait outside ward during Khattar’s visit||Hisar, April 29Two Covid patients had to wait at the entrance of the gate as cops restricted entry to the Covid ward during the visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to the Civil Hospital in Jind today.The CM had arrived in Jind to review the Covid-related arrangements and also visited the hospital briefly. As the cops accompanying the CM closed the door to the main block of the hospital, two Covid patients on wheel-chair arrived at the hospital with their attendants.A video that went viral on the social media indicated that one of the patients, hailing from Khatkar village of the district, was having breathing problem as his oxygen level was stated to be low.Farmers wave black flagsThe attendants of the patient alleged that they had to wait for nearly 20 minutes at the gate and also knocked at the gate to draw the attention of the hospital staff. As an elderly person persistently knocked, a police official opened the gate from inside and let the Covid patients in.Some of the attendants later raised the issue with the Chief Minister who instantly called the Civil Surgeon and directed him to inquire the matter whether there had been any delay in the admission of the Covid patients due to the police restrictions during his visit.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh maintained that the patients had to wait for only five-six minutes, as the police, on CM duty, closed the entry to the main block. “I inquired into the matter after the CM’s instruction and found that none of the patients faced any problems due to the police restricts curbs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patients-made-to-wait-outside-ward-during-khattars-visit-246188
30-04-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma---||e-girdawari mismatch, crop not registered on portal||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, April 29 It’s been a month since the wheat procurement started in the state, but some farmers of the district could not register their produce on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal because of the mismatch in e-girdawari. It means that khasra numbers of land uploaded by officials do not match with those entered by farmers. Hence, the crop could not be registered.  Till the crop is not registered, it cannot be sold. Farmers Satpal Kaushik, Sant Lal, Raj Kumar, Rajpal and Amar Pal, all residents of Kartarpur village, have been running from pillar to post to get their produce registered, but in vain. Kaushik had recently written to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, highlighting their plight. “We have met the Deputy Commissioner, District Revenue Officer, Radaur SDM and Deputy Director, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, several times, but the problem remains unresolved,” said Kaushik. Jasvinder Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, said: “A few farmers of the district’s Khandwa village had faced the same problem, but it was solved. The matter of Kartarpur farmers has been taken up with higher authorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-girdawari-mismatch-crop-not-registered-on-portal-246189
30-04-2021||---||At Delhi borders, farmers to celebrate Gurpurb today||Sonepat/Rohtak, April 29 The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), along with Central trade unions, will celebrate 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh master, Guru Tegh Bahadur, at Singhu and Tikri borders on Friday.  The decision was taken at a meeting of 32 farm organisations at the Singhu border today. Later, Dr Darshan Pal, an SKM leader, said the meeting resolved that the farmers’ protest would continue with force.  In Rohtak, the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Khet Mazdoor Union (KMU) announced that it would observe Labour Day on May 1 jointly to strengthen the farmer-labourer unity.  Sumit of the AIKS, Jai Bhagwan of the CITU’s and Ram Kumar Bahbalpuria of the KMU have appealed to workers, farmers and other sections to assemble at the Delhi borders and toll plazas on May 1 in a show of strength. “We have given a call to our respective units across the state to join hands with other outfits and flag the three farm laws, amendment to labour laws, legal guarantee on the MSP and privatisation,” said Sumit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-delhi-borders-farmers-to-celebrate-gurpurb-today-246190
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||78,230 tonnes wheat procured||The state government today procured a total of 78,230 tonnes of wheat through various procurement agencies at MSP. An official spokesperson said that a total of 82.72 lakh tonnes of wheat have arrived at 396 mandi/procurement centres of the state. Out of that, a total of 79.09 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured. He informed that till date, as many as 8,88,082 J-forms of 4,93,831 farmers have been issued. Till April 29, Rs 8,711 crore have been transferred directly to the account of farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/78-230-tonnes-wheat-procured-246191
30-04-2021||---||26 IPS officers shifted||Chandigarh, April 29 The Haryana Government has issued the posting and transfer orders of 26 IPS officers with immediate effect.  Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor, (on promotion in DGP rank) has been posted as Director General of Prisons, Haryana (designated). Desh Raj Singh, ADGP/SCB, Haryana (on promotion in DGP rank) has been posted as DG, Bhondsi Police Complex, Bhondsi, Gurugram. Charu Bali, ADGP, IRB, who also has the additional charge of ADGP/SCB has been posted as ADGP/SCB, Gurugram. Dr Hanif Qureshi, IGP/IRB who also has the additional charge of Director General-cum-Secretary New and Renewable Energy Department has been given additional charge of IGP/RTC Bhondsi.  Sanjay Kumar, IGP/Hisar Range, Hisar, has been posted as IGP/Administration along with the additional charge of IGP/Law & Order at PHQ.  Bharti Arora, IGP/Karnal Range has been posted as IGP/Ambala Range, Ambala Cantt along with additional charge of IGP Karnal Range, Karnal Y Puran Kumar, IGP/Ambala Range, Ambala Cantt has been posted as IGP/CTI, Home Guards.  Hemant Kalson (awaiting orders of posting) has been posted as IGP/Home Guards.  Rakesh Kumar Arya, DIG/L&O (H), who also has additional charge of DIG/ R&C on his promotion as IGP has been posted as IGP/Hisar range, Hisar.  Satender Kumar Gupta, DIG / Administration, Haryana, who also has the additional charge of Dial 112 Project has been posted as DIG/Prisons, Haryana along with the additional charge of DIG/Railways Et Commando, Haryana.  Shashank Anand, managing director, UHVBN Ltd, has been given additional charge of DIG/CID, Haryana.  B Satheesh Balan, DIG/STF, has been given additional charge of DIG/IRB, Bhondsi.  Om Parkash, DIG-cum-SP, Jind, has been given the additional charge of DIG/Law and Order, Haryana, along with the additional charge of DIG/Administration.  Naazneen Bhasin, SP/RTC Bhondsi, Comdt. 2nd IRB Bhondsi who also has the additional charge of SP/SVB on her promotion as DIG has been posted as DIG/RTC Bhondsi along with additional charge of DIG/SVB. Kuldeep Singh, SP/SVB on his promotion as DIG has been posted as DIG/SVB.  Krishan Murari, Comdt. 3rd IRB Sunaria, who also holds the additional charge of SP/PTC Sunaria, on his promotion as DIG, has been posted as DIG/PTC Sunaria.  Shiv Charan, SP, SCB on his promotion as DIG, has been posted as DIG/SCB, Haryana.  Balwan Singh, SP/Hisar, who also has the additional charge of SP STF, Hisar, on his promotion as DIG has been posted as DIG-cum-SP Hisar along with the additional charge of STF Hisar.  DK Bhardwaj, DCP/Traffic, Gurugram, on his promotion as DIG has been posted as DIG/Home Guards.  Hamid Akhtar, SP/Ambala has been given additional charge of AIG/Welfare, PHQ.  Virender Kumar, SP/STF, has been posted as SP/Security, CID, along with the additional charge of Comdt 1st Bn,        HAP Ambala City.  With this, the government has also issued the posting and transfer of 13 HPS officers with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-ips-officers-shifted-246192
30-04-2021||Jhajjar||Two killed in accident||Army officer Major Pankaj Chauhan of Ambala and his family met with an accident on the KMP expressway near Badli toll plaza late on Wednesday evening, leaving his wife Lalitesh (27) and Sneha (10 months) dead on the spot. Major Pankaj too suffered injuries in the accident that took place when they were returning home after attending a wedding in Rajasthan. As they reached near Badli town, a tyre of their car burst. The car overturned after hitting the divider. The police, on getting information, rushed to the spot and took out the three from the car. Lalitesh and Sneha had died by then. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-accident-246193
30-04-2021||Yamunanagar||Haryana CM reviews Covid situation in Yamunanagar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today visited Yamunanagar district and held a meeting with the officers of the local administration to review arrangements made for Covid patients.After holding the meeting at Maharaja Agrasain College, he also inspected the Covid care centre established at the ESI Hospital, Jagadhri. In the meeting, the CM directed the officers that every possible effort should be made to save the lives of Covid patients.He asked the officers to keep a strict vigil on such persons who might try to do black marketing and illegal hoarding of essential goods.He said the state was also providing ration free of cost to needy persons through public distribution system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-reviews-covid-situation-in-yamunanagar-246196
30-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Packed, Rohtak crematoriums face wood crunch||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 29Amid a spike in Covid deaths, crematoriums in the city are facing an acute shortage of wood, following which prices have risen by up to 25 per cent.Suppliers selling it at higher rate in NCRInstead of local sale, contractors are selling wood at much higher rates in Delhi and Gurugram. —  Surendra Batra, Ram Bagh cremation groundSurendra Batra, vice president, Ram Bagh Cremation Ground, said: “More than 15 bodies are being cremated here daily. The demand for wood has gone up three-fold. The contractors are preferring to sell wood at much higher rates in Delhi and Gurugram. We are struggling to arrange supplies here.”He said while they had been paying Rs 500 per quintal for wood, the contractors were now demanding Rs 625-650 per quintal. “Even at this price the supply is limited. The families will have to arrange wood on their own if the issue is not resolved soon,” he said.The district administration has directed the forest officer to halt the auction of wood and create buffer stock so as to avoid inconvenience to people at crematoriums.Manoj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said: “The second Covid wave is more intense. The number of deaths is high. It is the duty of the DFOs to provide wood in sufficient quantity to the corporation authorities.” He directed the MC Commissioner to earmark more cremation grounds in addition to two at present for Covid victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/packed-rohtak-crematoriums-face-wood-crunch-246144
