01-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: A fortress in making in Ghazipur||With parked DTC buses sealing main entry points, multi-layered security arrangements and checkpoints -- both by police and farmers' union volunteers -- Ghazipur, the new focal point of the ongoing farmers' agitation, witnessed heightened restrictions on Monday. The Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand days after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal is a fortress in the making with security arrangements being amplified with every passing day. Concertina wires -- a new addition in at least three points -- boulders in between the barriers. No major road is open for movement of vehicles and people which is proving to be a growing problem for many passing the stretch. Rakesh Tikait, the star farmer leader, while addressing a packed crowd from the main stage also mentioned the newly put barbed wires in his speech. "They (the administration) have put these barbed wires, not us. They are not allowing people to come to Delhi. We are not the one blocking the roads. If we block roads, they ask us to vacate, but no action is taken when the same is done by these security forces," he said to a cheering crowd. On Wednesday night, the atmosphere was tense at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad administration had issued an "ultimatum" to the protesters to vacate a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut expressway they were occupying as the January 26 clashes painted a not-so-peaceful picture of the peasant community. As security presence at the site escalated, fears grew that the protesters would be forcibly evicted, but the emotional outburst of Rakesh Tikait saved the day -- and possibly the whole movement -- and people in tens of thousands started converging at the protest site in support of the agitation. Many commuters complained that the heightened security measures and new restrictions on routes day after day are affecting their daily commute. "Since December we were facing problems with this stretch, but the security and restrictions have been grown by leaps and bounds. The interior routes which they have not barricaded -- as of yet -- are not only congested but are in a pathetic condition, making them too dangerous to travel on," said Navdeep Kumar, a regular commuter of the National Highway-24. To keep at bay an unruly crowd and any possible plot to disturb the peaceful movement, the volunteers have taken the matter into their own hands. They are maintaining high vigil in the area by setting up multiple-check points. "We don't allow locals to enter without any rhyme or reason. Even if you are media, you have to show your id-card for entry. The drill is applied round the clock," said a volunteer, standing next to a make-shift checkpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
01-02-2021||India||Union Budget opts for massive hike in healthcare spending||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has unveiled a growth-oriented budget that included a nearly 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending and declared the government was “fully prepared” with measures to pull the Covid-hit economy out of an unprecedented contraction. At the same time, she blew out the country’s hitherto conservative fiscal deficit target. First, the key budget takeaways for taxpayers: there’ll be no change in tax rates and there also won’t be any need for senior citizens over 75 to file tax returns if their only income is from pensions and interest income. Also, the budget got a big thumbs-up from investors who drove the benchmark 30-share Sensex 5 per cent higher in its biggest budget day rally since 1971. This is “a bold budget in many senses. The central intent has been to use expansionary fiscal policy to support growth sidestepping concerns over debt sustainability and sovereign ratings,” said HDFC chief economist Abheek Barua. The fiscal deficit will be 9.5 per cent for this fiscal year ending March 31, way beyond the 3.5-per-cent target set in the last budget. For next year, the government targeted a deficit of 6.8 per cent. Covid-19 has slashed growth, reducing tax revenues at the same time as increasing the need for higher spending to bolster the economy. The nearly Rs 35-trillion budget, which emphasises fiscal stimulus, envisages a “self-reliant India” that provides “every opportunity for our economy to...capture the pace it needs for sustainable growth,” said Sitharaman, who set a precedent by reading her speech to Parliament from a computer tablet to reflect the country’s digital drive. The government’s proposals will benefit the health care, real estate and construction, metal makers, state-run banks saddled with bad loans and textiles, innovation and research and development, among other areas, she said. "The government is fully prepared to support and facilitate the economy's reset," she said. The key thrust of the budget on healthcare which has been a neglected priority under successive governments drew praise from all parties. Sitharaman said the government would increase healthcare spending by 137 per cent to Rs 2.2 trillion to bolster the badly ailing public healthcare system and administer Covid vaccines to nearly 1.4 billion people. Also, under the budget, a new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore over six years. “This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care health systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases,” said Sitharaman. The government also announced plans for “one nation, one ration card” to simplify distribution to the poor. Growth over fiscal consolidation “It is a growth-oriented budget with a lot of positive interventions, and with something in it for everyone. On healthcare, the Government has taken a big step with an outlay of Rs 2.23 lakh crore, a 137 per cent increase from last year, a step that was long overdue,” said Satish Reddy, chairman of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, one of the country’s biggest drugmakers. But he added a strong note of caution: “As with all budgets, there are concrete proposals that are encouraging but it is the execution that finally matters and I hope this time the government gets it right.” The swing to high fiscal deficits drew only praise from business leaders. Uday Shankar, president of FICCI, who called the budget “outstanding, clear-headed and growth-oriented… (one) that lays a strong foundation for an Atmanirbhar Bharat.” He said, “the fact that the government chose growth over fiscal consolidation is indeed heartening. There is a sharp focus on capital expenditure.” No cushion for pandemic stressed sectors Critics, though noted, the budget contained no specific support for pandemic-stressed sectors like the hospitality sector. There was also no cushion provided for households – especially in the informal sector hit the most by the pandemic which was likely to push the economy toward a K-shaped recovery in which the rich get richer and the poor become poorer. Former Congress Union minister Anand Sharma tweeted that the budget was “without a roadmap for accelerating growth & revival of consumer demand... The nation needed a bold budget & more direct transfers to the weaker sections to revive demand, restart job creation.” Prices of gold and silver fell after Sitharaman said the government would slash customs duties on the precious metals to 7.5 per cent from 12.5 per cent to bring them more into line with 2019 levels when the duties had been hiked from 10 per cent., Rise in tax revenue forecast The government’s spending plans involve raising levies on imports such as mobile phone components to increase self-reliance, selling state assets and dividend income. The budget forecasts a 16 per cent rise next year in tax revenues to Rs 15.5 trillion rupees from the current year. The government also is aiming to cut its stakes in at least two public-sector banks and in an insurance company as well as monetise land banks that it hopes will reap at least Rs 1.75 lakh crore. That target is lower than the Rs 2.1 lakh crore it hoped to gain from disinvestment in the current financial years that was badly hit by the pandemic. Privatisation sales under not only the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but also preceding administrations have rarely reached their targets because of the political sensitivity of such disposals and union opposition. Plans to pull in investment The budget sets out plans to draw investment to bolster the economy, raising the foreign investment ceiling in insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent in an attempt to draw long term funds for meeting the investment requirements of the sector. Among other moves, it also proposes simplifying the rules governing REITS and inVITS to attract foreign money. REITs and InvITs are both popular in global markets. REITs involve commercial real assets. InvITs are made up of infrastructure assets like highways. The government will also raise capital expenditure by more than Rs 1 trillion to Rs 5.54 trillion. The government has said the economy will grow by 11 per cent in the coming financial year, making it the fastest-growing worldwide, helped by the rollout of the Covid vaccine and hoped-for continued fall of Covid patient numbers. That growth will be a rebound from an unprecedented 7.7 contraction in the current year. While headline growth for 2021-22 looks impressive, in reality, it will be only a little over two per cent more than in 2019-20. Still, the government’s overall spending for the next coming fiscal year is only going to rise only 0.8 per cent to almost Rs 35 trillion, raising questions about the funding feasibility of the government's ambitious schemes. The government has also earmarked Rs 20,000 crore to recapitalise state-run banks that are groaning under the weight of bad loans. The aim is to allow them to give them leeway to meet the credit demands of a growing economy. Manufacturing companies hold the key For India to attain its target of becoming a $5-trillion economy, Sitharaman said the manufacturing sector must post double-digit growth and its manufacturing companies need to become an integral part of global supply chains, possess core competence and cutting-edge technology. In a bid to increase domestic manufacturing the government announced an up to 10-per-cent hike in customs duties for mobile chargers and phone parts which could mean costlier mobile handsets. To achieve these goals, schemes to create “manufacturing global champions for an AtmaNirbhar Bharat” have been announced for 13 sectors, she said. For this, the government has committed nearly Rs 1.97 lakh crores over five years in the next fiscal year starting April 1. “This initiative will help bring scale and size in key sectors, create and nurture global champions and provide jobs to our youth,” Sitharaman said. Textile parks To enable the textile industry to become globally competitive, attract large investment and boost job creation, a Mega Investment Textiles Parks or MITRA scheme will be launched. Sitharaman said this will create world-class infrastructure with plug-and-play facilities to create “global champions in exports.” She said seven textile parks will be established over three years. She said the government’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), “a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise,” was launched in December which included 6,835 projects. The project pipeline has now expanded to 7,400 projects. Around 217 projects worth Rs 1.10 lakh crore under some key infrastructure ministries have been completed. She said the NIP is a specific target which the government is committed to achieving over the coming years and will require a major increase in funding both from the government and the financial sector. To accomplish these objectives, she said she would in this budget create the institutional structures; put a big thrust on monetising assets, and thirdly enhance the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. She also announced plans to create a Development Financial Institution (DFI) to act as a provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing and provided a sum of Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise the institution. “The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at least Rs 5 lakh crore for this DFI in three years time,” she said. Investors cheered the budget, pushing up the Sensex by over 2,300 points to close at 48,601 while the broader NSE Nifty ended up 4.74 per cent or 674 points higher at 14,281.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
01-02-2021||India||Tourism sector unhappy with 19 per cent reduction in budget||The budgetary allocation for the ministry of tourism has been slashed from Rs 2,500 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2026.77 crore this year, in a blow to the tourism industry which is reeling from huge losses due to the coronavirus crisis. The budget has allocated Rs 1088.03 crore for development of tourism infrastructure. With the coronavirus crisis restricting not just foreign tourist footfalls into the country but also keeping domestic tourists at bay, the budget has focused on pushing funds for promotion and publicity to help woo tourists back. Out of the Rs 668.72 crore allocated towards promotion and publicity, Rs 524.02 crore is for the overseas market and Rs 144.70 crore has been kept for domestic tourists. With the coronavirus crisis bringing the tourism sector to its knees, the union budget has allocated a sum of Rs 63.65 crore for capacity building for service providers and Rs 138.65 crore for training and skill development. FAITH, the policy federation of all the national associations representing the complete tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India said that lack of immediate direct support in budget has disappointed the Indian travel and tourism industry. In a statement, Nakul Anand, Chairman-FAITH said there was a need of corpus of at least Rs 2,500 crore for global branding budget to enable sub-branding of three tourism segments -- Indian MICE, Indian adventure, Indian Heritage under the Incredible India main brand to enhance each of these verticals' global outreach. "Not addressing any of these critical measures in the budget announcement has thrown the industry into a state of shock and deep dismay. The tourism, travel and hospitality industry is battling the worst in century crisis from the impact of Covid 19, revival from which will not be seen minimum for the next financial year till vaccination is fully undertaken with no observed side effects in all source and destination markets," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Twitter 'withholds' multiple accounts linked to farmers' protest||Twitter on Monday withheld multiple accounts on its social media platform including those linked with the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the new contentious central farm laws. Among the accounts withheld are Kisan Ekta Morcha (@Kisanektamorcha) and BKU Ekta Urgahan (@Bkuektaugrahan), both having followers in thousands. Besides these, several other individual and organisational accounts, including one of a media outlet, were also withheld, even as debates started on social media over the development. According to Twitter, when an account is withheld it means the social media platform was compelled to withhold the entire account specified (e.g, @username) in response to a valid legal demand, such as a court order. The development comes in the wake of violence in Delhi on Republic Day on January 26 during a tractor parade of farmers protesting the new agriculture laws which resulted in the death of one person and injuries to over a hundred people, including police personnel. The Delhi Police is currently probing the Republic Day violence wherein it has lodged multiple FIRs and booked, among others, several farmer leaders leading the protests at the national capital's borders since November-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Govt rationalising customs duties on gold, silver: FM||The government on Monday announced cut in import duty on gold and silver, a move that will help bring down prices of these precious metals in the domestic market and boost exports of gems and jewellery. The duty was reduced on other precious metals including gold dore bar, silver dore bar, platinum, gold/silver findings, and precious metal coins. "Gold and silver presently attract a basic customs duty of 12.5 per cent. Since the duty was raised from 10 per cent in July 2019, prices of precious metals have risen sharply. To bring it closer to previous levels, we are rationalising customs duty on gold and silver," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitahraman said while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22. The customs duty on gold and silver was reduced to 7.5 per cent. The duties on other precious metals were cut down to 6.9 per cent on gold dore bar from 11.85 per cent; 6.1 per cent on silver dore bar from 11 per cent; 10 per cent on platinum from 12.5 per cent; 10 per cent for gold/silver findings from 20 per cent; and 10 per cent on precious metal coins from 12.5 per cent. All these sectors, however, would also attract 'Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess' at a rate of 2.5 per cent. Welcoming the decision, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) Chairman Colin Shah said that it would help in promoting domestic manufacturing and boosting exports. "It was our long-pending demand to cut the import duty on gold and silver. It is a welcome move for the domestic organised sector," Shah said. Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, fell 27.20 per cent to USD 16.8 billion during April-December 2020-21. Silver imports during the period too dipped 67 per cent to about USD 762.31 million. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to the demand of the jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually. Gems and jewellery exports declined by about 40 per cent to about USD 17 billion during the nine months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Government raises import duty on mobile phone parts, chargers||The government on Monday proposed to impose import duty on components of mobile phones and chargers, to enhance local value addition. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a review of 400 exemptions in customs duty including those applicable on the mobile devices segment. "For greater domestic value addition, we are withdrawing a few exemptions on part of chargers and sub-parts of mobiles. Further, some parts of the mobile rate will move from nil rate to moderate 2.5 per cent," Sitharaman said. She added that the customs duty policy must have twin objectives of promoting domestic manufacturing and helping India get on to global value chain and export better. "The thrust now has to be on easy access to raw materials and exports of value addition," Sitharaman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Self-reliance at the heart of budget, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the Union Budget, saying it has the vision of 'Aatmanirbharta' (self reliance) and addresses all sections of the society while keeping farmers and villages at its heart. "This Budget has a special focus on strengthening the agriculture sector and boosting farmers' income. Villages and farmers are at its heart," Modi said. The budget will bring several positive changes for individuals, investors, industry and infrastructure sector, the Prime Minister said in his televised remarks on the Union Budget 2021-22 presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament. Modi said the Budget has been presented in extraordinary circumstances and has a sense of reality as well as a confidence of development in it. It has the vision of Aatmanirbharta' and addresses all sections of the society, he asserted. "We have taken the approach of widening new opportunities for growth, creation of new opportunities for our youth, giving a new dimension to human resources, develop new sectors for infrastructure development, and moving towards technology and bringing new reforms in this Budget," he said. It's a pro-active Budget that gives boost to wealth as well as wellness, Modi said. This Budget talks of all-round development for all parts of country, he said, adding that it has provided for a record increase in allocation towards infrastructure building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Union Budget proposes 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a growth-oriented budget that included a nearly 140 per cent hike in healthcare spending and declared the government was “fully prepared” with measures to pull the Covid-hit economy out of an unprecedented contraction. The budget targeting a “self-reliant India” provides every opportunity for our economy to "capture the pace that it needs for sustainable growth,” Sitharaman said, who set a precedent by reading her speech to parliament from a computer tablet. Sitharaman said her budget rested on various pillars that included spending on health infrastructure, physical and financial capital and infrastructure, inclusive development for an “aspirational India”, innovation and R&D, and minimum government and maximum governance. "The government is fully prepared to support and facilitate the economy's reset," Sitharaman said. Highlighting the difficulties of the government’s financial situation during the ongoing pandemic, Sitharaman announced a massive fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal year, blowing out the 3.5 per cent target set in the last budget. For the next year, the government targeted a deficit of 6.8 per cent. Covid-19 has slashed growth, reducing tax revenues at the same time as increasing the requirement for higher spending to bolster the economy. Under the budget, a new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of about Rs 64,180 crore over six years. “This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care Health Systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases,” she said. For the current year, the Budget outlay for health and wellbeing will be increased by 137 per cent to Rs 223,846 crore. For India to attain its target of becoming a $5 trillion economy, Sitharaman said the manufacturing sector must post double-digit growth and its manufacturing companies need to become an integral part of global supply chains, possess core competence and cutting-edge technology. To achieve these goals, schemes to create “manufacturing global champions for an AtmaNirbhar Bharat” have been announced for 13 sectors, she said. For this, the government has committed nearly Rs 1.97 lakh crore over five years starting in the next fiscal year starting April 1. “This initiative will help bring scale and size in key sectors, create and nurture global champions and provide jobs to our youth,” Sitharaman said. To enable the textile industry to become globally competitive, attract large investment and boost job creation, a Mega Investment Textiles Parks or MITRA scheme will be launched. Sitharaman said this will create world class infrastructure with plug-and-play facilities to create “global champions in exports.” She said seven textile parks will be established over three years. She said the government’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), “a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise,” was launched in December covering 6,835 projects. That the project pipeline has now expanded to 7,400 projects. Around 217 projects worth Rs 1.10 lakh crore under some key infrastructure ministries have been completed. She said the NIP is a specific target which this government is committed to achieving over the coming years and will require a major increase in funding both from the government and the financial sector. To accomplish these objectives, she said she would in this budget create the institutional structures; put a big thrust on monetizing assets, and thirdly enhance the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. She also announced plans to create a Development Financial Institution (DFI) to act as a provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing and provided a sum of Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise the institution. “The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at least Rs 5 lakh crore for this DFI in three years time,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Internet suspension at Delhi borders extended till Tuesday ||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the suspension of internet services at the farmer protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders till Tuesday night, officials said. Apart from the three border points, where farmers have been protesting since November against the Centre's three new farm laws, internet services will remain suspended in their adjoining areas too. The suspension is effective from 11 pm of January 31 to 11 pm on February 2. The decision has been taken to 'maintain public safety and averting public emergency' under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, a Home ministry official said. The suspension of internet services at the three border points and their adjoining areas was imposed at 11 pm on January 29 and was initially effective till 11 pm on January 31. The Union home ministry invoked the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017 in the Indian Telegraph Act to shut down the Internet in these areas where tens of thousands of men, women and children have been agitating peacefully since November-end for the repeal of three new farm laws. The clampdown came after the protesting farmers succeeded in turning the narrative built against them, through television media in particular, since the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally. Flow of information out of the protest sites had helped mobilise farmers over the past few days, with visuals of the crackdown at Ghazipur on Thursday night shared over social media turning the tide against the government. Internet services were also temporary suspended in some parts of Delhi on January 26, when large scale violence was reported during the farmers' tractor rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Congress slams Union budget, terms it 'disappointing'||The Congress on Monday strongly criticised the Union budget, saying Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's speech was oblivious to the declining GDP and the budget was a case of "wrong diagnosis and prescription". "The FM could have been brave but chose to be timid. The nation needed a bold budget and more direct transfers to the weaker sections to revive demand, restart job creation," senior Congress leader and Deputy leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma tweeted. The budget is "disappointing" and without a roadmap for accelerating growth and revival of consumer demand, he said. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari also alleged that the budget was a "national monetisation plan -- short hand for National Sell out" and there was "no central focus in Budget". "FM's Talkthorn (sic) oblivious that growth rate of GDP is in a record 37th month decline.Worst Crisis since 1991. Except for a National Monetisation Plan - short hand for National Sell out no Central Focus in Budget. Bottom line-Will not grow economy but sell the family silver," he tweeted. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also took a dig at the Centre over the budget, saying "this BJP government reminds me of the garage mechanic who told his client, 'I couldn't fix your brakes, so I made your horn louder'." Another Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the budget has left the middle class "bruised and wounded" by not changing tax slabs, not increasing deductions, not making new deduction slots like home loans, not bringing fuel under GST, not sharing Rs 19 Lakh crore gain from fuel taxes, not reducing GST rates. "After promising a century, FM is out hit wicket at Zero !! Instead of calling it as 'budget of the century' it will be remembered as 'blunder of the century' by BJP Govt #Budget2021," he tweeted. "Budget case of 'wrong diagnosis and wrong prescription' by BJP government which instead of healing, reforming and rejuvenating has chosen to adopt a damaging, disappointing and destroying approach to push the economy further into vortex of recession," he tweeted. The TMC also lashed out at the Centre over the Union Budget on Monday, saying it was 100 per cent "visionless" and its theme was "sell India". "India's first paperless budget is also a 100% visionless budget. Theme of the fake budget is Sell India!" TMC spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. "Railways: sold, Airports: sold, Ports: sold, Insurance: sold PSUs: 23 sold!" O'Brien claimed common people and farmers were ignored, adding that the Budget would make the rich richer and the poor poorer, while the middle class got "nothing". The Rajya Sabha MP also highlighted statistics to show how West Bengal had developed rural roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Pandemic led to weak revenue flow: FM||The coronavirus pandemic relief measures resulted in a rise in expenditure to Rs 34.50 lakh crore in the current fiscal as against Rs 30.42 lakh crore budgeted a year back, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday.

The pandemic also resulted in weak revenue inflow and higher expenditure was incurred to provide support for the economy and people, she said while presenting the Union Budget for 2021-22.

Sitharaman also provided Rs 35,000 crore towards COVID-19 vaccination in 2021-22 fiscal.

"I have provided Rs 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccine in this year 2021-22. I'm committed to provide further funds if required. The Budget outlay for health and well being is Rs 2.23 lakh crore in 2021-22 as against BE of Rs 94,452 crore and marks an increase of 137 per cent," she said while presenting 2021-22 Budget in the Lok Sabha.

India had earlier in January approved two vaccines -- Oxford's Covishield manufactured by SII and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin -- for restricted emergency use. The country launched its COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.

According to the COVID-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities based on evolving pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||Govt committed to farmers’ welfare, says FM||Stressing that the government is committed to farmers' welfare, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the MSP regime has undergone a "sea change" to assure price at least 1.5 times of production cost with sharp increase in procurement of foodgrains and payment to farmers.

In her budget speech for the next fiscal, she said the procurement of crops like paddy, wheat, pulses and cotton has jumped manifold in the last six years.

"Our government is committed to the welfare of farmers. The MSP (minimum support price) regime has undergone a sea change to assure price that is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities," Sitharaman said.

"The procurement has also continued to increase at a steady pace. This has resulted in increase in payment to farmers substantially," she said.

As the minister started highlighting the government's initiatives and achievements in the agriculture sector, opposition members started demanding repeal of three new farm laws.

Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than two months seeking repeal of three laws and a legal guarantee of the MSP.

Sharing the procurement data and amount paid to farmers under MSP operation, Sitharaman said: "In case of wheat, the total amount paid to farmers in 2013-14 was Rs 33,874 crore. In 2019-20, it was Rs 62,802 crore."

In 2020-21, she said the amount paid to farmers is over Rs 75,000 crore.

"The number of wheat growing farmers that were benefited increased in 2020-21 to 43.36 lakh compared to 35.57 lakh in 2019-20. That much of an increase within one year," the finance minister said.

For paddy, Sitharaman said the amount paid in 2013-14 was Rs 63,928 crore. In 2019-20, this increased to Rs 1,41,930 crore. Even better in 2020-21, the minister said this is further estimated to increase to Rs 1,72,752 crore.

Number of paddy farmers benefitted increased from 1.2 crore in 2019-20 to 1.54 crore in 2020-21.

In pulses, Sitharaman said Rs 236 crore was paid to farmers in 2013-14. "In 2019-20, this was increased to Rs 8,285 crore. Now in 2020-21, it is at Rs 10,530 crore, more than 40 times increase from 2013-14."

Similarly, Rs 90 crore was paid in 2013-14 to cotton farmers while Rs 25,974 crore has been paid in 2020-21 as of January 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
01-02-2021||India||India logs 11,427 fresh Covid cases, 118 casualties in a day||With 11,427 new coronavirus cases being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally has increased to 1,07,57,610, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,34,983, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national recovery rate surged to 97 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,54,392 with 118 daily new fatalities. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 13th consecutive day. There are 1,68,235 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,70,92,635 samples have been tested up to January 31 with 5,04,263 samples being tested on Sunday. The 118 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 9 from West Bengal, 8 from Uttar Pradesh, 6 each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, 4 each from Delhi and Karnataka. A total of 1,54,392 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,082 from Maharashtra followed by 12,356 from Tamil Nadu, 12,217 from Karnataka, 10,853 from Delhi, 10,173 from West Bengal, 8,658 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,153 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Budget Live: Rs 35,000 cr for Covid vaccination in 2021-22, says FM||Finance minister Nirmala Sithraman while announcing Budget 2021 in Parliament said that it was prepared in circumstances -like never before- and that the government was fully prepared to back and facilitate a reset of the economy. According to her, the total impact of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Covid relief measures was Rs 27.1 lakh crore, which amounts to 13 per cent of the GDP, reported ndtv.com. "Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark" she quoted Rabindranath Tagore, adding that this moment in history is the dawn of a new era, where India is well-poised to be the land of promise and hope". The Atmanirbhar Bharat schemes announced in 2020 were like five mini budgets themselves, said the Finance Minister. Highlights of the Union Budget:  Cabinet nod The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday approved the Budget 2021-22, sources said. The Budget will be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a short while from now in the Lok Sabha. In a first, the Budget 2021-22 would be in a paperless format. Markets Stock investors are not expecting any market-specific measures in the budget though sectoral reliefs across the economy may perk up specific scrips, the sombre mood reinforced by a more-than-2500 crash in the Sensex last week. Disappointing The budgets have largely been disappointing to markets during the tenure of the NDA since 2014: they have fallen on five occasions the day of its presentation. Exactly a year ago, the Sensex had crashed 988 points — its steepest fall on a budget day in six years. Banking Brokerages, however, do have sector-specific expectations. For the banking sector, it includes a bad bank, a bank investment company that will take over the government’s stake in the 12 public sector banks. Some even expect a bold announcement in the form of privatisation of some of these banks apart from continuing their consolidation so as to bring down the number of state-owned lenders to four. Housing loan Many brokerages expect a higher deduction on housing loans and reduction in long term capital gains rate on real estate assets to 10 per cent with their holding period also reduced to 12 months from 24 months. Long-term capital gains Some optimists are looking forward to some good news on the long-term capital gains (LTCG) on listed shares. “Among the key expectations, the investors will look forward to the abolition of long-term capital gains tax or redefining long term to two years and reducing the taxation to nil, while further allow indexation benefits to equity mutual funds and some relief on dividend distribution tax in hands of investors,’’ says Nitin Aggarwal, CEO, Religare Broking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Govt moves to isolate Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur ||A concrete mixer was at work at the Ghazipur border on Sunday, pouring cement mixture between two barricades under the supervision of police to build a wall that would cut off the protesting farmers, a day after Internet was shut down at all three protest sites on Delhi’s borders and one journalist was arrested. Over the weekend the government has moved to isolate all three big protest sites — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — by choking physical access and flow of information. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmers are agitating for repeal of three new farm laws and the enactment of a legal guarantee for minimum support prices, condemned the clampdown and revealed that more than 100 protesters were missing since Republic Day. The clampdown was an attempt to prevent “real facts” about the peaceful conduct of the protest from getting out, the Morcha said, adding that having “manufactured” a narrative, the government was trying to ensure it did not change. Union leaders pointed to the Prime Minister’s radio show Mann Ki Baat in which he said the nation was saddened by the “insult to the National Flag”. While some protesters had raised the Nishan Sahib and farmer union flags at the Red Fort, these were hoisted on an empty pole beneath the Tricolour. “The government does not want the facts to reach the protesting farmers.... It is fearful of the coordinated work of the farmers’ unions across different protest sites and is trying to cut off communication between them. This is undemocratic and illegal,” the Morcha said in a statement. It questioned the sequestering of the protest sites “from a long distance, disallowing common people and mediapersons from reaching the Singhu border”, and said this was “also to disrupt the supply of food and water”. Many Delhi residents had been regularly visiting the protest sites and volunteering there. The crackdown was criticised also by Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik, who was the governor of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 when the state was split into two Union territories. “I would warn that suppressing any issue in the world is not a solution. By pressing, it goes down for some time, but then it emerges with even bigger force,” Malik was quoted by news agency ANI as saying. The Morcha, which represents around 500 farmer groups from across the country, condemned the detention of journalists, Mandeep Punia in particular, in connection with “false and fabricated charges out of the government’s fear of being exposed for its real conspiracy and out of fear of the rising strength of the farmers’ movement”. Punia, who had reported on the fracas at Singhu on Friday when a group of men walked into the heavily barricaded protest site and attacked the farmers in front of a large police contingent, was arrested on Saturday on charges of “misbehaving” with the police. While the Morcha will meet on Monday to chalk out its future course, the 32 Punjab unions that are part of it met on Sunday and decided to form a six-member committee to gather information on those missing since the tractor rally and provide legal assistance to those arrested, including journalists. PTI reported that the Morcha had asked for any information on those missing to be shared on the phone number 8198022033. The barricading has made it difficult for people to access the protest sites from the highways and to send supplies, but the pathways from the adjoining areas are being used and local residents are extremely supportive, farmer leaders said. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s statement on Saturday that the offer to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months still stood, farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said at a news conference at Singhu: “Mercy petitions only delay the inevitable; it seldom stops the execution.” The farmers describe the three laws as their “death warrant”. Since January 28, the fastest mobilisation among the three sites has been at Ghazipur, where Rakesh Tikait has become a rallying point. Former BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Singh Badal visited him on Sunday to honour him and promise full support. Several Opposition leaders have visited Ghazipur since Thursday, when the Uttar Pradesh government tried to evict the protesters. Referring to Modi’s statement, Tikait said he too wanted the issue resolved through talks that would respect the Prime Minister’s “honour” and that of the farmers. His elder brother Naresh Tikait said in Muzaffarnagar that these bills were “fire” that would cause damage. “If the laws are repealed then the government does not stand to lose anything…. Accept your fault, and hold talks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrests freelance journalist||Delhi police on Sunday arrested freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who had in a Facebook Live session on Friday accused BJP workers of posing as local people and unleashing violence at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. The police had detained Punia on Saturday night, saying he had tried to dismantle barricades at Singhu and misbehaved with security personnel. A video has emerged purportedly showing a group of policemen shoving Punia and dragging him away. The FIR says Punia was arrested for his “misbehaviour” with a station house officer at the Singhu border. Sitting in a police jeep on Sunday afternoon, Punia chanted “Free Press” as he was being taken to court. He has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Journalists protested outside the Delhi police headquarters, demanding Punia’s release. Punia has been booked under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). Punia had posted a video on Facebook giving a personal account of the violence at Singhu. He said mobs chanted anti-farmer slogans and threw stones at the protesters in the presence of policemen. A group of 150-200 people had stormed the Singhu protest site on Friday amid heavy security, hurled stones at the farmers and vandalised some of their tents. While members of the mob claimed to be “local residents”, the farmers alleged they were BJP supporters. Punia, a regular contributor to The Caravan magazine, had been on assignment to cover the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border on Friday. Rahul Gandhi on Sunday shared a video that shows Punia being detained by the police and tweeted in Hindi: “Those who fear the truth arrest true journalists.” The Indian Women’s Press Corps, Press Club of India and the Press Association condemned the police’s use of “brutal force” against Punia and demanded his immediate release. They said that no journalist should be disturbed while carrying out their duties at any place. “Delhi police used brutal force while picking up Mandeep and did not share his whereabouts to other media colleague entire night,” a joint statement said. “Mandeep has been reporting on the present farmers’ agitation right from the beginning and his arrest is part of the government crackdown on journalists to prevent them from doing their job independently and freely. “Such crackdowns impinge on the media’s right to report freely and interferes with our right to freedom of expression, and freedom of the press as guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” Another journalist, Dharmendra Singh, was picked up on Saturday night from the Singhu border. Police sources said he was released later in the night after he showed his press identity card. Officers wouldn’t say why he had been detained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Tractor march was set up to fail: Cardiologist from US||Cardiologist Swaiman Singh came from the US to volunteer for medical aid at the farmers’ protest right when it began. Nothing had prepared him for the scaremongering and police highhandedness he experienced while treating patients, including policemen, during the tractor rally on Republic Day. He doesn’t understand why he and his team of medical personnel got beaten up by the police — ironically, they spent several hours treating injured cops — why he saw no government ambulances despite the size of the event, or why some people spread rumours of violence and confusion about the routes through the day, aggravating matters. A cardiology fellow at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in Newark, Singh took a break from his studies to come to the Tikri Kalan protest site and start a medical camp, library and night shelter. The Five Rivers Heart Association, the NGO he runs in the US, has 220 medical personnel and 32 ambulances at Tikri. He told this newspaper that on January 26, he was in Nangloi, a place on the designated route for the tractor rally from Tikri, where some farmers breached barricades. “We were there from around 10am. Twelve of our ambulances were stuck in traffic. Suddenly people from across the barricade (the Delhi side) came over and said that Nihang Sikhs had cut off policemen’s legs,” he said. “Others came and said the police were beating people up. I initially sent two doctors, who couldn’t find any clash, but as these unknown men kept coming and telling us this, we all moved across the barricade, which the police let us do. Once we had crossed over, we confirmed there had been no clashes there and that the farmers had not breached the barricades (at the time). “After an hour or so, when news started coming in about protesters (storming) the Red Fort, trouble began at the Nangloi barricades. Some of our medical volunteers who were at the barricades told me later that the farmers were talking to the police, saying, ‘Jai jawan, jai kisan, let us advance’, when two policemen came and slapped some boys. “The police started firing tear smoke, aiming it at the heads of the protesters. I saw a shell hit a man on a tractor, almost taking off half his face. He drove his tractor into a barricade and sped away. Our ambulance tried to chase him but could not catch him.” Dr Singh added: “There were no government doctors or ambulances. I had volunteered as a doctor at Black Lives Matter. How can there be a protest without ambulances and fire engines? As the trouble worsened, we set up a field hospital on the spot. We were suturing (the wounds of) Delhi police and CRPF men. Our ambulances took some 15 of them, and probably more than 100 farmers, to hospitals for further treatment. “Around two hours after we had started, two men came and stood near us and the police began beating them. Then the police began to hit us with lathis.” A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to this newspaper’s queries about the emergency medical personnel deployed and why they were absent along the route of the Tikri march. In a video posted on Facebook on Thursday, Dr Singh said the march had been “literally set up to fail” as the participants did not know the routes thoroughly. “The pain was seeing our brothers, our policemen, the CRPF, they didn’t have backup…. Where were the doctors, where were ambulances for them? Even they were set up to fail and die. If we weren’t there so many people would have lost their lives that day,” he wrote. A video shot by a person at the spot shows Delhi police in riot helmets hit two unidentified men who have sticks in their hands. This happens close to medical personnel who are on a pavement wearing neon jackets, and who shout, ‘This is a hospital.’ The police wield their sticks on the doctors. The images then end but the audio of the beating continues. In all, six medical volunteers — doctors, nurses and a pharmacist, from Punjab, Delhi, Bengal and Karnataka — from Dr Singh’s NGO suffered injuries. Three of them have broken arms, one has a deep gash on the head, and two have severe bruises on their thighs. Another video, shared by Dr Singh on his social media accounts, shows two policemen in motorcycle helmets and a third in riot gear chasing a medical volunteer and beating him after he falls. The policemen are then pulled back by CRPF personnel. “They hit a doctor who was holding an intravenous (infusion) line for an injured policeman. These policemen were stopped by other policemen,” Dr Singh said. “We thought of leaving and going back to the farmers’ side but the policemen begged us not to go as they did not have their own doctors. We stayed and treated whoever came to us, and moved to Peeragarhi and other places on the route until the rally ended. Our hospital functioned till 10pm.” In another video, a CISF jawan is seen pleading with folded hands to the medical personnel not to leave. “It seemed to me like there were people misleading the farmers (into violating the designated routes) and the police (into beating the doctors). Most farmers did not know the routes. They are from out of town and have no clue about Delhi,” Dr Singh said. “I want to know why the government shut off the Internet (on Tuesday afternoon at many places in Delhi). There was no information coming and both the police and the farmers were confused. I also want to know why the police have cut the supply lines of food, water, even electricity (at the protest sites). I’m unable to get my supply of medicines. The way things are, we can work for only three more days.” The Union home ministry’s order on Tuesday that cut off Internet services where protests were taking place cited “the interest of maintaining public safety and averting any public emergency”. Dr Singh, settled in the US for more than two decades, grew up in Amritsar. Hailing from a family of activists, he visits different parts of India annually to hold medical camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Country saddened by insult to Tricolour: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the “country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on January 26 in Delhi”, appearing oblivious to the fact that the man accused by farmers of perpetrating the Red Fort chaos had been seen posing with him in a picture earlier. “Amidst all this, the country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on January 26 in Delhi,” Modi said in his monthly radio address Mann ki Baat. However, this was the only reference the Prime Minister made to the Republic Day violence. He broached the topic while talking about the Indian cricket team’s series win in Australia, terming the victory “inspirational”. Deep Sidhu, an actor who was present at the Red Fort when the flags were put up, has been seen in pictures with BJP leaders, including Modi. Police are yet to locate Punjabi actor and pro-Khalistan activist Deep Sidhu who is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort on Republic Day. “We have not been able to track him down. Police teams have been sent to Punjab but so far they have not been able to locate him,” said a senior police officer. The failure to nab Sidhu is in sharp contrast to the police action against several journalists over the past few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Red Fort breach was a conspiracy to defame farmers: Congress||The Congress on Sunday confronted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging Tuesday’s Red Fort breach was a conspiracy by his government to defame the farmers and wondering why main suspects Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana had not yet been arrested. It also questioned Modi’s assertion in his Mann Ki Baat radio address that the nation had been saddened by the insult of the national flag on Republic Day, citing how the RSS had for decades refused to fly the Tricolour. “The Prime Minister says the nation was saddened by the insult of the national flag on Republic Day. Why have the main culprits — Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana — not been arrested six days after the incident?” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. “The critical question is, how did these people enter the Red Fort? Nobody could have done that unless police allowed them to enter.” “We are sad that policemen got injured that day. But on whose orders was such a situation created?” Shrinate said. “Are our security forces fodder for political conspiracies? Your RSS didn’t fly the Tricolour for decades. You wiped your face with the Tricolour. Your supporters hail Nathuram Godse on Gandhi’s death anniversary. Your party leaders attack farmers in the garb of locals and journalists who expose this conspiracy are put in jail.” “The nation was shocked to witness the insult of the Tricolour on January 26, said the Prime Minister,” senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tweeted. “Shocked!! Why were you not shocked to be associated with RSS which refused to fly our national flag for decades after the Independence? Crocodile tears, Mr Prime Minister. “What about Deep Sidhu, Mr Prime Minister? How was he allowed to come up to Red Fort when other kisan leaders were not allowed? What was Delhi police doing when this was happening? By the way, where is Deep Sidhu? I am sure your home minister would know about his whereabouts! Stop fooling now!” The police have registered an FIR against Sidhu and Sidhana but they remain free. The Congress attacked the government for targeting journalists such as Punia. “Those who fear truth arrest true journalists,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Journalists covering farmers’ movement are being arrested, cases are filed against them. Internet is being shut down. The BJP intends to crush farmers’ voice. The government has also violated democracy’s dignity by filing FIRs against senior editors and journalists.” A sedition case has been lodged against six senior journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for “spreading violence and disharmony” through social media comments about a farmer’s death during the tractor rally. Shrinate said: “This barbarism by elected governments — of filing sedition cases against journalists for speaking the truth — is worse than the cruelty of the colonial regime. This should shame every citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Bengal’s performance poor on certain primary health measures: Survey||The Centre’s Economic Survey has attributed Bengal’s poor performance on certain primary health measures to the state’s decision not to adopt the nationwide health insurance scheme that covers hospitalisation costs for poor households, baffling health experts who say the connection is far-fetched. The survey, released by the Union finance ministry on Friday, has said Assam, Bihar and Sikkim, which have adopted the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY), have shown greater improvements in infant mortality, family planning services and vaccinations than has Bengal. But sections of health experts and health economists have questioned the wisdom of citing the PMJAY — a scheme that pays for hospitalisation — as a source of gains in primary health measures. One expert said the PMJAY chapter’s reference to Bengal appeared to have been crafted with “a political motivation” to cast Bengal in poor light. The PMJAY, launched by the Narendra Modi government in September 2018, is a government-funded insurance scheme that provides cashless hospitalisation services to eligible households, paying up to Rs 5 lakh per year per household. Since its launch, it has supported over 1.5 million hospitalisations, providing treatment and surgical services to patients with cancers, cardiovascular diseases, kidney failure, bone problems, obstetric and gynaecological conditions and other health disorders. The survey said the proportion of households covered by health insurance had increased overall by 54 per cent in states that had implemented the PMJAY, but only by 10 per cent in the four states — Bengal, Delhi, Odisha and Telangana — that have not adopted it. In Bengal, the proportion of households covered by health insurance has fallen by 12 per cent between 2015-16 and 2019-20, while the proportion of such households has increased by 89 per cent in the three neighbouring states, the survey said. The survey has cited differences in infant mortality, under-five child mortality, usage of contraception pills and family planning services and postnatal care between Bengal and the three states to argue that the PMJAY has had a beneficial impact on health measures. For instance, infant mortality fell by 20 per cent in Bengal between 2015-16 and 2019-20, but by 28 per cent in Assam, Bihar and Sikkim. The adoption of contraception and family planning services increased by 22 to 36 per cent in the three states but showed negligible changes in Bengal. Vaccination coverage for three doses of the pentavalent vaccine (against five infections) or the hepatitis B vaccine increased by 5 per cent in Bengal but by 19 per cent in the three states, the survey has said. The survey has said while some of these measures “stemmed directly from enhanced care enabled by insurance coverage, others represent spill over effects”. But health analysts have pointed out that the PMJAY supports hospital admissions and does not include primary health services. “It is disconcerting and disappointing to see a prestigious government publication offer such incorrect analysis using inappropriate indicators and single out one state to argue that the PMJAY has been a successful scheme,” said Indrani Gupta, professor in the health policy research unit at the Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi. Gupta said since the PMJAY was not designed to address primary and preventive health, the only relevant indicator to evaluate its performance and impact would be household out-of-pocket expenditure on hospitalisation costs. Another health economist, Indranil Mukhopadhyaym who teaches at the OP Jindal University and is a member of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a non-government network of health groups, also said the analysis linking the PMJAY with primary health measures “makes no sense”. “Claims that the improvements in the uptake of family planning services or vaccination coverage are because of the PMJAY are to say the least far-fetched,” Mukhopadhyay said. “They appear to be politically motivated and it is surprising to see such content in the Economic Survey.” A senior official in the National Health Authority that manages the PMJAY told The Telegraph that while the scheme itself provides only hospitalisation support, it has “indirect benefits” that could emerge from “enhanced awareness” about health care among the population. But Gupta and others point out that the Economic Survey has a wide readership that includes economists, researchers and students within and outside India that requires the architects of the survey to remain objective. “The content of the chapter on the PMJAY raises the question whether the survey can be still treated as a reliable source of objective and analytical situational assessments of the country,” Gupta said. On some measures cited by the report, Mukhopadhyay and others point out, Bengal has higher absolute scores than the three states. Bengal, for instance, had 92 per cent institutional births in 2019-20 compared with 85 per cent in the three states. Bengal also had a higher proportion of births managed by a skilled birth attendant (94 per cent) compared with 87 per cent in Assam, Bihar and Sikkim. The survey itself has said Bengal has had larger increases in institutional births and births managed by skilled attendants than the three states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Webinars on internal matters can only be conducted with govt’s nod||Government institutions can hold virtual conferen­ces on subjects touching on In­dia’s security and internal ma­tters, including topics related to the country’s borders, No­rtheast or Jammu and Ka­shm­ir, only with the government’s approval fr­om now on. So say the education mini­s­try’s revised guidelines of January 15 for “online/ virtual ­conferences/ seminars/ tra­i­n­i­ng, etc”, which have spa­r­ked concern in academia abo­ut the future of research and free online debate on subjects the go­vernment considers sensitive. Several academics suggested these guidelines would affect research in certain subjects and prompt speakers at webinars to be guarded at the cost of frank discussion. One part of the guidelines that has caused particular concern mandates, apparently in the context of webinars with foreign participation, “appropriate level of scrutiny to identify the nature and sensitivity of data or content of the presentations or the information to be shared by an Indian delegation”. It doesn’t clarify who will do the scrutiny — the government or the organiser — the vagueness adding to the academics’ unease. “Research scholars make presentations at national and international seminars. In ma­ny areas now, they will face co­nstraints in making their presentations because of the sc­rutiny,” said Nandita Nara­in, a teacher at St Stephen’s College. “The speakers will prefer to self-censor themselves. The quality of research in many areas and that of debate will be affected.” She said that earlier guidelines required institutions to take permission for physical seminars, and that requirement has now been extended to virtual conferences, practically the only kind of confere­nces possible in a pandemic hit world. Academics said it was not possible for the government to have people attending or rec­ording all physical conferenc­es, so the regulations had lesser bite. Virtual conferences,
ho­wever, can be easily monitored live and again scrutinised later. The guidelines say that all ministries and departments, public sector undertakings, central educational institutions, public-funded universities and organisations owned and controlled by central, state and Union Territory governments must seek approval of the administrative secretary concerned — for the event as well as the list of partici¬
pants. But the guidelines are silent on virtual conferences held by private universities, think tanks or research organisations. “This will also make it difficult to invite speakers,” Narain said, alluding to the possibility of the guidelines putting off some potential participants or government officials scuttling invites to particular speakers. While physical conferences had their own constraints when it came to inviting foreign speakers, webinars had so far offered a huge freedom in this respect. “While giving permission, the ministry should ensure that the subject matter for online events is not related to security of State, border, northeast states, UT of J&K, Ladakh or any other issues which are clearly/ purely related to India’s internal matter/s,” the guidelines say. They advise the organisers to be judicious in their choice of infotech applications, platforms and mediums of interaction: “Preference should be given to those apps having servers not controlled/ hosted/ owned by countries/ agencies hostile to India.” The guidelines make the foreign ministry’s clearance compulsory for events having foreign funding, sponsorship or participation as well as those involving “sensitive” subjects — political, scientific, technical, commercial, or personal — with provisions for sharing data in any form. While seeking approval or after obtaining approval, the link of the online event should be shared with the foreign ministry. Care should be taken to ensure that India’s “map, flag, emblem, etc, are correct and rightly displayed”. Foreign ministry clearance will be required also for “Union/ state ministers, constitutional functionaries and government officials/ scientists/ doctors, etc, of the rank of JS (joint secretary) and above in online/ virtual/ physical international conferences/ seminars/ training, etc”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Clerk axed over fake certificate in Odisha||A woman working as senior clerk in the tribal-dominated Malkangiri district was sacked after an inquiry revealed that she got the job by producing fake caste certificates. The woman, who had submitted a Scheduled Tribe (ST) certificate to get the job, was in service for the past 24 years. She was not only drawing salary but also availing herself of other financial benefits of government employees. Sources said the accused Laxmipriya Behera, who belongs to the socially and educationally backward classes, had married an ST man. Later, she obtained the ST certificate using her husband’s identity. The authorities had failed to make proper inquiry into her case at the time of appointment. But some people who knew about it had filed a petition challenging her appointment on the ground that she had got the job by producing fake certificates. Later, a probe was conducted by the southern division revenue commissioner. Based on the report, Malkangiri collector Y. Vijay dismissed her from the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
01-02-2021||India||Royal Bengal tiger found dead in Bihar ||A Royal Bengal tiger was found dead at the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district, with forest officials saying circumstantial evidence pointed to the involvement of poachers. A patrolling party of forest officials found the carcass late on Saturday in the forested areas of the VTR division-I. Its post-mortem was conducted on Sunday. “The tiger was about five-years-old. Its post-mortem has revealed injuries and cut marks on its front and hind legs. A half-eaten goat was also found nearby. Portions of the goat were found in the tiger’s stomach in the post-mortem,” VTR director and conservator of forest Hem Kant Roy told The Telegraph. Roy said the findings of the post-mortem indicate “either the tiger was baited by poachers with the help of a goat and then killed, or it died in afracas with some other tiger or tigress. We are not ruling out any possibilities right now.”The VTR director said that no body parts of the tiger, including its nails and teeth, were missing. The forest department has sent samples of the carcass to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun; Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izzatnagar; and the Bihar Veterinary College, Patna for further research on the cause of its death. Combing operations are being conducted in the tiger reserve and people living in villages nearby are being questioned. The VTR is spread over 899sqkm, including 598km of core area and 301km of buffer or peripheral area in West Champaran district. It lies contiguous to the Chitwan National Park in Nepal across the border and adjacent to the Sheopur Range of Sohagibarwar wildlife sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh. It was declared a tiger reserve in 1994, and currently has anywhere between 28 to 37 tigers. The animals keep moving freely to and fro to the Chitwan National Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
