02-02-2021||India|| Locals extend helping hand to Singhu farmers||As protesting farmers continue to face troubles like power outage, unavailability of water and lack of sanitation at Singhu border, locals are coming forward and extending a helping hand to them at the epicenter of their ongoing agitation. From providing electricity connection to giving access to toilets and washrooms to the women protesters, farmers staying put at the Delhi-Haryana Highway say the good samaritans have been helping them in these dire circumstances. “We are facing power cuts at night since January 27. If not for the locals, we would have to do without electricity the whole night. They are the one helping us with lights and other things, that too without charging us anything," said Dharmendra Singh, from Punjab's Patiala district. Initially worried that miscreants might take advantage of the dark at night, Singh thanked God for the help provided by the locals and team of volunteers who are working round-the-clock to maintain vigil against any untoward incident. Another protestor Avtar Singh, also from Patiala, echoed the same sentiments and said that the locals are standing with them in this "fight for rights". "People in the nearby areas are helping our women in all possible ways. They are letting them use their washrooms and toilets. They know that the government is trying to suppress our movement and are supporting us wholeheartedly," said Singh, adding that they won't move an inch till their demands are met by the government. He further stated that the locals have always been nice to them and their cause, and alleged that the attack that took place a few days ago at the site was not done by the locals but by goons sent by a political party. On January 30, a section of the highway at the Singhu border witnessed a clash between farmers and a group of people who claimed to be local residents. Insufficient lighting, solid waste disposal, water stagnation and shortage of warm clothes have been listed down as primary concerns of the farmers as per a survey done by NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan in December as well. Many farmers have complained that the situation has worsened further after the Republic Day incident, with heightened security measures and restrictions imposed for movement of people and vehicles ensuring that they don't have access to even the most basic necessities like food, water and electricity. The suspension of the internet has only added to the problem as they feel cordoned off from the outer world -- both virtually and physically. "The government banned the internet and blocked the roads with concrete dividers so that the public would not get any information regarding the protest and no one would turn up here," complained Palwinder Singh, from Punjab's Amritsar. Even on Monday, the Budget Day, most farmers at Singhu blamed the lack of Internet for not getting to keep a tab on the details of the budget and if it has anything for the agriculture sector. The central government on Monday extended the temporary suspension of Internet at Delhi's borders at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri till February 2. Earlier, the Internet services at Delhi borders had been suspended for 48 hours till 11 pm on January 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
02-02-2021||India||Supreme Court hearing on R-Day chaos on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a batch of pleas in connection with the tractor rally violence in the national capital on Republic Day. This includes a petition that has sought setting up of a commission headed by a retired apex court judge to inquire into the incident. The pleas will be taken up for hearing by a bench comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. One of the pleas, filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari, has sought setting up of a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former apex court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges for collecting and recording evidence and submit a report on the January 26 violence to the top court in a time bound manner. He has also sought direction to the concerned authority to lodge FIRs against individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma in a separate plea has sought a direction to the concerned authority as well as the media not to declare farmers as ‘terrorists’ without any evidence. He has claimed in the petition that a planned conspiracy was carried out to sabotage the farmers’ movement and they were being allegedly called terrorists without proof. Sharma has sought directions to prohibit propagation of false allegations and actions declaring farmers as terrorists without any evidence. Besides the petitions filed by Tiwari and Sharma, the court would also hear some other pleas related to the incident. In his petition, Tiwari has said that farmers’ protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a violent turn during the tractor parade. Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also affected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as the government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online, Tiwari has said in his plea. It said that clashes between the farmers and police on Republic Day have caught the attention of the entire world. “The matter is serious because when the protest was going on peacefully for the last two months then suddenly, how it turned into a violent movement and led violence on January 26. The question for consideration in national security and public interest arises: who is responsible for creating the disturbance and how and who turned the peaceful farmer protest into violent movement or how and who created the circumstances which let the protest turn violent,” it said. The plea said there may be some conspiracy by some notorious forces or organizations to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clashes between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application, filed through Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in executive domain. On January 12, the apex court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi borders. The members of the court-appointed committee were -- Bhupinder Singh Mann, National President of Bhartiya Kisan Union, All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkari Sanghatana. Later, Mann had recused himself from the committee. The top court had on January 12 said it would hear the pleas against the farm laws after eight weeks when the committee would give its suggestions to resolve the impasse after talking to the protesters and the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
02-02-2021||India||All-party meet convened by Amarinder Singh demands repeal of farm laws||An all-party meeting convened by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded immediate withdrawal of the three farm laws while holding the BJP-led central government responsible for the substantial delay in resolving the crisis. Terming the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi as sponsored , the meeting also demanded a judicial probe into the laxity and complicity of those responsible for maintaining peace at the Red Fort. The meeting also decided to send an all-party delegation to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raise the issue along with other matters relating to the farmers' agitation. While the BJP boycotted the meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party walked out over their demand for the deployment of the Punjab police personnel to protect farmers protesting at Delhi borders. The Congress, SAD, Lok Insaaf Party, SAD (Democratic), BSP, CPI and CPI (M) attended the meeting, a government release said. Amarinder Singh had called the meeting to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of the farm laws and the farmers' agitation. Representatives of all parties appreciated the position taken by the farmers' unions and the meeting passed a resolution to this effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
02-02-2021||India||CBSE board exams from May 4 to June 10 this year||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced on Tuesday the schedule for classes 10 and 12 board exams which will begin on May 4. As per the datesheet, the exams for class 10 will conclude on June 7, while those for class 12 will conclude on June 10. The Class XII exams will be held in two shifts on four days- the first will be from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm, and the second will be from 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm, reported ndtv.com All Class X exams will be held from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm with the first exam for being languages - Kannada, Odia and Lepcha. Class XII exams will begin with English (both Elective and Core) at 10.30 am, ndtv.com further reported. A third of each paper (33 per cent) will contain internal choice questions, and the syllabus of each subject has been reduced by 30 per cent to ease the burden on lakhs of students across the country who have seen classroom time cut drastically due to the coronavirus lockdown. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams were delayed this session in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. The board exams last year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
02-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned amid Opposition chaos||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for about an hour till 5 pm on Tuesday when members of the Opposition caused disruption during the Question Hour to press repeal of the three farm laws. As soon as the proceedings started at 4 pm, Opposition members from parties including the Congress, DMK and the Trinamul Congress trooped into the Well, raising slogans demanding repeal of the three “black” laws. Members from the Shiv Sena were seen raising slogans from the aisles. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal was also seen holding a poster demanding repeal of the contentious agriculture legislations. Speaker Om Birla urged the members to return to their seats and follow the Covid-19 protocol. He said in the ongoing Question Hour, questions related to farmers were listed and members can raise their issues at that time. He also said during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address, members can raise these issues. But Opposition members refused to relent forcing him to adjourn the proceedings at around 4.10 pm. Several farmers unions have been staging protests on various border points of Delhi demanding the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Scribe arrested from farmers' protest site granted bail||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was arrested by Delhi Police from farmers' protest site at Singhu border. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba observed that the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that accused/ applicant can influence any of the police officials, the judge said. Punia was arrested by police on Sunday in an FIR registered under various sections including 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of IPC. The court directed Punia not to leave the country without its prior permission. Accused shall not indulge into similar offence or any other offence in the event of release on bail. Accused shall not tamper with the evidences in any manner, it said. It further directed that the accused shall join the investigations as and when required by the investigating agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||India looking forward to increase defence manufacturing, says Rajnath||India cannot remain dependent on other countries for its defence, Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, while inaugurating Hindustan Aeronautics Limited’s second LCA-Tejas production line in Bangalore. Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan India is looking forward to increasing its defence manufacturing capabilities, the Defence Minister said. “India cannot remain dependent on other countries for its defence”, he said. Singh said Tejas is not only indigenous, but is also better than its foreign equivalents on several parameters and also comparatively cheaper. “Many countries have shown interest in Tejas. India will achieve the target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the field of defence manufacturing in (a) few years”, the minister said. The delivery of the Tejas LCA to the Indian Air Force under a Rs 48,000-crore deal will begin from March 2024 and around 16 aircraft will be rolled out annually till the completion of the total supply of 83 jets, Chairman and Managing Director of HAL, R Madhavan said recently. Madhavan had also said that a number of countries have shown keen interest in procurement of Tejas and that the first export order is likely to come by in the next couple of years. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 13 approved the Rs 48,000- crore deal to procure 73 Tejas Mk-1A variants and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft from the HAL to boost the Indian Air Force's combat prowess.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||UGC-NET exams to be held in May, announces education minister ||The National Eligibility Test (NET) for selection of assistant professors will be conducted in May, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Tuesday. "The National Testing Agency @DG_NTA will conduct next UGC-NET exam for Junior Research Fellowship & eligibility for Assistant Professor on 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 14 & 17 May 2021. Good luck to all participants," Pokhriyal tweeted. The NTA, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, issued the notification for the test on Tuesday. "The NTA will conduct next UGC-NET exam for Junior Research Fellowship and eligibility for Assistant Professor on May 2,3, 4, 5, 6,7, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 17. The test will comprise of two papers. The paper will be conducted in Computer Based Test (CBT) mode only. The application deadline is March 2," the notification read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Akhilesh slams govt over barricades at farmers' protest sites||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday attacked the BJP government at the Centre over the police setting up barricades and roadblocks at farmer agitation sites on Delhi's borders. Farmers' protest sites at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and strengthening barricades. Iron rods have been hooked between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters, agitating against the new farm laws. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, there are multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. "Politics you are awesome, with wall raised on the way and spiked wire, you say lets talk," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi with hashtag #farmer #nahi-chahiye-BJP (no more BJP). Farmer unions protesting against the three farm laws on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||No formal talks with govt until harassment stops, says farmers’ morcha||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Tuesday said that there can be no “formal” talks with the government until “harassment” by police and administration stops and detained farmers are released. In a statement, it alleged that increased barricading, including digging trenches, fixing nails on roads, setting up barbed-wire fences, closing internal roads, stopping Internet services and ‘orchestrating protests through BJP-RSS workers’ are part of ‘attacks’ being organised by the government, its police and administration against the farmers. The umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting the Central farm laws termed the ‘frequent Internet shutdown’ at protest sites and blocking of many Twitter accounts related to the farmers movement ‘direct attack on democracy’. Twitter on Monday blocked several accounts and tweets after the government asked the microblogging platform to take action against 250 handles and posts for containing ‘false and provocative content’ related to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, according to sources. “It appears the government is extremely fearful of the rising tide of support for the ongoing protest from different states,” the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. “The SKM decided in its meeting on Monday that there can be no formal talks with the government until police and administration’s harassment of different kinds against the farmers’ movement is immediately stopped,” it said. The SKM also said no formal proposal for talks has been received by it. “Though no formal proposal for talks came from the government, we clearly state that the talks will be held only after unconditional release of farmers who are in illegal police custody,” the statement said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all party meeting on Saturday had said the government’s offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months was still on the table and the Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar was just a phone call away to take the talks forward. The Morcha had reacted to Modi’s statement by reiterating its demand for repeal of the three agri laws. The government’s negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on January 22 as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of the three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for minimum support price, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. On Republic Day, a tractor parade by farmers in the national capital turned chaotic and many protesters were arrested. The SKM, in a statement, said the Delhi Police has released a list of 122 agitators who have been taken into custody. It said, “The SKM strongly condemns the arrests and detention of many protestors in different police stations and the seizure of vehicles of farmers. Scores of people are reported to be missing and this is a matter of great concern to us.” “We demand their immediate release. We also condemn the attacks and arrests on journalists who are continuously covering the movement,” it added. A legal team has been set up by the SKM, with representatives of different organisations, which will systematically pursue the case of those missing, arrested and seized vehicles, the morcha said. The protesting farmers have declared a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ on highways on February 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Modi to inaugurate Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 'Chauri Chaura' centenary celebrations at Chauri Chaura in Uttar Pradesh on February 4 via video conferencing. The day marks the beginning of the 100th year of the 'Chauri Chaura' incident, a landmark event in the country's fight for Independence, the PMO noted in a statement. Modi will also release a postal stamp dedicated to the centenary during the event. "The centenary celebrations and various events planned by the state government will begin in all 75 districts of the state from February 4 and will continue till February 4, 2022," it said. A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to the death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. The colonial administration tried a large number of people, with many of them executed and many more condemned to life in prison for the incident. Gandhi had called off the movement due to the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha proceedings disrupted thrice over farmers' issue||Congress and other opposition parties on Tuesday forced adjournment of Rajya Sabha proceedings for the third time in the pre-noon session as they insisted on taking up a discussion on the issue of farmers' protest over the three new farm bills. The House was first adjourned for about 40 minutes till 10:30 am. As soon as the House met again, similar scenes were witnessed leading to another adjournment till 11:30 am. When the Upper House re-assembled at 11.30 am, the uproar continued as several protesting members trooped in Well prompting Deputy Chairman Harivansh to adjourn the proceedings till 12:30 pm. The Deputy Chairman appealed to the opposition members to return their seats and follow COVID-19 protocols. However, they did not heed to his requests. Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD members first walked out from Rajya Sabha after their demand for suspension of business of the day for taking up the discussion was rejected by the Chair. Opposition members shouted slogans to disrupt the Question Hour, forcing Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the proceedings till 10:30 am. As the protesting members continued sloganeering, Naidu asked them to return to their seats. "Please go to your seats and allow the House to function. Some of you said the last time that not having question hour is 'murder of democracy'. This is a statement made outside," he said. "Members who have walked out and again coming to the Well is not fair," Naidu said before adjourning the House for the first time. When the House met at 10:30 am, the sloganeering continued and the Deputy Chairman, who was in the Chair, tried to persuade members to allow the House to function. However, as the opposition members did not yield, he adjourned the proceedings till 11:30 am. At the time of adjournment, ports, shipping and waterways minister Mansukh Mandaviya was speaking on The Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020. Earlier, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said opposition members themselves were demanding Question Hour and the government agreed. "Question Hour is going on....whether they (protesting members) want Question Hour or not, let them place it on record," he said, as opposition members were raising slogans. Opposition parties including the Congress, Left, TMC and DMK had given a notice under rule 267 that calls for setting aside of business of the day to take up a discussion on the issue pressed. Chairman Naidu had, however, disallowed the motion saying the members were free to raise the issue during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address. When the House met for the day, Naidu said he has received notice under rule 267 from various members but the issue can be raised during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The President, he said, had referred to the farmer's agitation in his address made at the start of the Budget session of Parliament last week. While Lok Sabha is scheduled to start a discussion on the motion on Tuesday, Rajya Sabha will do so on Wednesday. "As we are going to start a discussion on Motion of Thanks to President's Address tomorrow, members can participate and raise their concerns," he said rejecting the 267 notice. He said several rounds of discussions have happened between the government and the farmers' group. "I understand the concern (of members) for the need to resolve the issue at the earliest date," he said. Naidu, however, allowed members who gave notices to make very brief mentions. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said the farmers have been camping for more than two months and the issue needs to be discussed. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC) said the House is not aware of what is going on between the government and farmers and the House should discuss the issue separately from the Motion of Thanks. "We want a discussion on a specific issue," he said. While CPI leader Elamaram Kareem said water and electricity supply to the protests sites has been cut, DMK's Tiruchi Siva said farmers have been sitting on roads for over two months in the cold and the issue needs to be discussed separately. Manoj Jha (RJD) said Parliament should at least discuss the issue. However, Naidu did not agree to their motion after which the members of Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD staged a walkout. "No one is stopping you from discussing the issue tomorrow. Tomorrow you will get an opportunity," he said. Naidu said 10 hours have been allocated for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address and an equivalent amount given for discussion on Budget. "Please take the opportunity tomorrow," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Opposition demands discussion on farmers, walks out of Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties including the Congress, Left, TMC and DMK on Tuesday walked out from Rajya Sabha after their demand for suspension of business of the day to take up a discussion on the farmers' agitation was rejected by the Chairman. The Opposition parties had given notice under rule 267 calling for the suspension of business of the day to take up discussion on the ongoing agitation by farmers on Delhi borders against three new farm laws. When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he has received notice under rule 267 from various members but the issue can be raised during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The President, he said, had referred to the farmer's agitation in his address made at the start of the Budget session of Parliament. While Lok Sabha is scheduled to start a discussion on the motion on Tuesday, Rajya Sabha will do so on Wednesday. "As we are going to start a discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's Address tomorrow, members can participate and raise their concerns," he said rejecting the notice. He said several rounds of discussions have happened between the government and the farmers' group. "I understand the concern (of members) for the need to resolve the issue at the earliest date," he said. Naidu, however, allowed members who gave notices to make very brief mentions. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said the farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders for more than two months and the issue needs to be discussed. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC) said the House is not aware of what is going on between the government and farmers and the House should discuss the issue separately from the Motion of Thanks. "We want a discussion on a specific issue," he said. While CPI leader Elamaram Kareem said water and electricity supply to the protest sites has been cut, DMK's Tiruchi Siva said farmers have been sitting on roads for over two months in the cold and the issue needs to be discussed separately. Manoj Jha said Parliament should at least discuss the issue. However, Naidu did not agree to their demand after which the members of Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD staged a walkout. "No one is stopping you from discussing the issue tomorrow. Tomorrow you will get an opportunity," he said. Naidu said 10 hours have been allocated for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address and an equivalent amount given for discussion on Budget. "Please take the opportunity tomorrow," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||India registers 8,635 fresh Covid cases, the lowest in eight months||India registered 8,635 new coronavirus infections in a day, the lowest in eight months, while the daily deaths fell below 100 after almost nine months, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country's Covid-19 tally stands at 1,07,66,245 and the death toll increased to 1,54,486 with 94 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,48,406 pushing the national recovery rate to 97.05 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has dropped to 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below two lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 1,63,353 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.52 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 19,77,52,057 samples have been tested up to February 1 with 6,59,422 samples being tested on Monday. The 94 new fatalities include 27 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, seven from Tamil Nadu, six from West Bengal, five from Chhattisgarh, four each from Uttarakhand, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and three each from Delhi, Karnataka and Puducherry. A total of 1,54,486 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,109 from Maharashtra, 12,363 from Tamil Nadu, 12,220 from Karnataka, 10,856 from Delhi, 10,179 from West Bengal, 8,662 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,154 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
02-02-2021||India||Farmers call for nationwide chakka jam to protest budgetary allocation||The collective leadership of the protesting farmers on Monday called for a nationwide “chakka jam (road blockade)” on Saturday for three hours to protest against the Centre’s repression, reduction in budgetary allocation for agriculture and the three farm laws. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the allocation for agriculture and allied sectors had been reduced by Rs 6,000 crore from last year’s. Also, agriculture’s share of the entire budget has been reduced from 5.1 per cent last year to 4.3 per cent. The “chakka jam” called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha seeks to tap into the anger in the farming community across the country, especially in north India, over the manner in which farmers are being treated. The collective leadership has appealed to farmers across the country to block the national highways and state highways in their vicinity. More and more panchayats across Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan have issued calls to join the protest and boycott the BJP. A mahapanchayat held in Bijnor in the Rohilkhand area of Uttar Pradesh on Monday drew huge support. Photographs from these gatherings across north India show huge crowds, providing a clue to why the government is turning the three protest sites around Delhi into heavily barricaded open prisons. If the heavy barricading is meant to double as psy-ops to keep people away, it is not working as there is a steady flow of people joining daily. All three border sites around Delhi — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — appear even more barricaded than the international border with a mix of concertina wires, several layers of concrete barriers chained together and cemented, tyre busters and roads dug up almost like moats around medieval forts. “Our own government is treating us like enemies,” said Darshan Pal of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. “What an irony. The government is digging up existing roads and making budgetary allocations for building new ones,” a retired Delhi police officer said, referring to the allocations for road projects in Monday’s budget. The railways have begun diverting trains from Punjab carrying farmers headed for the protest sites, veteran farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. The nature of the barricading drew comments on social media that if this had been done along the Line of Actual Control, China would not be sitting on Indian territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
02-02-2021||India||Centre prompts, Twitter blocks accounts using farmer genocide hashtag||Twitter on Monday blocked nearly 250 accounts and tweets after the Narendra Modi government asked it to act against those using the #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide hashtag and posting “fake, intimidatory and provocative” material on its site. Government sources said the directive had gone out from the ministry of electronics and IT on a request from the home ministry and law-enforcement agencies to “prevent any escalation of law and order in view of the ongoing farmer agitation”. The blocked accounts include the official handle of the Kisan Ekta Morcha, the one-stop source of information set up by the protesting farmers, several accounts created to propagate the farmers’ version in the face of the “godi (lapdog) media’s biased coverage”, and the account of The Caravan magazine. Late in the evening, Twitter started restoring some of the accounts. Twitter’s block caught the attention of overseas opinion makers who wondered if it would do the same in the US. The director of the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism, Rasmus Kleis Nielsen, tweeted: “Can you imagine Twitter or any other platform company doing something like this in the US, France, or Germany, withholding e.g. Atlantic, Nouvel Obs, or Spiegel, with no real transparency about legal demands received? Troubling to see profound inequality in platform governance.” A government source had said: “Incitement to genocide is a grave threat to public order and therefore the (electronics and IT ministry) ordered the blocking of these Twitter accounts and tweets under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act.” The protesting farmers who had made the hashtag trend on Saturday said it was their response to the targeted attack by Right-wing groups, posing as local people, on the Singhu and Tikri protest sites on Friday. They also cited the protest at the Gurdwara Sis Ganj in Old Delhi. On Friday, while addressing a news conference at the Singhu border, veteran farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had cited the protest at the Gurdwara Sis Ganj and said the government was trying to turn the farmers’ protest into a Hindu-Sikh issue to polarise people. Rajewal had thanked the farmers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for foiling this attempt by coming out in support of the protest. The blocked accounts carried the stock message “account withheld” with the explanation that the particular Twitter handle’s “account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand”. According to an explanatory note on Twitter, “If you see the above message, it means Twitter was compelled to withhold the original tweet in response to a valid legal demand, such as a court order.” Similar action can be taken on the basis of local laws “in response to a report filed through specific support intake channels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
02-02-2021||India||Voices of the future react to Union Budget 2021-22||The Telegraph puts five questions to students of some of the country’s top institutions ➊ How do you rate the budget on a scale of 1-10? (1) 7.5 ➋ What is the budget’s big idea? (2) The budget is focused on long-term growth in capital infrastructure and fewer handouts aimed at employment generation. Increased transparency by highlighting the fiscal deficit of 9.5% in the previous year. Push to infrastructure is another big idea. ➌ Where has the FM scored? (3) The FM has scored with her push to core industries, particularly infrastructure and textiles. The vehicle scrappage policy has the ability to revive the automobile segment and setting up of the Development Financial Institution for easy lending is a welcome move. ➍ Where has she failed? (4) The budget has failed  when it comes to revival of tourism. It has hardly anything for the agriculture sector, especially in the light of the farmers’ protests.  State resources have been constrained and the expansionary fiscal move may lead to higher inflation. ➎ Does the budget have enough measures to kick-start the economy in a pandemic year? (5) If the budget is implemented well, it has enough measures to kick-start the economy — by increasing employment and subsequently demand through infrastructure projects. This year’s budget is focused on long-term goals with a cumulative effect down the line. The equity markets perceive the budget to be bullish. Production-linked incentive schemes (a great push to the manufacturing sector) and calibrations in customs duty (lowering of prices of inputs such as iron, steel) are also positive for the industry. ➊ How do you rate the budget on a scale of 1-10? (1) 6.25 ➋ What is the budget’s big idea? (2) This is a long-term growth-focused budget, with a push towards infrastructure development through increased capital expenditure to the tune of Rs 5.54 lakh crore over 2021-22. There is also a definite focus on much-needed human capital development, with improvement in public healthcare spending over the previous decade, largely driven by allocations to Ayushman Bharat and PMSSY. ➌ Where has the FM scored? (3) With an ambitious target to reduce the fiscal deficit to 6.8% of the GDP by March 2022, the budget takes a medium-to-long term growth focus in a bid to increase government spending in infrastructure. Attracting foreign capital in insurance by increasing the FDI limit from 49% to 74% is another green flag. ➍ Where has she failed? (4) It misses addressing some core issues like skilling the labour force of the country for gainful employment to drive the success of Make in India and AatmaNirbhar Bharat missions. Agriculture does not have much to gain; further, the middle-class has little to take away due to the absence of any direct tax benefits or other policy interventions. ➎ Does the budget have enough measures to kick-start the economy in a pandemic year? (5) The budget promises a lot given that it was “expected to be like no other” but it does not include any clear or well laid-out measures for immediate demand revival, such as tax benefits or direct transfers to support disposable incomes and drive discretionary spending. ➊ How do you rate the budget on a scale of 1-10? (1) 7.5 ➋ What is the budget’s big idea? (2) The budget has been structurally well-planned with an underlying emphasis on AatmaNirbhar Bharat. The budget has its priorities set: Health, infrastructure, and the financial sector, and the FM didn’t fail to hit the bullseye, which the economy needed. The government has been courageous in its spending. ➌ Where has the FM scored? (3) The stress on reforms, particularly monetisation of assets and a boost to the insurance sector, will significantly support the financial sector and will act as a stimulus. The focus on infrastructure and healthcare is commendable. The government has initiated positive measures to ease direct tax compliances. ➍ Where has she failed? (4) The budget might have failed to provide adequate support to the rural economy, with a miss to the farmers. The impact of agriculture and infrastructure development cess on prices and consumption will be something to evaluate. Achieving the fiscal deficit targets in the coming years will be a challenge. ➎ Does the budget have enough measures to kick-start the economy in a pandemic year? (5) Equity markets have enough reasons to cheer. The budget has suggested measures to bring the finance sector back on track. Also, incentives to start-ups, infrastructure companies & MSMEs will provide much-needed support. Overall, the budget has taken a positive stride to bring the economy back on track. ➊ How do you rate the budget on a scale of 1-10? (1) 7 ➊ How do you rate the budget on a scale of 1-10? 2) Increased investment in health and physical infrastructure to lead sustainable and inclusive growth, based on ideals of self-reliance. (3) Long-term vision of investment-led growth. With an estimated capital expenditure outlay of Rs 5.54 lakh crore, accounting for 16% of the budget estimate, the continued emphasis on creation of physical capital and infrastructure is a welcome move. Direct stimulus to small companies and start-ups can be expected to boost industrial output. Strong commitment has been signalled through new agencies like the Development Financial Institution, Asset Reconstruction Company and Asset Management Company to clean up banks’ books. ➍ Where has she failed? (4) To finance the fiscal deficit and increase its revenue, the government has opted for disinvestment and greater import duties on select commodities instead of widening the tax base. The budget does not acknowledge the leaks identified in welfare and education. While mentioning tackling of pollution is a refreshing change, one is sceptical of its  allocation and utilisation. ➎ Does the budget have enough measures to kick-start the economy in a pandemic year? (5) In the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the budget’s focus on healthcare, including the Swasth Bharat Yojana and Mission Poshan 2.0, are steps in the right direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
02-02-2021||India||Cess on petrol, diesel vengeful: Congress on Union Budget||The Congress on Monday said the Narendra Modi government had failed miserably to take measures required to revive the economy and that the Union Budget had deceived the poor, working class, farmers, and small industries. Arguing that the government had inflicted a cruel blow on the citizens and the farmers by imposing cess on a large number of products, including petrol and diesel, instead of providing relief in these difficult times, former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had promised a budget ‘like never before’. The budget was a letdown like never before. The cess of Rs 2.50 on petrol per litre and Rs 4 on diesel per litre is like a vengeful act against the thousands of farmers who took out the longest tractor rally in history. It was also a cruel blow to federalism because the states do not get a share of the revenue from cesses.” While expressing outrage at the paltry increase in the defence budget and statistical jugglery to dress up the provisions for health, Chidambaram said: “As expected, the finance minister has paid special attention to election-bound states. She announced large capital outlays for Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Assam. People are not fools: they know that the proposals are only outlays and the actual expenditure will happen only after the schemes are approved and over a period of several years depending upon the pace of implementation. Let the people of the election-bound states know: Not one rupee of the proposed allocations will be spent in this year.” Wondering if the Chinese had vacated the occupied Indian territory, Chidambaram said: “The finance minister did not mention defence at all. She did not mention that the defence expenditure in 2021-22 will see no rise. It is flat at Rs 347,088 crore, almost the same as the Rs 343,822 crore in the current year. She gave out a mind-boggling figure of Rs 223,846 crore for health, a breathtaking ‘rise’ from the current Rs 94,452 crore. As I had warned, it was a conjurer’s trick. She added the one-time cost of vaccination (Rs 35,000 crore) and the Finance Commission grants amounting to Rs 49,214 crore.” Explaining the jugglery, he said: “She also included the allocations to the department of water and sanitation. Shorn of these add-ons, the allocations for health were Rs 72,934 in 2020-21 and Rs 79,602 crore in 2021-22. Given the inflation, the increase is practically nil. How can additional health infrastructure be built in these difficult Covid times with this increase?” Lamenting that the revenue deficit (7.5 per cent) and the fiscal deficit (9.5 per cent) have exceeded every prediction, he said: “In 2021-22, the government estimates it will borrow about Rs 3.42 lakh crore less, but nobody is willing to believe. The government has also assumed that tax revenues will increase by 15 per cent — another questionable assumption. The revenue deficit and the fiscal deficit numbers for 2021-22 will send alarm signals to the investors and international lenders. Their apprehensions should have been allayed by laying out a credible fiscal correction path, year by year, until the year when the fiscal deficit will be 3 per cent or less. On the contrary, her target was 4.5 per cent by 2025-26. Investors and lenders will bristle.” The Congress leader also described the increase in government expenditure, from Rs 34,50,305 crore to Rs 34,83,236 crore, as paltry. “The farm sector has been short-changed. The budget allocation form ‘Agriculture and Allied Activities’ has been reduced from Rs 154,775 crore to Rs 148,301 crore. Of total expenditure, the proportion has been reduced from 5.1 per cent to 4.3 per cent. The budget allocation for Market Intervention Scheme and Price Support Scheme has been slashed from Rs 2,000 crore to Rs 1,501 crore. The budget allocation for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi has been reduced from Rs 75,000 crore to Rs 65,000 crore.” Regretting that nothing was done for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) — to revive closed units and bring back lost jobs — Chidambaram also dismissed the meagre sum of Rs 20,000 crore for recapitalisation of public sector banks, alleging that the government wanted to sell off all of them. He said the Congress was not against private sector banks but wanted them to compete with strong public sector banks. He did not oppose the increase in FDI (foreign direct investment) limit in insurance sector to 74 per cent but recalled how the BJP had opposed even a 22 per cent FDI limit, forcing the then I.K. Gujral government to take back the bill. Chidamabaram also wondered why the finance minister presented estimates for two, three and even five years instead of one year that the budget is for. The CPM politbureau in a statement described the budget as a colossal betrayal of people caught in pandemic and recession. “It is a classic illustration of the Modi government’s unshakeable commitment to promoting the interests of a handful of big business houses at the expense of increasing distress and misery for the working people. This is reflected in the refusal of the government to increase public expenditure notwithstanding its bombastic claims.” The statement added: “The panacea for this government is to sell off India’s national assets and privatise even profit-making public sector companies. The monetisation project announced in the budget included sale of valuable land held at present by public sector companies. The target is to mobilise Rs 1.75 lakh crore through disinvestment. The increase in FDI in insurance to 74 per cent is highly objectionable. This drive for privatisation is a subversion of the national interests and a mockery of the slogan of Atmanirbhar Bharat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
