03-02-2021||India||No more internet ban at Delhi borders for now, says MHA||There has been no further extension of the Internet suspension at Delhi's borders which was till the night of February 2, a Union Home Ministry official said on Wednesday. The ministry had announced suspension of Internet at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur where farmers protests are underway from 11 pm on January 29 effective till 11 pm on January 31. Later it had extended the suspension till 11 pm on February 2, with a ministry official saying the decision was taken to "maintain public safety and averting public emergency" under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. "The MHA has not further extended the suspension of internet in Delhi's borders as of now," the ministry official told PTI. Thousands of protesters are camping at Delhi's borders since November with a demand that three new agri-marketing laws be repealed and minimum support price for crops guaranteed, even as the government has maintained that the legislations enacted in September are pro-farmer. The ongoing protests also resulted in violence in the national capital on Republic Day during which hundreds of people, including policemen and women, were injured and one protestor died after his speeding tractor overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
03-02-2021||India||Haryana farmers’ Mahapanchayat: Rakesh Tikait warns Centre of ‘gaddi wapsi’||In a show of strength here by protesting farmers, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday warned the government that it could find it difficult to stay on in power if the new agri-marketing laws are not repealed. Just before Tikait was to begin his speech at the 'mahapanchayat' in Kandela village, the stage on which the farmer leaders had gathered collapsed under their weight. Nobody was reported hurt and the BKU leader went on to address the large gathering. Calling for a wapsi (withdrawal) of the three new central laws, the BKU leader indirectly warned the Narendra Modi government that it could lose its gaddi (power) if the agitation continues. “We have so far talked about ‘bill wapsi’ (repealing the farm laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for gaddi wapsi (removal from power)?” he said. He asked the Centre to repeal the three laws and frame a new one to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are also massed at Tikri and Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border for two months. After violence on Republic Day, police barricaded these protest sites with cement barriers and spikes on the roads leading to them. Criticising the restrictions, Tikait said, “When the king is scared, he secures the fortress.” He suggested that he would lay down on the nails embedded on the roads there so that others can cross them by stepping on him. He said the Centre must talk with the farmer unions spearheading the agitation. The 'mahapanchayat' was attended by Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni and BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal. Over 50 khap leaders were also present. Jind is often considered part of Haryana's political heartland and the 'mahapanchayat' was meant to muster support for the agitation. It was organised by Sarva Jatiya Kandela Khap headed by Tekram Kandela. Shortly before Tikait was to speak, the makeshift stage collapsed. He appealed to the gathering not to panic and began his speech. Farmer leaders said there were no reports of anyone being hurt. Tikait said the campaign against the farm laws was going strong. The way we are getting support from khap panchayats, we will win this fight. He urged everyone involved, particularly the youth, to keep protesting in a peaceful manner. Tikait underlined the role played by farmers and their unions from Punjab. We need their help. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will back them. We will maintain the prestige of the farmer's turban, he said. Five resolutions were passed at the mahapanchayat. These urged the government to repeal the new laws, give a legal guarantee for the MSP, implement the Swaminathan Commission report, waive farm loans and release farmers arrested after the events in Delhi on January 26. Khap leader Kandela said the prime minister and the Union home minister should directly talk with the protesting farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
03-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha disrupted over Opposition demands on farmers’ protest ||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned repeatedly on Wednesday as the protesting Opposition members demanded a separate discussion on the farm laws issue. As soon as the House met at 4 PM, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of farmers' agitation against the agri laws, saying the matter is maligning the image of the country. "We are concerned," he said. Several Opposition members trooped into the Well, protesting against the farm laws. Urging the members to return to their seats, Speaker Om Birla said they should maintain the dignity of the House or else he will have to take disciplinary action. He said the Question Hour is important and it should go on. But the Opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings till 4.30 PM. When the House reassembled, Chowdhury demanded that there be a separate discussion on the Presidential address and the farmers' issue. The Speaker said the members should return to their seats and assured them of sufficient time and opportunity to express their views. Birla urged AAP leader Bhagwant Mann to go to his seat if he wanted a discussion and warned him of action. But the Opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings again till 5 PM. Similar scenes were seen when the proceedings resumed, with many Opposition members trooping into the Well again and shouting slogans against the farm laws. After various documents were tabled, the Speaker requested the agitating members to go back to their seats as he wanted to start the Zero Hour, saying it is important to talk about the problems faced by the people in the members' constituencies. However, the sloganeering continued. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal was also in the Well, holding a poster against the farm laws. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said he had discussions with the leaders of Opposition parties but was not taking their names and that they had agreed to start a discussion on the motion thanking the President for his address. "Now, they have made a U-turn and that is also like an insult to the President," Joshi said. There were more than 20 members, including from the Congress, DMK, AAP and the SAD, protesting in the Well. Amid the din, Birla adjourned the House till 7 PM. Several farmer unions have been staging protests at various border points of Delhi since late November demanding the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farm hashtag: Govt asks Twitter to comply or face penal action||The government on Wednesday ordered Twitter to immediately take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content would incite passion and impact public order.  It warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive. In a strongly-worded notice to Twitter, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said it had on January 31 asked the micro-blogging site to block 257 URLs (web addresses) and one hashtag under the relevant provision of the law as they were "spreading misinformation about (farmer) protests and has the potential to lead to imminent violence affecting public order situation in the country."  Twitter, however, chose to sit over the request for one full day before blocking them, only to unblock them a few hours later.  This was not taken kindly by the government and a fresh order/notice has been issued to Twitter to comply, failing which penal action under sections that provide for fine and jail up to 7 years has been warned, sources with direct knowledge of the development said.  Section 69A of the Information Technology Act gives the central government powers to direct an intermediary like Twitter to "block for access for the public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted" in any computer if it is "satisfied that the same is necessary or expedient in order to prevent incitement" of any offence, the notice said.  The accounts that were blocked - and then restored - included those of news magazine Caravan, Kisan Ekta Morcha, tribal leader Hansraj Meena, and actor Sushant Singh.  According to Twitter, it held meetings with government officials and conveyed that the accounts and posts in question constitute free speech and are newsworthy.  The company then "unwithheld" the accounts to protect public conversation. The other accounts that were initially withheld included those of CPM politician Mohd Salim, farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan and Tractor2Twitter.  The move was criticised by politicians and civil rights activists.  On Twitter's plea of such blocking impacting freedom of speech, the notice said Twitter has no constitutional, statutory or any legal basis to comment upon the interplay of statutory provisions with constitutional principles.  The hashtag '#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide' has been found to be instigating people to commit cognizable offences in relation to public order and security of the state," it said, adding the impracticability or disproportionality of the said measure cannot be decided by an intermediary which is bound by the orders of the central government.  It sought banning of the hashtag accompanied by the content that is attached to it by the users using the same.  "Apart from the fact that the hashtag itself is provocative, the assertion of Twitter in its letter dated February 1, 2021, that stock phrases and exaggerations/crude emotional appeals do not constitute inflammatory speech in light of the judgments of the Supreme Court, is meritless as the content attached to the said hashtag has been found to be directly falling afoul" to law, it said.  The ministry said a committee that reviewed the January 31 order and the reply by Twitter a day later, has confirmed the decision to block the said handles and hashtag.  "After the hearing was concluded on February 1 also the interim order continued to remain in operation despite which you chose not to comply with the mandate of law and the order passed by the competent authority legally endowed with the jurisdiction to pass the same.  "Instead, you chose to send a communication dated 1.2.2021 received by the undersigned on 1.2.2021 at 19.37, attempting to give justification, thereby not only admitting that you have not complied with the order, but also seeking to justify non-compliance," it said.  It went on to state that Twitter cannot assume the role of a court.  Having considered Twitter's response, "the competent authority is satisfied that it is necessary and also expedient in the interest of public order and also for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to public order that Twitter... is once again directed to block for access by the public, the said Twitter handles and also the said hashtag with immediate effect," the notice said giving details of the handles to be blocked.  Failure to do so would invoke Section 69A[3] for specific penal consequences, it added.  Section 69A(3) in The Information Technology Act, 2000 provides that "the intermediary who fails to comply with the direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Opposition unites against govt, demands repeal of farm laws||Several Opposition parties including the Congress and the DMK on Wednesday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws without making it a prestige issue and not to treat the agitating farmers as "enemies". Participating in the discussion on the Motion on Thanks to President's Address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha and Congress member Ghulam Nabi Azad suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself should make the announcement on the repeal of the laws. Modi was present in the House at the time. Declaring that disrespect to the national flag cannot be tolerated, he also condemned the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. "I urge the government to withdraw these three bills," he said, and added that the government should set up a committee to find out the whereabouts of people "who have gone missing" during the farmers' protest. The senior Congress leader cited several examples, including one during his own party's rule in 1988, of the government giving in to the demands of farmers. Highlighting the problems which farmers would face because of the new laws, Azad said government should not see repealing of the legislations as a "prestige issue". Describing farmers as "annadata", the Congress veteran said there was no point in confronting them. Instead, the government should focus on other important issues, including on revival of the economy. DMK MP Tiruchi Siva sought assurance from the government and the prime minister on the repeal of the three contentious laws that have led to protests at border points of the national capital and several parts of the country. He also expressed concern over the manner in which the farm bills were passed last year, but Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said that everything was done according to rule. "As per the demand of our party president M K Stalin, I would urge the government, the prime minister in his reply should assure repealing of these farm laws," Siva said. Attacking the Centre for heavy barricading of farmer protest sites in the national capital, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav urged the government not to treat farmers as "enemies" and concede to their demand for repeal of these laws. Yadav alleged that the government has become "merciless and cruel' as it is not even been affected by the death of some farmers during the ongoing agitation. Warning that bigwigs in power have to step down when farmers revolt, the SP leader said, "People should not be power-drunk. You should talk with farmers. This is democracy. They are a larger chunk of our population. Please go and convince them.... Tell that you will withdraw these laws and bring a new bill." He also demanded the government announce a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to family of those who died during the protest and a government job to their children. "Our farmers are sitting for months on protest. Many farmers have lost their lives due to cold, hunger and other reasons. But the government has become merciless and cruel. Nothing is affecting it. There is no impact," he said. On the security at the three protest sites, Yadav said, "Be it Ghazipur, Tikri or Singhu, roads are cemented with a bed of nails and concrete walls. The security at protest sites is more than (that in) our Parliament. Even at Pakistan borders, such security is not there. Are they coming to attack Delhi?" "Are they (farmers) enemies?" he asked. "Farmers not only feed the country, but those protecting our borders also come from their families. They don't come from families whom you are working for," he told the government. CPI(M) member Elamaram Kareem said these laws were enacted "without proper consideration or taking into confidence the Opposition parties". He alleged that many farmer leaders have been booked under "fake" charges after the "unfortunate" incident which took place on January 26. "It (violence) was condemned by the organisers and the Opposition parties who are part of the peaceful protest," he said and charged the government with trying to weaken the democratic protest by perpetuating violence and using force. "Even electricity and water supplies to the protest sites have been disconnected by the government. I urge the government to yield to the demands of the farmers and withdraw the farm laws immediately," he added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Barricading protest sites a local administrative issue, says Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar Wednesday said the Centre is not holding any informal talk with protesting farmers and described putting up of more barricades and suspending internet in and around agitation sites as law and order issues related to local administrations. The last and 11th round of meeting between the government and 41 protesting unions, held on January 22, was inconclusive. The Centre had asked unions to reconsider the government's proposal to suspend new farm laws for 18 months. Asked when the government will hold the next round of talks and if it was engaging with the unions informally, Tomar replied in the negative. "No. We will inform when formal talks will be held," Tomar told PTI. When told that protesting unions demand that no formal talks with the government can be held until the police and the administration stop "harassing" them and release the detained farmers, the minister said, "They should talk to the Police Commissioner. I don't want to comment on the law and order issue. That's not my job." Since the January 22 talks, there has been no meeting between the farmer leaders and the Centre to discuss the farm laws although the government reiterated that its offer stands and doors are open for discussion. On Tuesday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- the umbrella body of farmers' unions protesting the Central farm laws -- had said that there can be no "formal" talks with the government until the "harassment" of different kinds against the farmers' movement by the police and administration is "immediately stopped". The SKM had also said no formal proposal for talks has been received by it. "Though no formal proposal for talks came from the government, we clearly state that the talks will be held only after the unconditional release of farmers who are in illegal police custody," SKM had said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all-party meeting on Saturday had said the government's offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months was still on the table and the agriculture minister was just a phone call away to take the talks forward. The sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Concertina wires and metal spikes have also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures come after the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade by the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Bolly stars back govt's efforts to deal with protest, calls for united front||Bollywood stars Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, filmmaker Karan Johar and Suniel Shetty on Wednesday said citizens should focus on the government's efforts to resolve the ongoing farmer crisis rather than paying attention to "half-truths" and those "creating differences." Their comments came after the Ministry of External Affairs reacted sharply to comments by international pop star Rihanna, teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on farmers' protests. In a statement, the MEA said a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. Rihanna, who has 100 million followers on Twitter and is among the most followed people on the microblogging site, on Tuesday tweeted, "why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest, linking a CNN report on the internet shutdown near the protest site. Sharing the MEA statement on Twitter, Akshay said that the efforts by the government to solve the issue are "evident". "Farmers constitute an extremely important part of our country. And the efforts being undertaken to resolve their issues are evident. Let's support an amicable resolution, rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," Kumar wrote. Devgn urged the people to be wary of "false propaganda against India or Indian policies". "Don't fall for any false propaganda against India or Indian policies. It's important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he posted. Johar said the country shouldn't let "anyone divide us". "We live in turbulent times and the need of the hour is prudence and patience at every turn. Let us together, make every effort we can to find solutions that work for everyone our farmers are the backbone of India. Let us not let anyone divide us. #IndiaTogether" he said. Shetty also shared the MEA on Twitter, saying nothing is "more dangerous than half truth". "We must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he said. Without naming anyone, singer Kailesh Kher said that anti-India can stoop to any level to defame the country. "Even in this sad phase of pandemic, India is helping all nations with vaccine supply for the sake of Humanity. Let all realise that India is ONE & will not tolerate comments against it. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he tweeted. On Tuesday night, international pop star Rihanna became the first global name to voice her support to the ongoing farmers agitation while criticising the internet shutdown at the protest site. Later, Thunberg, Swedish environmental activist, also backed the agitation, tweeting, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." In its response, the MEA said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. The minister asserted that facts should be ascertained and a proper understanding of the issues must be taken "before rushing to comment on such matters". "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the statement said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with the police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the Delhi borders come after the violence during the Republic day tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: India’s global reputation has taken massive hit, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi "to do his job" of protecting farmers and claimed India's reputation has taken a "massive hit" with its soft power being "shattered" by the ruling BJP with its handling of the agitation against the new agri laws. The Congress leader, however, refused to comment on some international celebrities, including American singer Rihanna, extending support to the farmers' protest, saying "this is our internal matter". Addressing a press conference, he said that the farmers' issue needs to be resolved by the government as soon as possible as delaying it further was not good for the peace and harmony in the country. Training his guns at Prime Minister Modi, he claimed there is no leadership in the country at present. Asked if India's image at the international level has taken a beating over reports of the treatment being meted out to the protesting farmers at Delhi's borders, Gandhi said, "Absolutely, the reputation of India has taken a massive hit. Not only on how we are treating our farmers but on how we treat our people, how we treat journalists." "Our biggest strength, you can call it soft power, has been shattered by the BJP-RSS, their mindset," he said. Referring to the multi-layered barricading and roadblocks at protest sites, the former Congress chief asked why the national capital was being converted into a "fortress" and asserted that farmers work hard for the country and should not be treated in this manner. "My constant request to the prime minister is 'do your job'. Your job is not to sell this country to one percent of the population. Your job is to protect the farmers who are standing outside (Delhi). Go hold their hand, give them a hug and tell them 'what is it that I can do for you'," the former Congress chief said. "So the PM has basically given up, he is now on a different plane...we are going somewhere else now and the country is not being run. It is my request to the prime minister that please gather up your courage and run the country," he said. Gandhi said the prime minister's offer of postponing the implementation of the laws does not mean anything as the laws should be done away with once and for all. "...Why is the government not resolving this problem? It is not good for the peace and harmony of our country. It is not good for the future of our 'kisans' (farmers)," he said. Asked about the events that took place at the Red Fort on the Republic Day, he said the Home Minister Amit Shah needs to explain how the people entered the monument. Gandhi alleged that the government is unable to control the situation and its "incompetence is now coming to the fore". "They have messed up the economy, they have messed up the harmony, they have messed up the defence and they want to keep distracting India with non-events. I am saying that the country is in a dangerous position," he alleged. Noting that the world is in flux, he said an aggressive China is on the border with a clear vision of what it wants to achieve, while "we do not have" that vision. Criticising the Union Budget, he said it was for one percent of the population and gave a wrong message to China as there was no significant rise in the defence allocation. "It (conditions) requires that the prime minister put money immediately into the hands of our people and revive the economy, it requires that he protects the small and medium businesses who give us jobs...it requires a clear message to China that 'you cannot do this with us, you cannot be sitting inside our land and expect that nothing is going to happen," he said. "There is just talk, there is no understanding, no strategy. What is there is a media that is controlled so the reality of what is going on is not coming out. This 'maya' is going to break." Gandhi argued that India needed money in the hands of the people, asserting that the economy can be revived only through consumption and it cannot happen from the supply side. He also stated that had the government introduced a scheme like 'Nyay' by giving money into the hands of the poor and small businesses, the economy would have revived. "My expectation from the Budget was that government will provide support to 99 percent of India's population. But this Budget is for one percent population. You (the government) snatched away money from people in the small and medium industry, workers, farmers, forces, and put it in the pockets of 5-10 people," he alleged. "China enters into India and takes away thousands of kilometres of our land. What message do you give them in our budget-- that we won't increase our defence expenditure. You raised it by Rs 3000-4000 crore. What message did you give? 'You can enter India and do whatever you want, we won't support our defence forces'," Gandhi said. "The commitment of forces is cent percent, the government's commitment should be 110 percent. Whatever our army, navy and air force need, the government should give them," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest grabs international spotlight||Several international personalities, including singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa, have joined pop star Rihanna in supporting Indian farmers who have been protesting for over two months against the three contentious agri laws. Besides the celebrities, climate activist Greta Thunberg and US Vice President Kamala Harris' niece have also come out in farmers' support. India has reacted strongly, indicating its discomfort with the celebrity reactions. In a statement, issued by the external affairs foreign ministry, India asked the international community to refrain from commenting without knowing the full picture. On Tuesday night, Rihanna shared a CNN news article with her 100 million followers on Twitter, calling out the internet shutdown at the protest site. "Why aren't we talking about this? #FarmersProtest," the 32-year-old singer wrote. Soon after, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg also came out in support of the protesters as she shared the same article and wrote, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." Nine-year-old climate activist Licypriya Kangujam had asked Thunberg to support the protest, saying farmers were already battling the climate crisis. "Hi @GretaThunberg! Please extend support to the voice of millions of Indian farmers. This is the world''s biggest historic protest for their rights," Kanjugam, who is also called "India''s Greta Thunberg", tweeted. Meena Harris, an American lawyer who is the niece of Kamala Harris, had said: "It's no coincidence that the world''s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault." "This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," she tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Hollywood star John Cusack, who previously voiced support to anti-CAA protestors in February 2020, retweeted a post by Vanessa Nakate, a Ugandan climate activist, reading, "Let us talk about what is happening in India right now #FarmersProtest." The Hollywood star had previously posted in support of the agitation on January 30 with the tweet, "Sikhs farmers are amazing." Kamaljit Singh Jhooti, popularly known by his international stage name Jay Sean, took to Instagram and wrote that despite the farmers agitation being one of the largest protests "ever in history", there has not been enough mainstream coverage of the event. "I live in the US and I've barely seen it on the news or mainstream media. I don't know what needs to be done to raise more awareness and have more eyes on this but I've seen videos that are far too graphic and heartbreaking to post. "People that are old enough to be my grandparents being trampled over with no remorse or regard. Please go to my story where I will post a petition link and something actionable," the Indian-origin British artiste wrote. Baljit Singh Padam aka rapper Dr Zeus retweeted Rihanna's tweet and wrote that "everyone with sense" across the world are wondering about the lack of spotlight on the protests. "World media needs to wake up. #FarmersProtest," the Indian-origin British singer said. Khalifa took to Twitter and criticised the treatment being meted out to the protesting farmers. "What in the human rights violations is going on?! They cut the internet around New Delhi?! #FarmersProtest," she wrote. In a subsequent tweet, the 27-year-old Lebanese American took on those who called farmers "paid actors" as she reiterated her support to them. "'Paid actors' huh? Quite the casting director, I hope they're not overlooked during awards season. I stand with the farmers. #FarmersProtest." Indo-Canadian YouTube star and late-night talk show host Lilly Singh thanked Rihanna for bringing the protests to global spotlight. "Thank you so much @rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is tired," Singh wrote. US-based Indian filmmaker Ritesh Batra, known for films like "The Lunchbox" and "Photograph", tweeted that the "whole world is watching the farmer agitation in India." Popular Punjabi actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh, one of the first celebrities to voice his support for farmers, came up with a song dedicated to Rihanna, title Ri Ri. American social media star Amanda Cerny also took to social media to support the farmers. "The world is watching. You don't have to be Indian or Punjabi or South Asian to understand the issue. All you have to do is care about humanity. Always demand freedom of speech, freedom of press, basic human and civil rights-equity and dignity for workers," she wrote. However, support from all the international celebrities did not go down well with the government with the Centre issuing a statement asking the celebrities to refrain from commenting on the issue without seeing the full picture. India reacted sharply on Wednesday, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country had some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue was needed before rushing to comment on the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Govt asks Twitter to block accounts related to ‘farmer genocide’ hashtag||The Centre has ordered microblogging site Twitter to comply with its directives of removing content and account related to farmer genocide hashtags. It also warned the platform that it may face “penal action” for non-compliance of its order, according to sources. Government sources said that Twitter had unilaterally unblocked accounts and tweets despite specific order for blocking. Twitter is an intermediary and is obliged to obey the directions of the government, sources said. They added that the platform may face penal action for not complying with the Centre’s orders. The government notice quoted more than half a dozen Supreme Court judgments including those of constitutional benches as to what is public order, and what the rights of authorities are. IT ministry sources asserted that Twitter cannot assume the role of court and justify non-compliance. The Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) had recently directed Twitter to block around 250 tweets/Twitter accounts that were making “fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets” using the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide without any further substantiation, on January 30. The blocked accounts included the official handle of the Kisan Ekta Morcha, the one-stop source of information set up by the protesting farmers, several accounts created to propagate the farmers’ version in the face of the “godi (lapdog) media’s biased coverage”, and the account of The Caravan magazine. Late in the evening, Twitter started restoring some of the accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||Centre reacts sharply to comments of foreign celebrities on farmers' protest||India on Wednesday reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities and others, including pop singer Rihanna on farmers' protests, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the Ministry of External Affairs said in a curt statement. The MEA's reaction came after several international celebrities and activists including American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers' protest in India. The ministry also said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," the statement said. Asserting that "before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken", the ministry said the "temptation of sensationalist" social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||AAP MPs marshalled out of Rajya Sabha over unruly behaviour||Three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs, including Sanjay Singh, were on Wednesday marshalled out of Rajya Sabha after they disrupted proceedings over the three contentious farm reform laws and refused to heed to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's plea for order. The slogan-shouting AAP members stormed into the Well of the House just as the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Naidu repeatedly asked them to return to their seats and not disrupt the proceedings. But with his requests going unheeded, the chairman invoked rules of the House to suspend them for the rest of the day and asked them to withdraw from the House. As they refused, he briefly adjourned the proceedings. The MPs, however, did not go out of the House and continued raising slogans when the Rajya Sabha resumed functioning. Naidu again asked them to withdraw from the House and upon their refusal, he ordered marshals to escort them out. The unruly scenes started soon after the Chair announced consensus between the government and the opposition on extending the duration of the debate on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget session last week. An extra five hours that took the duration to 15 hours was to allow members to raise the issue of farmers' protests. As the AAP MPs stormed into the Well, Naidu warned that he would name them if they did not go back to their places. When a member is named by the Chair, he or she has to withdraw from the House for the rest of the duration of the day. But the AAP members refused to heed to his pleas. "I am compelled to use Rule 255...Sanjay Singh, Sushil Kumar Gupta, N D Gupta, all of these members are named as per Rule 255. Please withdraw from the House. Please go out of the House," Naidu said as they continued raising slogans. Rule 255 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) is regarding 'withdrawal of member'. Under the rule, the chairman may direct any member whose conduct is in his opinion grossly disorderly to withdraw immediately from the Council, and any member so ordered to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself during the remainder of the day's meeting. After asking the three members to withdraw, the Chairman briefly adjourned the House till 9.40. When the Rajya Sabha re-assembled, Naidu again asked the three AAP members to leave the House. "Please withdraw from the House, otherwise I will have to send you out...Please leave the House. Don't create a situation where I have to call the marshals and send you out. That is most unpleasant," Naidu said. As the AAP MPs did not withdraw, the Chairman said: "Please Marshals, help them to leave the House". As members continued to raise slogans from the lobby after they were removed from the House, Naidu said that they be cleared from there so as not to distract other MPs. The trouble started when Naidu called for taking up the 'Motion of Thanks on the President's Address'. Sanjay Singh started speaking, but Naidu asked him to return to his seat saying he would get a chance to speak. "This is not the way. One person disturbing the House and not allowing the discussion to take place, including on farmers issues," the chairman said. The other two AAP members too joined the issue with Singh. "You are not doing anything good to the kisans (farmers). You are hurting their interest by stopping the discussion. We are going to discuss President's address and also farmer issues," Naidu said and warned them. However, the AAP members continued to protest in the Well. "They want a discussion. When the discussion is going to begin, they obstruct the House, and the House, the entire country watches this. "And this is the behaviour of people who want to rule or are ruling in certain parts of the country. This is not fair for anybody, any party. I am not naming any party," Naidu said before adjourning the House briefly till 9.40 am. The chairman said stressed the debate on farmers issue should happen and the government and opposition together should find a solution. Later, members started speaking on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address. Bhubaneswar Kalita of BJP moved the motion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
03-02-2021||India||SC steers clear of pleas on R-Day violence||The Supreme Court Wednesday referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that law will take its own course on the Republic Day violence here and refused to entertain pleas for time-bound probe by an apex court-appointed panel, saying it doesn't want to "interfere at this stage". One of the pleas filed by an advocate had sought setting up of a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former apex court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges for collecting and recording evidence and submit a report on the violence during tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. "We are sure that the government is inquiring into it (violence) and they are doing it. We have read statement made by the Prime Minister in the press that the law will take its own course. That means they are inquiring into it. We do not want to interfere in it at this stage," a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked lawyer Vishal Tiwari, who had filed the PIL, to give a representation to the central government for taking necessary action and directed him to withdraw the plea. The bench also refused to entertain a similar plea related to the tractor rally violence and asked petitioner Shikha Dixit to file a representation with the government. During the brief hearing, the bench took note of the submission of a lawyer and said as to how he can assume that the police probe into the January 26 violence will be one-sided. "They will obviously investigate everybody. How can you assume that it will be one-sided? They are doing it and obviously, they will investigate everything," the bench observed and allowed Tiwari and Dixit to withdraw their PILs. The bench, however, dismissed the third plea filed by lawyer M L Sharma related to the tractor violence. Sharma had sought a direction to the concerned authority as well as the media not to declare farmers as "terrorist" without any evidence. He claimed there was a planned conspiracy to sabotage the protest by farmers' and they were allegedly declared as terrorist without any evidence. The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Tiwari had also sought direction to the concerned authority to lodge FIRs against individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. He had also said that farmers' protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a violent turn during the tractor parade. Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also effected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online, Tiwari had said in his plea. It said clash between the farmers and police on the Republic Day has caught the attention of the entire world. The plea said there may be some conspiracy by some notorious forces or organizations to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clash between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application, filed through Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in executive domain. On January 12, the apex court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Congress asks govt to withdraw farm laws, restore J&K status||Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm bills without making it a prestige issue. Declaring that disrespect to the National Flag cannot be tolerated, he also condemned the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. Participating in the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in the Rajya Sabha, he suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself should make the announcement on repeal of the laws. Modi was present in the House at the time. Azad also made a case for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding Assembly elections, saying that people of the area were not happy and development work had come to halt. In 2019, the erstwhile state was bifurcated into the Union territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370. Earlier in the day, five hours were added to the discussion on the President's address to also allow the raising of issues related to farm bills. The new farm laws have led to protests at border points of the national capital and several parts of the country. "I urge the government to withdraw these three bills," he said, and added that the government should set up a committee to find out the whereabouts of people "who have gone missing" during the farmers' protest. The senior Congress leader cited several examples, including one during his own party's rule in 1988, of the government giving in to the demands of farmers. Referring to the violence that broke out in Delhi during farmers tractor rally on January 26, the Congress leader said the entire opposition condemns the incident as "it is against democracy". "Disrespect to the National Flag cannot be tolerated," he said while demanding the strictest of actions against the culprits. Highlighting the problems which farmers would face because of the new laws, Azad said government should see repealing of the legislations as an a "prestige issue". Describing farmers as "annadata", the Congress veteran said there was no point in confronting them. Instead, the government should focus on other important issues, including on revival of the economy. Azad also raised the issue of registration of cases under stringent provisions against certain media persons and also his party colleague Shashi Tharoor. "Shashi Tharoor was minister of state for external affairs. He has represented the country outside. How can he be an anti-national...then we all are anti-nationals," he said, and demanded withdrawal of sedation cases against them in the interest of democracy. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Farmers' blockade inconveniencing people, govt tells Rajya Sabha||Blocking of borders by agitating farmers is causing inconvenience to residents of Delhi and neighbouring states, besides the financial loss to the people and the exchequer, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said large convoys of protesting farmers in tractors tried to "furiously" force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi on January 26 in protest against the farm laws. "They aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property and used criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel," Reddy said. "The Delhi Police has informed that Gazipur, Chilla, Tikri and Singhu borders of the national capital have been blocked by agitating farmers and it is inconvenient to the residents of Delhi and neighbouring states. In any agitation, there is financial loss incurred by people and governments, he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy added that social distancing was not followed by the farmers and protesters, and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. "The farmers' actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd," he said. The minister denied that the National Investigation Agency and the Enforcement Directorate issued summons against 40 people related with voluntary agencies, groups and individuals who are providing humanitarian support to farmers agitation. However, he said, with a view to address the apprehensions of the farmers and resolving the issues raised by them, the government has held 11 rounds of meetings with the leaders of the farmer unions leading the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Five more hours added to Rajya Sabha schedule to allow discussion on farmers||Five extra hours have been added to the duration of discussion in Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament to allow debate on the farmers' protest against three agri reform legislations. The Rajya Sabha, which following Covid-19 protocols meets for five hours daily, will dispense with the scheduled Question Hour, Zero Hour and Private Member Business for the 15-hour discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address beginning Wednesday, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said. This comes after the government and opposition parties said a consensus has been reached to extend the duration of the allotted time on the discussion on a Motion Thanking the President for his Address to the Joint Sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajaya Sabha at the beginning of the Budget Session, from the currently allocated 10 hours to 15 hours. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said,"Consensus has been arrived that more time should be given for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President." Requesting the Chair to agree to extend the time, he said the Question Hour can be dispensed with on Wednesday and Thursday, and the Zero Hour on Thursday to allow for the 15 hour for the debate. Joshi said that also, as already agreed in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC), private member business scheduled for Friday can be dispensed with for the same purpose. The House proceedings begin with the Zero Hour where members raise issues of public importance and is followed by the Question Hour where MPs put questions to the government on any issue. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said that 18-19 opposition parties had sought a discussion on the more than two-month-long agitation by farmers at Delhi borders before the Motion of Thanks is taken up. But the government informed that there was no precedence of taking any business ahead of the Motion of Thanks to the President, he said, adding that the opposition parties felt that if the farmers' agitation cannot be discussed as the first item of the session, extra time should be allocated in the debate on Motion of Thanks. "So five extra hours should be allocated to discuss the subject (farmers' protest) during the Motion of Thanks debate... five standalone hours," Azad said, adding that he was thankful to the government for agreeing to the demand. Naidu said it has been agreed to extend the duration to 15 hours. "We will go by that," he said. Accordingly, instructions have been issued to reallocate the business, Naidu said and added that the duration of discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President would now be 14 and a half hours after considering that the debate would start after the Zero Hour on Wednesday. Naidu said normally suspension of Zero Hour and Question Hour is not done but there have been precedences and now there is a broad agreement so "I am willing to go by that." Amendments to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address will be taken up after the debate. The first Parliament session of 2021 began on Friday with President Ram Nath Kovind addressing members of both Houses of Parliament. In the days following the President's address, a motion is moved in the two Houses thanking the President for his address. This is an occasion for MPs in the two Houses to have a broad debate on governance in the country. The prime minister replies to the motion of thanks in both Houses. Opposition MPs have been successful in getting amendments passed to the motion of thanks in Rajya Sabha on five occasions (1980, 1989, 2001, 2015, 2016). Rajya Sabha Chairman Naidu had on Tuesday said that members can raise the issue of farmers' protest during the debate on the motion as the President had mentioned the agitation in his speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai move SC against FIRs||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai have moved the Supreme Court against multiple FIRs registered against them over their alleged "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally here on Republic Day. Journalists Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath also approached the top court on Tuesday evening against the FIRs. On January 30, Delhi Police had filed a case against Tharoor, Sardesai, The Caravan and others. Earlier, Tharoor and six journalists were booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged ''misleading'' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Greta Thunberg extends support to farmers' protest||Climate and environmental activist Greta Thunberg has come out in support of the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's new agri laws. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," she tweeted. Thunberg tweeted soon after singer Rihanna shared a news article highlighting the Centre's crackdown on the farmers by cutting off internet services in many regions. "Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at the national capital's borders for over two months against the laws. They are demanding that the government repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||More than 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 110 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,77,284 with 11,039 new infections, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,62,631, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,54,596 with 110 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,62,631 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.08 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,60,057 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.49 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,84,73,178 samples have been tested up to February 2 with 7,21,121 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 110 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 12 from Punjab.A total of 1,54,596 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,139 from Maharashtra followed by 12,367 from Tamil Nadu, 12,223 from Karnataka, 10,858 from Delhi, 10,188 from West Bengal, 8,668 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,156 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Delhi court  grants bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, whose arrest from the Singhu border on Sunday had been widely seen as part of the Centre’s attempt to cut off the protesting farmers and muzzle the media. The police had detained Punia, a regular contributor to The Caravan magazine, on Saturday night, saying he had tried to dismantle barricades at Singhu and misbehaved with security personnel. The court noted that the alleged scuffle took place around 6.30pm on Saturday but the FIR was registered close to seven hours later, at 1.21am the next day. The chief metropolitan magistrate’s court said “it is a well-settled legal principle of law that ‘bail is a rule and jail is an exception’”. It also pointed out that since the alleged victims and eyewitnesses in the case were police personnel, there was no chance of the journalist influencing them if set free. Granting bail to Punia on a bond of Rs 25,000, the court said no recovery of evidence was required from the accused and keeping him further in judicial custody would not serve any “cogent purpose”. Delhi police had on Sunday arrested Punia who had in a Facebook Live session on Friday accused BJP workers of posing as local people and unleashing violence at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. In his order the chief metropolitan magistrate said: “It is alleged that the accused had pushed Ct. (constable) Rajkumar towards the protesting place, therefore, the police called minimal force to control the situation. Thereafter, the protesters went away backside and the accused/applicant fell in the drain, upon which he was overpowered and arrested.” “It is pertinent to mention here that the alleged scuffle… (took place) around 6.30pm. However, the present FIR was registered at around 1.21am the next day. Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that the accused/applicant can able to influence any of the police officials,” the court added. In his bail application, Punia had asserted that he was innocent and had been falsely implicated. He had also contended that he was merely carrying out his journalistic duties when he was apprehended by Delhi police. The plea had pointed to the delay of seven hours in filing the FIR. Opposing the bail application, the public prosecutor had said Punia “may again indulge in instigating the protesters and may create nuisance at the protest site with a group of different people and may hamper the investigation”. The police had booked Punia under IPC Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). Punia had posted a video on Facebook giving a personal account of the violence at Singhu. He had said mobs chanting anti-farmer slogans had thrown stones at the protesters in the presence of policemen. A group of 150-200 people had stormed the Singhu protest site on Friday amid heavy security, hurled stones at the farmers and vandalised some of their tents. While members of the mob had claimed to be “local residents”, the farmers had alleged they were BJP supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 epidemic shrinks as virus leeway ‘dwindle’ : Survey||A third nationwide survey has suggested that the novel coronavirus has already infected one in four people, corroborating speculation that India’s Covid-19 epidemic is shrinking as opportunities for the virus to spread are dwindling. The survey whose findings are yet to be made public has estimated that India’s actual number of Covid-19 infections is nearly 30-fold larger than the 10.7 million lab-confirmed cases, researchers who are familiar with the findings have told The Telegraph. A 30-fold factor would imply the number of Covid-19 infections in India has ballooned to over 320 million. The researchers declined to share details of the findings but the Indian Council of Medical Research, which conducted the survey, is expected to disclose the results within days. The earlier two surveys had estimated 6 million infections in May and 74 million in mid-August. The second survey had predicted a doubling time of 30 days, which would mean the 74 million estimated cases in mid-August would have more than quadrupled by December. But these calculations had hinged on the then prevalent pace of the epidemic, which subsequently slowed down. Many experts, however, believe that India’s daily new Covid-19 cases have steadily declined from a peak of around 92,000 cases in mid-September because the fraction of the population infected is approaching the herd immunity threshold — a critical value beyond which the remaining population is too small to support a continuing epidemic. An epidemic slows down as a population nears herd immunity and stops beyond that threshold. The third survey in December and January looked for antibodies against the coronavirus in blood samples of 400 people from randomly selected households from each of the same 70 districts where the ICMR had conducted the earlier surveys in May and August. The methodology to seek samples from the same districts has allowed researchers to track how infection prevalence rates have changed over the months — from an average of 0.73 per cent in May to 7.1 per cent in August to a higher figure in December. Unlike earlier surveys that screened blood samples for one type of antibody against the coronavirus, the third survey looked for two types of antibodies and has estimated the average infection prevalence — on the basis of the two antibodies — to be about 25 per cent. Independent city-based surveys have earlier suggested even higher infection prevalence levels in some urban pockets — 50 per cent in Mumbai, 60 per cent in Pune and 30 per cent in Chennai — prompting researchers to speculate India is approaching herd immunity. Scientists had in the early months of the Covid-19 pandemic used classical infectious disease models to predict that 60 to 65 per cent of a population needs to be infected to reach the herd immunity threshold. But others have argued that heterogeneity in contacts and the individual variations in infectivity and susceptibility may reduce the herd immunity threshold to 35 to 48 per cent. Researchers caution that herd immunity does not mean the infection will vanish. The virus will likely continue to circulate in the community, infecting susceptible persons whenever the opportunity emerges but infections will ebb to a trickle. “The spread of the infection across India has not been uniform. There are pockets of susceptible people almost everywhere in the country and we could see some local clusters emerging here and there, but not at the scale we did a few months ago,” said a senior public health researcher. “The vaccination campaign currently underway would play a critical role in accelerating India’s move towards the herd immunity threshold and in protecting individuals from the virus,” the expert said. Many countries have conducted similar surveys. A global analysis of infection prevalence published in the journal Clinical Microbiology and Infection last October had noted prevalence of 5.6 per cent in England, 5.1 per cent in Spain and 4.1 per cent in the US. A November study by the US Centers for Disease Control in the Journal of the American Medical Association had estimated overall seroprevalence across the country in mid-September to be 10 per cent, ranging from 1.1 per cent to 23 per cent in different states. The latest serological survey by the Delhi government has found that 56.13 per cent of people in the capital have antibodies to the coronavirus. The fifth such survey in the city covered 28,000 people — at least 100 from every municipal ward in Delhi. It was conducted from January 15 to 23. Territorial health minister Satyendar Jain said: “I don’t want to get into a debate about herd immunity…. The cases have gone down considerably and have been lower than 200 for the last 10-12 days. The positivity rate is less than 1 per cent for the last one month. I want to request you to please wear a mask….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Union budget 2021-22: Rs 3,416 crore for Dalit students' scholarship||The Union budget has allocated Rs 3,416 crore in 2021-22 for the post-matric scholarship scheme for Dalit students, less than half the amount the cabinet had earmarked a month ago. On December 23 last year, the cabinet had approved a proposal to bear 60 per cent of the spending of Rs 59,048 crore for the scheme, which provides scholarships to about 60 lakh Dalit students every year. According to the cabinet decision, the central government will spend Rs 35,534 crore over five years. According to this figure, the government should have allocated around Rs 7,106 crore for this year. “It is disappointing that the central government has allocated much less than what the cabinet had approved for the scholarship scheme,” said Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR), which works for the welfare of the community. Lakhs of Dalit students in several states have not been receiving the fellowship after filling up the form since states are not taking interest in the scheme due to paucity of funds. The scholarship covers the actual tuition fee and a maintenance fee ranging between Rs 230 and Rs 1,200 per student per month. In last year’s budget, the government had allocated Rs 2,987 crore for the scheme, which had been revised to Rs 3,816 crore. The allocation for the welfare of persons with disabilities has also been reduced in the latest budget. The allocation to the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities has declined from Rs 1,325 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 1,172 crore in 2021-22. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) protested the reduction in budgetary support. “This substantial reduction of nearly 12 per cent will adversely impact various schemes and programmes that are being undertaken by the department,” NPRD general secretary Muralidharan said. The department undertakes welfare programmes for persons with autism, cerebral palsy, intellectual disabilities and other forms of disabilities. The allocation for the National Programme for Prevention of Blindness has been reduced by nearly 50 per cent from Rs 20 crore to Rs 10.5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
03-02-2021||India||Proceedings in both Houses of Parliament stalled on Tuesday||Proceedings in both Houses of Parliament were stalled on Tuesday as Opposition MPs demanded repeal of the farm laws in the Lok Sabha and a separate discussion on the farmers’ protests in the Rajya Sabha. Both houses witnessed frequent adjournments before the presiding officers called it a day. In the Rajya Sabha after chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu turned down the demand for suspension of business listed for the day to discuss the ongoing agitation of farmers, Opposition MPs staged a walk out and returned to press for their demand. The chairman said the issue could be taken up during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address, scheduled to begin on Wednesday. The Lok Sabha, too, witnessed uproarious protests by Opposition members against the farm laws, leading to adjournments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Letter to PM Modi on raid on Delhi riots-case lawyer ||Parliamentarians from five Opposition parties have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting the inaction over a police raid on a lawyer representing victims of the Delhi riots and those accused of inciting the violence in February last year. Eleven Rajya Sabha MPs, including CPM leader Elamaram Kareem, have signed the letter. The letter says: “A Supreme Court lawyer, Mr Mehmood Pracha, who is representing a number of cases of communal violence and other cases involving members of the ruling party at the Centre, was subjected to search and seizure by a large group of armed police personnel of the special cell of Delhi police who barged into his office and conducted searches for over 12 hours. The purpose was to access computers, which had files of many of these sensitive cases. “This sets a shocking precedent. If a lawyer is representing cases not to the liking of the government, has the police the right to raid the lawyer’s office and break a primary principle of justice which is the confidentiality between a lawyer and a client?” Pracha’s firm Legal Axis is handling around 150 cases related to the riots in which 53 people were killed. The police are investigating Pracha for allegedly coercing a witness to make a false statement — a claim the witness has denied. The police searched Pracha’s office on December 24, examined his email outbox and later charged him with obstructing their search. The signatories include the CPM’s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, CPI’s Binoy Viswam, Congress’s Syed Nasir Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Shaktisinh Gohil, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, N.R. Elango, M. Shanmugam and P. Wilson, and the RJD’s Manoj Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Gutless on China, ‘at war with our protesting farmers’, says Congress||The Congress on Tuesday expressed outrage at the unprecedented barricading at farm law protest sites along Delhi’s borders with barbed wires, iron spikes, concrete walls and unusually heavy deployment of forces, wondering if the government that didn’t have the “guts” to confront China was “at war with our own farmers”. Posting several photographs of barbed wires and concrete structures raised on the roads along the protest sites at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, images that have triggered shock and disbelief across the nation, Rahul Gandhi said in a Twitter message: “Government of India, build bridges, not walls.” Congress leaders feel this exceptional barricading betrayed the government’s belligerence and complete lack of trust in farmers. While Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether he was “at war with our own farmers”, Rahul in another tweet said: “Modi style of governance — Shut them up, Cut them off, Crush them down.” In another tweet in response to a report about a huge build-up of Chinese soldiers and tanks along the Line of Actual Control, the Congress leader said: “China continues to prepare, build up and position its forces while our Prime Minister is scared to even say the word China. Firm action is needed to avert a catastrophe. Unfortunately, Mr Modi doesn’t have the guts.” That the frightening images from the protest sites has forced the Congress to compare the government’s bellicosity against the farmers with the response against the Chinese intrusions in Ladakh was manifested again in a tweet by party communications chief Randeep Surjewala. “Modi ji, we wish you did this fortification on the border with China instead of the Delhi border. What kind of a Prime Minister are you? You are scared of taking China’s name and stop the farmers with barbed wires, iron spikes and concrete structures. Farmers sow crops to feed the nation and the government sows nails on the road to stop farmers. Is this the new India of Modi-Shah?” he said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also came out strongly against the central government’s handling of the situation, arguing a dangerous precedent was being set in this democratic country. “Digging up roads, planting nails and barbed wires is not a good policy. Several big agitations happened during the UPA regime but the police and armed forces were never used to execute such policies of coercion. The government itself damaging public property is condemnable. The Modi government must shed its ego and accept the demands of the farmers,” Gehlot said. The Congress core committee met on Tuesday morning and decided to stand with the farmers with full might. While the party forcefully raised the issue in both Houses of Parliament, leading to adjournments, the leaders lamented why the government was not willing to discuss the crisis. Arguing that no issue could be bigger than this standoff as lakhs of farmers are sitting in the cold at Delhi’s borders, many Opposition MPs felt no activity can be allowed in Parliament unless this crisis is resolved. While participation in the farmers’ movement at the highest level is on the cards over the next few days, senior leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday asked every political party to tell its workers to step out of their homes and sit on the road from noon to 3pm on February 6 when the farmers have given a call for a countrywide “chakka jam”. At an all-party meeting called by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on Tuesday, the dominant sentiment was to extend direct support to the farmers’ movement. The meeting, boycotted by the BJP, passed a resolution asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws immediately and introduce a statutory provision for minimum support price. The resolution also condemned the “sponsored violence in Delhi” and demanded a judicial investigation into the laxity/complicity of the administration in the Red Fort incident. Amarinder has also hired a team of lawyers to fight the cases lodged against the protesting farmers. The head of the Congress’s legal and human rights cell, Vivek Tankha, announced in Delhi that a committee of lawyers had been formed to give legal assistance to all the farmers and journalists who have been either arrested or to whom notices have been sent in connection with the farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||Farmers signal protest till October if required||Protesting farmers have compared the government’s fortification of Delhi with the fencing along the borders with Pakistan and China and signalled their resolve to continue with the movement with increased vigour. As the Kisan Ekta Morcha’s “FencingLikeChinaPak” hashtag dominated social media, the farmers’ mahapanchayats in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh in support of the peasants picketing Delhi’s borders have been drawing massive crowds. Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader who has become a rallying point of the farmers’ movement, is slated to attend a mahapanchayat at Kandela village in Jind district of Haryana on Wednesday. The Kandela khap is one of the prominent social structures of the state and this village was the first to send out tractors on January 28 after Tikait refused to court arrest and broke down, upset with two BJP legislators joining a mob that was planning to attack the protest site at Ghazipur. Tikait, who hails from Muzaffarnagar district of western Uttar Pradesh that has been pro-BJP since the riots of 2013, has time and again expressed disappointment over the manner in which the Yogi Adityanath government has treated farmers since the protests began — blocking their movement towards Delhi and filing cases galore against them. On Tuesday, Tikait announced that the farmers’ agitation could continue till October if need be, extending the earlier timeline that Punjab farmers had been suggesting. Given that their next crop harvest is in April, Punjab and Haryana farmers had moved to Delhi in November prepared with rations for a six-month haul. Speaking to reporters in Ghazipur after Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut called on him at the protest site, Tikait said: “Our slogan is — ‘kanoon wapsi nahi, toh ghar wapsi nahi (Without repeal of the laws, we will not return home)’.” With Ghazipur becoming the big draw for farmers with even the Punjab-based Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) group heading there through alternative routes as the main highway from Delhi has been blocked off with multi-level barricades, the police are now digging up side roads. Accessing Singhu and Tikri has also been made practically impossible for even journalists from Delhi as part of a strategy to blackout the information flow that has not stopped despite the Internet shutdown that was extended for another 24 hours on Tuesday. The Narendra Modi government informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that it would not pay compensation to the farmers who have died during the protest that has been going on in Punjab since June and along Delhi’s borders since November 26. Replying to a question jointly put by 28 MPs from various political parties on whether the government proposes to give compensation to the families of the farmers who have died during the agitation, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply: “No Sir.” Tomar, who led the government’s interlocutors during the 11 rounds of negotiations with the farmers, had along with the other ministers observed a minute’s silence with union leaders in one of the meetings in memory of those who had died. The legal team set up by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to help the farmers arrested during the chaos at the tractor rally on Republic Day met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and secured from him an assurance that those imprisoned in Tihar jail would be taken care of well as prisons come under the Delhi government. As for the cases, Kejriwal is said to have told the delegation that he has no say as the Delhi police force comes under the Centre. In all, 115 farmers are in prison while about 29 are said to be missing since January 26. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which had given the call for a “Dilli Chalo” march on November 26 and 27, has decided to conduct a weeklong village outreach from Wednesday to apprise farmers about the repression of the protest by the government. “If the farmers’ movement fails, then this kind of repressing and barricading that we are seeing at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri could become the template, the new normal, for all protests,” said P. Krishnaprasad of the All India Kisan Sabha, a constituent of the AIKSCC. With support for the farmers’ movement growing, the smaller sites of protest that had been vacated in the wake of the events of January 26 have once again been occupied by the peasants, the latest being Palwal on the Delhi-Agra highway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India||SC poser on uniform marriage age||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi and Rajasthan governments on a plea to transfer from high courts pending petitions on laying down a uniform minimum marriageable age for men and women. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde sought the response of the authorities concerned after senior advocate Geetha Luthra sought the transfer of the multiple petitions to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement. The transfer application was filed by Ashwini Upadhyay, an advocate on whose earlier writ petition challenging the different marriageable ages prescribed for men and women the apex court had issued notices to the respective governments. The present transfer application has urged the Supreme Court to fix a uniform marriageable age for men and women as all laws of the country mandate a minimum of 18 years for women and 21 years for men, which the petitioner complained was discriminatory against women due to traditional and stereotypical approaches considering them subservient to men. The following laws lay down the different ages for men and women: Section 60(1) of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872; Section 3(1)(c) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 4(c) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954; Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; and Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Assailing the different age thresholds for men and women, the transfer petition says: “While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married (off) when they are just 18. The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against global trends.” It pointed out that the law commission had earlier observed that there exists no scientific basis for such distinction and that differential limits “simply contribute to the stereotype that wives must be younger than their husbands”. The Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women had noted that some countries provide for different ages for marriage for men and women. As such provisions assume incorrectly that women have a different rate of intellectual development than men, or that their stage of physical and intellectual development at the time of marriage is immaterial, these provisions should be abolished, the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
03-02-2021||India|| BJP puts onus on Nitish to decide when to induct more ministers in his cabinet||The BJP on Tuesday put the onus on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to decide when to induct more ministers in his cabinet and said there was no reason for delay from its side. Nitish had earlier blamed ally BJP for the delay in the cabinet expansion by asserting that the party was supposed to finalise the names of the legislators that were to be inducted and provide the list to him. “There is no delay from our side in the expansion of the state cabinet. We hope the chief minister will expand it soon,” Bihar deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad told mediapersons in Patna on Tuesday. Prasad attended a marathon meeting chaired by BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Delhi on Monday night. The meeting discussed the shortlisted candidates for the ministerial berths as well as the 12 seats in the Legislative Council for which Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan is expected to make nominations on the recommendation of the state government. BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, general secretary (organisation) Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Bihar in-charge Bhupender Yadav, state party chief Sanjay Jaiswal, Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, another deputy chief minister Renu Devi and other leaders attended the meeting at Nadda’s residence. Asked about the BJP legislators who have been finalised for the post of ministers, Prasad said he “cannot make any official comment about it, but the criteria of the organisation and development of the party has been kept in mind in their selection”. Prasad’s comments meant that his party has kept the caste and regional equations in mind while choosing its leaders who could be inducted into the cabinet. Sources in the BJP said that Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, Nitin Navin, Sanjeev Chaurasia, Sanjay Singh, Rana Randhir, Niraj Singh Bablu, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, Samrat Chaudhary, Nitish Mishra, Sanjay Saraogi, Pramod Kumar, Krishna Kumar Rishi, Rajneesh Kumar and Devesh Kumar are some of the probable ministers. “These leaders have figured in our previous lists too but Nitish is objecting to the inclusion of some of them. Let us see how the matter is sorted out. This is one reason that our party has now included several names from the castes and regions from which it wants its ministers to be inducted,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The Bihar cabinet can have 36 ministers according to the constitutional provision that mandates that their numbers cannot exceed 15 per cent of the size of the Legislative Assembly. The lower House in the state has 243 seats. At present there are 14 ministers in the cabinet, including the chief minister, leaving 22 berths to be filled up. The BJP with 74 MLAs has seven ministers, while Nitish’s Janata Dal United with 44 MLAs has five ministers. One minister each are from smaller allies — Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) — which have four MLAs each. This situation has led to several ministers being given charge of two to six departments. “The number of ministers who will be sworn in will depend on the numerical strength of the parties. Our party will have more ministers than the JDU which has lesser MLAs than us,” a senior BJP leader said. Sources also said that Nitish was not happy having to play second fiddle to the BJP and has been asking an equal number of berths in the cabinet for both the parties. Nitish has also been aggrieved over the way the BJP patronised the Lok Janshakti Party and its leader Chirag Paswan, who put up candidates against all JDU candidates in the Assembly elections, with the sole intention of harming its prospects. Meanwhile, the Opposition hit out once again on the two-and-a-half month delay in the cabinet expansion. “The BJP and JDU are fighting with each other. It seems there are some serious issues between them and the government will fall down the day the cabinet is expanded,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said. On the other hand, JDU legislator and spokesperson Niraj Kumar said: “Cabinet expansion is the chief minister’s prerogative and will happen at the opportune moment. The delay has not led to any slowdown in development work in the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
