04-02-2021||India||No case against Greta Thunberg, Delhi police clarify||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it has lodged an FIR against unnamed persons regarding a 'toolkit', which was shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter, as a top official informed that initial probe has suggested the document’s link with a pro-Khalistan group. Asked whether the FIR has been registered against Thunberg, a top official of the Delhi Police clarified that nobody has been named in the case. It was previously reported that a case was registered against the Swedish activist, following which she said that she still stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would undo that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Thunberg tweeted soon after the news emerged on Friday afternoon. Addressing a press conference, Special CP (Crime) Praveer Ranjan said the Delhi Police has come across a document “toolkit” which has an action plan to spread social disharmony in the country and registered a case against its author on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and others. He said the initial probe has revealed that the “toolkit” has been created by a pro-Khalistani organisation. He said documents uploaded on social media have a proper action plan about a digital strike on or before January 26 and tweet storms on January 23. Lending her support to the farmers’ agitation, Thunberg had shared “a toolkit for those who want to help”. “Here’s a toolkit if you want to help,” tweeted the activist, which takes the user to a document containing details on ways to support the protest. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers’ protest. However, on Friday morning, Thunberg shared an updated link to the document, saying that the previous one was outdated. “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” she wrote on Twitter. The 18-year-old’s first tweet came after singer Rihanna shared a CNN report, asking why the world was not talking about the issue. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg wrote, sharing the same report. Her tweet was one of the several posts that have drawn global attention to the farmers’ agitation over the past two days. India on Wednesday had reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Bollywood calls out the ‘spineless’ among its own  ||A section of Bollywood celebrities on Thursday criticised big stars such as Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn for their similarly worded tweets in response to pop star Rihanna's post drawing attention to the farmers' agitation in India. Actor Taapsee Pannu, filmmaker Onir, actor Arjun Mathur and others criticised the seemingly orchestrated show of solidarity by the big stars towards the government. Rihanna, the fourth most followed celebrity on Twitter with over 100 million followers, took to the microblogging site on Tuesday and shared a CNN news article headlined, "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police." "Why aren't we talking about this? #FarmersProtest," Rihanna wrote on Tuesday. Post her tweet, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actors Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa voiced their support to the protesting farmers. India on Wednesday reacted sharply to these tweets with several Bollywood and cricket stars and top ministers rallying around the government in its pushback. The "temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments is neither accurate nor responsible, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Facts must be ascertained before the rush to comment, the ministry added, using the hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda to make its point. Personalities including Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Lata Mangeshkar, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and others rallied around the government on social media using hashtags - #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda as they reacted to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs on the issue. Calling it "embarrassing" and "tragic", many in the film industry called out the celebrities for their sudden Twitter activity while they failed to notice or acknowledge the plight of farmers. Actor Taapsee Pannu, who has been a vocal supporter of farmers issue, took a jibe at the government's campaign and said one should focus on strengthening the system. "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief, then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teacher' for others," Pannu wrote. Actor Sonakshi Sinha, Akshay Kumar's co-star of many films, was among the celebrities to support of Rihanna's tweet. The actor, in her Instagram stories, shared quotes from storysellers comics, which said the voices raised by the international celebrities are "about the violation of human rights, suppression of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech, and abuse of power." One of the stories on Sinha's Instagram also dismissed the argument that it was India's internal matter, saying, "these are not alien species but fellow humans who are speaking up for the rights of other humans." Comedian-actor Vir Das said he was amazed to see how Indians got mobilized' over a tweet by Rihanna and Thunberg. “Honestly, I don't think Rihanna or Greta have anything more than superficial wisdom about Indian farmers. But gotta say it's hilarious to see literally thousands of shaky Indian men get mobilized over a tweet, all the while proclaiming how secure they are in their policymakers,” he said. Filmmaker Onir too took a dig at the tweets in support of the government and termed the so-called support from Bollywood as a puppet show'. “It is so embarrassingly obvious that a whole bunch or celebs who do not value their voice have been sent a set message, which they are modifying a bit and postings. They Do what they have been told to. Tragic #puppetShow #worldWithFarmers #IStandWithFarmers,” he tweeted. Celebrity jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali tweeted, "Disappointed with the fraternity tweeting identical tweets that make it more like a marketing gimmick. Whatever their reasons & I'm no one to judge at least u could have tried to make it more original. Now you have given yourselves away. Reel Life Heroes VS Real Life Heroes." Actor Sayani Gupta tweeted, “Aiyooo! The cute Bhakts have awakened! (You know that moment in a zombie film climax, when the zombie was looking elsewhere, and a human was cautiously stepping away, and bam! It suddenly turns to him.) Just got that feeling!” Bollywood celebrities have often been called out in the media for not speaking up on politically sensitive topics unlike their counterparts in the US. Actor Swara Bhasker wrote on Wednesday, "Aur Bolo 'Speak Up Bollywood, 'Speak Up celebrities'." "Made in Heaven" star Arjun Mathur used the hashtags to mock celebrities for displaying an "utter lack of spine", a thought echoed on social media with 'Spineless Celebs' trending on Twitter. "Let us stand together in displaying our utter and complete lack of spine, in safeguarding our hundreds of crore rupees of income and in supporting this military-style mobilisation against the very masses who have practically treated us as gods and to whom we owe everything we enjoy. Let no sane or humane voice interfere, nor influence you. "They can spectate, not participate. Please do support us, as we intend to come for you next," Mathur wrote on Instagram. Actor-TV host Sushant Singh said he was heartbroken with the support pouring in from the film industry for the government. “Why do you make those who are heroes or heroines in films your idols? Heartbroken now...” Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been protesting for over two months at Delhi's borders demanding rollback of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Thunberg tweets again after Delhi police files FIR ||The Delhi Police on Friday filed a case alleging an international ‘conspiracy’ and an attempt to “promote enmity between groups”, citing climate activist Greta Thunberg’s tweets in support of protesting farmers who have been agitating against the three farm laws, NDTV reported. However, the Swedish teen reacted to the news  saying that she still stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would undo that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Thunberg tweeted soon after the news emerged on Friday afternoon. Her tweet was one of the several posts that have drawn global attention to the farmers’ agitation over the past two days. The subject of the FIR by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police cites Thunberg’s tweet on a “toolkit” to help the farmers, according to the NDTV report. It also lists conspiracy and “promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language... and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony” as the charges. The 18-year-old’s first tweet came after singer Rihanna shared a CNN report, asking why the world was not talking about the issue. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg wrote, sharing the same report. On Friday morning, she also shared a link to a “toolkit”, which enlists seven points as to how one can help the farmers carry out their agitation against the three contentious laws, against which lakhs of farmers are protesting for over two months now. “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” she wrote on Twitter. India on Wednesday reacted sharply to comments by foreign celebrities, saying a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. “The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a curt statement. The ministry also said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. “We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse,” the statement said. Asserting that “before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken”, the ministry said the “temptation of sensationalist” social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is “neither accurate nor responsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||US backs farm laws, but calls for talks to resolve protests||Recognising that peaceful protests are a hallmark of a thriving democracy, the US has said that it encourages dialogue between the protesting farmers and the Indian government to resolve their differences. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The State Department, responding to a question on the ongoing farmers' protests in India, said on Wednesday that the US encourages that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue. Indicating that the new Biden administration is supportive of the Indian government's move to reform the agricultural sector that attracts private investment and greater market access to farmers, a State Department spokesperson said: "In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment". "We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same," the spokesperson said. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi issued a statement on Wednesday to highlight that the Parliament of India had passed "reformist legislation" for the agricultural sector, which "a very small section of farmers" have some reservations about and therefore the laws have been kept on hold while talks are held. Meanwhile, some American lawmakers have come out in support of the farmers' protests in India. "I am concerned by the reported actions against peaceful demonstrators protesting new agricultural reform laws in India," Congresswoman Haley Stevens said. In a statement, she encouraged the Indian government and representatives of the protesting farmers to engage in productive discussions. "I will continue to monitor this situation closely. It has been particularly valuable to engage with stakeholders across the district on this topic and I remain appreciative to all who have reached out to share their perspective," Stevens said. Another Congresswoman, Ilhan Omar, expressed solidarity with all the farmers protesting for their livelihood across India. "India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate internet access and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests," she wrote on Twitter. Referring to the farmers' protests, Meena Harris, niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, alleged that the world's biggest democracy is under an assault. "It's no coincidence that the world's oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," she said in a tweet. In a separate statement, Gurinder Singh Khalsa, chairman of the Sikhs Political Action Committee, said the "historic" farmers' protest is turning out to be the "biggest-ever revolution" against the Indian government's crony capitalism. "This is the beginning of a movement for better accountability and transparency against crony capitalism. World was watching and now it has started reacting and mobilising in support of this historic revolution of Indian farmers. This will be bigger than India's freedom Revolution," Khalsa, who is based in Indiana, said. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and organisations on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. Emphasising that the protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, the MEA in its statement said some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the MEA statement said following some high-profile celebrities tweeting over the agitation by the farmers. Defending the three contentious agri laws, the MEA said: "these reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming." Recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said India's new farm laws have the "potential to represent a significant step forward" for reforms in the agriculture sector. "We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India. The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," IMF Communications Director Gerry Rice told reporters here last month. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on 6 January and are being addressed as per our respective local laws,” he said. “We have taken note of comments of the US State Department. It is important to see such comments in the context in which they were made and in their entirety,” he said. Srivastava said both India and the United States are vibrant democracies with shared values. “The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence,” Srivastava added. The MEA spokesperson said the US state department has acknowledged the steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms. “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Indian team discussed farmers' protest in team meeting, reveals Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli on Thursday said the ongoing farmers' protest against new agriculture laws has come up for discussion in his team meeting where everyone has "expressed what they had to". Kohli, speaking online to the media ahead of the first Test against England here, did not divulge the details of the "brief" conversation on the matter. "Like any issue present in the country, we do talk about it and everyone had expressed what they had to," Kohli said when asked about the agitation that has been going on for over two months. "That's about it. We briefly spoke about it in the team meeting and we carried on discussing the team and game plans," he added. On Wednesday, Kohli was among a host of Indian cricket stars, including the iconic Sachin Tendulkar who urged for unity in the country after some international celebrities like US pop star Rihanna called attention to the plight of the agitating farmers on social media. '"Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found between all parties to bring about peace and move forward together," he had tweeted. India and England will lock horns in a four-match Test series starting Friday. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months demanding that the three new farm laws be repealed. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws, which allow farmers to sell their produce directly to a buyer, will end the traditional mandi system and the guarantee of a Minimum Support Price for their crops. The government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Derek O’Brien offers ‘Repealing Bill 2021’ to roll back farm laws||Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien on Thursday pressed the government to repeal the three controversial farm laws and offered a draft  titled, ''Repealing Bill 2021", to explain how it could be done. Participating in a discussion on the motion of thanks on the President's address in the Rajya Sabha, the Trinamull MP also referred to the death of a farmer during the tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day and said there should be a "proper inquiry" so the truth could come out. He interrupted his speech to observe a minute's silence in the House along with other Opposition leaders, mainly the Congress, to pay tribute to farmers who had lost their lives during the two month agitation. "Please repeal all (three controversial farm laws)... I have taken the liberty of drafting the Repealing Bill 2021. I will share it with you all. You repeal these bills (farm laws). There is a way to do it. How will you pause the laws for 18 months," he said in the Rajya Sabha. The government had made a proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months. Referring to the events that unfolded on January 26, O'Brien said, "Just imagine that unfortunate tractor incident where a farmer died under mysterious circumstances, just imagine if that happened in Bengal or Maharashtra... All I'm saying is that the truth be told. I'm not coming to any conclusions. Let the truth come out. The home minister of India is in charge. Do a proper inquiry and let the truth come out". He said the political and administrative responsibilities lie with the prime minister and the home minister. Highlighting the Centre's resolve to double farmer income by 2022, O'Brien said at the current rate this will not happen till 2028. "In Bengal, under the TMC government, from 2011 to now, farmer income has not doubled, but has tripled," he said. The Trinamul MP said the farm laws were not sent to a select committee for scrutiny and accused the government of failing the sanctity of Parliament. Sending out a message to the farmers' community, he said, "Yeh aapki roji roti ki baat hai. Hum aapke saath hain (This is about your livelihood, We all stand by you)." "I cut short my speech for one minute and stand to give tribute to the farmers who lost their lives in this agitation," he added. O'Brien continued his speech after the minute's silence. Referring to the farmers' agitation, he said, "It is their movement. It is not anybody's movement." He also alleged that the government had failed the people of India. He drew the attention of the House towards the government's divestment policy, rising share of states funding in railways projects, higher mortality rates among infants and mothers, job losses especially during pandemic and frozen spending under MPLADS (till 2021-22). "First take care of Delhi then think about Bengal. Don't make the pandemic excuse," O'Brien told the House. O'Brien claimed the government had failed the migrant workers and also India's federal structure. "The home minister was to come to Bengal for a political rally. But he needed to stay back in Delhi. So what was done? Two and a half or one and a half hours later, MLAs who were switching sides, were sent the chartered planes and brought to Delhi," he said, adding that he wished so much love, care and affection was shown towards migrant workers. According to O'Brien, when it comes to migrant workers, when their data is sought in Parliament, the government truly becomes the NDA - No Data Available. When the Central government imposes cess, the collected amount is not shared with states, he said. "Out of the gross revenue in 1980, 2 per cent was cess. Now almost 16 per cent is being collected as cess. Every time you collect cess you deprive the states," the TMC MP argued The Trinamul MP also said, "They have failed the media. You can intimidate and threaten media barons but not the young media persons (on the ground)."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||CSIR plans study to assess effectiveness of Covid vaccines||CSIR, the country's premier research and development body, is launching a multi-centre study to assess the effectiveness of the massive anti-Covid-19 vaccination programme. The study will check at regular intervals on the progress of around 6,000 volunteers who have received the vaccine. The study, which will continue for up to two years, will measure whether the vaccines are creating the desired levels of immunity and whether their effect lasts for a sufficiently long time. “The vaccine will have to last at least six months. Otherwise, it will be a failure. Six months is enough to break the (infection) chain,” says Dipyaman Ganguly, who’s physician, scientist and immunologist at the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta. Ganguly will serve as the project leader for the immune monitoring programme. The scheme is a CSIR initiative with the Tata Medical Centre. Specifically, the study will check if the vaccines produce sufficient antibodies to counter Covid-19. It will also check for the presence of memory T-cells that can recognise the coronavirus. The CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research) is looking at enrolling about 1,000 volunteers at each of its six centres in different parts of the country. Follow-up studies of the effectiveness of vaccines being developed around the world are essential because they have been created in record time and have been given emergency clearances by national pharmaceutical regulatory authorities. In the US, for instance, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted what is called Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). The FDA says the authorization "is intended to remain in effect only for the duration of the public health emergency related to COVID-19.” Emergency clearances have been granted to Covid vaccines in different parts of the globe, including India, because of the urgent need to halt the pandemic in its tracks. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for instance, has only completed its Phase Two trials and has been given emergency clearance to start its vaccination programme. People who receive the vaccine have to sign consent forms that they are aware of this. Similarly, under normal circumstances, the Serum Institute of India (SII), manufacturing and distributing the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, would have carried out Phase Three trials in India before distributing the British-Swedish jab. That is because immunological responses can vary from one nation to another and different population groups. Also, if conditions were normal, the two firms currently distributing Covid vaccines in India, SII and Bharat Biotech, would be conducting the post-vaccination studies. But the CSIR believes the companies already have enough on their plates to produce and distribute the vaccines and keep supply chains operational. The CSIR study will, most probably, enrol doctors and health-workers who have already received the vaccine. They would be an ideal survey group as they would be well-informed and would be able to report any after-effects or other issues they have faced. Regular RT-PCR tests will also be conducted every month on the volunteers to check if they are getting reinfected again after receiving the vaccine. Says Ganguly: “We have to follow-up with repeat RT-PCR tests. Otherwise, we won't find if they are getting reinfected." The tests would also look into whether people who have got vaccinated develop Covid-19 but remain asymptomatic. The need for the post-vaccination study has become particularly urgent due to the swift pace of events since the pandemic was first reported in Wuhan in December 2019. Vaccine development began almost immediately and Pfizer BioNTech became the first Western company to announce it had been successful on December 2. No vaccine has ever been created so swiftly. The fastest before this was the mumps vaccine developed over four years in the 1960s. The sheer speed at which the vaccines have been developed and brought to market have created an entirely different set of problems. Says one scientist: “We know the vaccine is effective for three months because that is how long it has been in the market. We do not know what happens over a longer time-frame." The findings about how long the antibodies and T-cells stay active could help determine how frequently the Covid vaccinations might need repeating. Some researchers suggest that Covid vaccines could become routine, like annual flu shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Arrested scribe to write a detailed account of farmers lodged in Tihar jail||Freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from the Singhu border, has said that he talked to farmers and scribbled notes on his legs inside the Tihar Jail to write a report. Punia was released from the prison on Wednesday after a court granted him bail. Talking to reporters outside the jail, he said, "It (being inside the prison) turned out to be an opportunity for me. I got a chance to talk to the farmers lodged in the jail and scribbled notes on my legs. I am going to write a detailed report." "My work is to report from ground zero... I asked the farmers why and how they were arrested," he said. Punia said he had been covering the protest at the Singhu border from the day it started. "It was my responsibility as a journalist to report it truthfully and faithfully. I was trying to do that. I was trying to find out the people behind the attack on the movement site. My work was interrupted by the arrest. I lost valuable time. I do feel that that I was wronged," he tweeted. He alleged that the police interfered with his work and said the incident had strengthened his resolve to continue with his work. Punia was arrested at the Singhu border on charges of "obstructing public servants in discharge of public functions", "assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty", and "voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty". He was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Sunday by the court of the metropolitan magistrate. However, he was granted bail on Tuesday after furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Twitter deletes Kangana's tweets over rule violation||Twitter India on Thursday removed two of the tweets by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, citing a violation of the platform's rules. The actor has been criticising protesting farmers over their agitations against the Centre's three farm laws. When tried to access the two tweets, a message appears, reading, "This Tweet is no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules." In one of the tweets, the actor had talked about "eradication" of "cancer" from the country. This is not the first time that Twitter has taken action against Ranaut. The actor's handle was last month briefly suspended after she posted a tweet in reference to the controversy surrounding Amazon Prime Video series "Tandav". In the tweet, the actor had used the phrase "time to take their heads off", which was reported by many users as offensive. Ranaut has been actively posting on Twitter since Tuesday when international pop star Rihanna came out in support of the farmers' agitations. The actor also went after actor Taapsee Pannu for her tweets but was criticised for her language. Responding to the flurry of tweets from prominent celebrities from Bollywood and sports following Rihanna's tweet, Pannu on Thursday said, "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teacher' for others." It was enough to tick off Ranaut who called Pannu "a sasta copy (cheap duplicate) and also dragged the actor's mother in the conversation. Ranaut was the first to slam Rihanna for her post, calling her a "fool" and protesting farmers "terrorists". She was also embroiled in a second Twitter spat with Diljit Dosanjh, who released a track appreciating Rihanna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Previous govts drafted budget with an eye on polls, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday targeted previous governments, saying they drafted the Union Budget with an eye on their vote bank and made budgets a medium of announcements they could not fulfil but now the country has changed its approach. "From decades, the meaning of budget in our country was only restricted to what announcements have been made on whose name. Budget was turned into an account for the vote bank," he said after inaugurating via video conference the centenary celebrations of the historic Chauri Chaura incident, a landmark event in the country's fight for Independence. "You all make an account of household expenditure by keeping in mind present needs and future responsibilities. But earlier governments made budgets a medium of such announcements that they could not fulfil. Now the country has changed such 'soch' (thought) and approach," the prime minister said. Modi also released a postage stamp to mark the beginning of the centenary celebrations. A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to the death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. Gandhi had called off the movement due to the violence. The killing of the Chauri Chaura policemen had resulted in the arrest of hundreds of protesters with 228 of them being put on trial, six of them dying during it and 172 ordered to be hanged to death with the remaining sentenced to long-term imprisonments after a hasty eight-month trial. Reviewing the death sentences, the Allahabad High Court finally in April 1923 confirmed it for 19 convicts and sentenced 110 of them to life imprisonments in Port Blair and long jail terms to others. At Thursday's event, 99 people, descendants of those involved in the incident will be honoured. Those chosen to be honoured on the occasion include 72-year-old Kamla Prasad of Dumri Khurd, a grandson of Chinugi who was sent to the Cellular Jail in Port Blair. "I am happy that we are getting the honour and the country will know us from tomorrow," said an elated Kamla Prasad. The year-long commemoration of the Chauri Chaura incident's centenary began in all 75 districts of the state with 'Prabhat Pheris' (early morning rounds) and other programmes that will continue till February 4, 2022. Besides the beautification of the Chauri Chaura Shaheed Sthal in Gorakhpur, the area is also being developed as a tourist spot on the lines of India Gate, Jallianwala Bagh and Cellular Jail, a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
04-02-2021||India||Police stop 15 Opposition MPs from reaching Ghazipur protest site||Fifteen MPs from 10 opposition parties, including the SAD, DMK, NCP and the Trinamool Congress, were stopped by police from reaching Ghazipur border on Thursday to meet farmers protesting against new farm laws, a leader said. According to SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal who coordinated the visit, the leaders were not allowed to cross the barricades and reach the protest site. Besides Badal, Supriya Sule from NCP, Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Saugata Roy from the TMC were part of the delegation. Members of the National Conference, RSP and the IUML were also part of it. During a discussion in Parliament on Wednesday, several opposition parties asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws without making it a prestige issue and not to treat the agitating farmers as "enemies". Stringent security continued at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the key protest sites where thousands of farmers are camping with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions have failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Rainy day in Delhi courtesy a fresh Western Disturbance ||Delhi recorded light rain on Thursday morning under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting northwest India, the India Meteorological Department said. The city's minimum temperature rose to 12.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, due to cloud cover, an official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 0.5 mm rainfall till 8:30 am. The Lodhi road weather station gauged 0.2 mm rainfall. Light rain is predicted on Friday, too. The minimum temperature is expected to remain within comfortable levels for the next three days. The minimum temperature had settled at 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature on Wednesday stood at 25 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Almost 13,000 fresh Covid cases, 107 casualties in a day||With 12,899 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,90,183, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,80,455, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,54,703 with 107 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,80,455 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.13 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,55,025 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.44 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,92,16,019 samples have been tested up to February 3 with 7,42,841 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 107 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 7 each from Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 6 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,54,703 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,169 from Maharashtra followed by 12,371 from Tamil Nadu, 12,225 from Karnataka, 10,864 from Delhi, 10,195 from West Bengal, 8,674 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Govt threatens Twitter with penal action for unblocking accounts||The Narendra Modi government has threatened Twitter with penal action for unilaterally unblocking the accounts of those who had tweeted with the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide” within a few hours of  acting against them on Monday. Electronics and IT ministry sources said the government had issued a notice to the micro-blogging site to comply with its January 31 order to block 257 URLs and one hashtag under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and Rule 9(1) of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. In the notice, the ministry said that Section 69A(3) of the IT Act specified the punishment for those failing to comply with directions issued under Section 69A. Twitter has again been asked to block the handles and the hashtag immediately but the micro-blogging site had not complied till late Wednesday night, over a day after the notice had been sent. According to the notice, Twitter had first been told to block these handles and hashtag around 3pm on Sunday but the compliance came only the following afternoon. This was minutes before Twitter’s lawyer appeared before the inter-ministerial committee provided in the rules for examining such requests for blocking — in this instance, the home ministry. The notice cites Twitter’s reply, in which it is said to have declined to abide by the order, citing freedom of speech. Twitter had apparently said that “stock phrases and exaggerations/ crude emotional appeals do not constitute inflammatory speech in light of the judgments of the Supreme Court”. Twitter appears to have described the government’s directive as disproportionate and impractical. Responding to this, the notice said: “The impracticability or disproportionality of the said measure cannot be decided at the instance of Twitter which is an intermediary bound by the orders of the central government”. Under Section 2(1)(w) of the IT Act, Twitter is an “intermediary” and provides a platform for people’s opinions to be communicated across the world while being open for all to see. The government’s premise is that Section 69A of the IT Act empowers it, in instances where it considers it necessary or expedient, to direct an intermediary to block handles/ content to “prevent incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence relating to public order”. Efforts to contact Twitter, which had drawn flak online for complying with the directive on Monday, for a response were futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||PM unable to handle crises, says Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said India was “lacking in leadership”, adding that “incompetence” and pro-corporate politics had brought the country to a “dangerous situation”. The Congress leader contended the government had created a mess on three fronts — the economy, social harmony and national security — and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was now unable to handle  the multiple crises after weakening the country from within. He pleaded with Modi to focus on the job he had been elected to do rather than “sell the country to one per cent of the population”. Among his prescriptions for the Prime Minister were the immediate withdrawal of the new farm laws, a revving up of the economy by creating demand and a firm message to China. “Basically, if you look at the broader picture, what has happened is that the government is now unable to control the situation. They are basically unable to handle the governance of this country. Their incompetence is now coming to the fore,” Rahul said at a media conference. Rahul said: “They have messed up the economy, they have messed up the harmony, they have messed up the defence and they want to keep distracting India with non-events.” He added: “I’m saying that the country is in a dangerous situation. The world is in a flux. We have an aggressive China on the border. They have a clear vision of what they want to achieve. We don’t have one. We are completely unclear about what we want to achieve and it is dangerous for the country when you have a situation like this on the border. “You are destroying your economic structure and it is dangerous for the country. I said in February that Covid is dangerous for the country and I was ridiculed. I’m saying it again — the condition that we are going through is dangerous for the country. The country requires the Prime Minister to take strict, quick action. “It requires the Prime Minister to put money immediately into the hands of our people and start the economy. It requires he protects MSMEs which give us jobs. It requires a clear message to China that you cannot do this with us. You cannot be sitting in our land and expect nothing is going to happen.” Attacking Modi, Rahul said: “This country is lacking in leadership. There is no leadership in the country any more. There is just talk. There is no understanding, no strategy. The thing has come apart. Now of course what is there is a media that is controlled and hence the reality of what is going on is not coming out. Believe me, that maya (illusion) is going to break. Somebody is going to break that maya.” He further said: “So my constant request to the Prime Minister is, do your job. You have been elected to do a job. Your job is not to sell this country to one per cent of the population. Your job is to protect the farmers who are standing outside. “Go, hold their hand, give them a hug and tell them, ‘What can I do for you?’ Your job is to ensure small and medium businesses can compete with China. Talk to them, ask them because they have the answer to China. So the PM has basically given up. He is now on a different plane. He has got a beard that is… we are going somewhere else now and the country is not being run. My request to the PM is please gather courage and run the country.” Rahul wondered why the government had resorted to fortifying Delhi’s borders against farmers. “Are they afraid of farmers? Are the farmers enemies? Farmers are the strength of this country. They give sustenance. The government’s job is not to beat them up, not to threaten them. This is not good for the country’s future,” he said. “The Prime Minister says he is ready to put off the farm laws for two years. Why two years? You either get rid of the laws or you don’t. Farmers are not going away. The government has to back off. Good they do it now.” Asked about the farmers being described as terrorists and Khalistanis, he said: “Are 60 per cent of our population terrorist?” He resorted to irony: “Only RSS is not terrorist, rest all are terrorist.” Asked whether India’s image was being dented outside because of the farmers’ agitation, Rahul said: “The reputation of India has taken a massive hit because of how we treat our farmers, our journalists. India is known for its soft power. That has been shattered by the RSS-BJP — their mindset.” To a question about the Red Fort breach during the Republic Day tractor parade, he said: “It is the duty of the home minister to explain to the country what he was doing. How did these people enter the Red Fort? It is his responsibility.” Rahul criticised the budget, saying: “We hoped it will support 99 per cent people but this budget is for one per cent of the population. Money is being snatched from farmers, workers, small and medium businesses, defence forces to be given to one per cent of the population. Even privatisation will benefit the same one per cent.” Referring to the minimum income support scheme the Congress had promised before the 2019 general election, he said: “A Nyay-like scheme to give money to the hands of the people was needed. What is the message we sent to China by not enhancing the defence budget? The government should have 110 per cent commitment towards the soldiers, willing to give whatever they need. What kind of nationalism is this?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||After Rihanna's tweet, hashtags are the new loyalty test||The Centre on Wednesday took the extraordinary step of schooling “celebrities” in social media etiquette after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest as well as the Internet ban and drew global attention to the prolonged movement and the clampdown. The pushback came from the external affairs ministry that issued a lengthy political statement complete with two hashtags — “IndiaTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda”. The hashtags soon became some sort of a Tebbit test or loyalty test. Many movie actors and cricketers, some of whom had remained silent when several farmers died in the biting cold, dutifully posted tweets with the two hashtags. Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Anil Kumble, Shikhar Dhawan, Lata Mangeshkar, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn and Karan Johar were among those who tweeted with the hashtags coined by the ministry, urging people to stand united and not fall for propaganda. After enumerating the measures taken by the government to assuage the farmers, the external affairs ministry said in its statement: “Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. “The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible.” The statement was signed off with the two hashtags. Barbadian singer Rihanna, who is the fourth most followed person on Twitter with 101.1 million followers, had on Tuesday night posted a CNN report on India shutting down the Internet around the national capital in view of the protests and tweeted: “Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest.” At the time of tweeting, she had around 100.9 million followers and that number grew over the next 24 hours despite the consequent name-calling by the Indian government’s ecosystem. The Internet ban that has been in place across Haryana since the weekend was on Wednesday lifted in all but five districts. A few hours after Rihanna’s tweet, Thunberg tweeted the same CNN report with the comment: “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” She followed it up with another tweet in which she posted a document that provided a list of actions being planned globally to garner support for the movement, described as the “largest protest in human history”. This document was subsequently deleted. By Wednesday morning, several others including US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris, lawmakers, singers and former adult entertainment star Mia Khalifa had tweeted on the farmers’ protest, giving it a visibility far greater than brought to it by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s public support for the movement in its early days. The external affairs ministry’s statement raised eyebrows on multiple counts. It appeared more political than diplomatic and chose to react to individual celebrities while having kept quiet over comments by elected lawmakers in different world capitals. After telling Canada last year that Trudeau’s comments could jeopardise relations, the ministry had maintained a studied silence on other remarks on the protest, letting its missions do the fire-fighting. The statement claimed that Parliament had passed the “reformist legislation” after a “full debate and discussion”, although one of the main contentions of the farmers and the Opposition is that the agriculture bills were steamrolled through Parliament without proper consultation and vote. Also, on a day when one of the biggest mahapanchayats was organised in Jind, Haryana, in solidarity with the farmers and their demand for the repeal of the farm laws, the ministry claimed that a “very small section of farmers in parts of India have some reservations about these reforms”. Apart from Punjab and Haryana, the protests have spread to western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and farmers from as far as Kerala have joined the movement at Delhi’s borders. The statement drew attention to the talks held with the farmer unions and the offer made by the government to suspend the implementation of the laws — already stayed by the Supreme Court. It asserted that “vested interest groups” were trying to derail the talks. The statement referred to the chaos on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor rally and the desecration of Mahatma Gandhi’s statues in some parts of the world, when some of the government’s own fellow travellers celebrate his assassin Nathuram Godse. About law enforcement during the protests, the ministry said the police had shown the “utmost restraint” and claimed that hundreds of men and women serving in the force had been physically attacked and in some instances seriously wounded. Reacting to the external affairs ministry’s statement, retired diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “As a former spokesman of MEA I feel sad at its lack of accuracy. It has obviously been drafted elsewhere & issued under instructions.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which the protests are going on, in a related statement acknowledged the support of international personalities to the movement. “On the one hand it is a matter of pride that eminent personalities of the world are showing sensitivity towards the cause of farmers while on the other hand, it is unfortunate that the government of India is not understanding the pain of the farmers and some people are even calling peaceful farmers terrorists,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to call on Navreet’s family||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit on Thursday the family of Navreet Singh, who died during the protest in Delhi on January 26, in Rampur of Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka is the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh. Her visit to Navreet’s family is significant as his tragic death triggered a controversy because the police claim of his death being caused by a tractor overturning was disputed by the farmers. Delhi police have filed FIRs against several journalists and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor for mentioning the claim of gunshot. A section of foreign media reported versions of doctors disputing the police claim. Priyanka’s visit to the family is bound to revive the controversy and give it a bigger dimension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Crackdown ripples shake Haryana government ||The BJP-led Haryana government has come under renewed strain with the farmers’ protest receiving impassioned support in the aftermath of the Centre’s crackdown, insiders said. Ally Jannayak Janata Party, which sustains the Manohar Lal Khattar government, is facing increased pressure from its core farmers’ constituency over the past few days to dump the BJP, according to the sources. Both the BJP and the JJP had hoped that the protests would peter out after the chaos during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Contrary to their expectations, the protests have made an electrifying turnaround and now seem to be beyond the government’s control. “Yes, many MLAs are finding it extremely difficult to face the people. We hope the issue gets over soon,” an office-bearer of the JJP said. Many BJP MLAs too are not able to visit their constituencies due to anger among farmers. Chief minister Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala have had to cancel events after facing intense anger in their constituencies. The BJP had announced campaigns to counter the “misinformation” on the new farm laws but hasn’t been able to carry them out. Instead of any signs of ebbing, the mahapanchayats of farmer leaders have been drawing massive crowds — the latest being at Jind on Wednesday — unsettling the ruling coalition. Thousands, including a large number of women, attended the Jind mahapanchayat to be counted as angry voices who are not ready for anything less than the repeal of the “anti-farmer” laws. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, whose tearful message has turned the tide of the movement, and other leaders addressed the meeting and resolutions were passed to stress that there would be no wavering from the demand for the scrapping of the laws. Speaking at the mahapanchayat, Tikait warned the government of consequences if the farm laws were not repealed. “We have so far talked about ‘bill wapsi’ (repeal of the laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youths call for ‘gaddi wapsi’ (removal from power)?” NDTV quoted Tikait as having told the congregation. The government had perceived the farmers’ protest as a movement restricted to Punjab with marginal support in Haryana. But the agitation has only gone from strength to strength. In the aftermath of the January 26 fiasco and the government’s move to suppress the movement, the protests have spread to western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Although JJP legislators have so far managed to stick with the party, many district-level leaders have been forced by agitators to quit and join the movement. On Tuesday, the JJP’s Karnal district president, Inderjit Singh Goraya, left the party in support of the farmers and accused Chautala of not standing up for the peasants. “Dushyant Chautala should have stood by the farmers like Devi Lal (his great grandfather and former chief minister and deputy Prime Minister),” Goraya said. He urged the other MLAs of the party to quit in protest. In the recent past, many JJP and BJP office-bearers, including a former BJP MLA, have resigned to show solidarity with the farmers. The BJP has 40 MLAs in the 90-member Assembly, while the JJP has 10 and the Congress 30. While the BJP relies mainly on the non-Jat voters in Haryana, the JJP draws strength from the Jats, the dominant agrarian community. Since the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders began in November-end, Chautala has met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central ministers. He has, however, been keeping silent for the past several days with insiders claiming he is in a bind. Internally, BJP leaders claim that the Haryana government is safe. “No JJP MLA will quit. We have taken care of their needs,” a Haryana BJP leader said. Sources said many posts in various boards and corporations were lying vacant and the JJP legislators had been assured appointment as heads of these bodies after the farmers’ protest dies down. The BJP, however, has been facing pressure also from the principal Opposition, the Congress. Congress stalwart and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is said to be trying to bring down the government over the farmers’ issue. He plans to introduce a no-confidence motion against the Khattar government during the upcoming budget session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Poor budget allocation for nutrition schemes||The Centre has cut funds to a key child-nutrition scheme in its budget proposals for this financial year despite a recent national survey revealing a rise in the proportion of children with low weight and stunting. Activists and researchers on Wednesday expressed dismay at the poor budget allocations for child-nutrition schemes such as the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and school midday meals, and for pension schemes under the National Social Assistance Programme. Under the ICDS, the government runs nearly 13.79 lakh Anganwadi centres where children aged four to six are provided nutritional support apart from care and education. The government had allocated Rs 20,532 crore in the 2020-21 budget for Anganwadi services, which was later revised downwards to Rs 17,252 crore. For 2021-22, the government has earmarked only Rs 20,105 crore for the scheme while clubbing it with additional schemes. (See chart) Deepa Sinha, an activist, said: “Children have once again been neglected in the budget. Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan, which are together a bigger scheme than only the Anganwadi scheme, have received less funds than was allocated to the Anganwadi scheme alone last year.” Sinha added: ‘“Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan 2.0’ cover Anganwadi services, the Poshan Abhiyan, Scheme for Adolescent Girls and the National Creche Scheme.” The Poshan Abhiyan, also known as the National Nutrition Mission, is an overarching nutrition scheme for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. Last year, Poshan was allocated Rs 3,700 crore but the figure was revised to Rs 600 crore. The scheme for adolescent girls was allocated Rs 250 crore which was revised to Rs 50 crore, while the crèche scheme was allocated Rs 75 crore, which was revised to Rs 15 crore. Last financial year’s combined budget allocation for all these schemes and the Anganwadi programme was, therefore, Rs 24,557 crore, which is 22 per cent higher than this year’s Rs 20,105 crore. The Right to Food Campaign, an organisation campaigning for food security, expressed disappointment at the budget allocations for the nutrition schemes. Economist Jean Dreze, a visiting professor with Ranchi University, said this was the second time in the past six years that the ICDS scheme had witnessed a decline in funding. For the midday meal scheme, under which free meals are provided in school to every child between Class I and VIII, the allocation has been reduced from the revised estimate of Rs 12,900 crore for 2020-21 to Rs 11,500 crore for 2021-22. The National Social Assistance Programme, under which the Centre provides a monthly pension to 2.6 crore widows, elderly people and people with disabilities, too has witnessed a cut in allocation compared with the revised budgetary estimate for 2020-21. Dreze said: “The earnings of workers in the informal sector have gone down by half after the lockdown. All kinds of services are affected. The need was to put money in people’s hands to stimulate the economy. But no such announcement was made.” According to Phase I of the National Family Health Survey-5, several states have witnessed a worsening of child malnutrition indicators, such as low weight and stunting, between 2015-16 and 2019-20. In 7 of the 10 states for which data has been released, the proportion of underweight children had increased in this period. Stunting had increased in six states. Activists have demanded universal subsidised food under the public distribution system and the immediate revival of hot cooked meals under the ICDS and midday meal programmes. Since the lockdown, food grains and money are being provided to the children’s guardians instead of cooked meals, reviving which will require schools and Anganwadi centres to reopen at least for the meals. Activists have demanded that the budgets for these nutrition programmes provide for eggs in the meals. They have said that hot cooked meals should be provided to children under three years through crèches and to pregnant and lactating women through community kitchens. They have asked the Centre to increase its contribution towards the social security pensions to at least Rs 2,000 a month. The Centre’s monthly contribution towards these pensions now ranges between Rs 200 and Rs 500. Some of the states top this up with their own money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Blocked, citizens ask: Are we terrorists?||Police outnumbered those who turned up for a “Citizens’ March in Support of the Farmers’ Movement” on Wednesday, prompting a participant to exclaim: “Are we terrorists?” A myriad of uniforms — Delhi police, the Tripura India Reserve Battalion, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal —cordoned off all approaches to the Mandi House traffic island from Lutyens’ Delhi and prevented the march from taking place. College students usually form the critical mass of such protests, but with almost all classes online, few turned up for the march. However, several older people — common folk, housewives and even government employees — came to the march and expressed shock at the fortress the capital had turned into since Republic Day. A government employee who took half a day off to attend the march with her son wandered into a posse of armed policemen and loudly exclaimed: “Are we terrorists?” She later told The Telegraph: “I felt bad for the farmers because the laws were made in haste without hearing from them. I felt worse seeing them out for months in the cold, and all the nonsense being shown about them on TV. I overcame my apprehensions to come here after seeing these nails being fixed on the roads and the trenches being dug by the police. It is important for all of us to come for things like this as the government is becoming more autocratic.” Several flags of the Congress’s National Students Union of India and the CPM-backed Students Federation of India dotted the protest. The march was called by several mass organisations of the Left parties, Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, as well as civil society groups. Four tall Sikh men came to watch the gathering from afar, but soon left. “We came to see whether this is a genuine protest, but we see there are flags of political student groups. At the protest sites farmers only fly their farmers’ unions flags,” one of them told reporters as they left. One Sikh couple stayed. Satinder Singh and Ravinder Kaur from west Delhi’s Janakpuri survived the 1984 riots in the capital thanks to their non-Sikh neighbours, they said, who patrolled the street below their home and prevented any rioters from getting close. “I do feel uncomfortable, scared when I hear farmers being called Khalistani, or anti-CAA protestors being called Muslims. They have not found a term for (farm leader Rakesh) Tikait yet. But like there were good people then (’84), there are good people now. Besides, the Internet keeps us all connected and dispels rumours. That’s why the police have cut off the Internet at the borders (of the city) to make it tough for the truth to be told,” Singh said. He read about the march on Twitter. “I help in whatever way I can. I contributed money to the organisers at the protest sites. I try to come and stand wherever there is a protest in favour of farmers, because I believe these laws are unjust and should be repealed. Yes, I saw the flags of the student groups and felt it would be better to fly flags of farmers’ groups, but people will fly whatever flags they have,” he told this paper. Kaur said: “The Nishan Sahib which was hoisted at the Red Fort (on Republic Day by protesters who deviated from the planned route of the tractor rally) is seen by us as a symbol of humanity. No one objects when a langar is served under the Nishan Sahib. Like Bhagat Singh’s bomb (in the colonial Central Legislative Assembly) that killed none but was thrown to make the deaf hear, this flag was also hoisted under the Tricolour to wake up the government. I feel sad that farmers are called anti-India because some people hoisted the Nishan Sahib.” The police distributed copies of a letter to protesters, saying that any gatherings are only permitted at Jantar Mantar —the intended destination of the march, and made announcements on a megaphone to disperse as prohibitory orders are in force for the pandemic. Over the last few months, several motorcycle rallies have been held in the capital to collect funds for building the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Sanjeev Kumar, who takes tuitions in northwest Delhi’s Rohini, was pleased to make his protest debut with two family members. “For some time now, the norms of democracy are being changed. All rights are under attack, there are fewer jobs than before, and even protests are not allowed. A pre-planned narrative has been created to defame anyone who protests, and we are also scared but decided to come here despite our fears.” Mishika Singh, a human rights lawyer, told this paper that the average age of the protester seemed definitely higher to those accustomed to earlier marches in the area. “The police have found it easier to oppress students, they can’t use their usual kind of force today. It is high time the government seriously hears what is being said, rather than use the police as a shield. The stakes are much higher today for all citizens.” A day after farmer leaders met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to push for the release of those arrested during the farmers’ protest, the AAP leader issued a list of 115 people held in Tihar Prisons with details of which jail they are in. He said: “It is possible that many of those missing had been arrested in connection with the chaos at the Red Fort, due to which they are not able to connect to their families. We have created a list of the people who are in jails in connection with (the) January 26 (incidents)…. If we continue to receive reports even after issuing this list, as the chief minister of the state, I have assured the farmers’ unions that I will try my best to trace the missing persons and connect them with their families. If required, I will also talk to Hon’ble LG and the Centre in this regard.” Kejriwal’s step is seen as cautious as there was speculation that he would order a magisterial probe like he did after the police crackdown on JNU in 2016. Delhi police have also issued a list with the names of 122 people who were arrested during the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
04-02-2021||India||Supply cut, over 3,000 farmers trek 100km with water||Over 3,000 farmers from 36 villages in Bulandshahr district began a march on foot towards the Ghazipur border on Wednesday afternoon, many of them carrying water in steel urns on their heads. The farmers said they were taking drinking water to the dharna site on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border because the Yogi Adityanath government had suspended water supply to the area to pressure the protesters into leaving. For the past one week, the protesting farmers at Ghazipur have been fetching water in cans from the neighbourhood on their tractors. The Bulandshahr farmers said they expected to cover the distance of 100km in about 15 hours and reach the Ghazipur border on Thursday morning, if their journey was not disrupted by police. Mangeram Tyagi, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) for the National Capital Region, led the march. “This is a disciplined padyatra. The farmers are walking in a single file on the left side of the highway,” Tyagi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Kerala court grants bail to Sivasankar||A Kerala court on Wednesday granted bail to former secretary in the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, in a dollar smuggling case. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) in Ernakulam granted bail on the condition that he would not try to influence witnesses or the investigation. He was also ordered to execute two bonds of Rs 1 lakh each with two solvent sureties. Sivasankar was later released from the Ernakulam district prison and taken to his native Thiruvananthapuram, ending the 98-day incarceration. The same court had on January 25 granted him bail in a case registered by the customs department in which he was among the accused. On the same day Kerala High Court had granted him bail in a money-laundering case linked to the gold smuggling. The 57-year-old IAS officer was arrested in October 2020 after his name emerged during the interrogation of prime accused Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and Ramees who were among the first to be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Covid: Post-jab death data call||A group of doctors and health researchers has asked the Union health ministry to disclose details of the investigations into all the deaths following immunisation with Covid-19 vaccines, amid concerns about lack of information about the probes conducted. The medics have said the deaths — at least 15 until Wednesday — meet the World Health Organisation’s definition of a “cluster” of serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) — “when two or more AEFIs related in time, place or by vaccine occur”. India had up to 8am on Wednesday vaccinated over 4.1 million beneficiaries, primarily healthcare workers. “Transparency will help bolster confidence in the vaccination campaign,” said Amar Jesani, a senior physician and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics in Mumbai, one of the 12 doctors and public health researchers who have sent the appeal to the health ministry. The group has asked the ministry to place in the public domain information on all deaths, severe and serious AEFIs and their investigations during the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. “This information should include the numbers, date of vaccination, details of the AEFI, place, investigation status and results,” the group said in a letter sent to health minister Harsh Vardhan and other health officials. The health ministry, relying on preliminary site-specific investigations, has said none of the deaths so far have been causally linked to the Covid-19 vaccination and a national AEFI committee is “reexamining” the circumstances and details of each. “The national AEFI committee is reexamining all the deaths following immunisation and the assessments will be placed in the public domain — this will be done,” Narendra Arora, a senior medical advisor to the national panel, told The Telegraph. Jesani and his co-signatories have also pointed out that several of the deaths have taken place between hours and five days of people aged between 42 and 56 taking the vaccines and have been ascribed to cardiovascular problems. “There is a clustering of deaths by cause and vaccine — so we are seeking systematic cluster investigation to explain the cardiovascular deaths,” Jesani told this newspaper. “The deaths raise the question — do people who might have underlying cardiovascular risk factors need to be followed up closely for a longer period of time than the 30 minutes of mandatory observation post vaccination? They need to carry out a systematic investigations of all the deaths to answer this.” A 52-year old health worker, Mannu Pahan Munda, who was administered a Covid-19 vaccine in Ranchi on February 1 died on Tuesday night. The Jharkhand health minister’s office said on Wednesday that a post-mortem report was awaited but Pahan had a history of hypertension and diabetes. Nine others who received the vaccine from the same vial are all doing fine, the office said in a statement. Jharkhand had immunised over 55,000 people till Tuesday without any reports of serious AEFIs. Pahan had not complained of any discomfort or adverse event during the half-hour mandatory observation, M.M. Pandey, medical superintendent at Medanta, said. But he suddenly fell in the toilet at his home on Tuesday night and was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Pahan had experienced some breathlessness about a fortnight ago but had recovered. Arora and health officials have asserted that there is a critical difference between coincidental events and causal associations. “As the vaccination campaign progresses, it is important for people to understand that coincidental deaths after vaccinations are not causal events — not caused by the vaccines,” Arora said. Health officials have underlined that natural deaths occur every day across the country and the rigorous AEFI tracking mechanism that has been set up alongside the Covid-19 vaccination campaign is designed to record all deaths among vaccine recipients. “The death curve is typically U-shaped,” Arora said. “The death rates in India are relatively high in infants below one year of age, then the rates decline and are lowest between 15 and 45, then they increase again, and very sharply among people in their 60s and 70s.” The campaign’s current round will immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. In the subsequent round, the vaccines will be offered to around 270 million people aged 50 years or older and those below 50 with chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Rs 1 lakh for Deep Sidhu information: Delhi police||Delhi police on Wednesday announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for anyone who provided information on Deep Sidhu, accused of hoisting the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. The police also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for any information that could lead to the arrest of his associates  Jagbir Singh, Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Iqbal Singh  for their alleged involvement in the violence. The police have failed to track down the “missing” Sidhu, a Punjabi actor turned activist, and his associates. Sidhu is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort. Farmers leaders have alleged sabotage and accused Sidhu of being a “government agent” responsible for the unprecedented violence and trying to defame their protest against the new farm laws. The police has so far filed 44 cases and arrested 122 people. Several farmer union leaders have also been named in the cases. “Our three teams are in Punjab to locate Sidhu and his associates, but they have not been able to track down them,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||PM’s brother stages 'dharna' at Lucknow airport||A younger brother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi staged a “dharna” at Lucknow airport for two hours on Wednesday, alleging police had detained people who had come to receive him. Prahlad Damodardas Modi, 66, who owns a shop in Ahmedabad, had arrived from Delhi at 2pm and was to travel to Sultanpur where the Yoga Social Society, which teaches yoga, planned to felicitate him. However, a Lucknow officer said, the police had detained a group of 10 people from the organisation who had come in three SUVs from Sultanpur and were headed to Amausi Airport to welcome Prahlad Modi. “The Sultanpur administration had told us a case had been registered against these 10 people on Tuesday for using pictures of the Prime Minister, home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the banners of their private programme,” the officer said. He added that the “credentials” of the detainees were “doubtful”. The Yoga society’s version could not be obtained. Officially, the police denied any detentions. “We did not detain anybody,” additional deputy commissioner Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said. Prahlad Modi sat in a chair at the exit gate of the terminal and told security personnel  he was on a dharna. He threatened to start a hunger strike if those detained were not released immediately. Media reports quoted him as saying: “About 100 of my followers were on their way to the airport to receive me…. Police officers told me there were instructions from the PM’s office to detain them. I asked the officers to show me the order, which they failed to bring to me.” The Lucknow officer said: “We released them (detainees) and arranged a conversation on a mobile phone between them and Prahlad Modi. He then agreed to leave for Sultanpur in a car that was waiting for him at the airport.” After the Sultanpur event, Prahlad Modi is scheduled to be felicitated also at Jaunpur and Pratapgarh by the organisation, which appears to have branches in several states and cities including Ahmedabad, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Coins worth Rs 14 lakh ‘missing’ from Odisha bank||Coins worth over Rs 14 lakh have allegedly gone missing from the treasury of a nationalised bank in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district. Coins in the denominations from Re 1 to Rs 5 have allegedly disappeared over four years since 2016 from the treasury of Union Bank of India’s Paradeepgarh branch in Jagatsinghpur district, around 100km from here. The new branch manager, Santosh Kumar, who joined on January 25, was the first to raise an alarm about the disappearance and informed his superiors. Police sources said Kumar came to know about the missing coins during an internal audit. It was discovered that coins (around 3 lakh) worth Rs 14,86,780 lakh were missing but branch officials had never raised an alarm. None of the bank officials were able to give a clear picture about the missing coins despite repeated queries from Kumar. After Kumar lodged an FIR, a case has been registered against four former bank employees, including two former managers of the branch. The case has been registered under IPC Sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, banker, merchant or agent) and 34 ( acts done by several in furtherance of common intention). Inspector Pravash Chandra Sahu said: “A probe into the incident has already begun and we will crack the case soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Odisha budget session from February 18||The budget session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly will commence from February 18 and will continue till April 9. Unlike the last session which was held when the Covid-19 pandemic had forced the suspension of the Question Hour, the budget session will give legislators the opportunity to ask questions and seek replies from the government. While the budget will be tabled in the House on February 22, the Appropriation Bill will be presented on March 31. The session will have 31 working days. Like the Union budget, the state budget will also be “green” and presented in the digital mode for the first time. Members will send their questions online using the National E-Vidhan mobile application. Work is in the full swing for the upgradation of the E-Vidhan Sabha at a cost of Rs 8.56 crore. The Centre will bear 60 per cent of the cost. “All the officers and staff working in the Odisha Assembly have already been trained by the Odisha Computer Application Centre in a bid to make the Vidhan Sabha paperless,” said a senior official. Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro said although there is marked improvement in the pandemic situation, there will be restrictions for the legislators on the Assembly premises with some relaxation in Covid-19 guidelines. “As decided, Covid-19 test will not be mandatory for MLAs prior to their entry into the Assembly premises. However, if any member has any symptoms, he or she will have to undergo the antigen test,” Patro said. The Speaker said if any MLA or minister is not willing to physically attend the session, they can participate in the discussion through videoconferencing from their office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
04-02-2021||India||Bihar job threat to curb protests ||The Bihar government has issued a diktat that people involved in criminal activities while staging protests or road blockades will not be eligible for government jobs or contracts. The Opposition slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar for trying to strip the people, especially youths, of their right to protest in a democracy by threatening to harm their career opportunities. “If any person indulges in any criminal activity while participating in any law and order situation, protest, road jam and other such things, and is charge-sheeted by the police for this, it should be specifically and clearly mentioned in his character verification report,” a circular issued by Bihar director-general of police S.K. Singhal said. “Such people should be ready to face serious consequences because they will not be able to get government jobs or contracts,” the circular added. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav termed the circular a “diktat of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un”. The directive comes at a time when the government is facing demonstrations and protest marches by students, unemployed youths, job exam candidates, teachers, farmers and other sections of the society. Youths who have qualified in various recruitment exams many months ago are demonstrating for not receiving appointment letters. Normally, character verification is done prior to the appointment of a person in any government job and his criminal records are cross-checked, but the latest directive seems intended to dissuade youths from participating in protests by trying to instill in them the fear of loss of employment opportunities. “We have specifically stated that if a youth creates a situation for himself without any reason, like sitting in a demonstration or participating in any agitation, and subsequently a case is registered and he is charge-sheeted, then the consequences will be grave for him,” Singhal told The Telegraph. Singhal said the intention was not to dissuade youths from participating in demonstrations but “to provide law-related information to them. It is their wish to participate in the protests or not. We are not telling them anything about it. We are just saying that the character verification will now be done in a more elaborate manner than earlier.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
