05-02-2021||India||Third phase of Covid-19 vaccination covering people aged above 50 likely to begin in March: Govt||The third phase of vaccination against the coronavirus is likely to commence in March and will cover 27 crore people aged 50 years and above and those with co-morbidities, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in Lok Sabha on Friday. Replying to questions on vaccines and the vaccination drive against the coronavirus during the Question Hour, Vardhan said nearly five million people have been inoculated in the country so far. He added that the vaccination drive for frontline workers has begun this week. "In coming days, 27 crore people who are of above 50 years of age and those under 50 with co-morbidities will be vaccinated," Vardhan said. The vaccination drive began on January 16, starting with healthcare workers and then the frontline workers, both estimated to be around three crore. "After the completion of first and second phases, the third phase could be launched from any week next month," Vardhan said. He added that the third phase will cover people above the age of 50. "It is not possible to give an exact date, but we estimate that this process can start in the second, third or the fourth week of March," he said. Vardhan said the finance minister has allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in the budget and she has assured that it could be increased if required. He said two vaccines -- Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- have been approved for emergency use authorisation. Besides these, work is in progress on seven vaccines. Of the seven, three vaccines are in phase 3 clinical trial stage. Two vaccines are in phase 1 and 2 clinical trial stages and the remaining two are in advanced pre-clinical stage. He said India has received requests for vaccines from 22 countries. These countries include Afghanistan, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Egypt, Kuwait, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, South Africa and the UAE. There is also request from the Pacific Island countries, he said. Vaccines have already been given to 15 countries through grant assistance and contracted doses. He said 56 lakh doses have been sent through grants and five lakh doses through contract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||No chakka jam in Delhi, national capital to remain open, say farmers||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday there would be no 'chakka jam' in Delhi on February 6 even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours in a peaceful way. In a statement, the SKM said emergency and essential services such as ambulance and school bus will not be stopped during the 'chakka jam' that is proposed to be held between 12 pm and 3 pm on Saturday. "There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in a chakka jam mode. All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers' protest sites are already located," the statement stated. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three central farm laws. Darshan Pal, a senior member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said that 'chakka jam' will remain completely peaceful and non-violent, adding that protesters have been asked to not to indulge in any conflict with government officials or any citizen. The SKM had earlier this week announced this nationwide chakka jam on Saturday, saying that farmers would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. According to the SKM, the chakka jam will conclude at 3 pm by blowing vehicle horn for one minute, a move that is aimed at expressing support and solidarity with the farmers. Meanwhile, security at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders has been tightened by deploying extra forces and putting up multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and nails studded on the roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||No aid for kin of farmers who died during protests, Tomar tells House||The Delhi Police has informed about death of two persons and one suicide case during the farmers' protest against the three farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday. To a query in Rajya Sabha whether the government would provide financial assistance from the Kisan Kalyan Fund to the families of the deceased farmers, he answered in the negative. "There is no specific information available about the death of farmers agitating in different states of the country. However, Delhi Police has informed about death of two persons and one suicide during the farmers' protest," Tomar said in a written reply to the House. To a separate query whether the government has any data on total number of farmers' deaths and cases of suicide at the farmers' protest against the three farm laws from November 2020-January 2021, Tomar said his ministry has "no record". "The Ministry of Home Affairs has reported that there is no specific information to provide on the issues raised in the question. However, it has been further informed by Delhi Police that two persons died and one committed suicide, during the farmers' protest," he reiterated. The minister also informed that "no expired tear gas shells were used by Delhi Police on the farmers who were marching towards Delhi to protest against the three farm laws." Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping at Delhi borders for over two months now seeking repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price of crops. The 11 rounds of talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions have so far remained inconclusive even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months which the unions have rejected. The government has said it has kept its doors open for discussion with farmers to resolve their concerns, but the protesting unions have made it clear that further talks can take place if police stops harassment of farm leaders and revokes suspension of internet at protest sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||High-speed internet back in Jammu and Kashmir ||High-speed mobile internet services are being restored in the entire Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, exactly 18 months after it was suspended in August 2019 when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state. Rohit Kansal, the spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, tweeted Friday evening, "4G mobile internet services are being restored in the entire Jammu and Kashmir." The services, according to sources, are likely to resume from Friday midnight. High-speed mobile internet services had been restored in two districts -- Ganderbal in Kashmir region and Udhampur in Jammu region -- in August last year. Internet services, mainly 4G connectivity, had been withdrawn in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, with the government pleading that it would otherwise aid terrorists to intensify their activities in the two Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. In early 2020, 2G internet services were restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||Delhi Police tighten security at borders ahead of farmers’ ‘Chakka Jam’||Security at Delhi’s border points near the three protest sites have been tightened by deploying extra forces and putting up multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and nails studded on the roads ahead of the proposed 'chakka jam' by farmers protesting the Centre's three agri laws, police said on Friday. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava also held a meeting with the senior officers of the force and reviewed the security arrangements. The police will also be monitoring content on the social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said. Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating about the security arrangements for the proposed 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able enter the national capital. "We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protestors are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are being deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police. "We have a very high security arrangement at Singhu at present but for Saturday, we are strengthening it at the border. "We are deploying forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence will be in place at all important points and junctions across the district. "There will be additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles will be checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades are being put up at the picket points across the city."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||UPSC aspirants who exhausted last chance in 2020 can appear again, says Centre||The Centre Friday told the Supreme Court that it is agreeable to give an extra chance as a one-time relaxation to UPSC civil service aspirants, who had appeared in their last attempt in the 2020 exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic and are otherwise not age-barred. Relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), specifically limited to CSE-2021, may be granted to only those candidates who appeared for CSE-2020 as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021, the Centre told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar. In a note filed in the apex court, the Centre said that no relaxation shall be granted for CSE-2021 to those candidates who have not exhausted their permissible number of attempts or to those who are otherwise age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021 as per the prescribed age limits of different categories, or to any other candidate for any other reason whatsoever. This relaxation for the candidates and to the extent as prescribed above, shall be a one-time relaxation only and shall apply only for appearing in CSE-2021 and shall not be treated as a precedent, it told the bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari. The Centre said that the relaxation shall not create any vested right whatsoever or any other purported right on ground of parity or otherwise, in favour of any other set/class of candidates at any time in the future. The bench asked the Centre to circulate the note and asked the petitioners to file their responses to it. The top court said it would hear the matter on February 8. On February 1, the Centre had told the top court that it cannot grant an extra chance to civil services aspirants who could not appear or prepare well for their last attempt in the UPSC exam in 2020 due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||Offer to amend farm laws does not reflect shortcomings in legislation: Tomar in Rajya Sabha||Putting up a strong defence of the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government's offer to amend them to assuage farmers' sentiments did not mean they had any flaws and that none from the protesting unions or their sympathisers have been able to point out any lacuna. Countering the opposition claim that farmers across the country are agitated over the three new laws, he said that those in just one state are being misinformed and instigated. His comments in Rajya Sabha referred to protests at the border points of the national capital being led by farmers from Punjab. The government, he said, is committed to the welfare of farmers and to the continuation of the mandi system of procurement of crops on minimum support price (MSP) based mechanism. The laws give farmers alternatives to sell their produce outside 'mandis', and unlike the state government notified market places, such sale would not attract any tax. "The agitation should have been against the tax levied (by state government) on sale made in mandis but strangely the protests are against freeing of the system from such taxes," he said, intervening during the discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget Session. Tomar said farmer unions and the opposition have not been able to point out any lacuna in the three laws. "Government's offer to make amendments in the laws does not mean there are any shortcomings in them," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||SC grants interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui ||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui in a case lodged at Indore in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman also issued a notice to the Madhya Pradesh Government on Munawar's plea challenging the high court order refusing to grant regular bail to him. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, also stayed the production warrant issued against the comedian in a separate case lodged in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that alleged objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed by him during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day. One more person was arrested subsequently. The high court, in its order passed on January 28, had refused to grant him bail noting that to "promote harmony" is one of the constitutional duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
05-02-2021||India||Pfizer withdraws Emergency Use Authorisation application for its vaccine in India||Pharma major Pfizer on Friday said it has decided to withdraw its application for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) of its Covid-19 vaccine in India. Pfizer was the first pharmaceutical firm to seek an emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country after it secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. "In pursuance of the Emergency Use Authorisation of its COVID-19 vaccine, Pfizer participated in the Subject Expert Committee meeting of the Drug Regulatory Authority of India on February 3. Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time," a company spokesperson said in a statement. Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future, the statement said. "Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment," the spokesperson said. Pfizer in its application submitted to the drug regulator in December 2020, had sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in India, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.8 crore mark with 12,408 fresh cases||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 1.08 crore with 12,408 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,96,308, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total cases mounted to 1,08,02,591, while the death toll increased to 1,54,823 with 120 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,96,308 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.16 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,51,460 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.40 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,99,31,795 samples have been tested up to February 4 with 7,15,776 samples being tested on Thursday. The 120 new fatalities include 46 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 7 each Delhi and Punjab. A total of 1,54,823 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,215 from Maharashtra followed by 12,375 from Tamil Nadu, 12,227 from Karnataka, 10,871 from Delhi, 10,199 from West Bengal, 8,680 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Delhi police registers FIR with sedition charge against unnamed persons||Delhi police on Thursday registered a first information report carrying the sedition charge against unnamed persons, alleging an international conspiracy to defame the country and one that “aims at waging social, cultural and economic war against India” by instigating the farmers’ protest. Sources said the FIR was filed against the creators of a “toolkit” that was shared by the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who has tweeted in support of the farmers’ agitation. The 18-year-old activist had shared on Twitter the toolkit, which takes users to a document containing details on ways to support the farmers’ protest. Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of Delhi police, said an FIR had been registered under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). “We have not named anybody in the FIR. It’s only against the creators of the toolkit, which is a matter of investigation,” Praveer Ranjan said in the evening, asked whether Thunberg had been named. Earlier in the day, some senior officers had told reporters that the FIR would name Thunberg as an accused, triggering outrage on social media. An unfazed Thunberg tweeted at 4.29pm on Thursday that she “still” stood with the farmers and “no amount of threats” would change that. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violation of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” she said. On Thursday morning, the climate activist had shared an updated toolkit advising people on how to show support for the protests. A Delhi police officer said this “exposes the conspiracy by an organised overseas network” to instigate the farmers’ protest. Thunberg tweeted: “Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated).” Thunberg had deleted a toolkit she had posted on Wednesday night. The suggestions in the updated kit include tweeting support for the farmers with the hashtag StandWithFarmers, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office and organising protests near the closest Indian embassy on February 13 and 14. “A preliminary inquiry has revealed that the toolkit in question appears to have been created by the pro-Khalistan organisation Poetic Justice Foundation,” special commissioner Ranjan said. Activists’ toolkits are routinely used for coordinated global solidarity protests. The police said the toolkit document predated Republic Day, and indicated the copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the day’s violence. “The design of the author of the toolkit is to create disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups and encourage disaffection against the Government of India,” a Delhi police statement said. “Delhi police are monitoring social media in connection with the farmers’ agitation. In the process, police have identified more than 300 social media handles which have been used for pushing hateful and malicious content,” Ranjan said. “In the context of the Kisan agitation, while the farmers may not even be aware as to what forces are guiding their actions and settling their agenda, there were clear indicators that hostile deep state actors were either behind it or would join in to exploit sentiments.” Some activists expressed the fear that the toolkit could be used as a pretext to claim an international conspiracy and arrest farmers and their supporters at random.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Arrested journalist Mandeep Punia says farmers he shared jail with are bigger victims||Mandeep Punia says he was beaten and forced by police to sit under a fan without woollens on a winter night, but the journalist’s takeaway from his spell in custody was that the farmers he shared the jail with were bigger victims than him. A day after being freed on bail from Tihar jail, Punia told The Telegraph on Thursday he wanted to write about the farmers — from notes he had scribbled in jail on his legs, which were injured from the alleged police beating. He also expressed the hope that people would be as vocal for imprisoned journalists like Siddique Kappan as they were for his release. Kappan, a reporter for Malayalam news portal Azhimukam, faces terrorism charges in Uttar Pradesh after being arrested in October while travelling to cover the aftermath of the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen. Punia, a 26-year-old freelancer, told this newspaper he intended to complete his investigation into the alleged involvement of BJP activists in an attack on the protesting farmers at Singhu on January 29 — the investigation that apparently got him arrested. Recounting his arrest, he said: “I was at the Singhu border (on January 30) around 6pm-7pm to attend a press conference of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee when I saw police abuse some workers who were passing by and send them back (from the barricades that flank the protest site). I took out my video camera. “Another journalist, Dharmendra (Singh, from YouTube channel Online News India) was also filming. They suddenly grabbed him. When I said, ‘What you are doing is wrong’, they turned towards me and said, ‘Yeh raha (This is) Mandeep Punia!’ Then they began to cane me.” Dharmendra was released later that night. Punia says the cops — Delhi police and the CRPF — recognised him as he had interviewed many of them that day and the previous day and had uploaded a video on Facebook describing the events of January 29. Forty-four agitating farmers had been arrested on the charge of injuring six policemen during the January 29 clash, which took place between the farmers and people the police describe as “local villagers” but who Punia and many others suspect were BJP workers. Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party has identified three of these “local villagers” as BJP activists from other parts of the capital. “They (policemen) took me to a tent and hit me on my leg. They broke my mirror-less Canon camera on which I was recording (scenes and conversations),” Punia said. Punia added: “They deleted videos from my phone and continuously hit me. They said, ‘Zyada reporter ban raha hai; hum banate hain tere ko reporter (Trying to be too much of a reporter? We’ll make you one)’. “They also broke my phone and threw away my wallet with my old ID cards (from previous employers), which were proof that I am a journalist.… They took me in a white Scorpio into Delhi after 8pm and beat me up in transit, stopping in three different buildings.” Punia’s bail order, issued on February 2, quotes the prosecution as saying that he “had pushed Ct. (police constable) Rajkumar towards the protesting place, therefore, the police called the minimal force to control the situation. Thereafter, the protesters went away backside and the accused/ applicant fell in the drain, upon which he was overpowered and arrested.” The police say this took place at 6.30pm on January 30 when a group of protesters tried to break the barricades. The FIR against Punia was filed at 1.21am the next day. Punia says he was at the site to complete his investigative report for The Caravan, a magazine facing police investigation in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for reporting on the mysterious death of protester Navreet Singh during the January 26 tractor rally. “They (police) took me to an old building, removed my jacket and made me sit under a fan at midnight. They again hit me and threatened to frame serious charges against me,” Punia said. “During that time, a policeman came in and said, ‘His video has gone viral’. After that they left me for half an hour and then took me to Ambedkar Hospital (in northwest Delhi) for a medical check-up (mandatory after an arrest) at 2am.” Delhi recorded temperatures between 5 and 8 degrees Celsius at the time. Punia was held at Samaypur Badli police station after that. He was sent to a fortnight’s judicial custody on January 31 afternoon in the absence of his lawyers, who he says were misled by the police about the time he was to be produced before a magistrate. Till Thursday night, the police had not responded to an email and WhatsApp messages to senior officers from The Telegraph seeking their comments on Punia’s account. Punia says the chill of the previous night melted away in the warmth of the jail, where he was treated well. “The prisoners knew my name; they cheered me on. The realisation dawned on me that there are other journalists like Siddique Kappan who are incarcerated like I was for reporting from the ground,” he said. “Initially I felt like a victim, but when I spoke to the farmers I realised they were greater victims than I was, and their plight should be reported. That’s why I made notes of my conversations with them.” Although writing material was available in jail, Punia chose to write notes of his conversations with the inmates on his legs — his way of coming to terms with the trauma he had been through. “I felt I should write my notes on the place where I was injured, and that’s why I wrote them on my legs…. There were two farmers from Punjab in my cell. In total, I spoke to seven or eight farmers, all of whom said they had been arrested while they were out on personal errands in the markets near the protest sites, such as in Narela,” Punia said. “They had all been thrashed during arrest, and they don’t know what they are charged with. I could step out of my ward to get water, etc, which is when I spoke to them. The ones I spoke to were from Punjab and Haryana, and there was one shopkeeper from Delhi who got bail yesterday. “They were worried and confused why this was happening to them, but they say that even if they remained in jail or were sent to kalapani they would go on protesting until the three farm laws were repealed.” “Kalapani” used to denote long sentences in the dreaded Cellular Jail in the Andamans during the freedom struggle, and continues to be used figuratively to refer to lengthy prison terms. On Thursday night, Punia was to reach his village in Haryana’s Jhajjar district. The Internet shutdown there to curb the agitation has been extended till Friday evening. “Villages that I have reported from have had panchayats (congregations) where they have declared their support for me. They say that I’m their boy, and that the farmers stand with me because I have written for them,” Punia said. “Farmer leaders have condemned my arrest. My friends in my village have told them to also speak up for other journalists who are in jail, and resume the work stalled by the State.” According to the Free Speech Collective, 67 journalists in India were arrested, detained or questioned by the police for their work last year. Since 2010, a total of 154 journalists in India have faced such police action, 103 of them in NDA-ruled states. Delhi police report to the Centre. On Wednesday, the Delhi government recalled its buses leased to the police after several of them were damaged when they were turned into barricades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Opposition MPs can’t cross Ghazipur border||Fifteen Opposition MPs from 10 political parties were stopped from meeting the protesting farmers by police at the heavily barricaded Ghazipur agitation site on Thursday, getting a first-hand experience of the difficulties people including journalists are facing in accessing the area. An initiative of Shiromani Akali Dal MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the visit was aimed at taking stock of the conditions at the protest sites. However, the team — which went in a bus — was stopped at the first barricade itself and the police refused to allow them any further. The team included the NCP’s Supriya Sule, DMK’s Kanimozhi and T. Siva, Trinamul Congress’s Saugata Roy and the RSP’s N.K. Premachandran. Talking to reporters at Ghazipur, Harsimrat said even India’s border with Pakistan did not have such barricading. “God forbid, if there is an emergency like a fire or a health issue, how will fire tenders or ambulances reach here? There is no water, no electricity,” she said. Siva told The Telegraph that the team could see several layers of barricades and it was clear the roads had been blocked several kilometres from where the farmers were sitting, apparently to inconvenience the public and turn them against the movement. He and some other MPs had tried arguing with the police but to no avail. Later, Harsimrat tweeted: “Saw first hand the conditions created at #ghazipurborder. Shocked to see the treatment being meted out to the annadaata (food-giver). Farmers are barricaded behind fortress-like concrete barriers & barbed wire fencing....” Some MPs have managed to make it to the Ghazipur protest site in the past week, but in ones and twos. As government-friendly television channels used the leaders’ visit on Thursday to project the farmers’ agitation as a “political” act, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — the banner under which the movement is being conducted country-wide — maintained that their protest has been apolitical from the beginning and will remain so. “Leaders of political parties are not allowed to speak from any stage of the SKM. The support of political parties and leaders to this movement is welcome, but in no case the SKM’s stage will be allowed for political leaders,” the Morcha said in a statement in which it also demanded the immediate reinstatement of Internet services that have been disrupted by the government. With Internet down and journalists not allowed to access the Singhu border, the SKM is now communicating with the world through statements. Earlier, it would conduct media conferences almost daily. While demanding the restoration of Internet services, the SKM also picked up cudgels for the locals inconvenienced by the ban. “Along with the agitating farmers, mediapersons and local people are facing a lot of troubles due to the Internet ban. Especially students are facing a big problem as their exams are coming soon. On one side the government propagates plans like Digital India, but on the other the people of the country are being deprived of Internet,” the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Ink attack on rationalist K.S. Bhagawan at Bangalore court ||Writer and rationalist K.S. Bhagawan had ink thrown in his face at a Bangalore court complex on Thursday after he had obtained bail in a case in which he is accused of hurting Hindu sentiments. A lawyer named Meera Raghavendra tweeted a video that purportedly shows Bhagawan walking out of the city civil court premises with a blackened face, and claimed she was the person behind the act. Bhagawan, attacked in front of his police guard and his lawyer, has been a staunch critic of the Sangh parivar and its ideology and has been living under armed police security since the assassination of fellow rationalist M.M. Kalburgi in 2015. It was Meera who had filed a case in December alleging Bhagawan had insulted the Hindu religion and its gods at a news conference in Mysore, prompting the rationalist to appear in court and secure bail on Thursday. In the video, Meera is purportedly heard shouting: “I’m ready for everything…. I’m ready to go to jail.” She then appears to tell a dazed Bhagawan: “You are a professor and so old but still speak ill of Hinduism and our gods. Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?” Police have booked Meera on a complaint from Bhagawan. Calls to Bhagawan’s phone number went unanswered. The attack on Bhagawan, a retired professor of English, prompted a two-hour protest sit-in in Mysore by about 300 people, including progressive and Dalit activists and writers. “This is a brazen assault on free speech. We demand action against the lawyer who did this,” Dalit writer Mahesh Chandra Guru said. Meera defended herself, telling a Kannada TV channel: “I felt insulted with his writings and speeches. Will he say the same thing against other religions?” She found instant support from Pramod Muthalik, chief of the Sree Rama Sene, accused of targeting women customers at pubs in Mangalore a decade ago. “I laud Meera Raghavendra. She has sent a strong message. People will react like this in future if anyone says anything about the Hindu religion, Ram or Krishna,” Muthalik told a TV channel. “More than a lawyer, she is a citizen of this country and has expressed her anger. He (Bhagawan) may not have any faith in Ram and Krishna, but we worship them.” The Karnataka government had in January rejected Bhagawan’s controversial 2018 book, Rama Mandira Yeke Beda (Why the Ram Temple is Not Needed), as a possible addition to state libraries. While Bhagawan maintains he has only cited material from Valmiki’s Ramayan in questioning Ram’s greatness, the Sangh parivar found the book offensive. “I have only quoted from Valmiki who described Ram as a mere mortal and not a god,” Bhagawan had told this newspaper. Investigations into the 2017 assassination of journalist Gauri Lankesh, allegedly by Hindutva activists, had unearthed leads suggesting her killers had planned to murder Bhagawan as well, police sources have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker resigns amidst possibilty of being Congress state chief||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole on Thursday relinquished his post amidst the possibility of his appointment as the new Congress president of the state. While the majority of Congress leaders in Maharashtra are opposed to Patole’s appointment as state unit chief because he came from the BJP only three years ago in 2018, both allies NCP and Shiv Sena have not appreciated the manner in which the Speaker was made to resign without any consultation. The announcement of a new president in place of Balasaheb Thorat, who has become a minister, is expected anytime now. Sena sources told The Telegraph that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also expressed displeasure when Congress leaders, including Patole, called on him on Thursday afternoon. It is learnt that Thackeray wondered if it was politically wise to force the election of a new Speaker at this stage when the BJP was desperately looking for an opportunity to destabilise the government. He also said Ahmed Patel used to discuss these important issues in advance but now nobody in the Congress cared to consult. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said in Delhi that the Speaker’s post was open now and the Congress might not get it again. A senior Congress leader told this newspaper over the phone from Mumbai: “There is no denying the fact that there was strong opposition to Patole’ choice because he has come from the BJP and does not have any hold on the Congress organisation. We know Rahul Gandhi has bulldozed all reservations and appointed him. Now Patole is unlikely to get cooperation from senior leaders. Even party workers have this feeling that Rahul Gandhi talks about not giving priority to outsiders but actually does the opposite.” Another leader expressed “anguish and disappointment”, arguing that those close to Rahul were not giving the right feedback to him and insisted that the dominant sentiment among state leaders was known to general secretary in-charge H.K. Patil. “We are already the fourth party in the ranking, much behind the BJP, Shiv Sena and the NCP. This was the time to consolidate our position but most of the energies will now be spent in managing internal dissent and discontent. In the quest of bringing in new faces, what the central leadership is doing is destroying the established leadership.” There is a possibility of some working presidents also being appointed to do caste balancing. While Patole is a Kunbi, other segments like Marathas, Dalits and Muslims will also be represented in the leadership structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Legal notice on religion in KYC||Actor and author Sunil Gupta on Thursday served a legal notice on the Union finance ministry and the Reserve Bank of India to restrain public sector banks from compelling customers to divulge their “religion” or “caste” identity in the KYC (know your customer) details. In a notice addressed through advocate Pranav Sachdeva, the veteran theatre artiste said: “…Asking the customers about their respective religions/ caste is wholly unnecessary and serves no purpose whatsoever except creating an atmosphere of perceived discrimination on the basis of religion/ caste which is against the very principles of secularism and a casteless society.” The banks have allegedly been seeking “religion” and “caste” details despite rules of the finance ministry and the RBI prohibiting any such requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||ICMR survey finds 21.5% Indians Covid affected||The novel coronavirus has infected 21.5 per cent of India’s population, including one in three persons living in urban slums, the head of India’s health research agency said on Thursday, releasing select findings from a third nationwide survey. The survey has found an overall seroprevalence of 21.5 per cent with average values of 31.7 per cent in urban slums, 26 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 19 per cent in rural districts, Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said. The overall prevalence level implies that India’s actual number of infections is over 292 million, or 27 times higher than the 10.7 million lab-confirmed cases. The coronavirus has also infected one in four (25.3 per cent) children aged between 10 and 17 years and one in four (25.7 per cent) healthcare workers sampled across 70 districts, Bhargava said at a media briefing hosted by the Union health ministry. “A large proportion (of the population) still remains vulnerable — prevention is the key, vaccines are necessary, and there can be no complacency,” Bhargava said, asserting that people need to continue to adopt precautions such as face masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and avoiding crowds. The survey by the ICMR looked for antibodies — signatures of an immune response — against the coronavirus in 28,589 people and 7,171 healthcare workers from the same 70 districts across 21 states where it had conducted two earlier surveys. The earlier surveys had found prevalence of 0.73 per cent in May and 7 per cent in August. Health researchers say the average figure for India masks differences in the epidemic’s stages within states or cities but bolsters support for the idea that the country is moving towards herd immunity threshold, a point at which such a large fraction of people are infected that the epidemic stops. Theoretical calculations suggest that about 60 per cent of a population has to be infected to reach the herd immunity threshold. But multiple experts have argued that the threshold could be attained at even smaller fractions, depending on population density differences such as between rural and urban areas. “Some places are nearly there — how else do we explain the dramatic drop in new cases in areas or states where we had rampaging epidemics a few months ago?” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. India’s nationwide daily new Covid-19 cases have declined from a peak of over 92,000 in mid-September to around 12,000 daily new cases over the past week. Delhi’s counts have dropped from over 7,400 daily new cases in mid-November to 165 over the past week. “In places like Delhi, only herd immunity can explain what we’re seeing,” Muliyil said. Health officials have asserted that Covid-19 vaccines are necessary to bridge the gap between the observed infection prevalence levels and what would be required to reach herd immunity thresholds and to protect individuals. The third survey had examined blood samples to look for antibodies against two coronavirus proteins — a spike protein and a nucleocapsid protein. The overall prevalence — 21.4 per cent — Bhargava presented is based on spike protein antibodies. Community health researchers said the survey would have yielded some samples positive for spike antibodies, some samples positive for nucleocapsid antibodies, and some samples positive for both sets of antibodies. The earlier surveys had looked for only the nucleocapsid antibodies. “We know from observations that nucleocapsid antibodies disappear faster than spike protein antibodies. And spike protein antibodies are more important, relevant to protecting people from the infection,” a researcher said. “But the true prevalence would be estimated by taking into account samples positive either for spike or for nucleocapsid antibodies.” Senior ICMR officials did not respond to a query from The Telegraph on why nucleocapsid data were not presented in the briefing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||Drive to save 2 paralysed royal Bengal tiger cubs||Officials of Nandankanan zoo in Odisha are taking all efforts to save two royal Bengal tiger cubs who are suffering from paralysis. The cubs had celebrated their first birthday on January 9. Zoo veterinarian Dr Alok Das told The Telegraph: “The two cubs — Luv and Kush — sons of tigress Sneha, were fine till January 26. But soon after we found them looking ill, less cheerful and less active than usual. We started their treatment on a war-footing. After conducting X-ray, blood test and other examinations, we came to the conclusion that they are suffering from paralysis. It’s difficult to treat small cubs as they will not follow discipline and routine as we would like them to.” Das added: “We have already informed the Central Zoo Authority. We have also discussed the problem with Dr Edward Ramsay, who is a professor of the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine in the US. We have also consulted eminent veterinary surgeons of our country, including the doctors of the Wildlife Institute of India.” The two cubs are now kept in the isolation ward under constant observation with the help of closed-circuit cameras. “The two cubs are being given the best possible treatment. We have expertise in the treatment of animals. Last year we conducted blood transfusion of a tiger. Now we are exploring whether any further improvement can be made in our treatment strategy to save the cubs. But treating paralytic animals needs patience, time and willingness to serve,” said Das. Nandankanan zoo, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, has 27 tigers, including eight white ones. The zoo which was closed because of the coronavirus pandemic for seven months, opened its doors to the public last October. “There is a good response from the visitors. They are coming in good numbers and adhering to Covid guidelines,” a zoo official said. The zoo has nearly 3,700 animals and 158 species of birds and reptiles. The animals are available for adoption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
05-02-2021||India||India waves US govt’s 'general support' for reforms in its defence||The Narendra Modi government, which had erupted in anger on Wednesday at “foreign individuals” such as pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg speaking up for India’s protesting farmers, appeared happy a day later to wave the US government’s “general support” for reforms in its own defence. “As you can see, the US state department has acknowledged steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday, in response to the US embassy’s comments on the protests. Responding to media queries on the farmers’ protests given that US President Joe Biden has identified “strengthening democracy at home and abroad” as a priority area for his administration, the embassy spokesperson in New Delhi had said: “We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy, and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same. We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.” The embassy had further said: “We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the Internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy.” The embassy also said: “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment.” The Modi government seized on this sentence in its response on Thursday when spokesperson Srivastava said India had “taken note” of the US embassy’s comments. The ministry, which was furious at “foreign individuals” commenting on India’s internal matters, did not appear to have a problem with a foreign government commenting on an Indian policy decision. The ministry also attempted to draw an equivalence between the chaos in Delhi on Republic Day during the tractor rally and the riots on Capitol Hill on January 6. Srivastava said: “India and the United States are both vibrant democracies with shared values. The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws. “The temporary measures with regard to Internet access in certain parts of the NCR were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence.” Several US lawmakers have been voicing concerns over the protests from its early days, primarily due to pressure from the diaspora. The latest is Ilhan Omar, Democratic member of the House of Representatives from Minnesota. She said in a tweet: “Solidarity with all the farmers across India protesting for their livelihood. India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate Internet access, and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests.” Representative Jim Costa from California had on Tuesday tweeted: “The unfolding events in India are troubling. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am closely monitoring the situation. The right to peaceful protest must always be respected. #FarmersProtest”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi meets family of farmer who died during tractor parade ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attended the tenth-day ceremony of Navreet Singh, the young Uttar Pradesh farmer killed during the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi, promising not to let “his martyrdom go waste”. Priyanka, who had lost her father and grandmother to terrorist attacks, empathised with Navreet’s family at their home in Dibdiba village, Rampur district, 225km from Delhi. “We have gathered here in his memory. I know from my own experience that a martyr’s family cannot forget his sacrifice; they keep that sacrifice in their heart forever,” the Congress general secretary, who had arrived in an SUV, said in an emotional speech in Hindi. “There is only one wish in their heart that the sacrifice of someone they loved shouldn’t go waste. Navreet was 25 years old, my son is 20.” Priyanka said Navreet had gone to Delhi to participate in the farmers’ march because he knew they were hurting and wanted to support them. “An incident happened with him and he didn’t return. Why did he go there? It was not a political conspiracy that he was there. He went there because he was in pain for the farmers. He knew that the farmers were being oppressed,” Priyanka said. “Guru Gobind Singh had said that doing injustice is a sin but tolerating injustice is a bigger sin. It was with this thought that a youth travelled from Dibdiba to Delhi... hoping he would be heard, that the government would listen to them if all of them gathered there, that it would open its doors to listen to the heartbeat of the farmers. But it didn’t happen.” Navreet’s post-mortem report attributes his death to a head injury. “As per post-mortem report the cause of his death is shock and haemorrhage due to a head injury received after his tractor overturned,” a tweet from the handle of the deputy commissioner of police, central Delhi, had said on January 30. Media reports have quoted his family as saying he had bullet wounds. Priyanka said: “I want to tell Sardar Hardeep Singhji that we will not let the martyrdom of your grandson go waste. This movement will continue till the government repeals the three dark laws. “I can say the three farm laws are the biggest cruelties. The government doesn’t want to repeal them. They (the government) are also being cruel in describing the martyrs as terrorists, in calling the farmers’ movement a political conspiracy. “If a leader cannot listen to the woes of the farmers, poor and every citizen of the country, if they (the government) call them names, such a leader is good for nothing.” Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party politician Ram Govind Chaudhary too attended the ceremony, antim ardas (last prayers). Three cars that were part of Priyanka’s convoy had earlier collided on Hapur Road on the way to Rampur but no injuries were reported. The Congress had put up banners along the highway to welcome Priyanka. At one place, TV cameras captured her cleaning dust off her SUV’s windshield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||Modi salutes peasants’ role in Chauri Chaura, not a word on current agitation||When it comes to recognising protesting farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to look back nearly a century. Modi on Thursday lauded peasants’ role in the February 4, 1922, Chauri Chaura incident while speaking not a word on the current farmers’ agitation against his government. Releasing a postage stamp honouring the freedom fighters of Chauri Chaura — in line with the BJP’s efforts to appropriate chapters of the Independence movement in which its ideological forbears had played no part — Modi claimed his government had been working for six years to empower farmers. “Friends, farmers are the most important foundation for the country’s development. Farmers had played a great role in the struggle of Chauri Chaura,” he said while inaugurating through videoconferencing an Uttar Pradesh government programme in Chauri Chaura, 30km from Gorakhpur. The occasion was the start of the centenary year of the famous Chauri Chaura incident, when police firing on Non-Cooperation Movement participants prompted angry rural demonstrators — most of whom would have been peasants — to torch a police station. With the violence killing three protesters and 22 policemen, Mahatma Gandhi halted the Non-Cooperation Movement nationally. The Raj sentenced 19 demonstrators to death and 110 to life imprisonment. Modi claimed the freedom fighters of Chauri Chaura had never before been recognised, ignoring how Indira Gandhi had laid the foundation for a memorial on February 6, 1982, and P.V. Narasimha Rao inaugurated it on July 19, 1993. “The Chauri Chaura incident used to be referred to merely as an incendiary attack. But it wasn’t merely a fire in a police station — the fire had been burning in the heart of every person,” the Prime Minister said. He used the occasion to flag what he claimed was his government’s pro-farmer measures. “During the corona period the country witnessed the results of our six years of continuous effort for the growth and self-reliance of the farmers. Despite the challenges of the pandemic, our agricultural sector moved forward firmly and the farmers achieved record production,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
05-02-2021||India||40 judge seats vacant in Calcutta HC||Calcutta High Court has the second highest number of vacant judge’s posts among high courts — 40 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 72. Allahabad High Court tops the list with 64 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 160 judges. The high courts of Delhi and Bombay follow suit with 31 and 30 vacancies, respectively, against their sanctioned capacities of 60 and 94, the Lok Sabha was informed by Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in response to a starred question from Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee. According to the information furnished in the House as on February 1, there were four vacancies in the Supreme Court that has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges. The total number of vacancies in the 25 high courts is 419. According to the memorandum of procedure for appointment of high court judges, a proposal for appointment is initiated by the chief justice of the high court concerned. The government appoints only those persons as judges of high courts who are recommended by the Supreme Court collegium (SCC). In the past three years since 2018, high court collegiums made 505 recommendations, of which 177 names that were forwarded by the SCC were appointed by the government as high court judges. As many as 134 names were rejected by the SCC. The remaining 194 proposals received from various high court collegiums are under various stages of processing with either the government or the SCC, the statement in the Lok Sabha said. Filling up of vacancies in the high courts is a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the executive and the judiciary. It requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities both at the state and the central level. Therefore, the time for filling up of vacant judge’s posts in the higher judiciary cannot be indicated, the government said. “While every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in high courts do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges and also due to increase in the strength of judges,” the government reply said. From May 2014 to February 1 this year, 35 judges have been appointed to the Supreme Court. Around 570 judges have been appointed to the high courts during this period. “The government is committed to filling up vacancies expeditiously in a time-bound manner,” Prasad said. The government’s statement comes against the backdrop of concerns expressed by a special bench of the Supreme Court having Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant on January 27 over the delay in the appointment process. “We need the update on pending names as on January 29. Suppose you have reservations and send back names to us, then we can reiterate. But if you don’t give comments for five months on collegium recommendations, it is a matter of great concern,” Justice Kaul had told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a hearing. “Tell us what is your timeline to respond to these recommendations of judges’ appointment…. We need to put the house in order,” the bench had observed. The CJI had indicated that the apex court would also ask the high courts for details of vacancies so that suitable orders can be passed on both the judicial and the administrative side. He had pointed out that 189 names were pending with the government for the past several months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
