06-02-2021||India||Tikait issues October 2 deadline as 'chakka jam' ends ||As a three-hour "chakka jam" enforced by farmers came to an end, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait declared that peasants protesting against the agri laws would stay put at Delhi's borders until their demands were met, and would not be coerced into holding talks with the Centre. Addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur border, Tikait issued an ultimatum to the Centre. He said their protest would be extended till October 2, by which time Centre would have to repeal the "black laws". If the government failed to comply, farmers' unions protesting against the three agriculture laws would chalk out further plans. “We won’t return home unless our demands are met,” Tikait said, adding, “We have given time to the government till October 2 to repeal the laws. After this, we will do further planning. We won't hold discussions with the government under pressure.” Interacting with the Press, he claimed a few inputs had been received regarding some miscreants trying to disrupt peace during the “chakka jam” that was announced for 12 noon to 3 pm on Saturday. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the “chakka jam” in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir, said. Amid a stringent security set up installed around the Ghazipur protest site, the farmer leader, flanked by his supporters, also interacted with Delhi Police officials. “Nobody can touch our farmland, the farmers will protect it. Both farmers and soldiers should come forward for it,” Tikait said. Interacting with security personnel who were on the other side of the barricades, he said, bowing his head and folded hands, “My pranaam (a respectful salutation) to you all. Now you all will protect my farms.” During Saturday’s agitation, farmers parked their tractor-trailers in the middle of roads and raised slogans against the Centre in Punjab and Haryana. Women took part in the stir in a sizable number at several places. Police had stepped up security and had made all arrangements for traffic diversions, said officials, adding adequate security personnel were deployed in Punjab and Haryana. Several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore, Patiala-Kaithal, Jind-Karnal, Karnal-Kaithal, Ambala Chandigarh Highway, Ambala- Hisar and Mansa-Sirsa were blocked by the protesting farmers. Protests were also held at Shambhu near Ambala and at many toll plazas in both states. Protesting farmers said ambulances and school buses were allowed during the ''chakka jam''. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they blocked roads at 33 places in 15 Punjab districts, including Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda. Farmers carried placards with slogans Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Kisan Ekta Zindabad. They also raised slogans against the Centre for not acceding to their demand of repealing the farm legislations. “The government should repeal the three laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community,” said a protester at the Shambhu border. From morning, Delhi Police intensified security at all border points of Delhi, deploying thousands of personnel, including paramilitary forces, to deal with any situation emerging out of the nationwide "chakka jam" Forces were deployed at important junctions across the national capital, including Red Fort and ITO, which witnessed violence on January 26 during the tractor parade by the protesting farmers. Police also used drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites were also part of the police precautionary measures. Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi on Saturday for allegedly holding a protest in support of Saturday’s movement, police said. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation temporarily closed 10 stations on Saturday morning, which were reopened after the protests ended. In the evening, the DMRC tweeted that entry and exit gates of all 10 metro stations closed in view of “chakka jam” had been reopened, and normal service had resumed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||PM hails judiciary, says positive interpretations strengthened our Constitution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the country's judiciary, saying that it has performed its duty well in safeguarding people's rights and upholding personal freedom, and added that it has also strengthened the Constitution. He said the Supreme Court in India has conducted the highest number of hearings via video-conferencing from among the top courts of all the countries in the world during the coronavirus pandemic. Modi also said that in order to make the country's justice system future-ready, the possibility of using Artificial Intelligence (AI) was being explored. He was speaking after virtually releasing a commemorative postage stamp on the Gujarat High Court for sixty years of its establishment. "Every countryman can say that our judiciary has worked with firmness to uphold our Constitution. Our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution by its positive interpretation," Modi said. "The Supreme Court has conducted the highest number of hearings through video-conferencing in the world during the pandemic," he said. Through constructive and creative interpretation of the Constitution, our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution itself, he added. "Whether it is to safeguard the rights of citizens, question of personal freedom, or a situation wherein the interest of the country is to be given top-most priority, the judiciary has both understood and fulfilled its responsibilities," he said. He said the root of good governance is in law, as has been held in the ancient Indian scriptures, he said. "This idea has been a part of our 'sanskar' since ancient times. This mantra gave moral strength to our freedom struggle, and the makers of our Constitution also gave it top priority," he said. This trust towards the judiciary has given confidence to the common man, given him the strength to stand for truth, Modi said. The prime minister said that "the proud structure of justice stands on the pillar of Bar". "Since decades, bar and judiciary have together been fulfilling the basic purpose of justice in our country," he said. Modi also highlighted that the Gujarat High Court became the first court in India to start live streaming of proceedings during the pandemic. "For us, it is a matter of satisfaction that the digital infrastructure created by the justice department under its e-court integrated mission mode has in such a short span of time helped our courts work in virtual mode," he said. "Digital India mission is rapidly modernizing the justice system. Today, more than 18,000 courts have been computerised in the country. With video-conferencing and teleconferencing getting legal sanctity from the Supreme Court, e-proceedings have gained pace across all courts. "We feel proud to hear that our Supreme Court has become the top among the apex courts in terms of conducting hearings through video conferencing," he said. Facilities like e-filing of cases, unique ID and QR codes to access case details, have given a new dimension to ease of justice, he said. Talking about the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), Modi said that the system will help lawyers and litigants see cases and orders with a click of mouse. "This ease of justice is not only improving the ease of living of our people but has also helped in ease of doing business. This has given confidence among foreigners that their judicial rights will be safe in India. In its 2018 ease of doing business report, the World Bank has also praised the NJDG," he said. The PM said that a Supreme Court committee and National Informatics Centre (NIC) are working together to further ease the justice system in India. "To make our justice system future-ready, the possibility of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is also being explored," he said. "With AI, the efficiency and speed of judiciary will increase. In these efforts, the country's Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign is going to play a big role. Under it, the video conference platform is also being encouraged," he said. Modi said that e-seva kendras are also being opened in the high courts and district courts to bridge the digital divide. He said e-Adalat has become "timely and convenient means of justice". During the pandemic, online e-Lok Adalat has become a new normal, he said. Modi further said the first Lok Adalat was held in Junagadh in Gujarat around four decades back and it was the first state to begin evening courts and took many initiatives for the benefit of the poor. Modi praised judiciary for presenting an excellent example of its dedication and duty during the COVID-19 pandemic period, by dispensing justice through video conferencing, SMS callout, e-filing and e-mail my case status services, streaming on court's display boards, uploading of orders on the daily basis, and others. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Supreme Court judge Justice M R Shah, Gujarat HC Chief Justice Vikram Nath, state Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and others attended the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Roads blocked in several states as farmers enforce 'chakka jam'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Farmers block roads in Punjab, Haryana as ‘chakka jam’ kicks off||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws and other issues blocked roads at several places in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday on the call given by the farmers' unions for a nationwide 'chakka jam'. Farmers' unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm on February 6 when they would block national and state highways in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. The police have stepped up security and made all arrangements for traffic diversion, said officials, adding adequate police personnel were deployed in Punjab and Haryana. Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farmers' bodies blocked state and national highways at several places on Saturday, causing inconvenience to commuters. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they are holding road blockades at 33 places in 15 districts including Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda in Punjab. In the morning, farmers started assembling at their earmarked protest sites for 'chakka jam' in both the states. "Elders and youth have gathered here to participate in chakka jam. It will be peaceful," said a protester at the Punjab-Haryana border in Shambhu near Ambala. "We want that the government should repeal these three laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community," said another protester. Protesting farmers said emergency vehicles including ambulances and school buses will be allowed during the 'chakka jam'. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Peaceful protests of farmers in national interest, says Rahul Gandhi||Ahead of the nationwide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions protesting the Centre's new agri laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the peaceful 'satyagraha' of the 'annadatas' is in national interest as the farm laws are "harmful" for the country. Farmer unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 during which they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. "The peaceful satyagraha of annadatas is in national interest -- these three laws are not just harmful for farmers-labourers, but also for the people and the country. Full support!" Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the farmers issue by posting on Twitter a picture of the multi-layered barricading at one of the farmer protest sites. "Why do you scare by the wall of fear?" she tweeted along with the picture. The Congress had on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest. Earlier in the day, Gandhi attacked the government over a media report that post-budget there had been a rise in prices of petrol-diesel and LPG gas cylinder, saying that the Modi government has disrupted the budget of both the country and of homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India|| Delhi Metro stations closed ahead of farmers’ ‘chakka jam’||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Saturday informed that entry and exit facilities of several prominent stations will be closed temporarily  in view of the 'chakka jam' protests by farmer unions. Protesting unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 pm and 3 pm against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, on Friday said the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam'. The DMRC in a series of tweets informed commuters that multiple stations have been closed. "Security Update Entry/exit gates of Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate are closed," it tweeted. It later also tweeted that entry and exit gates of Vishwavidyalaya station were also closed. "Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath and Central Secretariat are closed. Interchange facility is available," the DMRC said. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday had said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. After the Republic Day chaos, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil at the city's border points, to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam' on Saturday by farmers protesting the Centre's three new agri laws, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Delhi Police on toes despite farmers’ promise||The Delhi Police intensified security at all border points of the city as thousands of personnel including paramilitary forces have been deployed to deal with any situation emerging out of the nationwide 'chakka jam' being held on Saturday by the farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws, officials said. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam', even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours but in a peaceful way. After the Republic Day violence, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil across the city and its border points. Forces have also been deployed at important junctions across the national capital including Red Fort and ITO which witnessed violence on January 26 during the tractor parade by the protesting farmers in which over 500 police personnel were injured and a protester died. Police are also using drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites are also part of the precautionary measures taken by the police force. The police will also be monitoring content on the social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said. Farmer unions on Monday had announced countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. Police said they have taken additional measures to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam'. "We are monitoring content on the social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protesters are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police. "We have strengthened the security at the border and have deployed forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence is in place at all important points and junctions across the district." "There are additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles are being checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades have been put up at the picket points across the city," Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Minimum temperature in Delhi rises slightly||Delhi's minimum temperature increased slightly to 7.4 degrees Celsius and is likely to remain within comfortable levels for the next three to four days, the India Meteorological Department said.  On Friday, the minimum and maximum temperatures had settled at 6.8 degrees Celsius and 23.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.  The city recorded a minimum of 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.  The city's air quality was recorded in the "very poor" category, but is expected to improve slightly.  The city's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stood at 316 on Saturday.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".  The maximum wind speed was 15 kmph on Saturday, favourable for dispersion for pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Covid: India records single-day spike of nearly 12,000 cases||India's Covid-19 tally of cases remained more than 1.08 crore with 11,713 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,05,10,796 on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,08,14,304 and the death toll climbed to 1,54,918 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 95 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recovered from the disease surged to 1,05,10,796, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 97.19 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,590 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which accounts for 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.43 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,08,14,304 and the death toll climbed to 1,54,918 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 95 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 20,06,72,589 samples have been tested up to February 5 with 7,40,794 samples being tested on Friday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||India panel turns down Pfizer's emergency Covid vaccine plea||Pfizer has withdrawn its application for the emergency introduction of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, the US company said on Friday, a day after India’s regulatory panel rejected its application. The subject expert committee (SEC) of India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), after meeting with company representatives on Thursday, decided not to recommend the vaccine jointly developed by Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech. Pfizer was the first vaccine maker to seek emergency use authorisation in India for its Covid-19 vaccine, shown to be over 95 per cent effective in protecting people from the infection and approved for use across Europe and North America. The World Health Organisation too has approved emergency authorisation use of the vaccine, paving the way for its use in low and middle-income countries. While Pfizer’s application had bolstered hopes among many that the high-efficacy vaccine might become available in India, the company had consistently underlined that the vaccine would be available only to the government with no plans for private sales. Senior health officials guiding India’s vaccination strategy had since mid-December indicated that the Pfizer-BioNTech product was not a viable option for India, given the ultra-low temperatures (around minus 70 degrees Celsius) required to maintain its supply chain. The company has linked its decision to withdraw its application in India to the SEC’s verdict. “Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time,” Pfizer said in an “official statement”. “Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future,” a company spokesperson told The Telegraph via email. “Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government of India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment.” A summary of the SEC’s meeting that the CDSCO released on Friday said the panel had “noted that incidents of palsy, anaphylaxis and other adverse events have been reported during post marketing and the causality of events with the vaccine is being investigated”. The SEC also said that the company had not proposed any plan to generate safety and immunogenicity data on the vaccine among the Indian population. The two Covid-19 vaccines granted accelerated approval in India — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech — have undergone safety and immunogenicity studies in India. The Union health ministry said on Friday that over 5.2 million healthcare workers across India had received the Covid-19 vaccines since the inoculation campaign started on January 16. The campaign’s first round seeks to immunise 9.6 million healthcare workers and around 20 million frontline workers. This will be followed by a second round, focused on people aged above 50 or suffering from chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
06-02-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand exempted from nationwide Chakka jam||Farmer union leader Rakesh Tikait has exempted Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from the three-hour nationwide chakka jam from Saturday noon, apprehensive of efforts to orchestrate violence and discredit the movement. In the two states, farmers have been asked to organise protests at the district headquarters. Tikait’s late-afternoon announcement that the road blockade had been called off just a few minutes after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had shared the modalities for the protest triggered speculation of a break-up. The SKM is the banner under which the protests are going on. The reasons Tikait’s spokesperson Dharmendra Malik had initially cited were the farming cycle -– the sugarcane harvest season --- and other circumstances. Later in the evening, Tikait himself clarified that the programme for these two states had been modified in view of clear “evidence” that some people would try to cause violence during the blockade. “We took the decision to call off the chakka jam in public interest.” Instead, farmers have been advised to hold demonstrations at the district headquarters and distribute leaflets about the reasons for their struggle. The SKM leadership, which was at first taken by surprise as it has become difficult for its members to stay in regular touch with each other because of the Internet ban at the protest sites, said it was unaware of any change and that the protest was on. Late in the night, the SKM leadership clarified that there was an assessment from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand that agent provocateurs might break windscreens of vehicles during the chakka jam to discredit the farmers – similar to the attempt on Republic Day during the tractor rally. Jagmohan Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) told The Telegraph from Jind that speculation about a possible rift in the SKM was incorrect. He said he had spoken to Yudhvir Singh of the Tikait-led BKU half an hour earlier. Yudhvir Singh has been representing the Tikait BKU during discussions within the SKM. “In any case, at the time of deciding to do a chakka jam on Saturday, we had decided that local units can work out their own programmes, depending upon objective conditions,” Jagmohan Singh said. Detailing the programme, the SKM said in a statement that only national and state highways would be blocked from noon to 3pm across the country on Saturday. Emergency and essential services like ambulances and school buses will not be stopped. Protesters have been urged not to enter into any conflict with government officials or ordinary citizens. “There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in chakka jam mode. All roads for entering Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” the SKM said. “The chakka jam will conclude at 3pm with honking continuously for a minute to show unity among farmers,” the SKM said, urging all others to join the farming community in solidarity at 3pm for a minute. Ex-bureaucrats As many as 75 retired bureaucrats have endorsed a statement issued by Constitutional Conduct in support of the farmers. “The approach of the Government of India (GoI) towards the farmers’ protest has been an adversarial and confrontationist one from the very beginning, treating the apolitical farmers like an irresponsible opposition to be derided, demonised and defeated. The repeated, albeit unsuccessful, attempts to polarise the agitation along regional, communal and other lines are also reprehensible. Such an approach can never lead to a solution,” the statement said. Urging the government to take remedial measures, the former civil servants, who have retired from senior-most positions in the government, suggested that the cases against the farmers and others who have tweeted in their support, besides journalists, be withdrawn and the three laws repealed. “If the GoI is indeed interested in an amicable solution, instead of proposing half-hearted steps such as putting the laws on hold for 18 months, it can withdraw the three laws and think of other possible solutions, given the basic constitutional position that the subject of agriculture is in the states’ list in the Constitution of India,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||‘Superbly safe’ tag on Covid vaccines in India||The Covid-19 vaccines India is using are absolutely safe, top health officials have iterated, while also asserting that health authorities are adequately investigating all deaths among people who have been inoculated. The officials said the low rates of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) and investigations so far have strengthened the evidence for the safety of the vaccines even as the campaign to vaccinate 9.6 million healthcare workers approaches midpoint. A digital system designed to track all AEFIs has so far documented 8,563 AEFIs among over 4.3 million healthcare workers vaccinated, a rate of 0.18 per cent, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. “So far, we’ve had 34 cases of hospitalisation which is .0007 per cent of the people immunised,” Bhushan said. There have been 19 deaths of vaccinated people which, he said, have been investigated. When a vaccinated person dies, a board of three doctors conducts a post-mortem at the site and the state AEFI committee looks at whether vaccination could have been the cause of death. A national AEFI committee looks at all the deaths nationwide to make its own independent assessment, Bhushan said. “Those who say local governments or state governments or the central government have rushed to certify that there is no causality is an absolute baseless narrative,” Bhushan said. Once the national AEFI panel has conducted its assessment, the findings will be placed in the public domain, he said. Health officials said the AEFI data show that only a very small proportion of recipients have experienced minimal side effects, pointing out that a robust AEFI tracking mechanism is designed to document even mild effects such as pain at the site of the injection. No death has been linked to the vaccine, said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on vaccine administration and member of Niti Aayog. “It is absolutely clear from the available data that the vaccines are superbly safe.” The assurances from the health officials come days after a group of 12 doctors and public health researchers asked the health ministry to make public details of investigations on each of the deaths among vaccine recipients. Experts familiar with the AEFI assessment process say natural deaths occur every day across the country and the rigorous AEFI tracking mechanisms that have been set up alongside the campaign are designed to record all deaths among vaccine recipients. The current campaign is relying on two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine jointly developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, and the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Sachin tweets for govt, Malayalis apologise to Maria Sharapova||Indian netizens’ outrage at those perceived as toeing the government’s line on the farmers’ agitation runs so deep that it has shredded the immunity enjoyed by even Sachin Tendulkar, a man the country’s cricket fans habitually referred to as “God”. Indians, predominantly Malayalis, have flooded the Twitter handle of retired Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova, apologising for trolling her seven years ago when she said she didn’t know Tendulkar. The gist of most of the posts – triggered by anger at what the tweeters saw as Tendulkar’s endorsement of the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest — was that the writers too had realised they didn’t really know Tendulkar all these years. “Yes.... we also dont know the new @sachin_rt. Sorry for the comments two years before. #maapakkanam,” wrote Jiffy Shams. “Sorry to say after long seven years we could recognise him. We wish we didn’t know Sachin Tenduker, sorry for the FB abuse,” said Seeker. Tanmay’s acid comment was: “It’s better not to know who Sachin actually is, sorry for whatever was said before.” Hundreds of these tweets were posted in Malayalam, a language Sharapova would be even more unfamiliar with than the name “Tendulkar”, but the 33-year-old would have got a sense of the messages from the heart and flower emojis and smileys accompanying them. A reporter had asked the US-based Russian star at Wimbledon in 2014 whether she had noticed Tendulkar in the stands, to which she said she didn’t know who he was. The comment prompted Tendulkar fans to roast her on social media, unmindful that cricket was not a well-known game in Sharapova’s country of origin or domicile. The trolls were particularly sore because Sharapova had acknowledged noticing English footballer David Beckham in the stands and described him as a good human being. But the tables were turned when Tendulkar — along with several other Indian cricketers and Bollywood celebrities — joined a government-sponsored chorus against foreigners commenting on India’s “internal” matters after Barbadian singer Rihanna and climate-change activist Greta Thunberg expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers. “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation,” Tendulkar wrote on Wednesday with the foreign ministry-created hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. The avalanche of tweets apologising to Sharapova began on Thursday, with some going so far as to call Tendulkar “a fascism enabler” or a “puppet of BCCI”. “We apologise for the abuses hurled at you! We happened to excessively adore that xxxx xxxxx. We know we are late in rectifying our mistake. But please do forgive,” a Twitter user, Peter, posted in Malayalam. “Maria, please forgive this brother. We didn’t realise that Sachin was scared of ED and Modi,” tweeted Thanseel Acherivayalil. “A load of apologies. Sister, we failed to have your farsightedness,” tweeted Mohammed Riyas. It’s not clear how many of those apologising had actually targeted Sharapova in 2014. The sudden pro-Sharapova sentiment among Indians seems also to have helped escalate the responses to her recent tweets, which had nothing to do with the farmers’ protest or Tendulkar. While the “likes” she received for her posts ranged from a few hundred to about 6,000 until Wednesday, the number had by Friday rocketed to 13,000-odd for a tweet that showed an old image of hers in tennis gear. A random check suggested a massive Malayali presence among those who have “liked” or shared her tweets since Thursday. The keyboard warriors of Kerala  — the state with the second-highest smart phone penetration after Delhi --- have a proud history of trolling the Sangh parivar and its supporters. Sadhvi Saraswati of the Madhya Pradesh-based Sanatan Dharma Prachar Seva Samiti tasted their firepower in 2018 after telling a Hindutva convention in Kasaragod that those who slaughtered the “Gau Mata” in Kerala “have no right to live in India”. Malayalis flooded her Facebook page with recipes and pictures of beef dishes. Two years earlier, when the BJP brass including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then party chief Amit Shah had descended on Kozhikode for the party’s national council, tweets with the hashtag #ShahtoRahmath invited them to the Rahmath Hotel, famous for its beef biryani. Sharapova too received invites, but the tone was different. Regretting “a mistake we did 7 yrs back”, Ivaanka Hatun posted: “Kindly accept the apologies sister. Please visit Kerala once after the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Supreme Court grants interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the release on interim bail of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui who has been in jail for over a month on the charge of making indecent remarks on Hindu deities, accepting that none can be imprisoned without a valid reason and that the charges against him were vague. The Gujarat-based Faruqui, who was arrested on January 1 along with four others on the complaint of a BJP MLA’s son for the allegedly blasphemous comments at an Indore cafeteria, had moved the apex court after Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea. The comedian’s defence team had told the court that he was arrested before he could go on stage for a live show, contesting the claim that he had made objectionable remarks. Faruqui, booked under IPC Sections 295A (outraging religious feelings), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions, is lodged in a Madhya Pradesh jail. The Supreme Court expressed surprise that its 2014 judgment in the Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar case wherein it had held that no citizen can be arrested without adequate reasons for any offence that entails a punishment of up to seven years in jail, had not been followed in Faruqui’s case. The court had held that arrest brings humiliation and is a violation of a person’s fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai on Friday also stayed a production warrant issued by a court in Uttar Pradesh for Faruqui as some local leaders had lodged complaints against him citing the Madhya Pradesh incident. Senior advocate Saurabh Kripal, who appeared for Faruqui, told the bench that the comedian had been falsely implicated by the Madhya Pradesh authorities and alleged: “This is a case of victimisation.” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, observed: “Is it correct that the Arnesh Kumar judgment is not followed in the case? If that is not followed, then it is good enough (for bail and stay of the high court judgment). Under Section 41 of the CrPC, the police cannot arrest a person without justifiable reasons.” Kripal said the 2014 judgment and the principles enunciated in Section 41 of the CrPc relating to the arrest of a person had not been followed by Madhya Pradesh police. The counsel also urged the bench to grant protection to the comedian as a local court in Uttar Pradesh had issued a production warrant for his appearance. “All right,” Justice Nariman said while staying the production warrant and issuing notices to the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments, besides the complainants. “…The learned counsel has pointed out to us that quite apart from the fact that the allegations made in the FIR are vague (and) that the procedure contained in Section 41 CrPC as adumbrated by our (2014) judgment…. has not been followed before arresting the petitioner,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress calls out ‘mislead’ bid by agriculture minister||The Congress on Friday alleged agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had “blatantly tried to mislead Parliament and the nation” by claiming in the Rajya Sabha that no one had been able to identify any flaws in the three new farm laws. The Congress also declared support for, and participation in, the nationwide chakka jam (road blockade) announced by farmers’ unions on Saturday. Essential services are exempt. “The Union agriculture minister blatantly tried to mislead Parliament and the nation,” a statement issued by the Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said. “It is public knowledge that the farmers’ organisations have held 11 rounds of talks with the government wherein they provided a point-wise detail of the deficiencies and lacunae in the three laws, consequent to which even the government has openly agreed to bring about as many as 18 amendments.” Farmers’ unions, the Congress and several independent experts have been saying that the three farm laws would together have a devastating impact on agriculture trade. They have said the mandi (regulated wholesale market) system would gradually shut down if corporate houses are allowed to run a parallel procurement system. They have objected to the removal of the stock limit from the Essential Commodities Act and expressed outrage at the provision that the courts cannot be approached directly in case of disputes relating to contract farming. While the farmers and Opposition parties view the government’s willingness to make large-scale amendments to the laws as an admission of their flaws, Tomar suggested the proposed changes meant no such thing and had been offered only out of respect for the farmers’ demands. He asserted that the farmers had been instigated and misled about the implications of contract farming. The protesting farmers have several reservations about contract farming, apart from their fear of possible procurements below the minimum support price (MSP) once corporate monopoly has been established. They have demanded a legally guaranteed MSP. Also, the new farm laws’ constitutionality has been challenged in the Supreme Court, with some experts suggesting they have transgressed into areas where the states alone are entitled to lawmaking. Critics have also cited how Bihar’s farmers have been suffering since the abolition of the APMC Act and the mandi system in the state. Although the Centre has promised to continue with the mandi system, the protesting farmers believe these market yards would close down with time. Fears have also been expressed about price manipulation if big companies are allowed unlimited storage and stocking facilities. “For the last 73 days farmers across the country are protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted fraudulently by the government,” Venugopal said in the statement. “As a part of this national movement, lakhs of farmers are agitating peacefully on the borders of Delhi in a Gandhian manner. However, the power-drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions. “Driven by the sole motive of benefiting its corporate cronies and steamrolling the laws by the brute force of parliamentary arithmetical majority, the government neither consulted the Opposition parties nor took any farmers’ organisation into confidence before enacting the laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Agriculture minister claims farm law protests confined to one state||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday told the Rajya Sabha the protests against the new farm laws were confined largely to one state, mouthing the government’s standard line that critics say reflects a divisive agenda. “People in one state are victims of misinformation,” Tomar said, alluding to Punjab. When the Opposition MPs contested this and argued that farmers across the country are opposing the laws, Tomar repeated: “It is an issue of only one state.” The minister spoke on a day thousands of farmers defied prohibitory orders in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh to attend a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Shamli district — the fourth such gathering in the state against the new farm laws. In Haryana, the khap (caste) panchayats have declared their support to the protests. The protests have even made their way into weddings in the state, with many invitation cards bearing slogans such as “No farmers, no food” and photographs of the pre-Independence peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram and freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, PTI reported. Acknowledging protests in these states would give the lie to the government’s claims that only a small section of farmers are unhappy and that the protests have a Khalistani connection. Minister Tomar also told Parliament that neither the farmer unions nor the Opposition had explained what was wrong with the laws that have been dubbed as “black laws” by the protesters. “For two months I kept asking farmer unions what is kala (black) in the laws so that I can try to rectify. But I could not get the answer... Also nobody (from Opposition benches) tried to point out the provisions in the laws which are against farmers,” he said. The farmer unions have given their objections to the three farm laws in writing to the government several times and have also spoken on these at length in public. Opposition leaders, too, have repeatedly listed their problems with the laws. They did so again in Parliament on Friday. Tomar argued the three new laws were not too different from legislation that most states had enacted over the years. About 20 states have facilitated contract farming by either amending their Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts or enacting new laws, he said. The APMC Acts ban the sale or purchase of farm produce outside the APMC mandis (market yards). The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act — one of the Centre’s three new laws — allows the sale and purchase of farm produce outside the mandis. The farmers are worried this will undermine the mandis and lead to their eventual closure, leaving them at the mercy of corporate players. The Swaminathan Commission had recommended more APMC mandis — one every 80sqkm — while the national average remains one every 500sqkm. Tomar said the states collect a tax on trade at the APMC mandis, while there would be no taxes on trading outside these mandis. He said the agitation should be directed against the state governments instead of the Centre. Shiromani Akali Dal member Balwinder Singh Bhunder countered Tomar, saying the new laws would give private players a monopoly. He said the farmers feared the no-tax rule would cause agricultural trade to gradually shift outside the APMC mandis to private mandis. “Why do you not guarantee procurement on MSP?” Bhunder asked. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had on Thursday told the Rajya Sabha that the government had already implemented the Swaminathan Commission recommendations on the MSP. On Friday, Biju Janata Dal member Sasmit Patra countered Pradhan. “The Swaminathan Commission recommended that MSP should be 50 per cent more than the cost of production, which should include the investment by farmers in terms of fertilisers, seeds and pesticides, family labour, rent on land and the interest on farm loans. But the government has only considered investment and family labour, not rent on land and interest,” Patra said. The MSP of one quintal paddy would have been Rs 2,340 in 2017 had Swaminathan’s formula been implemented, he said. However, the MSP notified by the government was Rs 1,750. Minister Tomar made a controversial statement that was later expunged from the records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||First thunderstorm research centre in Balasore||India’s first research centre on thunderstorm and lightning will come up in Odisha’s Balasore district. It will study the impact of Kalbaisakhi which is mainly active in Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. The centre will be set up in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told reporters on Friday: “We will set up a research centre at Balasore to study thunderstorms. We will set up a few observatories in the nearby areas to study thunderstorms. The results of the study will be put in a model form. Research would be conducted on the accuracy of forecasting thunderstorms.” He added: “We will mainly focus on the study of the Kalbaisakhi. It’s impact is generally noticed in Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha.” The four states witness thunderstorms and lightning strikes between April and June. Odisha is one of the states to have reported the highest number of lightning-related deaths. Odisha special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “The area starting from eastern Uttar Pradesh to Odisha witnesses frequent thunderstorms. It’s one of the reasons for the IMD to take a decision to set up the research centre in Balasore. They are now setting up a radar centre there. Perhaps, they will convert it into a research centre. It’s good for Odisha.” In the last eight years, Odisha has reported 3,218 lightning deaths. While 352 deaths were reported in 2011-12, 294 in 2012-13, 370 in 2013-14, 312 in 2014-2015, 404 in 2015-16, 401 in 2016-17, 470 in 2017-18, 334 in 2018-2019 and 281 in 2019-20. On the increased frequency of lightning in Odisha, former professor of physics at the Utkal University, K. Maharana, said the ongoing climate changes because of the recent global phenomena could be one of the major reasons for the rise in these cases reported across the state. “Intense heat waves coupled with other climatic changes have intensified the recurrence of lightning in Odisha. The presence of high level of moisture in the air has also made lightning become a regular phenomenon,” Maharana said. Former director of the Bhubaneswar IMD centre, S.C. Sahu, said lightning generally occurs because of the cumulus clouds. “Because of intense heat and the presence of high content of moisture in the air from proximity to the Bay of Bengal, lightning has become a common occurrence. Most of the deadly lightning strikes have taken place in Sundergarh, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj belt,” Sahu said. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has claimed that the number of deaths due to lightning in the state has reduced by more than 31 per cent because of effective use of the Early Warning Communication system to alert people about thunderstorm and lightning. The Odisha government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the US-based Earth Networks in 2018 to get early warning on lightning. “They have set up lightning detection centres and started giving us alerts and warnings about possible lightning strikes which we disseminate through different mediums, particularly using the GPS system. The alerts work on a location-based system (LBS). If someone is in the lightning zone, he or she gets an SMS alert about possible lightning that is going to take place. The entire operation from the receipt of information from the Earth Networks to the dispatch of the text message is completed in 2-3 minutes,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
06-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh farmers purchase highest quantity of paddy ||Pro-farmer policies have helped Chhattisgarh clock a record number of farmers selling their crops, according to figures released by the state government. This has led to the highest quantity of paddy being procured by the state since its formation two decades ago, the data suggest. The feat by the Congress government in Chhattisgarh assumes significance amid gloomy scenes of farmers’ unrest against the BJP-led central government’s new farm laws and the demand for guaranteed minimum support price. “A record number of 95.38 per cent of total registered farmers have sold paddy in Chhattisgarh in kharif marketing year 2020-21, thanks to the farmer-friendly policies implemented under the leadership of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and a better system of paddy procurement at minimum support price. Out of 21,52,475 registered farmers, 20,53,483 have sold their paddy this year, which is the highest in the last 20 years. The number of farmers selling paddy at minimum support price, total registered acreage, area of paddy sold, percentage of farmers selling paddy and the total amount of paddy sold have increased significantly after formation of the new government in Chhattisgarh,” said T.P. Sinha, commissioner, public relations. According to data released by the Chhattisgarh government, it has purchased more than 92 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in 2020-21 as on January 31, 2021. Compared to the last six years, the percentage of farmers selling paddy in 2020-21 is 95.38, which is the highest ever since the state was formed. In 2015-16, 11,05,556 farmers out of 13,17,583 registered farmers had sold their paddy, a rate of 83.9 per cent. Out of 14,51,088 farmers registered in 2016-17, 13,27,944 sold paddy (91.5 per cent). Out of 15,77,332 farmers registered in 2017-18, 12,06,264 farmers sold paddy, a rate of 76.4 per cent. In 2018-19, out of 16,96,765 registered farmers, 15,71,414 farmers sold paddy (92.6 per cent). Similarly, out of 19,55,544 farmers registered in 2019-2020, a total of 18,38,593 farmers sold their paddy, which is 94.02 per cent. “Chief minister Baghel took the historic decision to waive off farmer loans and irrigation tax as soon as he came into power, which encouraged people to return to agriculture. Enthusiasm of the farmers was further boosted by providing Rs 10,000 per acre of agricultural input assistance under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Under this scheme, farmers of the state are being provided direct assistance of Rs 5,750 crore. Three instalments have been already transferred to the farmers’ accounts and the fourth will be transferred by March. “So far loans amounting to nearly Rs 9,000 crore have been waived in the state. We have managed to procure paddy from tribals who have got land under the Forest Rights Act,” said Sinha. Senior agriculture officials said that despite the adverse circumstances in the state, the government made adequate arrangements for the purchase of paddy. Smooth availability of gunny bags was ensured through several alternative arrangements to overcome their shortage. Payments to farmers were continuous. In addition to custom milling, lifting of paddy in the collection centres is also continuing. There has been a significant increase in the area of farming and farmers in the state in the last two years. The area under paddy cultivation has reached more than 27 lakh hectares and the number of registered farmers has reached 21,52,000 lakh. There has also been a significant increase in the area registered for paddy cultivation and the quantity of paddy purchased in the last six years. In 2015-16, 21,26,000 hectares of land was registered for paddy cultivation and 59 lakh metric tonnes of paddy purchased at support price. The area registered in 2016-17 was 23,42,000 hectares and 69 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. The area registered in 2017-18 was 24,46,000 hectares and 56 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. In 2018-19, the area registered for cultivation was 25,60,000 hectares and 80 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased. The area registered in 2019-20 was 26,88,000 hectares and paddy purchased was 83 lakh metric tonnes. During the 2018 Assembly polls, the Congress had promised paddy procurement at Rs 2,500 per quintal. It proved to be one of the catalysts in the party’s victory in the election. In view of the Covid-19 crisis hitting the farmers hard, the Chhattisgarh government has decided to pay for sugarcane and maize and other crops. “We have decided to pay an exchange grant of Rs 13,000 per acre for sugarcane farming,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
