07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Two teams of glaciologists will head to Joshimath-Tapovan to study causes||Two teams of glaciologists will head to Joshimath-Tapovan on Monday to study the causes of massive flood caused after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, the director of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said. Kalachand Sain said two teams of glaciologists - one with two members and other with three members - will leave Dehradun on Monday morning. The Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, under the aegis of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), studies various aspects of the Himalayas, including the glaciers and seismic activities in the region. It had also conducted studies on the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand that killed nearly 5,000 people. "The teams will study the reasons behind the incident. Our teams will be looking into different aspects of glaciology," Sain said, adding that it is too early to comment on the development. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least seven people dead and 125 missing who are feared dead. Sain added that the Sunday's incident was quite "peculiar" as there was no rain or melting of snow. The glacier burst led to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Twitter India policy head Mahima Kaul resigns||Microblogging site Twitter’s Public Policy Head for India and South Asia, Mahima Kaul resigned on Saturday citing personal reasons, a senior official of the company said. In a statement, Monique Meche, Vice President, Twitter Public Policy, said, "At the start of this year, Mahima Kaul decided to step down from her role as Twitter Public Policy Director for India and South Asia to take a well-deserved break. It's a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role, we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life." The centre has served a showcause notice to the company for "unilaterally" unblocking around 250 accounts that had been tweeting using hashtag ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide over the ongoing farmers' agitation. The Twitter handles had been tweeting or retweeting "fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets", according to the government. The handles of Caravan magazine and Kisan Ekta Morcha were among those withheld. The accounts of farmers’ group Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan were also blocked. Twitter has said Kaul’s resignation is not related to the Centre’s action. Prior to her resignation, Kaul has been allegedly blocking users who tagged her in posts asking her about Twitter’s pro-government stand. Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das had also quit after the company’s handling of hate speech was questioned. Facebook had denied any link to her resignation and the controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Green experts point at increased human intervention in Himalayan region||Increasing human intervention in ecologically sensitive Himalayan region is making it more vulnerable to climate change, environment experts said on Sunday as a glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, triggering massive flood in the state. The glacier burst triggered a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of Himalayas. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo-Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies have been recovered so far. “It is an unfortunate incident. Our thoughts are with the missing construction workers and affected people of Uttarakhand. While the exact cause of this incident is yet to be ascertained and needs an honest investigation, it is evident that increasing human interventions in ecologically sensitive Himalayan region are making it more vulnerable to climate change.” “Heavy construction work in the fragile eco-sensitive zones should be avoided,” Avinash Chanchal, senior climate and energy campaigner, Greenpeace India said. Another expert, Anjal Prakash, one of the lead authors of a special report on oceans and cryosphere of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), said while it was too early to explain the cause of the devastation, prima facie it seemed to be due to climate change and global warming which has become an alarming and irreversible situation now. He also said that the Himalayan region is the least monitored region and requires the government to spend more resources in tracking these areas closely so that there is more awareness. Himalayan region is the least monitored region and this event actually shows how vulnerable we could be. I would request the government to spend more resources in monitoring the region better so that we have more information about the change process. The result would be that we are more aware and could develop better adaptation practices, Prakash, who is also a Research Director and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad, said. Terming the glacier burst as a rare incident, Mohd Farooq Azam, Assistant Professor, Glaciology and Hydrology, IIT Indore said satellite and Google Earth images do not show a glacial lake near the region, but there is a possibility of a water pocket. "It is a rare incident for a glacial burst to happen. Satellite and Google Earth images do not show a glacial lake near the region, but there is a possibility that there may be a water pocket in the region. Water pockets are lakes inside the glaciers, which may have erupted leading to this event. We need further analysis, weather reports and data to confirm if this indeed was the case, he said. Azam further said the thermal profile of ice is increasing, as earlier the temperature of ice ranged from -6 to -20 degree Celsius, it is now -2 degrees, making it more susceptible to melting. It is unlikely that this was a cloud burst since weather reports in Chamoli district show sunny weather till today with no record of precipitation. There is no doubt that global warming has resulted in the warming of the region. Climate change-driven erratic weather patterns like increased snowfall and rainfall, and warmer winters have led to the melting point of a lot of snow, he said. Greenpeace India's Chanchal said there was a need to rethink about the current development model for the Himalayan region. In 2013, Uttarakhand saw similar incident because of glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF). Researchers said this happened because of global warming which is leading to melting glaciers. They also had warned that such events might happen more frequently in the future. To tackle this, we need to rethink the current development model for the Himalayan region. It cannot happen at the cost of environment and local communities, Chanchal said. According to official sources, several districts in Uttarakhand, including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun, are likely to be affected and have been put on high alert. Pointing out the findings of a recent report of Hindu Kush Himalayan Monitoring and Assessment Programme (HIMAP), Prakash said temperatures are rising in the Hindu Kush Himalayan region so the impact in this area will be more. The HIMAP report facilitated by ICIMOD (International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development) shows that temperatures are rising in the Hindu-Kush Himalayan (HKH) region and the rise in global temperature will have more impact in the Himalayan region due to elevation-dependent warming. If the world can keep the temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius in the HKH region, it will translate to at least a rise of 1.8 degrees, and in some places, above 2.2 degrees Celsius, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Glacier bursts in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district triggering an avalanche||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flood: 2019 study warned Himalayan glaciers melting at alarming speed||A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to massive floods, recalling a 2019 study that warned about the dangers of climate change and said Himalayan glaciers have been melting twice as fast since the start of this century. The glacier collapse at Joshimath led to a massive flood in the Alaknanda river system and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Two years earlier in June 2019, a study spanning 40 years of satellite observations across India, China, Nepal and Bhutan, indicated that climate change is eating the Himalayas’ glaciers. The study, published in the journal Science Advances in June 2019, shows that glaciers have been losing the equivalent of more than a vertical foot and half of ice each year since 2000 - double the amount of melting that took place from 1975 to 2000. “This is the clearest picture yet of how fast Himalayan glaciers are melting over this time interval, and why,” said Joshua Maurer, a PhD candidate at Columbia University in the US. While not specifically calculated in the study, the glaciers may have lost as much as a quarter of their enormous mass over the last four decades, said Maurer, lead author of the study. The study synthesised data from across the region, stretching from early satellite observations to the present. The data indicates that the melting is consistent in time and space, and that rising temperatures are to blame, the researchers said. Temperatures vary from place to place, but from 2000 to 2016 they have averaged one degree Celsius higher than those from 1975 to 2000, they said. Researchers analysed repeat satellite images of some 650 glaciers spanning 2,000 kilometres from west to east. Many of the 20th-century observations came from declassified photographic images taken by the US spy satellites. They created an automated system to turn these into three dimensional (3D) models that could show the changing elevations of glaciers over time. The researchers then compared these images with post-2000 optical data from more sophisticated satellites, which more directly convey elevation changes. They found that from 1975 to 2000, glaciers across the region lost an average of about 0.25 metres of ice each year in the face of slight warming. Following a more pronounced warming trend starting in the 1990s, starting in 2000 the loss accelerated to about half a metre annually. Researchers noted that Asian nations are burning ever-greater loads of fossil fuels and biomass, sending soot into the sky, adding much of it eventually lands on snowy glacier surfaces, where it absorbs solar energy and hastens melting. They compiled temperature data during the study period from ground stations and then calculated the amount of melting that observed temperature increases would be expected to produce. The team then compared those figures with what actually happened. “It looks just like what we would expect if warming were the dominant driver of ice loss,” Maurer said. The Himalayas are generally not melting as fast as the Alps, but the general progression is similar, the researchers said. The study did not include the huge adjoining ranges of high-mountain Asia such as the Pamir, Hindu Kush or Tian Shan, but other studies suggest similar melting is underway there as well. The researchers noted that some 800 million people depend in part on seasonal runoff from Himalayan glaciers for irrigation, hydropower and drinking water. The accelerated melting appears so far to be swelling runoff during warm seasons, but scientists project that this will taper off within decades as the glaciers lose mass. This, the researchers said, will eventually lead to water shortages. The study shows that “even glaciers in the highest mountains of the world are responding to global air temperature increases driven by the combustion of fossil fuels,” said Joseph Shea, a glacial geographer at the University of Northern British Columbia in Canada, who was not involved in the study. “In the long term, this will lead to changes in the timing and magnitude of streamflow in a heavily populated region,” said Shea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
07-02-2021||India||Instead of 'tareekh par tareekh' it should be 'prastav par prastav': Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestion" so far.  Reiterating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to farmer unions that the government was "just a phone away" to discuss any issues raised by them, Goyal said "but for that somebody at least has to make a call so that we can move forward."  "This government is sensitive towards farmers' issues. The PM and the government is ready to discuss it with them. The PM even said he was just a phone call away, but somebody at least has to call so that we can move forward," the minister said during a press conference here.  He added that the farmers were being misled on a few issues and some people have been successful at confusing them.  "We even proposed to make the laws stricter through change of wordings, we proposed to suspend the laws for 18 months. We keep reading in the news 'tareekh par tareekh' (date after date) but it should be 'prastav par prastav' (proposal after proposal). But we are yet to hear a concrete suggestion from the farmers," said Goyal, who is also the minister of Railways and Commerce and Industry.  The government has held 11 rounds of talks with farmer leaders, the last one being held on January 22 before the tractor parade on January 26 which ended in violent clashes between the police and the protestors.  The minister also condemned the act of hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor parade on Republic Day, calling it "unfortunate", while insisting that the government was ready to move past that and find a solution through dialogue.  He added that when the government brings a bill it is for the benefit of the people and if anyone has issues with it, they should bring it up instead of depriving others of it.  "There are crores of farmers in India, these laws will benefit them, especially the small farmers. We have looked into how to improve their income. We understand these will only benefit the farmer, if you have issues we can discuss but why deprive the rest of them from its benefits," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||PM approves Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for kin of those dead||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the avalanche caused by a glacial burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The PMO also mentioned that Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and trapped over 100 labourers who are feared dead. “PM Narendra Modi has approved an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttrakhand. Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” the PMO tweeted. The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers - all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga - triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas. Two power projects NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing. As night fell in the ecologically fragile Himalayas and rescue work in the difficult to access areas became more difficult, there were fears they may be dead. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 were missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Narendra Modi accuses Bengal government of misgovernance ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not implementing several central schemes in Bengal, saying people expected her to show 'mamta' (affection) but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty). At his first public rally in the poll-bound state here, Modi tore into the TMC government, accusing it of "corruption and misgovernance", and said the ruling dispensation committed "several fouls" in the last 10 years because of which the people have decided to oust it from power. "Bengal expected 'mamta' (affection) from Mamata Banerjee but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty) in the last 10 years... The TMC government is just a rebirth of the misrule of the Left Front government in the state," he said. Mocking Mamata for getting angry over slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', Modi wondered why she remained silent when conspiracies were hatched to malign the country. "She gets angry when she hears slogans hailing the motherland. She gets angry when you demand your rights. But she remains silent when conspiracies are hatched to malign the nation," he said. "There are some conspirators who're trying to destroy India's image associated with tea and yoga-- made famous by iconic Indians-- all across the world. Has Didi spoken anything about these conspirators? The country will respond to such conspiracies with all force at its command," he said. Accusing the TMC of criminalising politics, institutionalising corruption and politicising civil administration and police, he exuded confidence of forming the next government in Bengal. "The people of Bengal have made up their mind to elect a BJP government in the next assembly polls. In the first cabinet meeting of the BJP government, a decision will be taken to implement all central schemes in the state," he asserted. PM inaugurates host of project in poll-bound state Modi also dedicated to the nation several infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector in this port town on Sunday, including the ambitious 348-km Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline built by government-owned GAIL. The prime minister said that apart from laying gas pipelines across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Project, focus is on reducing the price of natural gas. He also inaugurated an LPG import terminal of Bharat Petroleum, besides a four-lane road overbridge at Ranichak in Haldia as part of the port connectivity highway project. He also laid the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery. "Gas-based economic systems are India's need and 'One nation one gas grid' is an important project to meet this requirement," Modi said. He said that apart from Bengal, the Dobhi- Durgapur gas pipeline will benefit 10 districts in Jharkhand and Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||President, VP, other leaders condole 'shocking' Uttarakhand floods||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said he was deeply worried about the massive glacier burst at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district and prayed for the wellbeing and safety of people. In a tweet, Kovind also said he was confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well. "Deeply worried about the glacier burst near Joshimath, Uttarakhand, that caused destruction in the region. Praying for wellbeing and safety of people. Am confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well," he tweeted. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday prayed for the safety of those affected. "I join the nation in praying for the safety of all those affected by the flash flood caused by a glacier burst in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. The vice president said he is sure that the state and central governments are trying their best to mitigate the crisis. PM Narendra Modi tweeted, "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising from the glacier burst and the resulting floods. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said teams of the NDRF were deployed for rescue and relief operations of the affected people while additional troops of the force were being airlifted from Delhi. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said she was deeply shocked over the disaster. "Deeply shocked and very saddened at the loss of lives in the disaster that took place in Uttarakhand. My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. Wishing a speedy and full recovery for those injured in the calamity," she said on Twitter. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government is ready to extend every possible help to the people of Uttarakhand. "The news about the disaster in Chamoli is really worrisome. I pray for everybody's safety. The Delhi government is ready to send every possible help to people of Uttarakhand in this difficult time," he tweeted in Hindi. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies were recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||India after US, UK in terms of number of vaccines administered||India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India. The ministry said 12 states in India have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 6,73,542 of all vaccinated beneficiaries. Till February 7, 8 am, a total of 57.75 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccine under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers, the ministry said. In a span of 24 hours, 3,58,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 8,875 sessions. Also, a total 1,15,178 sessions have been conducted so far. "There has been a sustained increase in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day," the ministry said. "In another significant development, the country has reported less than 80 daily deaths in the last 24 hours, lowest in nine months," it said. The country's total Covid-19 active case is 1.48 lakh which consists of 1.37 per cent of India's total infections. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1.05 crore. A total of 12,059 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 11,805 patients have recovered and discharged during the same period. The ministry said 81.07 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,178 newly recovered cases. A total of 1,739 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 503 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said 84.83 per cent of the daily new cases are from 6 States and UTs. Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 5,942. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,768, while Karnataka reported 531 new cases. A total of 78 fatalities have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. Five states and UTs account for 69.23 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (25). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 5 casualties, the ministry said. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any deaths in a span of 24 hours. These include Haryana, Goa, Jammu and Kashmir (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Ladakh inks MoU with ONGC Energy Centre to become carbon-neutral||A historic tripartite agreement for establishing India's first-ever geothermal field development project here has been signed, with Ladakh Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur terming it a step towards achieving the goal of carbon-neutral Ladakh. The pact was signed between Union Territory Administration Ladakh, Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Energy Centre in presence of Mathur and MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal on the sidelines of the first developmental conclave here on Saturday, an official spokesperson said. Ladakh Power Development Department Administrative Secretary Ravinder Kumar and LAHDC Chief Executive Officer Sachin Kumar Vaishya signed the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ONGC Energy Centre. In Phase-1 of this pilot project, 1 megawatt (MW) power generation capacity shall be generated and 100 per cent free power shall be supplied to the general public, the spokesperson said adding that ONGC Energy Centre is the implementing agency for this pilot project. The Phase-2 shall involve deeper and lateral exploration of geothermal reservoir by drilling optimal number of wells and setting up of a higher capacity demo plant in Ladakh, while Phase-3 shall be a commercial project as per discovered capacity, the spokesperson said. "The signing of the MoU with ONGC for the first geothermal project in India is a promising initiative towards innovative and sustainable development of Ladakh and also a step towards achieving the goal of carbon-neutral Ladakh," the lieutenant governor said. He stressed the need to study and learn from other countries about developing tourism and greenhouses around the geothermal project. Mathur thanked ONGC Energy Centre for commencing the geothermal project in Ladakh and urged it to execute the project at the earliest and ramp it up to 200 MW capacity for greater benefit. Giving a description of the pilot project, ONGC Energy Centre Director General Sanjeev S Katti said the energy from this project will give round-the-clock power supplies and the hot water from the spring could be used for space-heating and establishing hot swimming pools to attract tourists. Namgyal thanked Mathur for helping Ladakh enter a new era of development and emphasised on advocating the 'Vocal for Local' concept for making Ladakh a self-sustainable region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Modi launches Assam Mala scheme, says he dreams of launching medical college||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday he has a dream of setting up at least one medical college and a technical institution in each state that will impart education in the local language. He was addressing a gathering after launching the 'Assam Mala' scheme to upgrade state highways and laying the foundation for two medical colleges. "There is no dearth of talent in the villages and far-flung areas. I have a daring dream of each state having at least one medical college and a technical institution imparting education in the local language," he said, promising setting up such institutions in Assam after the assembly elections. He said this will improve medical services in remote areas as more and more doctors will be able to reach out to people in their mother tongue and understand their problems. The two medical colleges and hospitals will come up in Biswanath and Charaideo districts. He claimed Assam has witnessed unprecedented development in the last five years with increased health and infrastructure development. Until 2016 there were only six medical colleges in the state but six more were added in just five years. The number of seats in medical colleges have gone up from 725 to 1,600 now, he said. The prime minister said the 'Asom Mala' scheme will lead to creation of new oppurtunities. Under the scheme the Public Works Department (PWD) will upgrade the state highways. Modi said he always linked the condition of tea garden workers to the development of Assam. "But documents have emerged to show that a conspiracy has been hatched outside the country to defame Indian tea. I am sure the tea workers from Assam will give a befitting reply to these forces," he said without elaborating. The Asom Mala scheme, with an outlay of Rs 8,210 crore, will provide inter-linkage between highways and rural roads and high speed corridors. The Medical College and Hospital at Biswanath will be set up at an estimated cost of Rs 565 crore and Rs 557 crore will be spent on the facility at Charaideo. They will have 100 seats each and serve as hubs of medical education and also improve doctor to patient ratio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||U'khand glacier burst leaves seven dead, at least 125 missing||Seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 people went missing following a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river which broke a part of the Nanda Devi glacier at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, causing large-scale devastation and a massive avalanche in the Alaknanda river system. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the numbers could be higher and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of those killed in the "massive disaster". Hydel power projects devastated Two power projects - NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters and sludge came rushing in. Seven bodies have been recovered from one of the tunnels in Tapovan and a search for the rest of the missing people is underway by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, Rawat said on his return from a visit to the affected areas. He said at least 125 people including two policemen were missing and the numbers could be higher as authorities of the damaged hydel projects are not in a position to give a precise figure. A 13.2 MW small hydro project on the Rishiganga river was swept away in the glacier burst, but there is no danger of floods in the downstream areas as the water level has been contained. This was conveyed to the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, at an emergency meeting held here on Sunday evening. The extent of damage to the two hydel projects is being assessed by their management, he said. Rescue operations The NCMC was also informed that people trapped in a hydropower project tunnel were rescued by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), while efforts are on to rescue those trapped in another tunnel. The operation is being coordinated by the Army and the ITBP, an official spokesperson said. Two teams of the NDRF (35-45 personnel each) have been sent and three additional teams have been flown in from Hindon airport in Ghaziabad. All efforts are focussed at the moment to pull out those feared trapped inside the other tunnels that are clogged with 35-40 feet of debris, Rawat said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force personnel have penetrated up to 150 metres into the 250-metre-long tunnel but they have not been able to contact any of the trapped employees or workmen, he said. Roads and bridges damaged One motorable road and four suspension bridges connecting 7-8 villages in the area with the district headquarters have also been washed away by the avalanche. The disconnected villages include Gahar, Bhangyun, Raini Palli, Pang Lata, Suraithota, Tolma and Fagrasu. Arrangements have been made to continue uninterrupted supplies of essentials to these villages, Rawat said. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadoriya and Superintendent of Police P Yashwant Singh Chauhan are camping at the site, the chief minister said. There are 17 gram sabha areas affected by the avalanche, out of which 11 are inhabited while the residents of the rest had moved to lower areas during the winter, Rawat said. All arrangements are in place to deal with any eventuality including IAF and private helicopters which are on stand-by. Centre assures help Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising from the glacier burst and the resulting floods. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said teams of the NDRF were deployed for rescue and relief operations of the affected people while additional troops of the force were being airlifted from Delhi. "I have spoken to Chief Minister @tsrawatbjp ji, DG ITBP and DG NDRF regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All the concerned officers are working on a war footing to secure the people. NDRF teams have left for rescue operations. Every possible help will be provided to 'Devbhoomi'," he said. Shah said the central government is constantly monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand. "Some more teams of NDRF are being airlifted from Delhi and sent to Uttarakhand. We are constantly monitoring the situation there," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||Covid: 78 fatalities in a day, lowest in nine months||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,26,363 with 12,059 new infections being reported in a day, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the third time this month, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,54,996 with 78 daily new fatalities, the lowest recorded after nine months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,22,601, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.20 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,766 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 20,13,68,378 samples have been tested up to February 6 with 6,95,789 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||One month after being detained, Munawar Faruqui released from Indore jail||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui walked out of Indore central jail late on Saturday night, a day after the Supreme Court granted him bail in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui was released from the jail after the prison authorities received the order of the Supreme Court, an official of the jail said. Arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was lodged  in Indore jail since January 1. On Friday, the Supreme Court granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea on January 28. The Apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there. Eyewitnesses said that the comedian walked out of the jail silently and quietly possibly to avoid a backlash in the wake of accusations made against him. Mediapersons also flocked outside the jail after getting the news of his release. Sometime before his release, an official of the Indore central jail, had said that a court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18. Citing the jail manual, he said that an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer was needed to release him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
07-02-2021||India||For talks to resume, end repression: Farm leaders to Govt||Amid informal feelers from the government on resuming talks, farmer union leaders on Saturday said a conducive atmosphere should be created first by ending the repression, including the Internet ban, withdrawing fake cases and putting an end to the false narrative being spun around the movement. The union leaders addressed a news conference from the Singhu border after the completion of the nationwide chakka jam that was largely peaceful and drew participation from beyond the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, with farmers blocking highways in Hyderabad and Karnataka. The union leaders described the widespread participation as a fitting response to the Centre’s claim that the protest was limited to one state — Punjab. In particular, the union leaders are upset with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for “lying” in Parliament and claiming that farmer unions had not pointed out what was “black” (wrong) with the three new farm laws. During the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, Tomar had said the farm laws were an issue in only one state. He had added that neither the Opposition nor the farmer unions had explained what was wrong with the laws that the protesters had dubbed “black”. “This is nothing but an outright lie,” a union leader said, pointing not just to the chakka jam by farmers in various states on Saturday but also to half-a-dozen state legislatures having either passed resolutions against the farm laws or come out with their own laws to counter them. While Delhi, Kerala, Punjab and Bengal have passed resolutions against the three laws, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have enacted their own laws as a counter. Balkaran Singh Brar of the All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab) said Tomar was misrepresenting facts in Parliament. “He said something else during the 11 meetings with farmers and something else in Parliament to paint us in a poor light.” Others asked why the government had agreed to the amendments if the laws were perfect. Asserting that the farmers were determined to continue with the agitation till their demands were met, Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab) president Dattar Singh said: “On the one hand, the government says it is willing to talk and on the other, it claims that the farmers have nothing to say. They should create a conducive atmosphere first. They should drop the false cases against the farmers, release those they have arrested on trumped-up charges, end the repression at the protest sites and restore the Internet.” Earlier, at the Ghazipur border, Rakesh Tikait had again made it clear that the farmers were prepared to continue their agitation till October 2, after which a new strategy would be drawn up. He asked the farmers to follow the method of rotation adopted by Punjab farmers at Singhu to keep the movement energetic, with fresh batches coming from the villages at regular intervals to replace those at the protest site. Instead of everyone converging at Ghazipur, Tikait said, those back home should remain on alert to move towards Delhi at short notice the way they had done on January 28. With the government persistently trying to project the farmers’ protest as “anti-national”, Tikait has now asked the farmers to join the protests with pictures of their family members in the armed services and the police in the spirit of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”, echoing the refrain that the average soldier is a farmer in uniform. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha —which had given the chakka jam call to protest the repression and the cut in the agricultural budget and demand the repeal of the three laws — said farmers had participated even in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, besides Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala. In Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, there was participation despite the late Friday evening decision by Tikait to exempt the two states, fearing efforts to orchestrate violence to discredit the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Meena Harris highlights Indian woman and trade unionist’s plight||A tweet by American activist Meenakshi “Meena” Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, has drawn public attention to the arrest of a young Indian woman and trade unionist who was agitating against erratic wage payment in an industrial cluster near Delhi. Nodeep Kaur, arrested on January 12 after a demonstration in front of metal-cutting firm Sharan Elecmech in Haryana’s Kundli Industrial Area, faces charges of attempt to murder, extortion and other offences and has twice been refused bail. The cluster is close to the farmers’ Singhu protest site, where she has delivered speeches. Meena Harris has expressed support for the agitating farmers and been vocal about the misogynist online trolling she has since faced from Right-wing Indians. On Saturday she tweeted two photos, one of a Hindu extremist group burning her picture on Thursday and the other of a girl holding a poster for Kaur’s release at a protest on Wednesday. “Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India,” Harris tweeted. “I’ll tell you — 23 yo (year old) labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured… in police custody. She’s been detained without bail for over 20 days,” Harris added, mentioning a charge that does not permit under law identification of the victim in India. The police of Sonipat, Haryana, issued a statement on Saturday that did not mention Harris but denied the specific charge. According to the police, seven of their personnel were injured by the protesting workers, including Kaur, a Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist. She was arrested from the spot on January 12 and is in Karnal district jail. A January 17 statement by a rights group, Campaign Against State Repression, said that Kaur — who is from a poor Dalit family of activist peasants in Punjab’s Muktsar district — was thrashed in police custody and specified injuries. In response to a question on the charge levelled by Harris, Kaur’s lawyer Jitendar Kumar told The Telegraph on Saturday: “She was beaten up…. She was present at the protest in front of the factories when police did a lathi charge. When she tried to defend herself, she was arrested and booked.” Kaur’s photo has been displayed at the anti-farm-law protests, and farmer leaders have called for her release. An interview she gave at the Singhu protest was widely circulated after her arrest. In the video, tweeted by several people including poet Rupi Kaur, Nodeep Kaur says: “Farmers and labourers are inseparable. We are both producers. Workers produce in the factories and farmers produce in the fields…. We are both constantly being pushed backwards. The government is selling us, our rights, to make money for themselves.” She goes on to castigate privatisation and the violation of minimum-wage laws at Haryana’s factories. “Women are even more oppressed than men, be it in the fields or the factories,” she says. “When a revolutionary organisation speaks out against the government, there are other things that happen like a change in mindset. That’s why we ask more women to join us.” Kaur had begun working as a daily wage earner in Kundli a few years ago to save up to enrol in Delhi University, where her sister Rajveer is doing her PhD in Punjabi. Kaur had not been employed for the past few months since joining the farmers’ protest at Singhu. The Sonipat police’s statement came ostensibly in response to a report by the “Sikh Press Association” that said Kaur had been assaulted in custody. Apart from denying the charge, the police shared videos of the workers clashing with personnel on January 12. “From the police station, she (Kaur) was taken to Civil Hospital, Sonipat, on the same day after her arrest for the mandatory medical examination. Here again she was escorted by two lady personnel the entire time,” the statement says. “At the Civil Hospital, she underwent not just a general medical examination but also a special medical examination by a lady doctor… where she herself gave a written statement to the female doctor that she doesn’t want to be medically examined as she had not been assaulted. “Immediately after the medical examination, she was presented before the chief judicial magistrate within a few hours of arrest to seek judicial remand. Notably, she was again escorted by two lady police officials for this purpose. Here again, she did not disclose/ mention anything about any assault by police officials to the magistrate. “As per the directions of the magistrate, she was taken to Karnal jail that very night, accompanied by two lady police officials, for judicial custody. And she has been staying there for the past three weeks. “It is pertinent to mention that police did not seek any police remand in the case and the accused was arrested, produced in court and sent to jail on the same day within a matter of a few hours following due procedure under law.” Informal workers in India last year witnessed an average 22.6 per cent fall in wages, while formal-sector employees had their salaries cut by 3.6 per cent, according to the International Labour Organisation. Its report, released in December, said that real wage growth in India was one of the lowest in the Asia Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir schools seek 4G loss apology from Centre||Jammu and Kashmir’s private schools on Saturday sought an apology from the government for depriving the region’s students of high-speed Internet for 18 months, underlining the academic loss and mental trauma it had caused to tens of thousands of youngsters. Expressing surprise that certain dignitaries had lauded the government for restoring 4G on Friday night as though it was a favour, the schools asked who would compensate for the academic years and jobs lost. “When a small road is dug up or there is interruption in TV services, even the contractor or operator says ‘Sorry for inconvenience’,” the Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir, which represents hundreds of schools, said. “But here, the high-speed Internet service was cut off for 18 months for millions of people and there was not even a murmur or sadness in their words.” The schools’ association added: “The government could have shown a small courtesy by announcing its restoration with a small apology.” High-speed Internet had stayed suspended in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions on August 5, 2019. All these months, educational institutions in the region had remained shut except for a few days, first because of a government clampdown and then the pandemic. Along with many other institutions and individuals, the schools had fought unsuccessfully to have high-speed Internet restored so that online classes could be held. Last month, the association had approached the Supreme Court, describing how students had “already lost two academic years because it is impossible to conduct online classes using videoconferencing tools like Zoom or WebEx at 2G mobile Internet speed”. It had said the prolonged school closure had prompted the local board to reduce the syllabus by 40 per cent for the annual exams but no such concession was available at national-level competitive exams. “Many students have been forced to leave their families and live outside Jammu and Kashmir to prepare for competitive exams. Those without such privilege are left to compete with students from the rest of (the) country on an unequal field,” the petition said. Association head G.N. Var said those celebrating the restoration of 4G and thanking the government were rubbing salt into the students’ wounds. “Why should it be celebrated? They are trying to show they have done some favour to us,” Var told The Telegraph. Several dignitaries including lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha have thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the restoration of 4G but expressed no regrets over its long suspension. “I thank the Hon’ble PM @narendramodi Ji and HM @AmitShah Ji for acceding to our request and restoring 4G services in the entire J&K UT. The move will fulfil the aspirations of the people, particularly the youth,” Sinha’s office has tweeted. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has tweeted “4G Mubarak.... Better late than never”, and BJP ally Altaf Bukhari has thanked Modi. Var said many students were suffering from stress, anxiety and depression. “You have students who purchased the study material for online classes but could not download it. The online classes were characterised by repeated buffering, all of which takes a toll,” he said, adding he feared an outbreak of post-traumatic stress disorder. “One cannot undo the huge psychological and academic loss caused by 18 months of Internet ban. But another aspect of it was the financial loss, which the government should consider for compensation. Similarly, thousands of jobs and thousands of opportunities for our students were lost because of the Internet blockade.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Union Budget 2021: Modi govt cuts defence pension allocation for this fiscal year||The Narendra Modi government has cut its defence pension allocation in this year’s budget, angering ex-servicemen who were expecting an increased outlay in keeping with the one-rank-one-pension (Orop) scheme’s requirement of five-yearly pension revisions, already delayed by a year. Retired officers said the country’s more than 30.5 lakh ex-servicemen felt cheated by a government that habitually hails the army to underline its nationalistic credentials. They now feared that let alone an increased pension, they might not even receive their arrears from previous years. “The government had earlier cheated ex-servicemen by failing to implement Orop in letter and spirit (by balking at yearly pension revisions). It has now reduced the pension bill in this year’s budget. Neither jawan nor kisan is happy with this government,” a former army commander told The Telegraph, requesting anonymity. Orop had been a longstanding demand from ex-servicemen seeking pension parity between those who had retired with the same rank and same length of service, irrespective of when they retired — with any future hikes for recent pensioners “automatically” passing on to their older peers. While the Manmohan Singh government kept stalling, Modi had during the 2014 election campaign promised to implement the demand. His government introduced Orop in 2015 but stipulated parity-restoring revisions every five years, disappointing the veterans who wanted annual revisions. While last year’s budget set aside Rs 133,804 crore for defence pensions in its budget, the allocation for 2021-22 is Rs 115,826 crore, a fall of more than 13.4 per cent. Even the actual spending in 2019-20 on defence pensions was higher than this year’s budget allocation. (See chart) Defence ministry officials said the pension bill had been inflated last year to pay arrears of about Rs 18,000 crore, so the allocation was essentially the same this year. Told that this year’s allocation suggested the government would not implement the five-yearly revision — already due last year — they said Orop was draining the exchequer and coming in the way of buying military hardware and executing modernisation programmes. “The defence pension bill has more than doubled from Rs 55,000 crore in 2015, and is threatening to overtake the salary bill for serving personnel,” a ministry official said. “The government has realised that its decision to implement Orop has boomeranged. This was why the UPA had dragged its feet on the matter.” A serving army official too said: “The rise in pension expenditure has hobbled the modernisation of the armed forces amid the border standoff with China. The government has realised it and slashed the pension budget.” But the veterans are unhappy. A retired officer said that had the five-yearly revision taken place, the government would have had to cough up an additional Rs 8,000-10,000 crore each year. “Orop is another jumla (wordplay) by the government,” he said. A retired colonel said: “It’s clear that the plank of Balakot-driven muscular nationalism was meant only to win votes. This government has cheated ex-servicemen by not even revising the pensions as promised.” Overall, this year’s defence outlay is Rs 4.78 lakh crore, up from Rs 4.71 lakh crore last year. The allocation for capital expenditure is Rs 1.35 lakh core, up 19 per cent from last year’s Rs 1.13 lakh crore. A recent proposal by the department of military affairs, headed by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, to raise the retirement age for officers and reduce pension for those choosing premature retirement too has angered serving and retired personnel. Defence ministry sources said the proposal is to raise the retirement age from 54 to 57 for colonels, from 56 to 58 for brigadiers, and from 58 to 59 for major generals. Lieutenant generals’ retirement age remains 60. Army sources said the main cause of the resentment was the suggestion to cut the pension entitlement of those seeking premature release. Now, an officer can seek premature release after having served 20 years and is entitled to a pension that is half his or her last-drawn salary. Under the new proposal, an officer with 20-25 years of service will get 50 per cent of the “entitled pension”, which in turn is half the last pay drawn. An officer with 26-30 years’ service will get 60 per cent of the “entitled pension” and one with 30-35 years will get 75 per cent. Only officers who have served more than 35 years will be entitled to the full pension. A defence ministry official said raising the retirement age would “ensure productivity” while “reducing the pension outgo will cut costs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Govt jobs on contract raise quota concern ||The government has advertised 30 posts of joint secretaries and directors to be appointed on contract, the second such instance in two years prompting Ambedkarite scholars and Opposition politicians to allege a ploy to bypass reservation for socially deprived sections. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday issued an advertisement for three posts of joint secretaries and 27 posts of directors in central government ministries and departments for professionals, including those working in the private sector. The interested candidates will be selected on the basis of interviews. Adherence to reservation policies is not needed while recruiting employees on a contractual basis. In 2018, the government had advertised 10 posts of joint secretaries through lateral entry on contract. The UPSC selected nine candidates, of which eight joined. Arun Khobragade, chairman of the Babasaheb Ambedkar Services and Industry Chamber, said appointments on contract and the sale of public sector undertakings (PSUs) were part of a “systematic process” to bypass reservation. “This kind of appointments through lateral entry has become a regular phenomenon. The government wants to pick its preferred persons and bypass reservation through these appointments and the privatisation of government sector organisations,” Khobragade said. A central government official currently working as a deputy secretary in a ministry said he was among several officials who were eligible for promotion to the post of director but had not been given an opportunity. The contractual appointments in the posts of director will further defer their promotion, he said. Rastriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday raised the issue. “You (the government) should explain whether UPSC selection procedure is failing to ensure ‘willing, motivated & talented’ candidates for ‘nation building’ or hand-picked ones are more so? Isn’t it another ploy to sideline & reduce reservation for deprived section?” he tweeted. He had on Friday demanded the immediate halt to lateral entries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Big crowds at UP farm rallies||Farmers organised panchayats at 10 places in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district on Saturday and pledged to continue the protests against the three farm laws till the Narendra Modi government repealed them. At several places, the attendance at the rallies was in excess of 10,000. Earlier, the farmers’ organisations had planned to hold a big panchayat in Saharanpur city after Saturday’s chakka jam but altered the plan after farm leader Rakesh Tikait announced that Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand would be kept out of the purview of the strike for fear of orchestrated violence to discredit the movement. Also, as farmers would be busy in their fields and might not be able to travel to the city, the need was felt to hold panchayats in several areas across the district. Chaudhary Vinay Kumar, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), said: “We worked round the clock for the past week for the success of the chakka jam. We had also planned to hold a mahapanchayat in the afternoon. But it was decided at the eleventh hour that the chakka jam would not be implemented in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Also, a large number of peasants would be transporting their sugarcane harvest to mills and they shouldn’t be disturbed. So, we quickly resolved to organise 10 panchayats in the districts. It was a huge success as on an average 8,000 farmers were present at each of the panchayats.” Kumar said the panchayats were held at those points where the farmers had planned to organise the chakka jam. At several of the places the attendance was over 10,000, such as at Shahjahanpur-Ambala Road in Sarsawa, Manoharpur-Dehradun Road in Biharigarh, Nagla-Muzaffarnagar Road in Nagla, Tikraul-Nanauta Road in Deoband, Vikasnagar-Behat Road in Mirzapur and Gagalheri-Bhagwanpur Road in Gagalheri. “The speakers pledged to continue with the protests at Delhi’s borders till the Centre realises its mistakes and withdraws the controversial laws,” Kumar said. Amit Mukhiya, a farmer leader in Saharanpur, said: “We have understood from our successful panchayats that such events should be held across the country. There was constructive debate on the three farm laws. The farmers were of the view that they should keep holding more such panchayats at the village level every day and keep an eye on the developments at Delhi’s borders where massive dharnas are going on. We should be ready to reach the borders if the government uses force to remove the protesters from there.” Farmers’ mahapanchayats in Uttar Pradesh against the farm laws have been drawing massive crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Twitter Inc refuses to comply with Centre's directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts ||Twitter Inc’s refusal to comply with an Indian government directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts has put the social media giant at the centre of a political firestorm in one of its key markets. Government officials, business people and ordinary netizens are split over free speech and the US company’s compliance practices, in a controversy that comes soon after Twitter’s top lobbyist in India resigned. The showdown, after the firm this week “declined to abide (by) and obey” the order to remove posts and accounts that the government said risked inciting violence, is the latest instance of worsening relationships between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration and US social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp. For Twitter, the stakes are high in a country of 1.3 billion where it has millions of users and is ardently used by Modi, his cabinet ministers and other leaders to communicate with the public. Farmers are conducting a growing protest against new agriculture laws, with tens of thousands camping out on the outskirts of New Delhi and launching a nationwide road blockade on Saturday. As the prolonged crisis escalated, the government this week sought an “emergency blocking” of the “provocative” Twitter hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide” and dozens of accounts. Twitter initially complied but later restored most of the accounts, citing “insufficient justification” to continue the suspensions. The technology ministry warned the company, in a letter seen by Reuters, of legal “consequences” that could include fines or jail, saying the government was not required to justify its demand to ban accounts. Twitter’s public policy director Mahima Kaul recently resigned from her role, two sources said. A LinkedIn ad showed the company is seeking candidates for the key government relations position. Kaul did not respond to a request for comment. Twitter confirmed Kaul’s resignation, saying she would stay on through March and was helping with the transition, but otherwise declined to comment. It said this week that it withholds access to content on receiving a “properly scoped request from an authorised entity”. Free speech activists say the government should not attempt to use legal provisions to muzzle freedom of expression, while others argue Twitter should comply or go to court. “Twitter is playing with fire,” said an Indian social media executive who was surprised by the company’s non-compliance. “If there is a legal request, you are required to take down content. You are free to challenge it” in court. In 2019, a parliamentary panel headed by a BJP lawmaker warned Twitter after CEO Jack Dorsey failed to appear before the committee. The previous year Dorsey sparked a social media storm after a picture of him holding a poster saying “smash Brahminical patriarchy” went viral. This week, Dorsey became a talking point on Indian TV news after he liked a tweet suggesting the company should consider introducing a farmer protest emoji. Meenakashi Lekhi, a BJP lawmaker who heads a parliamentary panel on data privacy, criticised Twitter for disobeying government orders, adding she has yet to decide whether to summon company executives. “Twitter needs to understand they are not lawmakers,” Lekhi told Reuters. “It is not their policy which will work, it is the policy of the state, country which will work.” Prasanth Sugathan of Software Freedom Law Centre India, said: “The selective government approach to ask social media companies to ban content when it doesn’t suit the official narrative is problematic. It stifles free speech and press freedom.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Congressional India Caucus urge Modi govt to ensure that norms of democracy are maintained ||The co-chairs of the Congressional India Caucus, the largest country-specific caucus of the US House of Representatives, have urged the Narendra Modi government to ensure that norms of democracy are maintained and protesters are allowed to demonstrate peacefully and have access to the Internet. They have decided to speak to the Indian ambassador in Washington regarding the farmers’ protests, co-chair Brad Sherman said in a tweet. “Today I convened a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus with Co-Chair @RepSteveChabot and Vice Chair @RepRoKhanna to speak with the Ambassador of India @SandhuTaranjitS regarding the farmers’ demonstrations. I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained, that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement.” Both Sherman and Khanna are Democrats and represent congressional districts in California. Chabot is Republican. US lawmakers from across the political spectrum have extended solidarity with the farmers and spoken up for their right to peaceful protest. Congressional caucuses are issue-based and meet to pursue common legislative objectives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers spare Delhi, police detain trade union leaders||Several trade union leaders were detained or put under house arrest here on Saturday despite no road blockades being scheduled in Delhi, prompting workers’ bodies to suggest the crackdown was an attempt to break the worker-peasant unity against the NDA government’s policies. Delhi police began the detentions and house arrests of workers’ leaders, students and civil society activists on Friday night, ahead of Saturday’s nationwide “chakka jam” or road blockade protest called by the agitating farmers and supported by 10 central trade unions. The national capital had been exempted since some of its borders are already blocked because of the farmers’ siege. Vipin, North district vice-president of CPM labour arm Citu, was picked up around 12.30am from his home and taken to Badli police station, Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu told The Telegraph. On Saturday morning, the police detained nearly 100 activists from several trade unions, students’ organisations and civil society body Delhi for Farmers Forum who had gathered at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park near the ITO to hold a meeting. Delhi Metro immediately closed the entry and exit gates of its Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate stations. Surya Prakash, leader of CPIML Liberation labour arm AICCTU, and Manager Chaurasia, Delhi state secretary of SUCI workers’ wing AIUTUC, were detained at their homes. International Federation of Trade Unions national treasurer Animesh Das too was detained. Over 40,000 police were deployed in and around Delhi and prohibitory orders clamped around the Red Fort, ITO and Shaheed Park. “Since the Bharat Bandh of December 8, the 10 central trade unions have been supporting the farmers’ agitation. The government is trying to break the farmer-worker unity,” Sindhu said. “No road blockades had been planned in Delhi; only a small meeting was scheduled at the Shaheed Park. But the police are trying to (create an impression) as though a big law-and-order issue was created.” Sindhu described the police action as a ploy “to scare off the farmers’ sympathisers and a segment of the middle class that support this movement”. The Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions — which includes the 10 workers’ organisations supporting the farmers, among them Congress labour arm Intuc and CPI-affiliated Aituc — condemned the arrests and detentions and defended the farmers’ demand for the repeal of three new farm laws. Aituc general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said that trade unions had conducted protests in various cities, villages and workplaces. While supporting the farmers, they also aired their demand for the repeal of four new labour laws, she said. “In Delhi, the programme in front of Bhagat Singh’s statute near the ITO was not allowed. It reflects the paranoia of the home ministry, which lacks the stomach for democratic expressions by the struggling masses for their rights,” Kaur said. The trade unions have condemned the planting of nails near the sites of the farmers’ agitation, the snapping of water and electricity supply, and the Internet ban. “Police have erected layers of barricades and fortifications, dug up trenches on highways, put up rows of nails and spikes on the pretext of maintaining law and order. They are behaving as if they are dealing with some enemy across the borders and not with the farmers, the citizens of our own country, feeding our people,” the Joint Platform said in a statement. “The joint trade union movement strongly condemns and expresses its indignation at this type of treatment towards the farmers. It is also being condemned the world over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
07-02-2021||India||Spurious liquor kills three in ‘dry’ Bihar||At least three persons died and several others had to be hospitalised after allegedly consuming illicit liquor at a village in Kaimur district of Bihar on Friday evening, again highlighting the flouting of prohibition in the state. The incident happened at Kurasan village under Bhabhua police station, around 200km southwest of state capital Patna. “Three persons from our panchayat have died after consuming liquor while at least three others had to be hospitalised. One of them is being treated at Varanasi. More could have been affected in the incident but we know only about these persons so far,” Kurasan resident Chandan Paswan told The Telegraph. He claimed the incident revealed that the ban on liquor was being flouted at will in Kaimur district that shares its borders with Uttar Pradesh. The deceased are Lal Mohar Bind, 30, Sitanagina Bind, 48, and Ramkeshi Kahar, 55, while Dharmendra Kahar, Gorakh Ansari and Santosh Gond are undergoing treatment. However, the district administration said that only two persons died in the incident while the third had died of some other illness. It also said the post-mortem report was inconclusive about the cause of death. “As per our knowledge only two persons have died in the incident, and the third could have died due to some other reason as he was not keeping well for some time. One person is undergoing treatment in a hospital,” Kaimur district magistrate Navdeep Shukla told this newspaper. “The post-mortem report was inconclusive about the cause of death. But the viscera of the deceased has been preserved and will be sent to the forensic science laboratory (FSL) for further investigation,” Shukla added. A man identified as Munna Musahar has been arrested in connection with the incident. He is accused of brewing the liquor that the group of villagers had consumed. He had been named in two other cases related to illicit liquor in the past. There have been several reports of hooch tragedies in Bihar since chief minister Nitish Kumar enforced prohibition across the state on April 5, 2016. In one incident at Gopalganj town in August 2016, 16 people lost their lives. In the smaller incidents, the post-mortem reports either declared the reasons of death as inconclusive, or the bodies were cremated before the autopsy could be performed. It is believed that on the one hand the well-oiled and deeply entrenched liquor mafia has been bringing in India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) to Bihar with impunity, while on the other hand, country liquor is also being brewed rampantly across the state. “Our men are seizing and destroying IMFL and country liquor continuously, but that is just a fraction of the alcohol that is being supplied to different parts of the state,” a senior police officer said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
