08-02-2021||India||‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’ ‘andolan-jivi’: Newfangled concepts in Modi’s Rajya Sabha speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday slammed those abusing agitating Sikh farmers, saying it will not do the country any good as he went on to appeal to the protesting farmers to call off their over two-month-long stir, assuring them of continuing with the purchase of crops at an administered price or MSP. In the same vein, he also hit out at deleterious influences from abroad, referring to them as 'foreign destructive ideology', as well as a new "breed" of agitators -- 'Andolan-jivi' -- in the country who cannot live without a tumult. He dug out old statements such as one by his predecessor Manmohan Singh supporting farm reforms to allow farmers to sell their produce where they get the best price, saying the opposition parties had done a 'U-turn' on their own words and they have not been able to give out reasons for the continuation of the farmers' agitation. "Give the agriculture reforms a chance," he said while replying to a discussion in the Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to Parliament at the start of the current Budget session. In an apparent reference to tweets by pop star Rihanna and Swedish climate-activist Greta Thunberg favouring the agitating farmers, Modi played on the term 'Foreign Direct Investment or FDI' to warn against deleterious influences from abroad. "I see that a new FDI has come to the fore. We have to protect the nation from this new FDI. We need Foreign Direct Investment but the new FDI is 'Foreign Destructive Ideology', we have to protect ourselves from it," he said. He also hit out at some of the protestors, saying a new crop of agitators has emerged in India who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. "There is a new crop of 'Andolan-jivi'. They live for protests. They look for ways to start a new movement. The country needs to be aware of these Andolan-jivi," he said. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November demanding the repeal of three new agriculture laws that they say will end the minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of crops like wheat and paddy by the government and usher in big corporates into the farm sector. They have rejected the government's offer to suspend the reforms for 18 months and have not joined talks after 11 rounds of talks ended last month. The Prime Minister promised to continue with MSP-based procurement at the 'mandis' as well as subsidised ration supply through the public distribution system (PDS) to the poor. He indicated the government was open to amending the laws. "We are ready to remove shortcomings," he emphasised. "I assure you that mandis will be modernised," he said. "MSP was there (in past). MSP is there (now). MSP will remain in the future." He also cited former agriculture minister and Maratha leader Sharad Pawar's support for agriculture reforms to buttress his point on the U-turn by the opposition. "Those taking a U-turn will perhaps agree with him (Singh)... Whether they were able to do it or not, but everyone has advocated that it should be done," he said. Attacking TMC -- which his party BJP is challenging in the forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Modi said he was left wondering if party MP Derek O'Brien using phrases such as 'freedom of speech' and 'intimidation' were for the country or his state. "He (Derek) sees all this (in West Bengal) 24 hours, so he might have thought that is how it is in the rest of the country too," he remarked. The farm laws are aimed at empowering the small and marginal farmers, who make up for more than two-thirds of the farming community in the country and often do not benefit from loan waivers and other schemes as they cannot avail of credit from banks, Modi said. The government has toughened its stance against the protesters following violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day last month. Three main protest sites have been fortified with concrete barricades, concertina wires and long metal spikes. In an oblique reference to agitating Sikhs being called 'Khalistani' terrorists and other names, the Prime Minister said the nation was proud of every Sikh. "India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious," he said. "Language used by some for them and attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation." "We mustn't forget what happened with Punjab. It suffered the most during the Partition. It cried the most during the 1984 riots. They became victims of the most painful incidents. Innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir. And the business of weapons was carried out in the northeast. All this affected the nation," he said. These laws, he said, address the root cause of the agrarian problem and are aimed at helping small farmers. "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the manner in which the old people are sitting there is not right. They (agitators) should be taken back. "They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," he said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. All the amendments moved by the opposition to the President's address, including mention of the repeal of farm laws, were negated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Congress launches 'Join Social Media' campaign||The Congress on Monday launched a 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign with an aim to have five lakh online "warriors" who, former party chief Rahul Gandhi said, will counter hate and "defend the idea of India". The country needs non-violent warriors to fight for truth, compassion and harmony, Gandhi said in a video message that was streamed at the launch of the campaign. Launching the campaign along with AICC social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson Pawan Khera, AICC in-charge (Administration) Pawan Kumar Bansal said the aim is to have five lakh social media "warriors". In his video message, Gandhi said, "As a young person you know what is going on. Nothing is hidden from you, in your schools, colleges and universities, you can see the oppression, you can see the attack on the idea of India." "Look outside Delhi, you can see what is happening to the farmers. The backbone of this war on the nation is a troll army. Thousands of people who spread hatred and anger and are paid to do so. We also need warriors to defend liberal values, to defend the ideas of compassion, peace, harmony and affection," the former Congress chief said. "Come, join this army. This is not an army of hatred, this is not an army of violence, this is an army of truth and this is an army that will defend the idea of India. We are building this platform for you to give you the tools to fight this battle and win it," Gandhi said. Gupta, in his remarks, alleged that the Modi government is scared of social media and "we are giving a platform to the youth to raise their voice". He said people can join through website, toll-free number or by WhatsApp. Gupta said the party will take this campaign to people for a month and invite them to join. Then there will be a basic interview in all states and "we will give responsibilities accordingly", he said. He said people can work at different levels -- district, state and national -- and they will be given responsibilities accordingly. After a month of interviews those who do well will be given training, Gupta added. In his remarks, Khera said when the BJP came to power in 2014, many criticised the Congress for not being on social media, and when the party became active on social media, many said it is not on the ground, but now "we are on both".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Naseeruddin Shah not on Twitter, clarifies wife||Veteran actor Ratna Pathak Shah on Monday clarified that her husband, actor Naseeruddin Shah does not have a Twitter account, after an unverified profile in his name posted a series of tweets about the ongoing farmers agitation on the microblogging site. This account, which has nearly 49 thousand followers on Twitter, had also tweeted a video interview of Naseeruddin Shah that the 70-year-old actor gave to the human rights movement Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) last month in the support of farmers. Ratna Pathak Shah said the couple has been "quite annoyed" with the fake profile, operating on Twitter since July 2019. They have also "tried to complain" to both, Twitter and Cyber Crime Cell, she said, but to no avail. "Mr Shah doesn't have a Twitter account but has been unable to stop these fake accounts," Ratna Pathak Shah, 63, told PTI. "We have tried to complain to the company as well as the Cyber Crime Police here but were told there's nothing that can be done. Please help us to put an end to this nuisance," she added. Earlier, fake profiles in Naseeruddin Shah's name existed on Facebook as well, but since the actor joined the site and got verified in 2016, other accounts were disabled. Notably, the government on Monday ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters which were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. The IT Ministry, on February 4, shared a list of these Twitter accounts that were flagged by security agencies as accounts of Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories, and causing threat to public order amid the ongoing farmer stir||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand survivor recalls how a phone call kept them alive||They had lost hope of survival when one of them found his mobile phone network working, helping them contact the authorities who rescued them from an underground tunnel at Tapovan in Uttarakhand's Chamoli where flash floods wreaked havoc following a glacier burst. "We heard people screaming at us to come out of the tunnel but before we could react, a sudden gush of water and heavy silt swamped upon us," rescued Tapovan power project worker Lal Bahadur said. He, along with 11 of his other colleagues, was rescued by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) from an underground tunnel in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday evening. According to officials, they remained stuck there for about seven hours, from around 10 am to 5 pm, till the last man was evacuated by rescuers. The ITBP provided their recorded video accounts to the media. They are now being treated at an ITBP hospital in Joshimath, about 25 km from the incident spot. This is also the base of the ITBP's Battalion No. 1, tasked with guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs along the state. At least 11 bodies have been recovered while 202 are still missing since the disaster struck in the upper reaches of Chamoli district, according to the ITBP. "We were 300 metres deep in the tunnel when the water gushed in. We got trapped. The ITBP rescued us," Nepal resident Basant said. Another unidentified worker who hails from Dhak village in Chamoli and worked at the Tapovan project said as the water gushed in, the only thing they could do was to lunge onto the crown of the tunnel. "We lost hope...but then we saw some light and felt some air to breathe...suddenly one of us found he had network on his mobile and then he called up our general manager informing him about our situation," the man said from the hospital bed. Officials said the project GM subsequently informed the local authorities who requisitioned ITBP rescuers to save them. The ITBP teams, armed with ropes, pulleys and carabiners, rappelled down a steep slope and brought out these men from the narrow snout of the tunnel on Sunday evening. Vinod Singh Pawar, a resident of Joshimath, said they climbed up half-way inside the tunnel through the rods but got stuck as a gush of water came in. "We are thankful to the ITBP rescuers for saving us," he said in the video. The border force began air-dropping food packets on Monday in at least nine villages that have been cut off due to the floods. "Beyond the Raini bridge (which was swept away by the floods), there are nine villages and choppers are dropping food packets after picking them up from our base in Joshimath," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
08-02-2021||India||ISRO, DRDO working to ascertain exact cause of disaster: Uttarakhand CM||As multi-agency relief operations continue in Chamoli and adjoining areas of Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Monday said a comprehensive analysis of the entire incident is being carried out to avert future tragedies, and asserted the immediate priority was to provide food and other assistance to the affected people. In an interview to PTI, he said the incident appeared to have happened due to the breaking of the glacier and the Chief Secretary has been instructed to find out the real reasons. Preliminary estimates show that around 200 people are still missing, while 11 bodies have been found, he said. "A DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) team is already studying the cause of this tragedy and we have also sought the help of ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) scientists and experts for the same," he said. After a comprehensive analysis is undertaken to find out the reasons of this incident, "we will build an elaborate plan to avert any potential tragedy going forward", Rawat said. Asked about the ongoing relief operations, he said they are continuing in full swing. "We have made all arrangements needed for the rescue and relief operations along with providing healthcare facilities to the affected people. Most importantly, we are working on re-establishing the connectivity to the affected villages," he said. Rawat said while the extent of economic loss will be ascertained in due course, the topmost priority, for now, is to save as many lives as possible and to rehabilitate those who have got displaced from their homes. Multiple agencies are coordinating efforts to search for survivors on Monday, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath, triggering an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Rawat said multiple teams have been drawn, both from the Centre and the state's disaster relief agencies, along with the defence forces who have been convened to lead the huge rescue operations. The state's Director General of Police has been camping in the affected areas since Sunday while the Garhwal Commissioner and the DIG Garhwal have also been instructed to remain there, he said. "The entire team of the district administration has been engaged in the relief and rescue operations in the area since Sunday. Officers from other districts have also been sent on the spot so that the post-mortem of the dead bodies found can be done on priority," Rawat said. Asked what could be the economic loss of this tragedy, he said as far as the assessment of economic loss is concerned, it will be available only after the relief work is over. "The Rishiganga Power Corporation and the NTPC are assessing the damage to their projects. But, right now our topmost priority is to save lives and rehabilitate the affected people," he said. Immediate financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each has been sanctioned to the dependents of the dead, he said. "Army and SDRF personnel, as well as army and state government helicopters, have been convened to provide the necessary medical facilities to the 11 affected villages in the region," Rawat said. He asserted the entire state machinery is engaged in the relief and help operations. "I myself have been monitoring the relief operations. There has been full support from the Centre while other states too have extended the support during this tragedy," Rawat said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been in constant touch with them since the tragedy struck and has assured the state of all possible help. "Prime Minister Modi has also announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the dependents of the deceased," Rawat added. On the support from other quarters, he said President Ram Nath Kovind, Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, CDS General Vipin Rawat, among others have assured of all possible cooperation. "Home Minister Amit Shah expressed his concerns and assured me of all possible cooperation from the Centre to the state. Acharya Balakrishna, too, has assured his cooperation and is ready to adopt orphans," he said. On steps being taken to help those displaced due to the disaster, Rawat said many people have been displaced from their homes and their immediate need is food. "Ration is being provided to them by the state government. Ration kits have been prepared including flour, pulses, rice, tea, edible oil, sugar, spices, soaps etc. The distribution of the same has already started in Chamoli district," he added. On the cause of the natural disaster, Rawat said, "This incident happened due to the breaking of the glacier. Instructions have been given to the Chief Secretary to find out the real reasons. "Besides, we are also undertaking a comprehensive analysis to find the reasons for this incident and build a plan to avert any potential tragedy going forward in the future," the chief minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Farm leaders ready for talks, ask govt to choose date after PM appeal||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue. They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting. "We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government)," Kakka told PTI. Eleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands -- the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it. Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days. While replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President's address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying "Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain." "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right. "They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. He said that the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who are seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation," he said. "Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government's wrong policies," Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue. Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said that government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers' crops. Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country. "There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site. To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide 'chakka jam' last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Over 200 still trapped in debris as rescue efforts gain momentum at Chamoli||Eighteen bodies have been recovered and 202 are still missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the state emergency operation centre here said, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath, triggering an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as nearby villagers whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, officials said. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said a comprehensive analysis of the incident was being carried out to avert future tragedies, and asserted the immediate priority was to provide food and other assistance to the affected people. "A DRDO team is already studying the cause of this tragedy and we have also sought the help of ISRO scientists and experts for the same," he said. Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and R.K. Singh, as well as Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat, also met the affected families in disaster-hit Tapovan and Raini and assured them of all support. Two power projects _ NTPC's 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad Project and the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga Hydel Project _ were extensively damaged with scores of labourers caught in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Rescue efforts in the affected areas near Joshimath, about 295 km from here, gained momentum with teams of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) coordinating to rescue 30-35 people feared trapped in a tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project. Sniffer dogs and heavy mechanical equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, were deployed in the areas to aid the rescue workers. While Indian Air Force teams left for the affected areas to ramp up relief efforts, personnel from multiple forces worked through the night. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 27 people were rescued alive. Of these, 12 were saved from the smaller of the two tunnels at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project site and 15 from the Rishi Ganga site. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar added that efforts were focussed on rescuing 30-35 labourers trapped in a 250-metre tunnel at Tapovan. Two villages are cut off and essentials are being supplied to them. The work was complicated by the fact that the tunnel was slightly curved, making it difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. The entire landscape was coloured a sandy grey, many structures swept away and buried under piles of silt. "Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will be able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told PTI in Delhi. "There is a huge amount of debris inside the tunnel. About 80 metre inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible, and it looks like about 100 more metres of debris will have to be cleared," he added. Pandey said nearly 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site. Another official said 34 people are estimated to be trapped in the “head race tunnel” or HRT. ITBP Additional Director General (Western Command) M.S. Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officials and others working at the site. In a video provided by the force, a team of senior officials was seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. Teams of the NDRF had reached late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force also used canine squads to help rescuers detect traces of life under the debris. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. With no clarity on what led to the disaster and experts pointing to climate change, scientists also headed to Chamoli to understand what had happened. Some teams from the Army, including from the Medical Corps, have also reached the disaster spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. Three of those rescued on Sunday evening were admitted to the ITBP hospital at Joshimath, nearly 25 km from the Tapovan power project site, as they were feeling uneasy, the officials said. They are stable now. As rescue efforts continued on a war footing, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the United Nations stands ready to contribute to the ongoing rescue and assistance efforts in Uttarakhand if necessary. The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by the reported loss of life and dozens missing following the glacier burst and subsequent flooding in Uttarakhand state, India, on Sunday, said St phane Dujarric, spokesperson for Guterres. Expressing solidarity with those affected by the glacier burst, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the whole country is with the people of the state and it is important that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||2.5 lakh Bengal farmer names sent to Centre for PM Kisan scheme: Mamata||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the TMC dispensation for not implementing central schemes in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday told the Assembly that her government has sent to the Centre names of 2.5 lakh farmers who are eligible for benefits under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. She sought to know why the Union government has not disbursed any cash benefit to the beneficiaries as yet. Banerjee told the House that the state government had received a list of six lakh applicants from the Centre for verification, of which 2.5 lakh names have been sent to the Centre for financial assistance under the central welfare programme. She also said that her government would float 19 industrial projects in the state, entailing an investment of Rs 72,200 crore, and create 3.29 lakh employment opportunities. The CM was responding to questions raised by the members of the House during a debate on a vote-on-account that she had presented on February 5. With state elections round the corner, Banerjee had presented a vote-on-account for Rs 2.99 lakh crore in the Assembly and made a slew of announcements, including a hike in the annual aid of farmers. The chief minister has increased the annual financial assistance, under the state government's 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme, to Rs 6,000 from Rs 5,000, keeping in mind the interest of farmers. She said that benefits of the central scheme should be made available to the sharecroppers, along with support provided by the state to all cultivators, irrespective of their landholdings. Under the PM Kisan scheme, Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having a combined landholding of up to two hectares. Addressing a rally in Haldia on Sunday, the prime minister had assailed the state government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He asserted that once the BJP forms its government in the state, it will take steps to implement all such stalled programmes at the very first cabinet meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rafale induction ceremony cost exchequer over Rs 41 lakh, Rajnath tells Rajya Sabha||The induction ceremony of the first five Rafale jets at the Ambala Air Force base on September 10 last cost the exchequer a little over of Rs 41 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh GST, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. "The first five Rafale aircraft of IAF were formally inducted into IAF on September 10. The arrangements for this event were made mostly through local resources of IAF. The total expenditure on the event was Rs 41.32 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh of GST," he said. Singh said all-new variant of aircraft are traditionally inducted into the Indian Air Force through a "befitting ceremony" The Rafale induction ceremony was attended by French Defence Minister Florence Parly and the top echelon of the French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of the aircraft. The first batch of the five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet had taken place nearly six weeks later. The second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3 while a third batch of another three jets joined the IAF on January 27. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff for the last nine months. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at the Ambala airbase while the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait demands law on MSP as guarantee after PM’s remarks in parliament ||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country and once again demanded a law on minimum support price (MSP) for crops along with the repeal of new contentious agri-marketing laws. The Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson's comments came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in the Rajya Sabha during which he assured: "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future". "Desh mein bhook pe vyaapaar nahi hoga. Bhook kitni lagegi anaaj ki keemat utni hogi. Desh mein bhook se vyaapaar karne walon ko baahar nikaala jaaega (There will not be business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those wanting business over hunger will be driven out of the country)," he told reporters. "The way rates of a flight ticket fluctuate three to four times a day, the price of crops will not be decided the same way," Tikait said. On the PM's remark about the emergence of a "new community" which is "engaged in protests", Tikait said, "Yes, this time it is the farmers' community which has emerged and people are also supporting the farmers". He said what the farmers protesting against the new laws have highlighted that there is no law on MSP, because of which traders loot them by buying crops at lower prices. He also slammed the attempts to divide the ongoing movement of farmers on caste and religious lines. "This movement was first portrayed as Punjab's issue, then Sikhs' then Jats, so on and so forth. The farmers of the country are united. There is no small farmer or big farmer. The movement belongs to all farmers," he said. Earlier in the day, Modi in his response to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised". Reacting to the PM's speech, another farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. Asked about the PM's invitation to farmer unions for talks, he said that protesting farmer unions are ready to hold talks with the government, but it should come through formal channels. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, adding that it is trying to divert the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Rescue efforts intensify as toll in Uttarakhand glacier disaster rises to 18||Eighteen bodies have been recovered and 202 are still missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the State Emergency Operation Centre here said, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath. It triggered an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as villagers nearby whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, the officials said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said saving lives and extending all help to the families of the deceased is the state government's priority. Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and R K Singh as well as Pauri MP Tirath Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand minister Dhan Singh Rawat also met the affected families in disaster-hit Tapovan and Raini and assured them of all support. Two power projects NTPC's 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga Hydel Project were extensively damaged with scores of labourers caught in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Rescue efforts in the affected areas near Joshimath, about 295 km from here, gained momentum with teams of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) coordinating to rescue 30-35 people feared trapped in a tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project. Sniffer dogs and heavy mechanical equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, were deployed in the areas to aid the rescue workers. While Indian Air Force teams left for the affected areas to ramp up relief efforts, personnel from multiple forces worked through the night. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 27 people were rescued alive. Of these, 12 were saved from the smaller of the two tunnels at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project site and 15 from the Rishi Ganga site. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar added that efforts were focussed on rescuing 30-35 labourers trapped in a 250-metre tunnel at Tapovan. Two villages are cut off and essentials are being supplied to them. The work was complicated by the fact that the tunnel is slightly curved, making difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. The entire landscape was coloured a sandy grey, many structures swept away and buried under piles of silt. "Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told PTI in Delhi. "There is a huge amount of debris inside the tunnel. About 80 metres inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible, and it looks like about 100 more metres of debris will have to be cleared," he added. Pandey said nearly 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site. Another official said 34 people are estimated to be trapped in the 'head race tunnel' or HRT. ITBP Additional Director General (Western Command) M S Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officials and others working at the site. In a video provided by the force, a team of senior officials was seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. Teams of the NDRF had reached late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force also used canine squads to help rescuers detect traces of life under the debris. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. With no clarity on what led to the disaster and experts pointing to climate change, scientists also headed to Chamoli to understand what had happened. Some teams from the Army, including from the Medical Corps, have also reached the disaster spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. Three of those rescued on Sunday evening were admitted to the ITBP hospital at Joshimath, nearly 25 km from the Tapovan power project site, as they were feeling uneasy, the officials said. They are stable now. As rescue efforts continued on a war footing, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the United Nations stands ready to contribute to the ongoing rescue and assistance efforts in Uttarakhand if necessary. The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by the reported loss of life and dozens missing following the glacier burst and subsequent flooding in Uttarakhand state, India, on Sunday, said St phane Dujarric, spokesperson for Guterres. Expressing solidarity with those affected by the glacier burst, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the whole country is with the people of the state and it is important that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Twitter asked to block 1178 accounts for spreading misinformation amid farmers protest||The government has ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters which were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest, sources said. The IT Ministry, on February 4, shared a list of these Twitter accounts that were flagged by security agencies as accounts of Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories, and causing threat to public order amid the ongoing farmer stir, they said. Many of these accounts were also automated bots that were used for sharing and amplifying misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protests, sources said adding that Twitter has not yet complied with the latest order. Earlier, the government had ordered Twitter to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. It has also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive. Twitter had blocked those accounts for few hours before unilaterally unblocking them. At that time, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had asked the microblogging site to block 257 URLs (web addresses) and one hashtag under the relevant provision of the law as they were "spreading misinformation about (farmer) protests and has the potential to lead to imminent violence affecting public order situation in the country." Sources said while Twitter is yet to fully comply with the previous order, the government has issued another order asking the microblogging platform to block accounts backed by Pakistan and Khalistan supporters. The IT Ministry's displeasure is also apparent over Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey recently liking several tweets made by foreign-based celebrities in support of farmer protest. The source said the move casts aspersions over neutrality claims of the platform, and defiance of government orders by Twitter raises several questions. Moreover, sources argued that any company is free to appeal against any government order if it feels it cannot comply with that order. Twitter has neither challenged any of these orders in any court of India nor complied with the government's directive, they pointed out. In an e-mail response, Twitter spokesperson said the platform is guided by principles of transparency and empowering the public conversation. "If we receive a valid legal request about potentially illegal content on Twitter, we review it under both the Twitter rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter's rules, the content will be removed from the service," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added: "If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter rules, we may withhold access to the content in the location only. In all cases, we notify the account holder directly so they're aware we've received a legal order pertaining to the account."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Modi urges farmers to end agitation against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a fervent appeal to protesters to end their agitation against the new farm laws even as he questioned opposition parties for their sudden "U-turn" on the agriculture reforms. The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the protests, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. He also said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be more aware to save the country from such ideology". Modi also stressed that India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs and the language used by some for them will not benefit the country. He alleged that some people are also trying to defame Sikhs. "This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The country takes pride in the contribution of Sikhs, but some people are trying to defame them. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious. The language used by some for them will not benefit the country," he said, replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha. On the farm sector and the ongoing protest, Modi said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised". He quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the need for reforms in the farm sector and said Congress should take pride that Modi had to do what the former Prime Minister wanted. Modi said since 2014 his government has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer-friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Multi-agency operation on to rescue those trapped inside tunnel in Uttarakhand's Tapovan||A multi-agency operation to rescue an estimated 34 people trapped inside a big tunnel at Tapovan was carried out overnight after a glacier burst-triggered deluge killed 10 people in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district while over 140 are missing, officials said on Monday. Personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and some state disaster response teams are clearing the tunnel that has been blocked with slush, debris and silt, and are inching closer towards the stuck workers. "Our teams are working overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. Around 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site, he said. Another officer said it is estimated that around 34 people are trapped in the 'head race tunnel' or HRT. The force's Additional Director General (Western Command) M S Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officers working at the site, Pandey added. ITBP teams were seen clearing the over 1,500-metre-long tunnel, which is executed till over 1,329 metres, using earthmovers driven by local workers. A team of senior officials, in a video provided by the force, were seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. ITBP rescuers were seen carrying wooden planks which will be used to create a platform to pull out the trapped people using ropes. Teams of the NDRF also reached the spot late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force has also brought along canine teams that will help them detect lives trapped underneath better. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. He said the agencies are working in close coordination. Some teams from the Army have also reached the Tapovan spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. At least 12 workers were rescued from a smaller tunnel in this area by ITBP on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
08-02-2021||India||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 84 casualties in a day||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,38,194, with 11,831 new infections, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the fourth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,080 with 84 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,34,505 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.20 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,609 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.37 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,19, 00,614 samples have been tested up to February 7 with 5, 32,236 samples being tested on Sunday. The 84 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra and 19 from Kerala, 6 from Chhattisgarh, 5 from West Bengal, 4 from Uttarakhand, 3 from Karnataka, 2 each from Delhi, Goa, Haryana and Punjab. A total of 1,55,080 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,310 from Maharashtra followed by 12,383 from Tamil Nadu, 12,236 from Karnataka, 10,879 from Delhi, 10,207 from West Bengal, 8,687 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,159 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Monument to ‘political insanity’||Farmer and air force veteran S.S. Randhawa is trying to crack a riddle: Is the Prime Minister trying to wipe out the name of Mohammad bin Tughlak, the sultan of administrative misadventures, with his own actions? In an open letter written with “due respect and apology”, the 88-year-old retired wing commander has urged Narendra Modi to preserve for posterity the multi-layered barricades at the farmers’ protest sites as a “monument of political insanity”. Randhawa is not a blind critic of the Prime Minister. He appreciates Modi’s tenacity and actions against Pakistan. Upset at the manner in which the Centre is handling the farmers’ movement and incapacitated by age from visiting the protest sites, Randhawa has been wondering whether the government is trying to prove to the world that Winston Churchill was right about Indians not being able to govern themselves. The veteran has addressed the letter to the President as well as the Prime Minister. Caustically describing the barricades as “state of the art architecture, a technology never ever witnessed by me in my long life of 88 years”, the octogenarian has asked: “What are we proving to the world? Mr Winston Churchill was right or Mr Clement Attlee was wrong or is it an attempt to obliterate the name of Mohammad Tughlak from the Indian historical annals?” Later, Randhawa told The Telegraph over the phone: “Dreams are not development. Between the dream and development, there is a process. The Prime Minister tends to skip that and the country suffers.” Randhawa added: “Look at demonetisation. One evening he announces it and from the very next day, new notifications are issued to deal with the problems that cropped up because the planning and preparation needed was not done in advance. Who suffered? The people and the economy. So also with the farm laws.” In his letter, Randhawa has urged the farmers and the government not to harm the barricades but preserve them. “It will be a great tourist attraction and shall also go a long way in educating the generation to come. They must know how indifferent and brutal could an elected government be to the electorate. May God bless us with sense of governance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Tax ache for social clubs||The retrospective tax bogey has surfaced again — and this time it is out to spook the country’s social clubs. The Narendra Modi government has introduced a clause in the central Goods and Services Tax Act (GST) that in effect overturns a Supreme Court order handed down in October 2019 that had gone in favour of Calcutta Club. The apex court ruling meant that clubs were not under any obligation to collect tax from their permanent members on the sale of food, refreshments and drinks or other services. Despite the ruling, sources said, several top clubs in Calcutta levied GST on the sale of food and refreshments to members. Liquor, however, does not come under the GST and is subject to state levies. The Centre’s decision effectively rips the cloak of immunity from tax that the doctrine of mutuality conferred on the clubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Historians express concern over rule on webinar nod||The world’s largest association of professional historians has expressed concern over an Indian government decision that extends to online seminars and conferences on academic issues a rule that makes approval mandatory. The Union education ministry had last month issued guidelines stating that virtual conferences on subjects touching on India’s security and internal matters, including topics related to the borders, the Northeast or Jammu and Kashmir, could be conducted only with the government’s approval. The guidelines suggested the external affairs ministry’s approval would be required for webinars involving international participants. However, if the content is linked to the country’s internal affairs, no permission can be given. “This new requirement applies not only to online academic events that relate to the security of the Indian state but also to those that are clearly related to India’s internal matters — a guideline so sweeping that it encompasses most topics of interest to scholars of India,” the American Historical Association (AHA) said in a statement. Although approval was already mandatory for physical events involving foreigner participation so that visas could be issued, there was enough time to organise such documents because travel meant that plans were made in advance. The pandemic has brought in a sea change. Physical conferences have shrunk to a minimum, and virtual conferences at short notice are the norm now. “This new policy… is likely to affect a wide range of scholarly exchanges that are critical to the free international expression of ideas,” the AHA said. “By monitoring and potentially censoring or cancelling the virtual and online communications of scholars in India, the ministry of education threatens the very foundation of those exchanges. The policy puts Indian scholars at a disadvantage in ongoing discussions among scholars in all disciplines, including history. “It also deprives scholars in other countries (including members of the AHA) of the benefits of the knowledge and insights that Indian scholars bring to the table.” The AHA said that government agencies should not intervene in the content of scholarly exchange, and that such intervention would constitute arbitrary censorship. The association urged the government to reconsider the policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand calamity was a glacial lake outburst flood||The flash flood of water, mud and rocks that swept through the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga river valleys in Uttarakhand on Sunday was a glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF), probably triggered by a gigantic chunk of ice separating from a glacier, scientists said. The GLOF— an abrupt discharge from a natural reservoir of water that has formed along the side, in front, or on the surface of a glacier — occurred in the Alakananda basin, a region where scientists have identified over 20 glacial lakes. Scientists say that many of these glacial lakes that have grown in size in recent years represent a potential hazard to downstream regions and have proposed short-term and long-term strategies to minimise the risk of catastrophic floods. The question-answer section below is based on the results of scientific studies and an interview with Anil Kulkarni, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, who has studied Himalayan glaciers for more than 20 years. Q: What caused the flash flood in Chamoli district? A: Local authorities have described it as a glacial burst. Scientists say this probably means that a gigantic chunk of ice broke away from a glacier and caused the water level in the associated glacial lake to abruptly rise and possibly trigger a “moraine breach event” — the breach of a natural dam made from rock and debris that has been holding the water back. Q: What mechanisms can lead to GLOFs? A: High-intensity rainfall can cause a glacial lake to overflow and trigger a moraine breach. This had happened in Kedarnath in 2013. But there was no rain in the Alakananda basin either on Saturday or Sunday, an Indian Meteorological Department official said. The immediate trigger for Sunday’s GLOF therefore remains to be determined. Kulkarni says a breakaway of glacial ice or an avalanche of ice are possibilities. Q: Was the event caused by climate change? A: Scientists know for sure that global warming is causing glaciers across the world, including those along the Himalayas, to retreat. Along with this glacial retreat, the sizes of the glacial lakes at many sites are increasing. Kulkarni and his colleagues have, for instance, calculated that another glacial lake in Uttarakhand, called the Safed Lake, has doubled in size over the past 50 years, from about 0.1sqkm to 0.23sqkm. As the number of glacial lakes and their sizes increase, so does the risk of potential catastrophic moraine breaches and flash floods. Q: Could such GLOFs happen again? A: A study by a group of Swiss researchers in 2013 had identified 251 glacial lakes in the Himalayan region of which they had labelled 104 as “potentially dangerous”. Another study by scientists from the Institute of Potsdam, Germany, had in 2019 identified the Central Himalayas as a “hotspot region” for GLOFs, compared with the Himalayan-Karakoram regions. But the Potsdam scientists had also calculated that the number of glacial events had remained fairly constant since the 1980s: an annual average frequency of 1.3, or about 13 GLOFs every 10 years. Q: Are there any possible mitigation strategies? A: Kulkarni had in a brief for policymakers around two years ago proposed short-term and long-term strategies to mitigate the risks. Among the short-term strategies are early warning systems and engineering interventions such as the siphoning of lake water and controlled widening of discharge channels. The long-term strategies include identifying the locations vulnerable to GLOFs, monitoring lake expansions, and maintaining safe water levels in the lakes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Ten dead, 143 missing after Nanda Devi glacier breaks up ||Around 143 people were missing after a portion of the Nanda Devi Glacier broke on Sunday morning, sending water, mud and rocks barrelling down the Joshimath mountain in Uttarakhand and sweeping away two hydropower projects and houses. A rise in river waters near Raini village, the disaster site in Chamoli district where the 10.45am flash flood reportedly washed away six homes, led to alerts being sounded over swathes of Uttarakhand. Many villages near Raini were evacuated and their residents taken to safer areas. Uttarakahnd DGP Ashok Kumar said, "a total of 153 people were missing from the two hydel projects at Raini and Tapovan out of which 10 bodies have been recovered while 143 are still missing," Raini resident Sanjay Singh Rana said a wall of dust, rock and water had roared down the mountains. “It came very fast, there was no time to alert anyone. I felt that even we would be swept away,” he told Reuters. The disaster comes nearly eight years after flash floods triggered by a cloudburst killed an estimated 6,000 people in Uttarakhand in the summer of 2013, mostly near the pilgrimage centres of Kedarnath and Badrinath. Sunday’s flash flood destroyed two under-construction dams, the Rishiganga Hydropower Project and the NTPC’s Tapovan Hydropower Project, both located 5km from Raini. Most of those missing are labourers of the Tapovan project. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing, PTI reported late on Sunday night. Water levels in the Dhauliganga and the Alakananda, two tributaries of the Ganga that meet close to Raini, rose three metres above normal for a while before abating, Rawat said. “I request people to have patience. Please don’t create panic on social media,” Rawat said as Netizens began sharing videos showing rivers in spate, whose authenticity could not be determined. “An alert has been issued along the Ganga up to Haridwar (318km from Raini),” Rawat said, adding that water release from dams had been stopped. Neighbouring Uttar Pradesh too put riverside areas on high alert. “We believe the damage has already been done but the alert has still been issued to avoid any further damage in the lower areas through which the Ganga flows,” said S.N. Pradhan, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which is helping rescue and relief efforts. Six army columns (about 600 personnel), three army choppers, three air force helicopters — two Mi-17s and one ALH — and 250 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel too have been deployed along with the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Killed, trapped ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said the flash flood had swept away six graziers and their livestock and damaged two suspension bridges at Raini. Media reports quoted the Union home ministry as saying 12 labourers, besides the 16, had been rescued from another tunnel. “Thirty people were working on the Rishiganga (hydel) project and over 150 on the other project when the flash flood struck. Many people have been rescued but the toll is expected to rise,” chief minister Rawat said in the evening. Ridhim Aggarwal, DIG of the SDRF, said: “We are in touch with officials of the companies and they told us they were not able to contact the staff on the spot.” Green concern After the 2013 floods, environment groups had blamed unchecked construction for the human cost in a state prone to flash floods and landslides. It was not immediately clear what had set off Sunday’s flash flood, but it led to renewed calls for a halt to big hydel projects in the ecologically sensitive mountains. Former Union water resources minister and BJP leader Uma Bharati criticised the construction of hydropower projects in the area. “When I was a minister, I had requested that Himalaya is a very sensitive place, so power projects should not be built on Ganga and its main tributaries,” she tweeted. Ranjan Panda, a volunteer for the Combat Climate Change Network that works on water, environment and climate change issues, sought “a serious scrutiny of the hydropower dams building spree in this eco-sensitive region”. “The government should no longer ignore warnings from experts and (should) stop building hydropower projects and extensive highway networks in this fragile ecosystem,” he said. The Rishiganga project was commissioned in 2011 to the Rishiganga Power Corporation. Power generation was stopped in 2016 after a natural calamity damaged the dam. Eventually, the project was taken over by Kundan Group and re-commissioned in 2020. ‘Safe distance’ “The actual havoc would have happened within 200 to 500 metres of the area where the glacier fell,” Pandey, the ITBP spokesperson, said. “There were 500 to 600 people in the area but most were at a safer distance. Smaller hutments have been washed away. The situation will be clearer after a while. The rescue operations will continue for many days.” PTI reported that at least 180 sheep had been washed away and that connectivity with some border posts was “totally restricted” because of the bridge collapse near Raini. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “I am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand, prays for everyone’s safety.” He announced Rs 2 lakh for every bereaved family and Rs 50,000 for each of those seriously injured. Additional reporting by PTI and Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||World still watching and commenting: Susan Sarandon||Veteran Hollywood actress Susan Sarandon, who joined the growing overseas chorus of solidarity with India’s protesting farmers on Saturday, has linked the contentious farm laws to “corporate greed”. Tweeting an article on the clampdown on the protests, Sarandon said: “Corporate greed & exploitation knows no bounds, not only in the US but worldwide. While they work w/ corp media & politicians to silence the most vulnerable, we must let India’s leaders know the world is watching & we #StandWithFarmers! #FarmersProtests.” She tagged the PMO and agriculture minister N.S. Tomar. The Narendra Modi government’s attempts to stop such comments from overseas by calling the farmers’ protest an internal matter of India has not had the desired results yet. Since the external affairs ministry issued a statement on Wednesday telling foreigners to keep off the subject, even the leadership of the US Congressional India Caucus has spoken, taking the matter up with the Indian ambassador in Washington, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement, said: “It is a shame that at the behest of the government, some people want to suppress this movement by calling it an ‘internal matter’ but it is necessary to understand that in a democracy, people are superior, not the government.” On Sunday, the Morcha moved to Bhiwani Dadri in Haryana for a kisan mahapanchayat where convener Darshan Pal said it was necessary to hit the NDA government where it hurt most by bringing down the coalition government in Haryana. The Morcha had early on in the movement issued a call to boycott the BJP and its ally JJP in Haryana, but it has begun targeting the RSS-BJP directly since January 26. It is convinced that the violence on the day in Delhi was orchestrated to discredit the agitation, which had been peaceful for 60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Centre should not have taken “one-sided” decision on new farm laws: Shankaracharyas||Two Shankaracharyas on Sunday said the Centre should not have taken a “one-sided” decision on the new farm laws without discussions with the farmers, one of them adding that the NDA government’s habitual unilateralism was a “bad sign for democracy”. Shankaracharyas, heads of the four monasteries established by Adi Shankaracharya, are among the most venerated of Hindu monks and the two pontiffs’ remarks are particularly significant since they rarely comment on political subjects. “The government took a one-sided decision on every issue, including the (2016) demonetisation and the farm laws. It’s a bad sign for democracy,” Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, pontiff of two of the four monasteries — Sharada Peeth in Dwarka, Gujarat, and Jyotir Peeth in Badrinath, Uttarakhand — told reporters in Allahabad. “The people of the country in general, and the farmers in particular, should have been taken into confidence before such a crucial decision (on enacting the new farm laws) was taken.” Swami Nishchalanand Saraswati of Govardhan Peeth, Puri, said: “The government shouldn’t have taken a one-sided decision on the farm laws. The farmers should have been taken into confidence.” The two pontiffs are in Allahabad to attend the annual Magh Mela at the confluence of the Ganga and the Yamuna. Nishchalanand, who was addressing a congregation at his ashram in the Mela area, also suggested that the farmers understand the new farm laws thoroughly before making them an issue. “We hope they will understand the laws. It’s not good to hold a dharna for so long without food and water,” he said. “However, the law should have been formulated while keeping in view cow protection, agriculture and the trades linked to it. Since all trade in our country is linked to agriculture one way or another, it would have been better to take the opinion of the stakeholders (farmers) while passing the law.” Nishchalanand didn’t explain the reference to cow protection. The Narendra Modi government had railroaded the farm laws through Parliament with little discussion, and the farmers say they were not adequately consulted. While the government says the three new laws would benefit farmers, agitating farmers say these laws will promote their exploitation by big companies. The country now has three Shankaracharyas, the third being Bharati Tirtha Mahaswami of the Sringeri Sharada Peeth in Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi police chase trail of toolkit document||Delhi police have said they would write to Google seeking the IP address or location from where a “toolkit” document containing tips on ways to support the farmers’ protest was created and uploaded on social media. The police have filed an FIR against the unnamed creators of the toolkit and want to identify them. The toolkit was created on Google Docs and uploaded on Twitter, and later shared by teenaged Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who has tweeted in support of the farmers’ agitation. Officers have alleged the toolkit was designed to encourage disaffection and ill-will against the government as part of an international conspiracy to defame the country. They said a preliminary probe suggested the toolkit may have been created by a pro-Khalistani organisation, Poetic Justice Foundation.The toolkit offers advice to people who want to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, such as how to join the ground protests, how to express support on social media — with suggested hashtags — and how to sign petitions. Among the suggestions it makes are: tweeting support for the farmers with the hashtag StandWithFarmers, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, organising protests near the closest Indian embassy on February 13 and 14, and extending solidarity through a digital campaign. Toolkit primer Retired security officials played down the idea of a conspiracy behind the toolkit. They said protest toolkits were publicly shared documents, used routinely to coordinate global solidarity protests. Protest toolkits had existed for several years but gained prominence in 2019 during the Hong Kong demonstrations against a change in extradition law that could have helped China target activists and protesters, they added. “It is absurd to even think that there is any criminal conspiracy involved. Protest toolkits are publicly shared documents on methods of protest. They are going viral these days because of social media,” a retired Intelligence Bureau official said. He said the Hong Kong protesters had used a toolkit for round-the-clock coordination through social media and hit the streets in full gear — black clothes, gas masks and helmets as protection against tear gas grenades. Another security official said a protest toolkit merely helped extend global solidarity to a cause by sharing protest methods and news articles. “Look, thousands of farmers assembled for a protest in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh. Did they have Greta’s toolkit?” he asked. ‘Cruel indifference’ Thunberg had first shared an old toolkit on Wednesday night but later deleted it and uploaded an updated toolkit on Thursday. The old document expressed support for the tractor rally on Republic Day and gave details of upcoming online and street protests. “India has a long history of human rights violations, violence and a cruel indifference for its most vulnerable citizens,” the updated toolkit says. “India’s farmers and other citizens need the global community to pay attention — the world needs to know that India is ignoring the voices of the marginalised communities. We need solidarity and support from across the world.” It adds: “Digital Strike with the hashtags #StandWithFarmers and #FarmersProtest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||Haryana farmer found hanging from tree||A farmer from Jind in Haryana who was supporting the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws allegedly hanged himself from a tree, merely 2km from the Tikri border protest site on Sunday. The 52-year-old farmer left a suicide note, which is being verified, police said. “Karamveer Singh hailed from a village in Jind. He was found hanging from a tree in a park, which is around 2km away from the Tikri border,” Bahadurgarh city police station SHO Vijay Kumar said. According to the police, the note purportedly left behind by Singh said: “Dear farmer brethren, Modi government is giving date after date... No one knows when these black farm laws will be rolled back.” Over a fortnight ago, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later. In December, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison, a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, a Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
08-02-2021||India||J&K police look for cyber volunteers to identify and report 'anti-national' posts||Jammu and Kashmir police are looking for cyber volunteers who will identify and report “anti-national” posts, raising fears of online vigilantes intruding on privacy and targeting people they bear grudges against. Many social media users described the development as the rise of a new “Ikhwan” — a dreaded, pro-government counter-insurgency militia that existed in the early years of the militancy and was accused of massive crimes in the Valley. A police statement on Wednesday asked people to register as “cyber crime volunteers” under the “framework of ministry of home affairs programme — Cyber Crime Volunteer Framework”. High court lawyer Altaf Khan said the scheme was being implemented across India but Jammu and Kashmir police seemed to have taken the lead in volunteer-hunting. “You will now be watched by fellow citizens,” he said, adding that the initiative was open to abuse by the cyber volunteers to settle personal scores. The police statement said citizens could register in any of three categories of cyber volunteers: cyber volunteer unlawful content flagger, cyber awareness promoter, or cyber expert. People will be “required to register as volunteer through a dedicated section, ‘Cyber Volunteers’, on (the) National Cybercrime Reporting Portal”, the statement said. The content flaggers will identify and report online content suspected to be illegal, such as those relating to “anti-national” activities, terrorism, radicalisation and crimes like child pornography or rape. Anybody can be a content flagger since “no prior verification (KYC) is required”. However, for the two other categories, the state or Union Territory concerned will carry out verification. The cyber awareness promoters will educate people – especially “vulnerable groups like women, children, and elderly and rural population” -- on cyber crimes. The cyber experts will deal with specific domains of cyber crime such as forensics, network forensics, malware analysis, memory analysis and cryptography. Kashmir’s cyber police chief, Tahir Ashraf, did not take calls from The Telegraph but later said in a text message that he had “not started any such recruitment”, appearing to imply the statement was not issued by his office. Ashraf did not respond to questions about the possible misuse of the programme by the volunteers. “It (the initiative) will increase intrusion in your privacy and you do not know what the mechanism to control it is,” Khan, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court lawyer, told this newspaper. “People may have personal grievances against each other, and they (the volunteers) can misuse it (the scheme). (Nobody knows) what the mechanism to find out the truth or falsity of such reports is.” Khan said the initiative was more dangerous than Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, which prescribed up to three-year jail terms for people posting “objectionable” material online and was struck down by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional in 2015. “(Under that law) any government agency had the power to report (the alleged crime) but here you are being watched by everybody,” Khan said. “If somebody does not like your comment, he will report it and you will be scared to write anything on your wall.” The people of Jammu and Kashmir have faced unprecedented cyber curbs since the abrogation of key Article 370 provisions in August 2019. The Internet had initially been suspended for months, and a ban on high-speed 4G Internet was lifted only last Friday evening. The cyber police have been summoning people for posts criticising the government or the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and special status. Two Valley journalists were booked under the anti-terror law UAPA on the charge of posting “anti-national” content last year. Many accounts have been suspended by Twitter on the central government’s request. Two Valley-based news portals were booked in late January for alleged public mischief after the army complained about reports that accused it of forcing a private school in Shopian to hoist the Tricolour on Republic Day. According to the website of the Union home ministry’s National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal, the latest programme is open to individuals “willing to volunteer in any other area that can help in fighting cybercrime”. The applications will be received by the regional nodal offices in the states, and in Jammu and Kashmir by the crime branch inspector-general of police who will “contact the applicants on an as-needed basis”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Special Task Force jawan killed in Chhattisgarh blast ||A jawan of the Special Task Force  (STF) was on Sunday killed when a pressure improvised explosive device (IED), planted by Maoist, went off in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, police said. The incident occurred around 4.30pm near Peddagellur village when a joint team of security forces was out on an anti-Maoist operation, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P. said. “When the patrolling team was on way back after the operation, constable Mohan Nag inadvertently stepped on the bomb, triggering the blast that left him critically injured,” he said. He died in hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Kerala Assembly elections: Parties set sights on veteran footballers||The names of veteran footballers I.M. Vijayan and U. Sharaf Ali are doing the rounds in connection with the Kerala Assembly elections later this year, marking a rare occurrence in a state where sportspersons have rarely played ball in the poll arena. Ali, a former India defender, has expressed his readiness to contest from the Ernad constituency in Malappuram district as an Independent candidate backed by the ruling Left Democratic Front. The seat is held by the Indian Union Muslim League, which is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front. “It is a fact that I have expressed my willingness to contest from Ernad on an LDF platform. Now it’s up to them to take a call,” Ali told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The 57-year-old who retired from Kerala police in May 2020 as the commandant of its Rapid Response and Rescue Force, said the LDF was his “natural choice” and he was not inclined towards any other political option. The Kerala elections are due in a couple of months. “Although I was a KSU (Congress’s campus arm Kerala Students Union) sympathiser during my college days, I stayed away from politics after joining the police force. But since my retirement, I have been attracted by the secular platform of the LDF, which has provided good governance in Kerala, making it a natural choice for me,” Ali said. Ali was part of the formidable Kerala police soccer team that also had Vijayan, former India captain V.P. Sathyan and C.V. Pappachan. They were the pillars of the Kerala state team that won the Santosh Trophy in 1991 and 1992. E.N. Mohandas, the district secretary of the CPM in Malappuram, said the LDF was looking for “candidates from all walks of life”. “We have identified several names who fit the requirements of our party and political front. They will be finalised by the end of this month or early March,” Mohandas said, dodging questions on whether Ali was among the probables for the Ernad constituency. “We will first decide on seat sharing with our alliance partners and then finalise the candidates’ list,” he said. While Ali has put the ball in the LDF’s court, Vijayan said he had “for now” declined multiple offers from political parties as he wanted to be identified only with football. “I have been asked to contest by the LDF, UDF and the BJP. But I politely told the leaders who called me up that I would rather remain a footballer, at least for now,” Vijayan told this newspaper. An inspector with Kerala police, Vijayan is also the technical director and coach of the state police’s football team. “I have good relations with all political parties. But once I decide to take the plunge into politics, I will be bracketed as a person belonging to some party, for which I am not ready at the moment,” said the legendary forward and captain of the Indian side who had hugely successful stints in Calcutta giants East Bengal and Mohun Bagan. “Whether in Kerala or in Bengal, people still love me as a footballer. I have five more years of service left and want to dedicate my life to football that gave me everything,” said Vijayan, who emerged from very humble beginnings to become one of the most sought-after players in the country during his heyday. Asked if he was ruling out contesting in elections even in the future, Vijayan quipped: “Let’s see how things pan out when I get older and more mature to understand public life. For now, I can serve the people through football by coaching and mentoring children and youths.” Although sportspersons are not too common in Kerala’s political landscape, former India pacer S. Sreesanth had unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Thiruvananthapuram in the 2016 Assembly polls. Although the BJP had celebrated his candidature with much fanfare, the cricketer who had been facing suspension after being arrested in a spot-fixing case came third.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala releases Sabari draft ‘bill’||The Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala has released the draft of a bill that seeks to punish with a two-year jail term women aged between 10 and 50 years for entering the Sabarimala temple, raking up the contentious issue before the Assembly elections. The draft bill, which the Congress plans to sign into law if it comes to power, points out that since the presiding deity, Swami Ayyappan, is a “perpetual celibate”, women of childbearing age must not enter the hill shrine. The Left reacted cautiously over the emotive issue but accused the Congress of conning people with a “fake bill”. Congress MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan released the bill, drafted by former director-general of police T. Asaf Ali, on Saturday. Radhakrishnan, a former minister, said the draft titled Sabarimala Ayyappa Devotees (Protection of religious rights, customs and usages) Bill, 2021, would be enacted once the UDF comes to power in the state polls this summer. “They (the Left Democratic Front) allowed women to enter the sanctum sanctorum. So how can we trust them?” Radhakrishnan said. There has never been a law banning women of childbearing age from entering the Sabarimala temple. However, convention has prevented women of this category from stepping into the shrine. As per the draft bill, the last word on the temple’s customs would be that of the chief priest. The Sabarimala issue has once again gained traction in the UDF with leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala embarking on an “Aishwarya Kerala Yatra” — a pre-poll march across the state to galvanise his party and mobilise support. There are indications that the UDF will use Sabarimala as a poll plank, and slogans in reverence of the deity have been raised at the march. Women’s entry was pitchforked into mainstream political debate and widespread protests were held when the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government decided to implement a September 2018 Supreme Court verdict that lifted all age barriers for women worshippers wanting to visit the temple. Although both the BJP and the Congress had initially welcomed the verdict, they made a quick turnaround, smelling a political opportunity since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had been just months away. In keeping with its decision to implement the court order, the Left government deployed massive security at the temple. But allowing police escort for 31-year-old social activist Rehana Fathima to the temple led to massive outrage among traditionalists who wanted status quo. Eventually two women of childbearing age, Bindu Ammini and Kanakadurga — aged 42 and 44 — managed to enter the sanctum sanctorum escorted by the police in the cover of darkness on January 2, 2019, more than three months after the apex court’s order. In the ensuing Lok Sabha polls, the UDF registered a near clean sweep, winning 19 of the 20 seats and leaving just one to the LDF in what was widely interpreted as the result of the state government’s insistence on implementing the court order. Chennithala told reporters on Saturday that the Centre and the state had failed to live up to the expectations of Sabarimala devotees. “The Supreme Court verdict had hurt the sentiments of the believers. Yet, neither the Centre nor the state government tried to bring a legislation against the entry of women (of childbearing age),” the Congress leader said. Organising secretary of the All India Congress Committee, K.C. Venugopal, clarified that his party was not trying to whip up sentiments. “Sabarimala is already a major issue. We don’t have to deliberately make it into a big issue,” he told reporters, accusing the LDF of allowing non-believers into the temple. “This government had pushed non-believers into Sabarimala with the help of the police and hurt the religious sentiments of scores of believers,” Venugopal said. CPM politburo member S. Ramachandran told a news channel that his party’s position was that “the matter should be solved through discussions with all concerned”. After having burnt its fingers by implementing the court order, the LDF had since backed off from its earlier position. The state government had decided to put the implementation on hold until further clarity since review petitions have been referred to a larger bench of the apex court. LDF convener and state CPM acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan slammed the UDF for “conning” the people with a “fake bill”. “This is a fake bill and the Congress is conning the people. The government can only act according to the court order,” he told reporters. “The CPM’s stand is very clear and we have already put it in black and white. We will go by whatever the court decides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
08-02-2021||India||Congress supports Naveen Patnaik’s school policy||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s “Mo School Abhiyana” (My School Campaign) has drawn support from the Congress, one of the main rivals of ruling the Biju Janata Dal (BJD). Under the campaign people can adopt schools, including their own alma maters, to support them financially and bring about overall improvement in their functioning. The chief minister’s call for adoption of schools under the programme has drawn response from Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) president, Niranjan Patnaik who has expressed his desire to take up the responsibility of improving schools where he studies in his formative years. On January 25, the chief minister had appealed to people from different walks of life including MLAs, ministers, IAS and IPS officers to adopt their alma maters. In his appeal, Naveen had said: “Contribution of school is immense, it has shaped you. It has provided us with the ability to create a unique identity for ourselves. It’s time to give back to the society.” Under the scheme, one can contribute money, in-kind resources or even volunteer time in any school of his choice. “If one contributes Rs 1 lakh for his school, the government will provide Rs 2 lakh as a matching grant. With this, the school will get Rs 3 lakh to develop its infrastructure,” said a senior official. One can adopt at most three schools. “It provides a philanthropic platform for alumni to contribute and catalyse a healthy, inclusive and creative environment to groom a new generation of dreamers, doers,  makers, growers, artists, writers, thinkers, designers, scientists, innovators, leaders, explorers and entrepreneurs,” said officials. The programme was launched in 2017. In a letter to the Project Director of Odisha School Education Programme Authority (OSEPA), Bhupender Singh Poonia, the PCC chief urged him to give him an opportunity to adopt seven schools and bring about improvement in their condition. The state Congress chief, Niranjan Patnaik, told The Telegraph, “I have asked the government to give me a chance to adopt the schools where I spent my childhood days.” He said that his party has always supported constructive decisions. “Earlier, we had welcomed the Naveen Patnaik government’s decision to keep the government’s stake in the management of Odisha Power Grid Corporation (OPGC). This time for the improvement of education, I have extended my cooperation.” The leader, however, said that Mo School Abhiyana of the government can never achieve expected success unless the politicians, including MLAs and ministers and bureaucrats, send their children to government run schools. “When you are adopting government-run and government-aided schools, where you had your early education, sending your children to high profile English medium schools will not send a wrong message and will not help strengthen the education system,” Niranjan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
