09-02-2021||India||India orders 10 million new doses of Covishield||The government has placed orders for one crore additional doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India and 45 lakh more doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, officials of the two vaccine makers said on Tuesday. The government had earlier placed a purchase order with Serum Institute of India (SII) for 1.1 crore doses of AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield. When asked, a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said, "The company has received a letter of comfort from the Government of India to supply another 4.5 million (or 45 lakh) doses''. The spokesperson also added that Bharat Biotech will also be exporting its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, to Brazil and the United Arab Emirates. The company is also likely to export the vaccine to the Philippines and other South Asian countries, the spokesperson said. India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Home Minister Amit Shah addresses Parliament on Uttarakhand disaster||As many as 197 people are missing while 20 have died in Sunday's avalanche and flash floods in Uttarakhand, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Parliament on Tuesday. He said the figures received from the state government may change and the situation is being monitored round-the-clock at the highest level by the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. Five more bodies were recovered on Tuesday taking the death toll from the Uttarakhand glacier disaster to 31 as multiple agencies raced against time to reach about 30 workers trapped inside a tunnel in a power project site and 175 people remained missing. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and endangered lives of people living along the banks. Shah told the Rajya Sabha that the rising water levels washed away the functional Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 MW and also affected the under-construction 520 MW NTPC Hydro Power Project at Tapovan on the downstream of the Dhauli Ganga river. "As per information received from the Government of Uttarakhand, 20 people have died and six persons have been injured so far. As per information, a total of 197 people are reported missing which includes 139 of an under-construction project of NTPC, 46 of the functional Rishi Ganga Project and 12 villagers," he said. Twelve people working on the NTPC project and 15 on the Rishiganga one have been saved. In a tunnel of NTPC project, approximately 25-35 people are suspected to be trapped, Shah said. "Rescue operations to evacuate these people is going on a war footing and all-out efforts are being made for searching missing persons. "I assure the House that the Centre is extending all possible assistance to the state government for relief and rescue work. The central government is working in close coordination with the state and all necessary steps, which are considered appropriate, are being taken," he said. Since a bridge has been washed away due to the deluge, 13 villages around the place of the incident have been cut off. Necessary supplies and medical assistance are being provided to these villages through helicopters, the Union Home Minister said. The state government has reported that there is no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level has been contained, he said, adding, "The centre and the state governments are keeping a strict vigil on the situation." A meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary was held on February 7, wherein all the agencies concerned were directed to work in close coordination and to extend all requisite assistance to the state administration. Shah said both the control rooms of the Ministry of Home Affairs are monitoring the situation and are providing all possible help to the state. The Indo-Tibetian Border Police has set up their control room and 450 personnel of the force with all necessary equipment are engaged in rescue and relief operation. Five Nation Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have also reached the place of incident. Besides, eight teams of the Indian Army, including one Engineer Task Force (ETF), are carrying out rescue operation at the incident site. A diving team of the Indian Navy has also reached the site for the rescue operation. "Five helicopters of the Indian Air Force have also been engaged in the rescue operation. A control room has been established at Joshimath," Shah said. Despite adverse conditions at the site, search and rescue operation is being carried out continuously. The Army has cleared debris at the opening of the tunnel to rescue the people trapped in it. A team of the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment/DRDO has reached the site for surveillance and reconnaissance, he said. At the ground and government level, the district administration, police and disaster management departments of the state government along with all central agencies have been working for rescue and relief work, Shah said. He also informed Lok Sabha about the situation in Uttarakhand and the response of the government. Essential food and medical supplies are being provided to affected villages through helicopters, Shah said. The state Public Works Department and the Border Roads Organisation have started repairing five damaged bridges. Central Water Commission personnel are on high alert and a DRDO team is keeping a vigil on avalanches, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India|| Red Fort chaos: Actor Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu who was "a prominent player" behind the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday.  Later in the day, a city court sent him to seven-day police custody after police alleged that Sidhu was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort on January 26.  The arrest was made by a team of the Delhi Police's Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.  Sidhu was arrested from the Karnal Bypass at 10.40 pm on Monday, Yadav told PTI, adding that he was wanted in connection with the case of instigating the crowd at the Red Fort on Republic Day.  "The Crime Branch will investigate his role in detail," the DCP said.  Asked where he was hiding after the January 26 violence, Yadav said the investigation at in an initial stage.  Taking to Twitter, the Special Cell claimed that Sidhu was "a prominent player" behind the Republic Day violence and he was instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law.  Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest.  After the January 26 violence, which had leftover 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, the 36-year-old actor-activist was posting videos on social media.  "Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account," a police source said.  Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, sources said, adding that several teams are working to arrest other persons who were involved in the violence.  Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta.  However, Sidhu's counsel claimed that he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.  The violence took place when tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on January 26 during their tractor parade to highlight their demand for repealing the new agri laws.  However, their parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour.  Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where the religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died.  At the Red Fort on January 26, several police personnel had fell or jumped tens of feet down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob.  In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.  "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," police had said in the FIR.  "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it had also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||No new Covid deaths in seven states, UTs since three weeks, says Centre||Seven states and UTs have reported no new Covid-19 deaths in the last three weeks, while 15 have not registered any fatality in the past 24 hours, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that consistent gains are being made in terms of declining new cases and casualties. The Centre, however, noted that the last national serosurvey findings have shown that over 70 per cent of the population is still susceptible to the disease. The seven states and UTs -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Nagaland and Lakshadweep -- have reported no new Covid-19 deaths in last three weeks, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Addressing a press briefing, he said India was the fastest country to reach 6 million vaccination doses of Covid-19 in 24 days. Bhushan said within the country also some states have performed well, while others need to improve their vaccination coverage. "There are 12 states and UTs that have vaccinated more than 65 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These states are Bihar (78.1 per cent), Tripura (77.1 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (76 per cent), Uttarakhand (73.7 per cent), Odisha (72.4 per cent), Mizoram (69.9 per cent), Himachal Pradesh (68.7 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (68 per cent), Andaman and Nicobar Islands (67.9 per cent), Rajasthan (67.2 per cent), Kerala (66.9 per cent) and Lakshadweep (66.7 per cent)," he said. On the other hand, Bhushan said, there are 11 states and UTs that have vaccinated less than 40 per cent of healthcare workers. These are Puducherry (15.4 per cent), Manipur (21.3 per cent), Nagaland (21.5 per cent), Meghalaya (24.3 per cent), Chandigarh (28.7 per cent), Punjab (34.1 per cent), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (34. 5 per cent), Ladakh (35.8 per cent), Jammu and Kashmir (37.5 per cent) and Delhi (38 per cent). "These are the states we are in touch with and telling them to increase the coverage," he said. Bhushan said the Centre has advised states and UTs that all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once by March 1, 2021. "We have further advised states and UTs that all frontline workers must be given the opportunity of mop-up rounds by March 6, 2021. Those frontline workers who do not get vaccinated in scheduled vaccination rounds or in mop-up rounds will have to be relegated to the age-specific vaccination rounds," he said. Bhushan said a meeting of the National AEFI Committee was held on February 5 where discussions were held on 8 AEFI cases following Covid-19 vaccinations. "Out of these 8 cases, causality assessment of 5 cases (2 deaths and 3 hospitalised) was conducted. Among hospitalised cases, all three were discharged. Two have been diagnosed as anaphylaxis; classified as vaccine-product related reactions (known and expected reactions following vaccinations) and one case diagnosed as syncope: classified as immunisation triggered stress response (anxiety reaction)," he said. Among death cases, Bhushan said it was found they were not related to vaccination. Bhushan said histopathology and chemical analysis report in three death cases are awaited from the state government. "We are making a standard template through which we will put information in the public domain," he said. There is no evidence of presence of the South African variant of SARs-CoV-2 in India so far, but we are keeping a watch, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Kerala coaching centre sealed after 91 pupils test positive ||A private tuition centre, attended by as many as 91 students of a government school at Marancherryin Ponnani here, who had recently tested positive, is suspected to be a 'super-spreader' of COVID-19, authorities said. The tuition centre was sealed on Monday, Ramesh Kumar, district education officer, Tirur, told PTI. Even as more students, teachers and parents are being subjected to RT-PCR tests, following the unprecedented infection spike among students and teachers in two schools at nearby Ponnani, it has been found that the spread has come from a private tuition centre, where students used to go for coaching classes, he said. Apart from the Marancherry and Vanneri schools, a few more schools in the vicinity have been closed for the time-being to arrest the spread. At least 22 students of these schools, who had also attended classes at the tuition centre, have been isolated and they would undergo RT-PCR tests on Wednesday. Depending on their test results, it would be decided if higher secondary students in and around this area should also be subjected to COVID-19 tests. "We have broken a chain. Otherwise the situation would have been worse," the official said. As many as 148 students and 37 teachers of the Maranchery school and 42 students and 42 teachers of the Vanneri HSS have tested positive till now. "More students and teachers are being subjected to testing to trace positive cases," Ramesh Kumar said. District officials said they have no records of the total number of students, who used to attend classes at the tuition centre, which has not been functioning since the first student tested positive. Since this student and a teacher of another school were symptomatic, they were tested and found positive, the official said, adding that the rest of the students, teachers and staff of the two schools are asymptomatic. The two schools will become functional only after the students' sample turn negative and health authorities inspect and certify that the institutions are safe to be opened. The 'sectoral' magistrates will visit tuition centres in the area to find out if there is any violation of COVID protocol norms and seal immediately, if necessary, the sources said. Officials are also apprehensive that the safety protocol is not being followed at marriages and social gatherings. The "Turfs"-- where teenagers and adults go to play football for an hour on payment, in soccer-crazy Malappuram district, should be closed down, the sources said. A meeting of the department of health and education and Ponnani municipality, convened by district collector K Gopalakrishnan on Monday, had instructed health authorities to conduct COVID-19 tests in six more schools in the area. The district collector has instructed all officials concerned to scale up efforts on ensuring implementation of COVID-19 protocol and contain the spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Rajiv Kapoor, son of Raj Kapoor, dies at the age of 58||Actor-director Rajiv Kapoor, son of celebrated filmmaker-actor Raj Kapoor, died on Tuesday due to heart attack. He was 58. Neetu Kapoor, wife of late actor Rishi Kapoor, was the first to confirm the news on Instagram. She wrote "RIP" alongside a picture of her brother-in-law. Brother Randhir Kapoor said Rajiv Kapoor died due to heart attack "He passed away about 1.30 pm due to heart attack," Randhir Kapoor told PTI. Rajiv Kapoor made his acting debut with 1983 film "Ek Jaan Hain Hum", but made first appearance as a leading man in blockbuster "Ram Teri Ganga Maili" (1985), which was Raj Kapoor's last directorial venture. He went on to feature in films like "Aasmaan", "Lover Boy", "Zabardast" and "Hum To Chale Pardes". Rajiv Kapoor's last film as a leading man was 1990's "Zimmedaar". A lesser-known face from the famous Kapoor film clan, he then made a switch to production and direction. His first production was "Henna" (1991), directed by his brother Randhir Kapoor. In 1996, Rajiv Kapoor made his feature directorial debut with "PremGranth", starring Rishi Kapoor and Madhuri Dixit. He also produced the Rishi Kapoor-directed 1999 romance drama "Aa Ab Laut Chalen". In 2001, the married architect Aarti Sabharwal, but the couple divorced later. Rajiv Kapoor was the youngest among three brothers and two sisters -- Randhir Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor, Ritu Nanda and Rima Jain. His eldest sister Ritu Nanda and brother Rishi Kapoor passed away in January and April last year. The actor was set to make a comeback to the screen with sports drama "Toolsidas Junior", starring Sanjay Dutt in the lead. Produced by filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker and producer Bhushan Kumar and directed by Mridul, the movie was announced in December last year. Mourning Rajiv Kapoor's death, legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar said she is "deeply saddened". "I just got to know about the passing away of the talented actor Rajiv Kapoor, the youngest son of Raj Kapoor Sahab. I'm deeply saddened by the news. May his soul rest in peace," Mangeshkar tweeted. Director-producer Naved Jaffrey remembered Rajiv Kapoor as someone with "a pure heart and a very nice human being". "May his soul rest in peace, deepest condolences to the family," Jaffery wrote on Twitter. Actor-producer Tusshar Kapoor offered his deepest condolences to the Kapoor family. "Sad to hear of the passing away of Rajiv Kapoor! May his soul rest in peace," he tweeted. Cine & TV Artistes' Association (CINTAA), a trade union which looks after the rights and welfare of its members in the entertainment industry also expressed its deepest condolences on the demise of Rajiv Kapoor. The late actor was a CINTAA member since October 1983, the association said on Twitter. "Sad to hear of the passing away of #RajivKapoor (Chimpu) ji ! Deepest condolences to the family! RIP," producer Girish Johar tweeted. Actor Neil Nitin Mukesh said he was "devasted" with the news of Rajiv's demise. "Devastated! Another big loss to the family Folded hands one of my most favourite people in the world. Love him so so dearly. Don't remember a Happy Moment without him. Chimpu uncle we will miss you," he wrote on the micrblogging site. Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Salman Khurshid remembered Rajiv Kapoor as "one of the most versatile" actors of his time. "My heartfelt condolences to the entire Kapoor family. #OmShanti," director Madhur Bhandarkar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||PM assures India’s ‘full support’ to help develop war-ravaged Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over increasing violence in Afghanistan and called for a comprehensive ceasefire for ending the hostilities, while assuring India's full support in the development journey of the war-ravaged country. In a virtual meeting with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, Modi said as close neighbours and strong strategic partners, both India and Afghanistan want to see the region free of extremism and terrorism. The prime minister also said no "outside force" will be able to stop Afghanistan's journey towards development as well as its friendship with India. Referring to the Afghan peace process, he said unity within the country was important and hoped that a "united Afghanistan'' will be capable of dealing with any challenge facing it. "We are concerned over increasing violence in Afghanistan....we support a comprehensive ceasefire in the country," the prime minister said. The online meeting was held to finalise an agreement under which India will construct a dam in Kabul river basin to supply water to the Afghan capital city. In his remarks, Ghani said India's development assistance to Afghanistan is iconically marked on the country's landscape. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan and it has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. In November last, India announced a new package of over 100 high impact community projects worth USD 80 million for Afghanistan at a global conference on Afghanistan. The Shahtoot Dam in Kabul is part of the new developmental package. The agreement was signed by foreign ministers of the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||PM breaks down while talking about his association with Ghulam Nabi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi broke down several times in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday while reminiscing about his close association with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad whose term is coming to an end next week. The prime minister was participating in the farewell speech for Leader of Opposition Azad and three other members from Jammu and Kashmir -- Nazir Ahmad Laway, Shamsher Singh Manhas, Mir Mohammad Fayaz-- whose terms in the Upper House are coming to an end. Modi said it would be difficult for anyone to fill the shoes of Azad as he cared not only about his political affiliation but also about the country and the House. "I worry that after Azad whosoever will take over from him will have to fill very big boots because he cared not only about his party but about the country as well as the House. This is not a small thing, this a big thing," Modi said. He noted that Azad had called him to ask for an all-party meeting during COVID-19 period. "I liked that and also did it. This kind of connection is there because he has the experience of both being in power and in opposition. Twenty-eight years experience in all, it is a big thing," the prime minister said. Reminiscing about their long association, Modi said that as chief ministers of Jammu ad Kashmir and Gujarat, both of them kept in touch with each other. Sharing details of their communication during a terrorist attack on some Gujarati pilgrims in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said Azad was the first one to call him about the incident. With tears rolling down his cheeks, Modi said that Azad cried on the call while informing him about the horrific attack. "Azad was the first person to call me. During that call he could not stop crying," Modi said with a choked voice as tears rolled down from his eyes. Azad later went to the airport when the bodies were sent back and kept in touch till the plane landed in Gujarat, Modi said. "Power comes and goes but (only a few know) how to digest it...therefore like a friend, I respect him on the basis of the things he has done over these years," Modi said while wiping his tears and saluting Azad. Modi said he believes that Azad's concern for his country won't let him sit and whatever responsibilities he takes in the future would be beneficial for the nation. "At a personal level, I would request him to not believe that he is not in the House. My door is always open for all of you. I will always expect and value your inputs," he said. "I will not let you become weak," the prime minister told Azad as he closed his comments. Earlier, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu described Azad as a voice of sanity in public life over few decades when he made valuable contributions while serving both in government and in opposition. Azad retires from Rajya Sabha on February 15 after being the leader of opposition for over six years since June 8, 2014. Naidu said Azad's retirement is particularly painful with the House having lost Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Twitter seeks dialogue with IT Minister after order to block accounts||Twitter on Tuesday said it is seeking formal dialogue with the Information Technology Minister after the government ordered it to take down 1,178 accounts for allegedly spreading misinformation around farmers' protests. The microblogging platform also noted that safety of its employees is a top priority. "We continue to be engaged with the Government of India from a position of respect and have reached out to the Honourable Minister, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, for a formal dialogue," a Twitter spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that an acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice has also been formally communicated. The government, on February 4, had ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. Previously, too, the government had ordered Twitter to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. It has also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive and had cited sections that provide for fine and jail for up to 7 years. Notably, Twitter's Public Policy Director for India and South Asia Mahima Kaul has quit, fuelling speculations about her departure amid the ongoing situation. However, the company has clarified that this was not the case. "At the start of this year, Mahima Kaul decided to step down from her role as Twitter Public Policy Director for India and South Asia to take a well-deserved break. It's a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life, Twitter Vice President Public Policy Monique Meche said. Meche added that Kaul will continue in her role till the end of March and will support the transition. In an emailed response, a Twitter spokesperson said the company reviews every report it receives from the government as expeditiously as possible. It will take appropriate action regarding such reports while making sure we hold firm to our fundamental values and commitment to protecting the public conversation. An update is shared through our established channels of communication with the Government, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson emphasised that the company strongly believes that the open and free exchange of information has a positive global impact, and that the tweets must continue to flow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
09-02-2021||India||Indian-American comedians stand by Munawar Faruqui||A group of Indian-American stand-up comedians have come out in support of Munawar Faruqui, who was recently released from jail after 35 days in a case of allegedly hurting religious sentiments during one of his comedy shows. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day. He was released from the Indore Central Jail late Saturday night after he was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. In a brief video message after he was set free, the 32-year-old comedian said, "I don't want to comment (on the case against him) now. But, I have full faith in the judiciary and I am hopeful of getting justice." In their comments, the Indian-American stand-up comedians said the arrest of Faruqui was incredibly unjust and against the freedom of expression. "As a comedian, my entire life is built on the ability to express myself to make people laugh but to also call out contradictions and injustice: things that make us uncomfortable but are important to bring to light. Because of this I deeply value my freedom to develop my own thoughts and share them with people," comedian Pallavi Gunalan said. "That Munawar is being treated so cruelly simply for being a fellow comedian is incredibly unjust and we need to speak about it. That he didn't even get a chance to express himself before being jailed shows we have such a long way to go in terms of truly understanding what freedom and liberation mean for everybody, even people with whom you may disagree. "Any one of our lives could be taken away so quickly and it's not right. So, we have to fight for them. I support Munawar and his colleagues and I hope they will receive justice," Gunalan said in a statement issued by the Hindus for Human Rights. Gunalan and several other Indian American stand-up comedians recently participated in a virtual solidarity show for Faruqui organised by the Reclaiming India coalition. Nine young South Asian American comedians performed during the show last week. "It was very important for me as a fellow comedian to show solidarity with Munawar and others like him who had been wrongfully arrested for practicing the art form of stand-up comedy. To paraphrase Dave Chappelle, as a comedian I think it's necessary to fight anyone that tries to obstruct the practice of stand-up comedy, especially a state deliberately infringing on free speech rights, said Sai D. Rishi Mahesh said that he participated in this event because of his perspective that history is going to look favourably on those who promote freedom of expression, those who meet disagreement with argument and reasoning rather than violence. "Supporting Munawar is in support of mutual respect in the face of conflict," he said. Apoorva Gundeti said that she believes that art is inherently political and they have a responsibility to use art and platforms to share what they believe. Filmmaker, educator and performer Fatimah Asghar, the emcee for the show, said that Faruqui is not one individual, but a young outspoken Muslim comedian. "His case encapsulates so much of what is happening in India in recent years. We have seen rising discrimination and violence towards Muslims and other minorities, towards artists and members of the media, and towards any public figure who dares to dissent against the government. That is why we, as young South Asian Americans, are taking a stand in solidarity with Faruqui," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||SC stays arrest of Tharoor, Sardesai and others on R-Day violence tweets||In a major relief to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists including Rajdeep Sardesai, the Supreme Court Tuesday stayed their arrest in connection with the FIRs lodged against them for their allegedly "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally here on the Republic Day.  The apex court, in the proceedings lasting five minutes, granted protection from any possible coercive action by police of states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka to Tharoor as also Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Vinod K Jose and Anant Nath.  Issue notice returnable in two weeks. In the meantime, there shall be stay of arrest of the petitioners, the bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde noted in its order after senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the lawmaker from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, expressed the looming danger of danger arrest.  When the bench said it was issuing notice in the matter, Sibal vehemently pleaded that an order with an effect that no coercive action be taken against them in the meantime be also passed.  Nothing is going to happen. Where is the danger, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.  Sibal objected and said Solicitor General Tuhsar Mehta is appearing for Delhi Police and the cops of other states might knock at my doors and arrest me in the meantime .  "Kindly protect us in the meanwhile," Sibal said, prompting the bench to ask the law officer whether the police was planning to arrest Tharoor and others.  Mehta, seeking to argue the case on Wednesday, alleged: Horrendous tweets have been made, the law officer said, adding, I can show you what horrendous effect these tweets have with such lakhs of followers.  The bench asked Mehta, Are you going to arrest them?  The solicitor general said, I am before your lordships. Please hear it tomorrow.  The bench then asked Mehta whether he was appearing for all the concerned states.  I will appear for all, he said.  Sibal, while arguing that petitioners should be protected, said, What prejudice will it cause if this protection is given?  We will hear you after two weeks and stay the arrest in the meanwhile, the bench said.  Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for one of the journalists, said no religious sentiment has been hurt and it was a January 26 report on some person being allegedly shot and then it was corrected to something else.  The top court has issued notices to the Centre, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka governments on the pleas filed by Tharoor and others.  On January 30, Delhi Police had filed a case against Tharoor, Sardesai and others.  Earlier, Tharoor and the six journalists were booked by Noida Police for alleged sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said.  Madhya Pradesh Police had also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged ''misleading'' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.  Tharoor has moved the apex court, through advocate Sandeep Kapur, challenging the registration of multiple FIRs against him for his tweet on the January 26 violence in Delhi.  The petitioners have sought quashing of the FIRs and has invoked the petitioners' right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 and their freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.  FIRs have been lodged for offences such as sedition and creation of communal disharmony.  One of the FIRs, lodged at Noida, alleged the actions of the Tharoor and others on social media that a farmer had been shot dead by Delhi Police during the tractor rally led to the siege of the Red Fort and violence.  The FIR at Noida said the accused, through their "fake, misleading and wrong" tweets, tried to imply that the death of the farmer was caused by the violence committed by Delhi Police.  On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police in the national capital during the tractor rally called by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three new farm laws passed by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Death toll climbs to 31 in Uttarakhand disaster||The death toll from the Uttarakhand disaster rose to 31 with the recovery of five bodies on Tuesday, the State Emergency Operation Centre said, even as the operation to rescue around 30 workers feared trapped inside a tunnel at the Tapovan power project in Chamoli district continued. The State Emergency Operation Centre said 175 people are still missing after the Sunday's disaster, apparently caused by a glacier burst. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) earlier said its personnel recovered two bodies from debris in Raini village on Tuesday morning. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat visited Lata in Chamoli district on Tuesday to meet the residents of the avalanche-hit villages. Rawat, who reached Tapovan on Monday evening to review rescue efforts, undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas on Tuesday and also met 12 workers who were rescued from the tunnel on Sunday evening. Around half a dozen people were injured in the avalanche on Sunday. Thirteen border villages of Joshimath block were cut off following the avalanche in Rishi Ganga river on Sunday. The villages that lost road connectivity in the wake of the calamity are Raini Palli, Pang, Lata, Suraithota, Suki, Bhalgaon, Tolma, Fagrasu, Long Segdi, Gahar, Bhangyul, Juwagwad and Jugju. Nearly 100 ration kits have been supplied to the affected villages by helicopters to ensure they face no dearth of essentials. Talking to reporters, Rawat said the priority is to get to those trapped inside the tunnel and save as many lives as possible. Additional heavy machines could be pressed into service to expedite the process of clearing tonnes of debris inside the tunnel blocking the path of rescue personnel. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks in Chamoli district on Sunday.It appeared to have triggered an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Experts, however, are still trying to determine the exact cause of the disaster in Joshimath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Less than 10,000 fresh Covid cases for the second time this month||The daily new COVID-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the second time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,47,304, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,110 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,55,158 with 78 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,48,521 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.25 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,43,625 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,25,87,752 samples have been tested up to February 8 with 6,87,138 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 16 from Kerala, 15 from Maharashtra and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,158 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,325 from Maharashtra followed by 12,387 from Tamil Nadu, 12,239 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,209 from West Bengal, 8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu arrested in connection with R-Day violence||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu wanted in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday. The arrest was made by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. Official sources said that he was arrested from Zirakpur near Chandigarh. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. After the January 26 violence that had left over 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, Sidhu was posting videos on social media. "Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account," police sources said. Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, they said. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear. "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," police had said in the FIR. "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it had also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Modi profiles 'Andolan Jeevis', warns about 'Foreign Destructive Ideology'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi used the august House on Monday to profile a “new breed” of protesters as “Andolan Jeevi” and parasites and asked the country to be alert about “Foreign Destructive Ideology”, falling back on conspiracy theories and labels reminiscent of the Nazi era in Germany. On a day that stood out for contradictions, the Prime Minister also sought to claim legitimacy for the controversial farm laws by swallowing his pride and quoting his predecessor Manmohan Singh who had been repeatedly ridiculed and called names by Modi. It was also an indirect admission that his government’s laboured explanations to the farmers had proved ineffective even after 11 rounds of talks. Modi told the Rajya Sabha while replying to the motion of thanks on the President’s address: “We are aware about shramjeevi (workers), buddhijeevi (intellectuals). A new breed has taken birth. They are the Andolan Jeevi. You will find them at the protests of lawyers, students, workers and farmers. “Kabhi parde ke peechhe, kabhi parde ke aage. Yeh poori toli hai (Sometimes behind the curtain and sometimes in front of the curtain. This is a gang).” He later added: “Aise logon ko pehchan-ne ki zarurat hai. Sab Andolan Jeevi parjeevi hote hain (Such people need to be identified. They are all parasites).” The choice of words was an unfortunate throwback to the run-up to the atrocities Hitler committed in Germany, where he set the stage by relentlessly describing the Jews as parasites living off others or as harmful bacteria (“noxious bacillus”) . Prime Minister Modi is using similar terminology, branding some of the protesters “Andolan Jeevi” and publicly sounding a call to single them out close on the heels of an attempt to attack the protesting farmers near Delhi and pass it off as a spontaneous reaction from residents in the neighbourhood. The very same tactic was used in Nazi Germany to pit neighbour against neighbour and hound dissenters. Unwittingly or otherwise, Modi borrowed from other playbooks, too. He again referred to the Emergency and the terrible price it had exacted, but this did not prevent him from playing the “foreign hand” card once monopolised by Indira Gandhi. “The nation should stay away from these Andolan Jeevi. We are talking about FDI (foreign direct investment). Another FDI has come too. It is ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’. We have to be aware of them to save the nation from this ideology,” Modi said. The Prime Minister’s warning suggests that the tweets by celebrities abroad have touched a raw nerve -– something the deaths of over 160 farmers could not achieve. Modi invoked three of his predecessors to defend the new farm laws. The farmers are demanding the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for the payment of the minimum support price (MSP) while farm produce is bought from them. Modi referred to the views of the late Prime Minister and Bharatiya Lok Dal leader Chaudhary Charan Singh to underscore the plight of farmers. The Prime Minister quoted Manmohan as saying “there are other rigidities because of the whole marketing regime set up in the 1930s which prevent our farmers from selling their produce where they get the highest rate of return”. “You should feel proud that Modi is doing what Manmohan Singh said,” Modi said. He said that during the Green Revolution, there were similar protests against the reforms but the then Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, went ahead with them. What Modi did not say was that the government has been unable to address the fears of the farmers who believe that the ham-handed manner in which the laws have been pushed proves that they are aimed at exploiting them and abetting crony capitalism. “We are asking the farmers to come to talks. This is the time to strengthen agriculture. We cannot take the country backward. Mandis should be made modern and efficient. The MSP was there, is there and will be there in future. But we have to take steps to reduce the load on farming. Affordable ration for the poor will continue,” Modi said. The farmers have asked the government to repeal the three laws and to draw up fresh laws in consultation with them to strengthen agriculture. Opposition parties also favour bringing in reforms in consultation with all stakeholders. Modi said certain forces wanted instability in India and were trying to mislead the Sikh “brothers”. “The country is proud of our Sikh brothers. The language spoken about them and the way they are being misled, it is not good for the nation,” Modi said, conveniently forgetting that the ecosystem associated with his regime had sought to malign the protesters. Nor did the Prime Minister explain the reason for his condescension – that is, what made him think that a proud community that had always been at the forefront of defending and feeding the nation could be so easily “misled”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Sasikala jitters for AIADMK||Released from jail recently and after a Covid recovery, V.K. Sasikala, who had been a close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, drove down here from Bangalore on Monday to thousands of her supporters mobbing her car at various NH spots. The excitement and chaos was a slice of an earlier era of political exuberance, but came as cold comfort to the ruling AIADMK. Attired in a green saree and with her face mask on, Sasikala, 66, warmly greeting her supporters en route to Chennai, appeared less intimidating from her imperious days as Jayalalithaa’s former aide, but her speeding Innova car fluttering the AIADMK party flag on its bonnet spoke of her defiant spirit to recapture the party. Even as T.T.V. Dhinakaran, her nephew and general secretary of the breakaway AIADMK, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), and functionaries escorted ‘Chinnamma’, as Sasikala is referred to, in other vehicles, their spirit of open defiance visibly gave the jitters to the ruling AIADMK, which had already expelled both from the party’s primary membership. Disregarding a Tamil Nadu police notice not to use the AIADMK flag on her vehicle, Sasikala on entering the state border near Zuzuwadi in Krishnagiri district was told by the local officials to remove the flag. Sasikala then got down from the vehicle and got into another Innova that fluttered the AIADMK flag as she drove on. The car, as Dhinakaran said later, belonged to an AIADMK office-bearer, S.R. Sampangi from nearby Hosur, who had come to greet Chinnamma. “I will not bow to repressive tactics and will certainly be in active politics,” Sasikala told reporters, speaking briefly at one place in Krishnagiri district. Sasikala reached her new home in T. Nagar in the city later in the evening to rousing reception by AMMK functionaries and well wishers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers hand PM a lesson for his 'Andolan Jeevi' comment||The protesting farmers on Monday wore as a badge of honour Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reference to some of them as “Andolan Jeevi” and handed him a lesson in history. Modi’s comment had come in the Rajya Sabha while he was replying to the motion of thanks to the President’s address. “Farmers would like to remind the PM that it is andolans that have liberated India from colonial rulers and that is why we are proud to be Andolan Jeevi,” said a statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the banner under which the movement is being conducted. “It is the BJP and its predecessors that had never done any andolan against the Britishers and they were always against the andolans. They are still scared of public movements.” The government’s “adamant attitude” is creating more “Andolan Jeevi”, the SKM said, adding that the agitating farmers would be more than happy to return home. But, as Rakesh Tikait has said, there could be no “ghar wapsi (return home)” without a “kanoon wapsi (law repeal)”. The farmer union leaders see not even a sliver of hope in the Prime Minister’s speech. They said he had again talked only about tweaking the contentious farm laws and not about repealing them, and seemed to be addressing only his own supporters and not the farmers. Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) said Modi had declared several days ago that he was only a call away. “Farmers are sitting at Delhi's borders. Why doesn't he call the farmers if he wants to talk?”  Given the pace of mobilisation and the farmers’ anger at the enemy-like treatment being handed out to those protesting at Delhi’s borders, union leaders say it’s impossible to back down now as the Prime Minister is suggesting. “We cannot just pack up and leave on the basis of what he said in Parliament, which is just empty words,” a union leader said. Referring to Modi's assertion that “MSP (minimum support price) was there, MSP is there, MSP will remain in the future,” Tikait asked at a rally: “Why not then enact a law guaranteeing MSP?” While this has been a longstanding demand of the farmers, it has assumed urgency in the context of the three new farm laws. The fear is that private players will first offer attractive prices to wean farmers away from the government mandis, and once the mandi system is weakened the companies will determine the price, pushing it down. What the farmers, therefore, want is a legal guarantee that even corporate groups will buy their produce at the MSP. Reacting to Modi’s refrain on the MSP, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan -- an SKM constituent -- said that if a farmer was denied the MSP tomorrow, what would he do with the Prime Minister’s speech or tweets? “Government officials function only on the basis of laws, not tweets and speeches,” Yadav said. The SKM described Modi's new formulation for “FDI” – “Foreign Destructive Ideology” -- as dangerous while reaffirming that all the charges levelled against the farmers’ movement by the government's supporters were baseless. It said it subscribed to constructive democratic processes that upheld the basic human rights anywhere in the world, and expected similar reciprocation from all like-minded people across the world because “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”. A message of support for the farmers’ protest was aired in the Fresno County of California during Sunday's Super Bowl -- one of the most watched sporting events in the US. Abhimanyu Kohar of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh told The Telegraph that instead of maligning the entire movement, why did the government not act against those it thought were doing something wrong. “Why this name-calling all the time?” he asked. Kohar contended that Modi was reaching out to his core constituency in his speech. “The speech was not for the farmers, otherwise why would he mislead and say we have not explained why the farm laws are ‘black’?” he said. “All he has to do is read the minutes of the meetings between the farmer unions and the ministers and see the video recordings, which are available with the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Avalanche triggered by snowfall likely cause of  flash flood: Geologist||An avalanche triggered by snowfall — and not glacial ice sundering — was the likely cause of Sunday’s devastation in Uttarakhand, scientists said on Monday using satellite imagery. Weather scientists, however, said heavy snow had been neither forecast nor observed in Chamoli district on Friday or Saturday. “A preliminary analysis suggests that heavy snowfall on Friday and Saturday led to an accumulation of a snow pile that caused an avalanche,” Santosh Kumar Rai, head of glacial studies at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehra Dun, told The Telegraph. He said the institute had sent five scientists to the site to reconstruct the sequence of events that led to the flash flood. They are expected to complete the survey in two or three days. “We’ll have a report by the end of the week,” Rai said. A satellite imagery analysis by scientists at the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehra Dun, suggested the accumulated snow pile was missing on Sunday, Rai said. During the avalanche, the snow rolling down would have melt through friction. The gravel, mud and rocks it carried would have added momentum to the flood as it swept through the Niti valley in Chamoli. Some scientists had on Sunday, relying on official descriptions of the trigger as a glacial burst, speculated that a chunk of glacial ice may have separated and led to a glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF), an event typically caused by heavy rain or snowfall. But Rai said the terrain’s steep slope at the site makes the accumulation of water and the formation of a lake unlikely. Daily avalanche warning bulletins from the Defence Geoinformatics Research Establishment, issued on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, had each assessed the “danger level” as “1”, meaning “generally safe conditions” with any snow on the slopes considered “generally stable with isolated instability”. But scientists acknowledge that avalanches and landslides belong to a class of phenomena difficult to predict. India Meteorological Department scientists, however, said snowfall had been mild to moderate in Chamoli district. Observatories at Gairsain, Tharuli, Chamoli, Karnprayag and Joshimath – all sites within Chamoli district – had recorded rain or snow between 8.5mm and 12mm from 8.30am on Thursday to 8.30am on Friday, and none thereafter till Saturday, a senior IMD scientist said. “These are amounts that we would label mild or moderate – not heavy,” the scientist told this newspaper. “But these are the amounts at the specific locations of our observatories – in mountainous terrain, there could be variations in the readings at different areas.” Geoscientist Dan Shugar from the University of Calgary, Canada, had been among the earliest to suggest on the basis of satellite imagery on Sunday night that the flash flood in Chamoli had been caused by a large landslide onto a glacier. On Monday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat too said after a meeting with state government scientists, who had on Sunday suggested a glacial burst, that what had occurred was an avalanche. “Scientists of the Indian Space Research Organisation told us there was a landslide at a point where snowfall had taken place two or three days ago. As a result, lakhs of tonnes of ice slipped and led to the calamity,” he said. “They showed me in two-to-three-day-old pictures that there was no glacier, and the top of the mountain was clean. Something (purported to be snow) was seen thereafter at certain points on top of the mountain, where a part of the mountain slid, and that was the reason the massive chunk of ice came down.” It seems the theory of a glacier break was advanced initially because there are a large number of glaciers in Uttarakhand, including Dronagiri, Badrinath, Santopath, Hiprawamak and Bhagirathi in Chamoli district alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Modi mocked the farmers’ movement: Congress||The Congress on Monday said every citizen of the country would have been ashamed when Prime Minister Narendra Modi mocked the farmers’ movement instead of showing understanding of the gravity of the situation and making a serious attempt to resolve the crisis. Responding to the Prime Minister’s reply to the debate on motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said: “The entire country, even the world, looked up to the Prime Minister today to bring curtains on the 74-day-long movement. “But every citizen would feel ashamed at the disdainful manner in which he dealt with the issue. He showed no seriousness… mazakia andaz mein bole (made fun of the issue). Farmers are in such anguish; not a word on the death of so many farmers.” Gohil added: “This was betrayal of the faith the country reposed in him. He is not BJP’s Prime Minister. He is the country’s Prime Minister. He failed to demonstrate any seriousness. There was no mention of China. Our borders are not safe, 20 soldiers were killed. But no mention.” Another Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said: “The farmers got nothing except disappointment today. It is tragic that the Prime Minister failed to understand the gravity of the situation.” The Congress leadership was upset because Modi heaped scorn on the protesters, saying: “We are aware about shramjeevi (workers), buddhijeevi (intellectuals). A new breed has taken birth. They are the Andolan Jeevi.”. The Congress hit back hard, arguing that the party which had no contribution in the freedom struggle will never understand the importance of peaceful mass movements in democracy. His decision to mock the protesters instead of hauling up those who maligned the farmers by calling them terrorists shocked the entire Opposition.Senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge said at a media interaction: “We expected the Prime Minister to resolve the crisis today by withdrawing the three laws honouring the national sentiment. The Prime Minister dismissed everything in one sentence — that nobody knows anything about the laws. The farmers, the Opposition, the experts are all fools.” He was later threatened over phone for criticising the Prime Minister. Kharge lodged a police complaint. Kharge also contested the Modi’s boastful claims on Covid management, saying: “The government has replied to a question in the Rajya Sabha, admitting that their performance was the worst in Asia. The Prime Minister, as usual, misled the nation.”Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala also criticised Modi for avoiding specific objections to the farm laws, saying: “Modi tried to escape accountability using bluff and bluster.” The Congress on Monday launched a month-long campaign to enrol five lakh social media warriors across the country who will be used to counter the BJP’s false propaganda. Rahul Gandhi in a message on the occasion said these warriors would protect the idea of India that had come under threat because of politics of hate and violence with harmony and affection. Party’s social media head Rohan Gupta released a phone number (1800120000044), a WhatsApp number (7574000525) and email (www.incsmw.in) for the volunteers who wish to join.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
09-02-2021||India||Maha govt to probe into synchronised tweets by Indian celebrities||The Maharashtra government will investigate how certain Indian celebrities suddenly posted “synchronised” tweets last week that were widely viewed as a pushback against foreign stars like Rihanna expressing support for the farmers’ movement. “It has been revealed that same (similar) posts (were tweeted) by (Indian) celebrities and at the same time. Our state Intelligence department will inquire if the tweets were sent in a synchronised manner,” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday. “The timing of all the tweets, and the coordinated manner in which they were sent out, indicates a line of action and that this was planned.” The tweets by heavyweights such as Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli and Lata Mangeshkar have triggered speculation that they had acted under government pressure or encouragement. With several top cricketers — including Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane — involved, fingers have been pointed at BCCI secretary Jay Shah, son of Union home minister Amit Shah. Deshmukh was responding to a demand for a probe from the Congress, a partner in the coalition government that includes the Shiv Sena and the state home minister’s own party, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Indian celebrities’ tweets had come with two hashtags — “IndiaTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda” — that the foreign ministry had started after Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg and other global luminaries tweeted support for the protesting farmers. The Indians’ posts contained similar wording and sentiments, implying attempts to divide the country or undermine its sovereignty and suggesting Indians alone can decide on internal matters and find “amicable” solutions. The comments were seen as an endorsement of the government’s unsympathetic treatment of the farmers’ protest and earned the Indian stars unexpectedly severe censure on social media. While NCP veteran Sharad Pawar has advised the Indian celebrities to be cautious while speaking on subjects they were unfamiliar with, new state Congress chief Nana Patole has been more aggressive. “There was a time when some celebrities in Mumbai used to follow instructions from bhai log (Mumbai’s underworld). People are now asking, ‘Since when has the central government started bhaigiri?’” he said, implying government pressure behind the tweets. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant dismissed the suggestion that his party might be demonstrating similar intolerance as the Narendra Modi government, which has described the tweets by foreign celebrities as an “international conspiracy”. Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, have registered an FIR. “Not at all, we are all for freedom of speech. Our initiative is to protect that freedom of speech. We want to know whether the synchronised tweets came under pressure or out of free will. We are not saying the central government pressured these people; we have only sought an investigation,” Sawant told The Telegraph. “This is a very serious situation. We are in for trouble if influential people in society are lending their voice to something they don’t believe in, (if) they are doing it under pressure or allurement. We live in difficult times — you know what the political climate is. Anybody can trigger a crisis in society by forcing celebrities to express certain views. We must ensure that this racket is busted, if there is any. If somebody is threatening, bribing or blackmailing celebrities to tweet in a certain way, the central government should provide them security.” Sawant said the timing and the content of the tweets had triggered genuine apprehension. “The tweets put out by actor Akshay Kumar and badminton player Saina Nehwal was exactly the same — word for word. How does that happen? Actor Suniel Shetty even tagged BJP leader Hitesh Jain. They all took care to attach the statement by the ministry of external affairs (asking global celebrities to ascertain facts ‘before rushing to comment on such matters’),” he said. “The line of argument was the same, the words used were similar, the hashtags used were the same. Shouldn’t we find out who is directing this coordinated play?” Supporters of the government and the BJP have lapped up the tweets from the Indian celebrities, who included Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and Anil Kumble. But the posts have angered the protesting farmers, some of whom have questioned whether Tendulkar deserves the Bharat Ratna (awarded by the erstwhile UPA government). Congress leaders believe that a thorough investigation will end all speculation about the cricketers, who are worshipped by millions of fans across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 20 bodies recovered, 197 people are still missing||Twenty bodies had been recovered by Monday evening while 197 people were still missing a day after the avalanche in Uttarakhand, amid indications that authorities’ decision to have labourers work on a Sunday at two hydropower projects had helped fuel the human tragedy. Nearly all those dead or missing were workers of the Rishiganga and Tapovan hydel projects — set 5km apart and between the villages of Raini and Tapovan in Chamoli district — that took the brunt of the avalanche and were swept away. Some 425 Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, 124 army soldiers and over 100 National and State Disaster Response Force personnel were helping the rescue efforts, which were focused on 35 workers, managers and engineers trapped inside a tunnel at the Tapovan project site. Rescuers and some of the labourers said the avalanche spared the workers’ makeshift quarters, about 500 metres from the project site at both Tapovan and Raini, implying the casualties would have largely been averted had Sunday not been turned into a working day. A supervisor of the Tapovan project told reporters on the condition of anonymity that Sundays were supposed to be holidays and he didn’t know why an exception had been made this week. No clarifications could be obtained from officials of the NTPC, which runs the Tapovan project, or the Rishiganga Power Corporation. “I think some 150 labourers would have been buried where the mass of snow and water fell,” the Tapovansupervisor said. “Huge quantities of iron bars, cement and concrete slabs had been stored there. It won’t be possible to enter the muddy area anytime soon, but the earth and cement will soon mix and the spot will get frozen forever.” It appears that mostly those who had ventured out died or went missing. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced the deaths of “five local shepherds and their 180 sheep and goats”, and unconfirmed reports suggested the same fate for a few woodcutters. With six bridge collapses cutting off half-a-dozen local hamlets including Raini and Tapovan, and mobile services hit, it was unclear whether residents had suffered casualties or losses. Rescuers said that “from the distance”, the hamlets — with a collective population of about 500 —seemed largely unaffected. Speaking unofficially, an employee of one of the two hydel projects said the companies did not keep full records of all their workers, and the casualties could therefore be much higher than whatever the final official count is. “This (lack of records) is because the companies depend on petty contractors to bring in labourers, and shrug off any responsibility when casualties happen. So, we’ll never know the actual number,” he said. Survivor accounts too indicated a heavier toll, with one Tapovan labourer saying he saw “nothing left” at one particular site “where more than 300 were working”. Vimal Kumar, 21 — from Nighasan bock in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh to which at least 40 of the missing labourers belong — told father Dukhi Ram he was unhurt because he was working at a distance from the dam. He said most of the labourers were near the dam and apparently got buried under the mud and snow. “Vimal told me he saw a mass falling with a roar. He ran away with the others nearby. When he turned back from about 50 metres, there was nothing left where more than 300 were working,” Dukhi Ram said. “My son, who has been working there for six months, said there was hardly any possibility of survival because the mud, which formed instantly, was too deep. There was no time for anybody to escape.” Nathu Lal, whose son Dharmendra Verma is missing, said: “I don’t know why they were asked to work on a Sunday. They are paid only on the days they work. Still, they should be able to rest at least one day a week even if they have to go without pay for that day.” He added: “My son said he worked 12 hours a day and stayed in a makeshift structure about 500 metres from the project site below the Nanda Devi.., from where something fell on them. I hope he wasn’t there at the time.” Chief minister Rawat said the ITBP was trying to free 35 Tapovan project workers trapped inside a tunnel. “We have reached 80 metres of a 180-metre tunnel and hope to rescue the 35 soon. Debris (mud and rocks from the avalanche) has entered the tunnel and is blocking the way. We are clearing it gradually,” ITBP deputy inspector-general Aparna Kumar said in the afternoon. Those trapped in the tunnel, which is 3km long but trifurcates after 180 metres, include a general manager, an assistant general manager and several NTPC engineers, sources said. They said the tunnel was slightly curved, making it difficult to clear the slush, debris and silt blocking it. No voice contact had been made yet with anyone in the tunnel, an official said. Sniffer dogs and heavy equipment, including bulldozers and JCBs, had been flown in. State authorities said 27 people had earlier been rescued — 12 from a smaller tunnel at the Tapovan project site and 15 from one at the Rishiganga site. Himanshu Thakkar, co-ordinator of the South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People, said the tragedy had raised questions about the safety of the dams, Reuters reported. “The dams are supposed to withstand much greater force. This was not a monsoon flood, it was much smaller,” he said. Additional reporting by Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||India has crossed the LAC more often than China, says Modi's minister||If Narendra Modi seemed to imply that China had not intruded into Ladakh, one of his ministers who is a former army chief has gone further and suggested it’s India that is the habitual intruder. General V.K. Singh, junior road and highways minister, has asserted that India has crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China but the government never announced it, prompting military veterans to dub the comment “shameful” and “shocking” coming from a former army chief. They asked whether Singh was making out a case for the government to accept the estimated 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory that China is accused of occupying. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry pounced on Singh’s remark, terming it “an unwitting confession” by the Indian side and accused Delhi of trespassing the border to encroach on China’s territory. Several veterans drew parallels with Prime Minister Modi’s no-intrusion remark on June 19, days after the Galwan Valley clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, that too had played into China’s hands. “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else,” Modi had told an all-party meeting — a remark he never retracted. “With such ridiculous statements (as Singh’s) we are again playing into China’s hands after the no-intrusion claim by Modi,” a former army commander said. “It seems India has accepted the new status quo and given up its demand for the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020 (before the latest Chinese intrusion in May last year).” Former army officer Pravin Sawhney tweeted: “3 things on former COAS Gen V.K. Singh: He is making a case for Gov to accept 1,000 sq km occupation of our territory by PLA. He has let down the army he commanded. He does not know warfare — his move will strengthen China’s case for occupation war by 2024!” Media reports say that during the military talks, the Chinese have indicated that India should “accept the new status quo”. Singh’s statement appeared to be driven by the sort of bravado that had prompted the Modi government to advertise its 2016 “surgical strikes on terror launch pads” across the Line of Control. Security establishment veterans had at the time said that such stealth strikes were not unprecedented but diplomatic and security considerations had ensured they were never advertised.A Chinese foreign ministry statement said: “This is an unwitting confession by the Indian side. For a long time, the Indian side has conducted frequent acts of trespass in the border area in an attempt to encroach on China’s territory and constantly created disputes and frictions, which is the root cause of the tensions at the China-India border.” Singh had in Madurai on Sunday said the border with China had never been demarcated and China had transgressed many times over the years with its own perception of the LAC. “Similarly, none of you come to know how many times we have transgressed as per our perception. Chinese media does not cover it. Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” The Hindu quoted him as saying. A retired army commander told The Telegraph: “It’s shameful that a former army chief who is now a minister has this view on an issue concerning India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Does he think some sort of kabaddi match is going on along the LAC?” A former lieutenant general said: “This is a shocking and disturbing statement by a former army chief. Does it mean India is willing to accept the revised status quo in eastern Ladakh?” Indian and Chinese troops have since May 2020 been locked in a standoff at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — with nine rounds of military talks failing to break the deadlock. India’s government and army statements, released after each round of talks, have in recent months dropped any reference to the demand for restoration of status quo ante. Singh said India had warned China with equal measures over the Ladakh transgression. “Today, China is under pressure since we are sitting at places (along the border) where it does not like,” Singh was quoted as saying. He said India had hit Beijing economically by banning its apps and boycotting its goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Ruckus mars Bihar Legislative Assembly centenary celebrations||The centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building on Sunday witnessed ruckus after a CPI-ML legislator objected to BJP flags at the venue and raised the issue of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws. “This centenary celebration is a celebration of democracy. It was not necessary to hoist BJP flags on the occasion. This function is of the people of Bihar and not of the BJP,” CPI-ML legislator Mehboob Alam said at the ceremony held in the central hall of the Assembly. His words drew instant reaction from the BJP legislators and they started shouting to register their opposition to his remarks. Alam did not stop there and went on to speak about the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new farm laws. “The farmers’ protest is going on in the country and we express our support and sympathy for them,” Alam added. It added fuel to the fire as the BJP MLAs started shouting to drown out Alam’s voice. They asked him to stop speaking but he asserted that they would have to listen to him in a democracy despite being rattled, and completed his speech amid the pandemonium. The present Assembly building was inaugurated on February 7, 1921, to hold the session of what was then known as the Legislative Council. Chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated the centen ary celebrations presided over by Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha. Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, and one or two MLAs from all political parties spoke on the occasion. Senior RJD leaders, including leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi and elder brother and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav did not attend the function. Sinha stressed the need for the MLAs to understand the nuances of various functions of the Assembly, as well as their rights and duties. “The people have elected the MLAs with much faith and hope. We hope their desired cooperation in making the lives of people better with discipline, behaviour and service. We will ask all MLAs to write outside their house that their families are free of addiction, crime, child labour, child marriage and dowry,” Sinha said. Senior RJD leader Awadh Bihari Chaudhary rued the alleged lack of respect shown by government officers to the MLAs, and called for ensuring that they (officers) follow protocol and proper etiquette while meeting the legislators. AIMIM legislator Akhtarul Iman Shaheen demanded that the monsoon and winter sessions of the Assembly should be held for a longer period instead of just two to four days to ensure that public issues could be taken up. He also demanded answers to questions raised by the Opposition legislators and hearing them during special debates. Nitish asserted that all MLAs, be they from the ruling parties or the Opposition, were part of the government and it was necessary to pay attention to the issues raised by them. “It is the duty of the MLAs to gather information about the issues pertaining to their area and raise them in the Assembly. We assure them that their relevant questions would be definitely resolved,” Nitish said. The chief minister also said that the centenary celebrations will continue for a year and the President and the Prime Minister will also participate in some of the programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India|| Nitish lays foundation stone for Rs 5,540-crore hospital redevelopment||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday laid the foundation stone for a Rs 5,540-crore redevelopment of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), which will turn it into the country’s biggest and world’s second largest hospital. The PMCH is currently Bihar’s largest hospital with 1,750 beds, but after the redevelopment the capacity will increase to 5,462. The project is scheduled to be completed in three phases over seven years. However, Nitish has requested that the project be completed in five years, keeping in view the importance of the hospital for the state. At present, the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital with 10,000 beds at Taoyuan in Taiwan is the largest in the world in terms of capacity. The West China Medical Centre of Sichuan University at Chengdu in China with 4,300 beds is the second largest and the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital with 3,400 beds in Johannesburg, South Africa, is the third largest in the world. The Ahmedabad Civil Hospital with 2,800 beds is considered the biggest in India. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, has 2,500 beds. Nitish said that he had been planning to convert the PMCH into a world-class medical facility for the last 13 to 14 years, but the progress on this front had been very slow. “Earlier, people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Nepal used to come to PMCH for treatment. We want it to become even better than the important position it used to hold earlier. The project will be executed in three phases and we will ensure that the current medical operations are not hampered in any manner,” Nitish said. “The work is starting after a delay of 13 to 14 years. The target for the contractors is seven years, but I request them to complete it in five years. This is a different kind of work and we should not delay it. I assure them that they will not face any problem, nor there will be any dearth of government support,” he added. Nitish also said that the Bihar government has done a great job in tackling the coronavirus pandemic and the Covid-19 death rate was just 0.58 per cent. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, health minister Mangal Pandey, several legislators, government officials and doctors were present at the ceremony. Nitish also assured that the government would ensure that all resources, staff and money are made available to the PMCH to convert it into a world-class medical centre. The redeveloped hospital will have multiple approaches, residences and hostels for doctors, paramedics and other staff, helipad, dormitories and state-of-the-art facilities. The PMCH traces its origin to the Temple Medical School, which was set up in to 1874 and continued for almost five decades. Later, it came to be known as the Prince of Wales Medical College, which was formally inaugurated in 1925. It got its present name post-Independence. The PMCH has now become infamous for filth lying around, stray dogs, poor facilities, faulty gadgets, lack of hygiene inside the wards and emergency sections, middlemen moving around to lure patients to private hospitals, strikes by junior doctors and a disregard for better management practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
09-02-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple draft bylaws withdrawn ||The Centre on Monday withdrew the controversial draft heritage draft bylaws of the National Monument Authority (NMA) for the 12th Century Puri Shree Jagannath Temple succumbing to public pressure. Political parties of Odisha, too, had opposed the bylaws. The decision to withdraw the bylaws came after a delegation of BJD MPs led by Bharturhari Mahatab and BJP MPs led by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi met Union minister of culture Prahlad Singh Patel and lodged a protest. They demanded that the new proposed regulations be withdrawn immediately. Soon after meeting the BJD and BJP MPs, the Union culture minister tweeted, “Direction has been issued to withdraw the draft heritage laws. In future action with regard to Puri will be taken in consultation with mutual agreement.” Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who visited the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple on Monday morning, said: “I thank the people of Puri who have sacrificed their land for development of Shree Mandir. Their sacrifice will not go waste. Nobody can stop the work of Lord Jagannath. Central government should withdraw the NMA bylaw notifications.” The draft heritage bylaws prohibit any construction work within a 100-metre periphery of the temple. Apart from the prohibited area, there will be no construction within another 200-metres of it without permission. The first 100 metres will be declared as prohibited zone and the other area will be known as regulated zone. Earlier, servitors of the temple on Sunday held a demonstration demanding immediate withdrawal of the draft heritage bylaws. Most of the servitor families reside within 300-metre periphery of the shrine. If the law had been implemented, the servitors would have been worst affected. Noticing the resentment of servitors, Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) backed by the Odisha government on Sunday wrote a letter to NMA urging it to consult the servitors who are stakeholders in the temple. In his letter to the member secretary, NMA, chief administrator of SJTA Dr Krishan Kumar pointed out that a large number of habitations (Sahis) around the shrine are inhabited by servitors and are more than a millennium old. He also underscored the importance of the services of these servitors to the Lord, which have been going on since time immemorial. “As they are (sevayats) are likely to be severely and adversely affected by any intervention of the authorities like this draft notification, they must be consulted before any process to restrict their rights is undertaken by the NMA. This is also important as any adverse impact of sevayats have a direct bearing on continuity of Niti-Kanti (rituals) of Lord Jagannath,” he said. Kumar has also pointed out that the Odisha government has recently acquired the land and properties for strengthening safety and security of the century-old shrine for the Shree Jagannath Heritage Corridor project.  The land has been taken within 75 metres periphery of the shrine. This project aims to provide drinking water, toilets, cloakrooms and Queue Management System to the pilgrims. “Any regulation which has the potential to restrict development of facilities and amenities on land voluntarily contributed to the Lord will hurt their sentiments,” Kumar said in his letter. “If the NMA is still of the view that any further regulatory framework of any nature is required to protect and further the cause of the Mula Peetha (original shrine) of the Lord, it should have a detailed consultation and discussion with members of the Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee (SJTMC) before any such fresh attempt is made,” Kumar said. The servitors had threatened to move court to repeal the draft notification. The NMA released the draft laws on January 18 and had sought public opinion on this by February 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
