10-02-2021||India||UPSC civil services Prelims 2021 on June 27||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) will conduct the Civil Services preliminary examination for 2021 on June 27. The commission confirmed the date of the preliminary exam in a notification issued on Wednesday and said that the detailed notification will be released in due course. "CS(P)E-2021 (including IFoS(P)E-2021) shall be conducted as per already declared schedule on 27.06.2021. Detailed Notifications for CSE-2021 and IFoSE-2021 shall be published in due course," read the notification. The UPSC Civil Services (Preliminary) examination is the first stage of the exam that applicants need to clear to qualify for the main examination. It is an objective type test consisting of two papers. However, the marks obtained in the examination are not included for determining the final merit list. The preliminary test consists of paper-I and II. In the objective type, multiple choice questions are asked that carry a total of 400 marks. In the general studies paper – II, a candidate has to qualify with a minimum of 33 per cent marks. Negative marking for every question is one-third of the marks assigned to that question. The questions in paper-I come from seven different test areas like 1) Science and technology, 2) history and culture, 3) geography, 4) Indian Polity, 5) Indian economy, 6) environment and ecology and 7) current events of national and international importance. Once the detailed notification is out, candidates will be able to register for the examination by visiting the UPSC application website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
10-02-2021||India||Farmer unions to stage 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' on Feb 18||Protesting farmers Wednesday announced a four-hour nationwide rail blockade on February 18 as they renewed their strategy to intensify their agitation, which also included a candle march on February 14 in the memory of those killed in the 2019 Pulwama terrorist attack. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the protest, also said toll collection will not be allowed in Rajasthan from February 12 as part of their week-long protest strategy. The SKM said in the statement that in a meeting on Wednesday farmer unions decided to escalate their agitation. "There will be a 'rail roko' programme across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm on February 18," the SKM said. Earlier this month, the protesting farmers had observed a three-hour road blockade to press their demand of repealing the three laws. SKM leader Darshan Pal said candle marches, Mashaal Juloos' (torch marches) and other programmes will be held across the country on February 14 in respect of the sacrifices of the 40 CRPF personnel who were killed in a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama on February 14, 2019. He said the farmers also will hold events in a show of solidarity on the birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram -- who was one of the most prominent pre-partition farmer leaders -- on February 16. The announcements by the protesting unions comes on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government and Parliament have great respect for farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm laws. The prime minister made it clear that those who want to continue with the old agriculture marketing system can continue doing so. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi staunchly defended the three contentious farms laws and attacked the opposition for "misleading" farmers, saying those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a "well-planned strategy" as they are unable to digest that people can see the truth. "Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won," he said, amidst protests by the opposition members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Farmers aiming to solve issues, not to bring about political change, says Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday asserted that the agitating farmers were not aiming at any change in power at the Centre but a solution to their problems as he said many of their leaders will tour different parts of the country to spread the movement. Tikait, who had earlier said that police should have shot those who unfurled flags at Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, defended the act saying it was not treason and youths were being framed. Addressing the protesting farmers at Singhu border, he said that the agitation against the farm laws will stretch till the Centre addresses their issues. "We do not aim for change in power (at the Centre). The government should do its work. We want it to repeal the farm laws and ensure law on MSP," he said. Tikait said that the agitation will be long drawn and continue till the government starts talks with farmer leaders. "The government should hold the talks. Our committee is ready to talk. Solutions will be found through dialogue and the matter will be resolved." Citing the Red Fort incident, Tikait said that the youths were being framed for unfurling religious flags. "What sections are imposed for unfurling flags at a non-permissible place? Impose those sections, lodge the case. Kaun sa deshdroh ka kaam kar diya? (it was not an act of treason)," said the farmer leader. He alleged the Red Fort incident was a "conspiracy" by the government to distract the agitation and lower the farmers' morale. Tikait also asserted that the unity of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting against the contentious farm laws, was intact and warned the government not to be in any illusion. "Who says Samyukt Kisan Morcha will split? Neither our joint stage will divide nor the Morcha will split. Our stage will be here at Singhu and its leaders will be our heads," he said. The agitation will expand with holding of big meetings across the country and associating 40 lakh tractors with it, he said, adding the farmer leaders will tour different states to spread the movement. "Do not worry, we will win. The farmers in the country are watching you and the 300 km area around Delhi. We will visit each village in the country, hold big meetings and associate 40 lakh tractors with the agitation," he said. Tikait said that the farmers' agitation was for ensuring that foodgrain reaches the needy and not locked up in the coffers of the corporates. The farm laws will not only destroy the peasantry and farming, it will also wipe out small traders and common man in the country, he claimed. He reiterated that the agitation was completely "non political" and will not give space to any politician to advance his or her vested interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Covid: Calcutta study explains rapid spread in Europe, North America  ||A protein deficiency found commonly in large swathes of the populations in Europe and North America could explain why these regions have been worse hit by Covid-19 than people in Asia, researchers at a Calcutta-based national institute have established. The protein, Alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), prevents lung tissue damage and its deficiency reduces the body’s ability to fight off the D614G mutant of the Coronavirus (Sars-CoV-2) which is now the dominant strain globally.
This finding which could have major implications for understanding Covid-19 and how it has spread globally has emerged in a study conducted by the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in Calcutta.
“We have been looking for explanations for the rapid spread. Also, we noted it was spreading better in Europe and North American than parts of Asia,” says Partha Mazumder, founder and distinguished professor, NIBG. NIBG’s ground-breaking work throws a new light on the reasons for the different rates in the spread of Covid-19 globally. The research also “opens up possibility for considerations of AAT supplements in prevention of the 614G subtype virus,” says the study published in the Infection, Genetics and Evolution journal. The first strain of Coronavirus was the D614D but that was rapidly superseded by the D614G variant which spread like wildfire in Europe and North America.  
The protein, Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT), is one of the major serum proteins that fights inflammation and helps prevent lung tissue damage.
Crucially, the researchers found in the study that covers the first report of the virus from China in late December 2109 up to July 2020 that AAT deficiency is “highly prevalent” in European and North-American populations, but “much less so” in East Asia (the report uses the term East Asia but this also includes South Asia).
 
 “This allowed the faster spread in Europe and North America,” Majumder said. “This AAT deficiency enhanced the ability of the virus to infect human cells and spread in Europe and North America,” he added. In addition, clinical studies from England and the US reported a three-fold increase in viral load for individuals infected with the 614G variant than the 614D subtype. Studies suggest that higher viral loads are associated with worse disease severity. There has been widespread speculation about why the virus has spread at different rates across the world with some experts attributing smaller caseloads in Asia to such factors as higher temperatures. Also, Indians are thought to have higher immunity levels because we have to face illnesses like malaria and dengue.
But Majumder said his team was convinced that the reason for the “explosive spread among individuals of European and North American ancestry” and the “slower spread” among those of Asian ancestry was related to biological factors.
 
“This is the first time we have got an insight into the mechanics” of how this mutant type of the coronavirus (DG614G variant) spread, said Majumder.
 
In January 2020, the viral landscape globally was overwhelmingly dominated by 614D. But by March, 614G subtype had become the dominant subtype in Europe and in North America. However, in Asia. the spread of the 614D variant was much slower. To reach 50 per cent of cases, the 614G subtype took two months in Europe and nearly three months in North America compared to East Asia where the time lag was five-and-a-half months.
 
According to the paper, AAT deficiency is highest in Portugal at 75.9 individuals per 1,000. Spain has the second-highest deficiency of the AAT protein at 67.3 individuals per 1,000.  Barcelona was hit very badly by the pandemic with overflowing hospital wards at the peak.    
In France, the AAT deficiency stands at 51.9 per 1,000 individuals. Poland has the lowest rate of AAT deficiency at 18.7 per 1,000. Canada has 32.1 per 1,000 individuals with AAT deficiency while the US has 29 per 1,000 individuals. In Asia, the AAT deficiency rate was two per 1,000 individuals in the Philippines; 2.5 in Singapore; nearly five-and-a-half in South Korea. The study gave no AAT deficiency figures for India but Majumder said the researchers’ conclusions could be applied to this country.
The Indian study’s findings are backed up by research published in The Lancet which suggests people with AAT deficiency face increased risk of catching Covid and development of severe symptoms. “Identifying populations who are risk of severe complications is crucial” in order to develop Covid prevention and treatment strategies,” the paper says.
It notes that patients with AAT deficiency also have a higher prevalence of hypertension, kidney problems, respiratory illnesses and diabetes -- diseases already associated with higher Covid infection chances and poor prognoses.  “Identifying populations who are risk of severe complications is crucial” in order to develop Covid prevention and treatment strategies, the paper says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops start disengagement process in Ladakh||The frontline troops of China and India at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh started synchronised and organised disengagement from Wednesday, the Chinese defence ministry announced here. There was no comment from the Indian side on the statement made by the spokesperson for the Chinese Ministry of National Defence, Senior Colonel Wu Qian, and carried by China's official media. "The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10," Wu said in a brief statement. "This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting," the statement added. The militaries of China and India have been engaged in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic-level talks to resolve the face-off. On January 24, the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander-level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Govt, Parliament have great respect for farmers, says Modi in LS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the central government and the Parliament have great respect for the farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills and that is why top most ministers have been talking to them. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi again allayed apprehensions on the farm laws, saying neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. "This House, our government and we all respect farmers who are voicing their views on the farm bills. This is the reason why topmost ministers of the government are constantly talking to them. There is great respect for farmers. "After the laws relating to agriculture were passed by Parliament, no 'mandi' has shut. Likewise, MSP has remained. Procurement on MSP has remained. These facts can't be ignored," he said. The prime minister said those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy as they are unable to digest that people can see the truth. "Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won," he said, amidst protests by the opposition members. The Congress walked out of Lok Sabha as PM Modi explained the government's stand on the three farm laws. Modi said the Congress has taken different stands in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. "A divided and confused party like this can do no good to the country," he added. Modi said India has managed the Covid-19 pandemic successfully despite adverse predictions and the country has now become a ray of hope for the world. He said the world post-Covid-19 is turning out to be very different and in such times remaining isolated from the global trends will be counter-productive. "That is why India is working towards building an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), which seeks to further global good. "Predictions were made that India cannot survive as a nation, but people of our country proved them wrong and we are now a ray of hope for the world," he said. Complimenting health care and frontline workers for their relentless work during the pandemic, the prime minister said the way India has managed the coronavirus crisis is a turning point and the world has seen its success. The address of the President has showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti' and his words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India, infused new confidence and inspired every heart "During the discussion on the President's speech, a large number of women MPs took part. This is a great sign. I want to congratulate the women MPs who enriched the House proceedings with their thoughts," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Congress will repeal farm laws if voted to power, says Priyanka||Attacking the Centre over the new farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told a rally in western Uttar Pradesh that if voted to power her party would scrap them. At a kisan panchayat organised by the party in Saharanpur, the Congress general secretary accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of insulting farmers who are protesting against the laws. "The three laws are demonic. If voted to power, the Congress will scrap these laws," he said. She said the party's fight will continue till the laws are scrapped. The rally is the first in a series of such farmers' meetings planned the party in western Uttar Pradesh, a year before the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||HC monitoring CBI probe in Hathras case as per SC order||The Centre informed Parliament on Wednesday that the Allahabad High Court is monitoring the CBI probe into the rape-and-murder case of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh as directed by the Supreme Court. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the apex court had observed that since the Uttar Pradesh police were divested of the probe and the central agency is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage. He said the investigation into the Hathras rape-and-murder case has been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the recommendation of the state government through a gazette notification of October 10, 2020. Reddy said according to the available information, the Supreme Court, in its order on October 27, 2020, had observed that the petitioners had prayed that the Union of India and the authorities concerned be ordered to conduct a fair probe and if the need arises, by transferring the case to the CBI, or a special investigation team (SIT) be formed to investigate the matter and that it was also prayed that a sitting or retired Supreme Court or high court judge be appointed to look into the matter. Reddy said the Supreme Court observed that it would be appropriate for the high court to proceed to monitor the probe in the manner in which it would desire and that the CBI shall report to the high court in the manner as would be directed by the high court through its orders from time to time. "Further, they also expressed the view that it would be appropriate for the investigating agency to complete the investigation and in any event since the local police have been divested of the investigation and the CBI is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage," he said. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped and seriously injured by four men at Hathras in September last year and she died at a Delhi hospital two weeks later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||No evidence against Arnab in TRP scam, claims Republic TV||ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels, has told the Bombay High Court that the Mumbai police's charge sheet in the fake TRP scam did not disclose any evidence against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is an accused in the case. In a rejoinder affidavit filed on Tuesday in the high court to counter the police's charge sheet, the company said the police had "falsely implicated" its employees in the case. It said the entire case against its channels and employees arose out of an "unparalleled political vendetta" and a "deeply malicious witch hunt". The company also said its employees had been targeted for the "fearless news reporting" done by the Republic TV on the Maharashtra police's investigation into the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and Palghar lynching incident of last year. Rajput was found hanging at his home in Mumbai's Bandra area in June last year. The ARG Outlier Media in its affidavit said Hansa Research Group, the original complainant in the case, had not named the Republic TV or its employees in its complaints. The company further said the Mumbai police's crime branch too had not found any evidence against its channels or employees, and yet, the police named its channels and their employees, including their top management, as accused and suspects in its charge sheet. "The charge sheet though voluminous in weight is negligible in evidence against petitioners," the affidavit said, adding "there is not a single shred of evidence of wrongdoing in the charge sheet". The company has also alleged in the affidavit that the police harassed and physically tortured some of its employees, including Assistant Vice President Ghanshyam Singh. It said Singh, CEO Vikas Khanchandani, and some others were pressurised to implicate the Republic TV and other accused persons in the case. "It is a matter of public record that Mr Singh was physically and medically tortured in custody to falsely self incriminate, and to falsely incriminate his organisation," the affidavit said. The company also said the purported WhatsApp chats between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), were selectively leaked by the police to "create prejudice". It also said in the affidavit that no actual stakeholders, be it advertisers, or media houses, which were supposedly affected by the alleged fake TRP scam, had come forward as complainants in the case. The Mumbai police last month filed two affidavits in the case through city Commissioner of Police Parambir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch, saying the police had not targeted the Republic TV or its employees. The police said their probe was not a result of any political vendetta. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale is presiding over a bunch of pleas filed by the ARG Outlier Media, seeking, among other things, that no coercive action be taken against its employees and the probe be transferred from the Mumbai police to the CBI or any other independent agency. The fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam came to light last year when the ratings agency BARC filed a complaint through the Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Dismantling of INS Viraat put on hold by SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday ordered status quo on the dismantling of India's decommissioned aircraft carrier 'Viraat' which was in service with the Indian Navy for nearly three decades. The Supreme Court's order comes on a petition by a firm that offered to buy the decommissioned carrier for Rs 100 crore and convert it into a museum. Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd has been looking to acquire the warship and convert INS Viraat into a maritime museum, parked off the coast of Goa in collaboration with the government of small coastal state. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Centre and others seeking their responses on a plea filed by the firm. The centaur-class aircraft carrier, INS Viraat, was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. The Centre had in July 2019 informed the Parliament that decision to scrap Viraat was taken after due consultation with the Indian Navy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Twitter blocks some accounts, spares hashtags of media, activists, politicians||Twitter on Wednesday said it has withheld some of the accounts flagged by the Indian government for blocking "within India only", but has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians and media as "it would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under Indian law. Twitter emphasised that it will continue to advocate for the right of free expression of its users and that it is actively exploring options under Indian law both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted. The microblogging platform had been asked by the government to take down multiple accounts that were allegedly sharing misinformation and provocative content around the ongoing farmers' agitation. It had also been warned of penal action for non-compliance. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter - in a blog post - said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content that included prohibiting them from trending on Twitter and appearing as recommended Search terms. Twitter has also informed the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) of its enforcement action. The government, however, termed as “unusual” Twitter's move to publish the blogpost before a slated talks with the IT secretary on the issue. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the government, the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light, a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual,” the IT ministry said in its response on Koo, a homegrown social networking platform. Twitter noted that it has taken a range of enforcement actions against more than 500 accounts escalated across all MeitY orders - including permanent suspension in certain cases for violation of Twitter rules. "...Today, we have withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under our Country Withheld Content policy within India only. These accounts continue to be available outside of India," Twitter said. It, however, did not provide details of the handles against whom action had been taken. Twitter argued that it has not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as it does not believe that the actions “we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression”. It contended that doing so would violate the fundamental right to free expression under Indian law. "We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow," it said. Emphasising that it believes transparency to be the foundation to promoting healthy public conversation on the platform and to earn trust, Twitter said it is critical that people understand its approach to content moderation and how it engages with governments globally. "The values that underpin the Open Internet and free expression are increasingly under threat around the world... Twitter exists to empower voices to be heard, and we continue to make improvements to our service so that everyone - no matter their views or perspective - feels safe participating in the public conversation," Twitter said. Twitter said, following the reports of violence in New Delhi in recent weeks, it wanted to share a granular update on its proactive efforts to enforce its rules and defend its principles in India. Starting January 26, Twitter said its global team took enforcement action judiciously and impartially on content, Trends, Tweets, and accounts that were in violation of its rules and took action on hundreds of accounts that violated its policy framework. Those removed were found to be indulging in inciting violence, abuse, wishes of harm, and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm, it added. Other actions included preventing certain terms from appearing in the Trends section and suspension of more than 500 accounts that were engaging in clear examples of platform manipulation and spam. Twitter said it tackled misinformation based on the highest potential for real-world harm, and prioritised labelling of Tweets that were in violation of its synthetic and manipulated media policy. Separate to its enforcement under the Twitter Rules, the US-based company said it had been served with several separate blocking orders by MeitY under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. Out of these, two were emergency blocking orders that we temporarily complied with, but subsequently restored access to the content in a manner that we believe was consistent with Indian law, it said. Twitter further pointed out that after this was communicated to MeitY, it was served with a non-compliance notice. The government, on February 4, had ordered Twitter to block 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers' protest. Previously, too, Twitter had been ordered to take down handles and hashtags that suggested a farmer genocide was being planned, saying such misinformation and inflammatory content will incite passion, and impact public order. The government had also warned Twitter of penal action in case of failure to comply with its directive and had cited sections that provide for fine and jail for up to 7 years. Twitter on Tuesday had said it is seeking formal dialogue with the Information Technology Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
10-02-2021||India||Rescue operation continues to save people trapped inside tunnel in Tapovan||Rescuers from multiple agencies like the ITBP, NDRF and Army continued their operation on Wednesday to penetrate deeper through tonnes of silt to reach out to workers trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel as the toll in the Uttarakhand flash floods has mounted to 32 with over 170 missing. The centre of operations, post the Sunday disaster in the border district of Chamoli, remains the large tunnel where an estimated 30-35 workers are believed to have been trapped after the Alaknanda river hurtled down in spate as a result of a possible glacier burst or avalanche in the Himalayas. The rescuers are "hoping against hope" to find the workers of the Tapovan power project who have gone missing for over three days now. With every minute passing by, the concern about the safety of these men is mounting. Officials on the ground and those monitoring the rescue from Delhi told PTI that continuous accumulation of slush and silt inside the tunnel is the biggest hurdle for the rescuers. "Heavy machines have removed more slush from the tunnel the whole night. A joint team of ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and sister agencies entered into the tunnel this morning. "The tunnel is approachable till about 120 meters but more slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Indo-Tibetan Border Police force spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. Measures like drilling to take oxygen to those trapped inside the tunnel are being contemplated, project consultant A K Shrivastava said at the site in Tapovan. The over 1,500-metre tunnel has become the focal point of rescue operations even as family members of those trapped spend hours outside with abated breath to hear some good news about their kin. The multi-agency group of rescuers also flew a camera-equipped drone inside the tunnel on Tuesday but due to darkness, it could not pinpoint the location of survivors or the way forward, a senior National Disaster Response Force officer said. "We are still hopeful. The teams will continue making attempts, clearing the slush to enter deeper into the tunnel and locate the trapped," he said. The ITBP has deployed a team of about 450 personnel apart from those from the NDRF, state disaster response force and the Army. When contacted, Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said all possible efforts will be made to save the lives of those trapped inside the tunnel. As per the latest updates provided by the State Emergency Operation Centre here, 32 bodies have been recovered from different places in the disaster-hit areas while 174 are still missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 94 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,08,58,371 with 11,067 new infections, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,55,252 with 94 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,61,608 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 97.27 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,41,511 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.30 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,33,24,655 samples have been tested up to February 9 with 7,36,903 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 94 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 8 from Punjab and 6 from West Bengal. A total of 1,55,252 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,360 from Maharashtra followed by 12,391 from Tamil Nadu, 12,241 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,215 from West Bengal, 8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Hike in fuel prices: Congress calls Odisha bandh on February 15||Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) on Tuesday called for Odisha bandh on February 15 protesting against the steep rise in petrol and diesel prices. It will also protest against the state’s failure to protect the interest of Odisha in different areas. OPCC president Niranjan Patnaik said: “Bandh will be effective from 7am-1pm. All the business establishments will remain shut and the vehicles will remain off the roads. However, instruction will be given to keep the emergency services going.” The train services are likely to be disrupted on that day as Congress workers will sit on dharna in different railway stations. Patnaik said: “Though common people will be hit by the bandh our main aim is to generate awareness on various issues like that steep rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas.” On Tuesday, petrol price went up by 36 paise in Bhubaneswar and now its being sold at Rs 87.97 and  the diesel price has increased by 38 paise and it is  now selling Rs 84.40. Patnaik said: “Through bandh, we will also educate people on how Odisha has failed to protect its interest and the Andhra government has intruded into our area and is going to organise rural elections in 21 villages of Kutia Panchayat on the border of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.” Meanwhile, Odisha plans to move the Supreme Court on the border dispute with Andhra and stall  the election in the Kutia panchayat in Koraput district. Even chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced to visit the Kutia panchayat soon. Besides Odisha Pradesh Congress will raise the issue of how Odisha has failed to protect its interest on Mahanadi river water sharing with Chhattisgarh. “People have always supported the bandh call given by the Congress and this time we are hopeful of getting full cooperation from the people of the state,” said Patnaik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Nitish Kumar expands cabinet; Shahnawaz Hussain, Sushant kin among those sworn in||The much awaited expansion of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet finally happened with almost a three-month delay on Tuesday, as Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan administered the oath to office and secrecy to 17 ministers — nine from the BJP and eight from the Janata Dal United (JDU). With this the total number of ministers, including Nitish, went up to 31. Bihar can have 36 ministers or 15 per cent of the size of its 243-member legislative Assembly. Former Union minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, deceased movie actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, Samrat Chaudhary, Janak Ram, Subash Singh, Narayan Prasad, Nitish Navin, Alok Ranjan Jha and Pramod Kumar were among the BJP leaders who got the ministerial berths in the expansion. Shrawan Kumar, Sanjay Jha, Madan Sahni, Lesi Singh, Jayant Raj, former IPS officer Sunil Kumar, Jama Khan, and independent MLA Sumit Singh were sworn-in as ministers from the JDU side. The expansion came ahead of the budget session scheduled to commence from February 19. It had become more necessary because each of the existing 14 ministers were groaning under the weight of several departments. The ministers have to participate in the discussions on their respective department’s budget during the session. It also put a full stop on the ongoing tussle between the two main ruling partners — JDU with 44 seats and BJP with 74 — over the number of ministers in the cabinet. The two parties have now 13 and 16, ministers respectively. One minister each is from the former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). Though the JDU failed to have ministers equal in number to the BJP, despite blaming the latter for its debacle in the Assembly polls, the difference between the two parties is not much. If the number of ministerial departments with the two parties is considered, the JDU has 20 and the BJP has 21. Soon after the expansion, Nitish extended congratulations to the newcomers in the cabinet allocated the departments to them. “Whenever a cabinet is formed we keep in mind everything. Focus is given on the representation of every region and section of the society in it. The strength of the cabinet is limited, still we try to provide representation of people of every area in a broader manner,” Nitish said while reacting to questions by media persons. The induction of the 52-year-old Shahnawaz, arguably the most recognised among the few minority faces of the BJP, indicates a tectonic shift. It indicates that the saffron party is trying to project a benign, secular and inclusive face in the state. It had attracted sharp criticism for not fielding any Muslim candidate during the Assembly polls held in October–November last year. Shahnawaz was weaned away from the central politics and made an MLC last month. Among the nine new ministers from the BJP, only one (Pramod Kumar), has been a member of the cabinet previously. This shows that the party is now completely in the mode to overhaul itself in the state, without even bothering about having an optimal mix of experienced and inexperienced ministers from its side in the cabinet. At present, only three out of its total 16 cabinet members have previously been ministers. On the other hand, the JDU has relied more on seasoned leaders with experience in the expansion, but has brought in new and younger faces also, indicating that it is seeing to the days after Nitish quits active politics. The JDU lured lone Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Jama Khan to its fold and made him a minister to compensate for not having even a single member in the Assembly or in the cabinet. It had given tickets to 11 Muslim leaders in the state polls, but none of them won. Its move reveals that it is still eyeing the minority votes in Bihar despite being with the BJP. It could also mean that it is preparing for an eventuality when it is no longer a member of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Though Nitish talked about representation to different regions and sections of the society in the cabinet expansion, the focus has been more on the Gopalganj, Kosi and Mithila regions as both JDU and BJP have competed with each other to induct more ministers from these areas at the expense of others. As far as social equations are concerned, both the parties have focused on giving representations to various groups, but the attention has been more on the backward castes, extremely backward castes and the scheduled castes. Meanwhile, several leaders from the BJP expressed anger on the way the party picked its ministers. “The party has ignored experienced, educated leaders while choosing ministers. At least 12 MLAs have contacted me and expressed displeasure with the party. We will now sit together and think about the future course of action,” senior BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu told reporters. Gyanu, Nitish Mishra and a few others were among the cabinet hopefuls and figured in the list of leaders that could be made ministers. However, sources in the BJP and the JDU had revealed that Nitish was against them being inducted into the cabinet. They had previously been in the JDU, but had rebelled a few years ago and switched sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Fossil fuel kills 9 million annually: Scientists||A study carried out by scientists of Harvard University and other institutions has found that air pollution from fossil fuel use is responsible for nearly 9 million global deaths, “significantly higher than what previous research had suggested”, with China and India topping the list. In India, Bengal had the third highest number of fossil fuel pollution-driven annual deaths in 2018, at 2.8 lakh, after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Overall, India has just under 2.5 million annual deaths, which is 30.7 per cent of the total deaths in the country. The study — “Global mortality from outdoor fine particle pollution generated by fossil fuel combustion: Results from GEOS-Chem”, published on Tuesday in the journal Environmental Research — has found that almost one in every five global deaths can be attributed to fossil fuel pollution. The University of Birmingham, the University of Leicester and University College London have collaborated with Harvard in the research, which has pegged the fatality number “significantly higher than previous research suggested (as) the study greatly increases estimates of the numbers killed by air pollution”. “We have considered only 2018 data from the 14-plus age group as they are mostly exposed to outdoor pollution,” Karn Vohra, one of the authors, told The Telegraph over phone from the UK. “The most recent Global Burden of Disease Study, the largest and most comprehensive study on the causes of global mortality, put the total number of global deaths from all outdoor airborne particulate matter — including dust and smoke from wildfires and agricultural burns — at 4.2 million,” Vohra said. The Harvard study has pegged the number at 8.7 million. According to the GEOS-Chem researchers, previous researches have relied on satellite and surface observations to estimate the levels of PM2.5, the ultra-fine and most toxic pollutant. However, those studies could not differentiate between particles from fossil fuel emission and those from dust, wildfire smoke and other sources, and also gave generalised data based on averages. In contrast the latest study turned to GEOS-Chem, a global 3D model, to estimate the health impact of particulate matter. The results have been validated against surface, aircraft and space-based observations around the world. “GEOS-Chem has high spatial resolution, meaning the researchers could divide the globe into a grid with boxes as small as 50km x 60km and look at pollution levels in each box individually,” explained Loretta J. Mickley, senior research fellow at Harvard and co-author of the study. Vohra said: “Rather than rely on averages spread across large regions, we wanted to map where the pollution is and where people live, so we could know more exactly what people are breathing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Republic Day Violence: Deep Sidhu arrested||Delhi police on Tuesday arrested actor turned activist Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting farmers to deviate from the assigned route of a tractor rally and create chaos at the Red Fort on Republic Day. A Delhi court remanded him in police custody for seven days. Metropolitan magistrate Prigya Gupta sent Sidhu to custody after the police alleged that he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. Sidhu’s counsel claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time, PTI reported. “He was arrested from Haryana, about 100km from Delhi. He had been changing his location to evade arrest,” said a police officer. Farmer leaders have accused Sidhu of being a “government agent” responsible for the Republic Day violence aimed at defaming their protest against the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Covid vaccine focus to shift to elderly and ill||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign will turn to the two priority population groups among the general public after the deadline of March 6 for frontline workers, health officials signalled on Tuesday. The officials did not specify a start date for vaccinations for the two groups — people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders — but urged all healthcare and frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated by the two deadlines. “We’re speeding towards vaccinating the main third (priority) group — we are preparing for this. In the coming days, we’ll explain our preparations and processes,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy, said. The health ministry has not yet specified how potential recipients need to register for the vaccinations and is yet to announce the criteria that would determine who among those below 50 with health disorders are eligible for the vaccines. The deadlines imply that health authorities would need to vaccinate more than three times as many recipients over the next 25 days as they have over the past 25 days since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. The campaign had till Tuesday vaccinated around 5.6 million of an estimated 9.6 million healthcare workers and under a million of the estimated 20 million frontline workers. Twelve states, including Delhi, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, have vaccinated less than 40 per cent of their healthcare workers. The health ministry had on Saturday asked all states to accelerate the pace of vaccinations to complete the first dose for healthcare workers by February 20 and frontline workers by March 6. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said states had been asked to conduct “mop-up” rounds to vaccinate recipients who missed their scheduled dates with February 24 as the deadline for healthcare workers and March 6 for frontline workers. Beyond those deadlines, Bhushan said, healthcare and frontline workers who miss the vaccinations would be relegated to the age-specific priority groups. That would imply that healthcare and frontline workers below 50 without chronic health disorders would miss the opportunity to be vaccinated through the government campaign. Falling fatality rates India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has dropped below 1 per cent for two weeks and 15 states, including Bengal, have less than 5,000 active coronavirus patients, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, releasing fresh data on the shrinking epidemic. The average number of daily Covid-19 deaths across the country has declined by 55 per cent over the past five weeks from 211 in the week ending January 12 to 96 in the week ending February 9. India recorded 78 deaths on Tuesday. The case fatality rate — the proportion of the deaths among lab-diagnosed patients — declined to 0.82 per cent over the past week from 0.92 per cent the previous week and 1.07 per cent in the earlier week, according to the data. Kerala accounts for the largest proportion (45 per cent) of the country’s 143,000 Covid-19 patients, followed by Maharashtra (25 per cent), Karnataka (4 per cent) and Bengal (3 per cent). But Assam, Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh are among 33 states with fewer than 5,000 patients. Fifteen states had no deaths over the last 24 hours and among the others, only Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab had deaths in doubled digits on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Sedition case: Supreme Court stays arrest of six journalists, Tharoor||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to journalists Mrinal Pande, Vinod Jose, Anant Nath, Rajdeep Sardesai, Zafar Agha and Paresh Nath and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, against whom sedition charges were brought over tweets and reports relating to the death of a farmer during the Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. Multiple FIRs were registered under sedition and other laws in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh against the petitioners, accusing them of causing disaffection by suggesting the farmer was shot. Police say the farmer died after his tractor overturned. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, while issuing notices to the states concerned and complainants in the FIRs, posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. “Issue notice returnable in two weeks. In the meantime, there shall be stay of arrest of the petitioners,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said in a written order. The petitioners have termed the FIRs frivolous and sought their cancellation. Sedition plea The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a petition seeking declaration of Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC as unconstitutional and a violation of citizens’ fundamental right to free speech and life and liberty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Kerala Muslim Youth League president urges people to raise voice for Siddique Kappan's release||The Kerala president of the Muslim Youth League, Panakkad Sayyid Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal, on Tuesday urged the people of the state to raise their collective voice for the release of journalist Siddique Kappan who is in judicial custody in Uttar Pradesh for four months. Thangal was speaking in the presence of the journalist’s family members at a protest organised by the Siddique Kappan Solidarity Forum outside the collectorate in Malappuram. “Everyone must work together for his release. Journalism is essential for the survival of a democratic society,” said Thangal, who heads the youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League. He also urged the state government to do its bit to get Kappan released from Mathura jail. “The chief minister should take immediate measures,” he said. All political parties barring the BJP have already expressed solidarity with Kappan. The journalist was arrested on October 5, 2020, with three others while on the way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutally raped and murdered. A Delhi-based retainer for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com, Kappan is secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Congress seeks army of social media volunteers to save democracy||The Congress has launched a social media campaign to invite people from across the country to join the fight to save democracy, arguing that an effective counter to lies and the politics of hate was the only way to save India. While the Congress declared an ambitious plan on Monday to create a network of around five lakh “social media warriors”, senior leaders on Tuesday linked the project with India’s future, insisting that the threat to democracy was built on an edifice of lies that needs to be demolished. Hundreds of videos were posted on different social media platforms, laying emphasis on the moral responsibility of every citizen to save India’s soul that lies in its pluralist character and an inclusive society. The Congress intends to create a network of volunteers to bolster its social media presence by taking help from civil society as its modest team of 50,000 office-bearers cannot take on the gigantic social media machine built by the RSS-BJP. The Congress does not have the resources to hire a paid team, and is relying on the people’s commitment to the idea of India that evolved during the freedom struggle. The party has invited people of all political persuasions who believe India’s future is safe in the constitutional principles of secularism, equality of caste and religion and individual freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Trek to tunnel where workers are trapped||Over 1,000 members of different rescue teams have not yet managed to reach a tunnel at Tapovan village in Uttarakhand where 25 to 35 workers are feared trapped following Sunday’s avalanche, as the toll climbed to 31 on Tuesday. Personnel from the Indian Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the national and state disaster forces are involved in the search and rescue operation. The emergency control room opened at chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s secretariat said on Tuesday that besides the 31 people whose bodies had been recovered, 175 people are missing. They include those feared trapped in the tunnel, whose numbers have been estimated based on information from companies contracted for the work. Of the 31 found dead, two are yet to be identified. The dead include two police constables on duty at the Niti Valley in Chamoli district. Divya Dutt, a loader operator involved in the construction of tunnels of the Rishi Ganga and Tapovan hydel power projects who is now assisting the rescue teams, told reporters on Tuesday evening: “There is one main tunnel, two smaller linear tunnels and one semi-circular tunnel. We have begun entering the matrix from the tunnel that begins on the banks of the Rishi Ganga river. “We have been able to clear debris from a stretch of about 90 metres into the tunnel. We need to clear debris strewn over another 90 metres or so before reaching the area where the tunnel branches out into other tunnels. The workers could be trapped somewhere inside the nebulous structures.” “The operation is scary. The condition of the tunnel is horrible. All we are thinking at this moment is whether we would be able to rescue some of the people who may be trapped somewhere inside the tunnels,” he added. It had been initially thought that a glacial outburst on the Nanda Devi mountain had brought down with it water, mud, gravel and rocks. However, the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, a wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation in Dehradun, said on Monday evening that a landslide at an altitude of 5,600 metres had triggered a snow avalanche in an area of 14sqkm and caused a flash flood in the downstream of the Rishi Ganga. Villagers of Raini and Tapovan, the worst-affected villages, are yet to recover from the shock of Sunday’s calamity. Amrita Devi, 72, who had been working in an agricultural field at Raini near the Tapovan dam that was destroyed, was washed away and is yet to be traced. “I was a little distance away when a mass of ice and also water came hurtling down the Nanda Devi. Within a few seconds, the water level in the Dhauli Ganga river rose and everything was washed away in front of my eyes, including my grandmother. Everything happened within a few seconds,” said Amrita’s grandson Gaurav Singh. Devendra Singh of the same village told reporters that he and his younger brother Sanjay Singh were on the banks of the Rishi Ganga with their goats when the avalanche struck. “As the level of the river suddenly rose, I managed to run to safety but my brother couldn’t. He and all the houses and towers were swept away in no time,” Devendra said. Bhawan Singh, the panchayat chief of Raini, said: “Yashpal Singh, a resident of my village, had gone near the river with his 22 goats. Madhi Devi and Ranjeet Singh were also there to collect fodder for cattle. They are all missing, as are Kuldeep Singh and his son Ashutosh.” “The rescue teams have confirmed that constable Balbeer Singh and Manoj Chaudhary, who were on duty, are dead and their bodies have been recovered from the riverbed,” said the village chief, adding that some people from Tapovan, Jaunsar Bawar, Dadoli, Sahiya, Fateu and Jagju villages who were near the Rishi Ganga river were also missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Biden underscores “desire to defend democratic norms” in his post inauguration talk with Modi||If the chronology is not revealing enough, the drafter’s skill is. 11.03pm IST, Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweets: “Spoke to… (US President) Joe Biden and conveyed my best wishes for his success. We discussed regional issues and our shared priorities. We also agreed to further our co-operation against climate change. “President Joe Biden and I are committed to a rules-based international order. We look forward to consolidating our strategic partnership to further peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.” 1.18am IST, Tuesday, White House issues readout: “The President underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world and noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the US-India relationship.” 2.11am IST, Tuesday, India issues readout: “They noted that the India-US partnership is firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values and common strategic interests.” Neither Prime Minister Modi’s tweets nor the readout issued by the external affairs ministry made any mention of Biden underscoring his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world. It was a near-repeat of the statement India issued after the first conversation between the two leaders following the November election victory of Biden. Then, too, Biden had talked about strengthening democracy at home and abroad. If it was an Indian oversight then, there was an opportunity to make amends on Monday when Biden and Modi spoke to each other for the first time since the US President assumed office on January 20. Much water has flowed down the Potomac and the Yamuna since then. The ripples of the farmers’ movement have raced past the Indian borders, and several American celebrities and influencers, including US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris, have expressed concern at the crackdown. Evidently, now is not an opportune time for India to grandstand on “democratic norms around the world”. Although the Prime Minister tweeted first about the conversation on Monday, the White House readout was more detailed and clearly specified that Biden had talked about defending democratic institutions the world over. The two leaders, according to the White House, also discussed the situation in Myanmar following the coup. “They further resolved that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Burma.” The Indian readout after 2am on Tuesday also mentioned that the two leaders discussed regional developments and the wider geo-political context. “They reiterated the importance of working with like-minded countries to ensure a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. “Prime Minister and President Biden affirmed the importance of addressing the challenge of global climate change. Prime Minister welcomed President Biden’s decision to re-commit to the Paris Agreement and highlighted the ambitious targets India has set for itself in the area of renewable energy. Prime Minister welcomed President Biden’s initiative to organise the Climate Leaders Summit in April this year and looked forward to participating in the same.” The White House said they committed to working closely to win the fight against the pandemic, rebuild the global economy in a way that benefits the people of both countries and stand together against the scourge of global terrorism. “The leaders agreed to continuing close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad,” the White House said, referring to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, an informal strategic forum among the US, India, Japan and Australia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Salary payment at universities delayed due to stifled cash flow from government to UGC||A teacher at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University will have to borrow to pay his EMI on time on Wednesday as he is yet to receive his salary nine days into February. Similar is the plight of teachers and other staff of the Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). Salary payment at several University Grants Commission-funded deemed universities and central universities has been delayed over the past few months because of stifled cash flow from the government to the UGC. The faculty member of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University said he was worried about the meagre amount in his bank account and the EMI due date looming on Wednesday. “The January salary is yet to be paid although it is February 9,” the teacher said, adding that salary had been delayed every month since last August. The Sanskrit varsity was made a central university last year. The teacher said: “Every month, the salary is credited to our account almost a week after the usual date. We have spoken to the administration. They say funds are awaited from the UGC.” Another faculty member said the situation was better when the institution was a deemed university. “Salary always used to be paid on time,” he recalled. Last year a bill was passed in Parliament to upgrade the UGC-funded deemed university to a central university to help it attract international students. A UGC official said funds release from the commission to some deemed universities and central universities had been erratic for the past few months. “Funds are being released to institutions as per availability,” the official said. Teachers and staff at TISS said they were supposed to get their salary on January 29, the last working day of the month, but were still waiting for it. “For past three months our salary has been delayed. It is difficult to make do without salary for so many days. Many people pay EMIs on home loans and other loans on the 5th or 10th of every month. Imagine how difficult it is for them to pay EMI,” said Prof. Bal Rakshase, the president of the TISS Teachers’ Association. He said the teachers had taken up the issue with the university, which has blamed the UGC. The UGC has also delayed the payment to scholars pursuing research under the Junior Research Fellowship and Senior Research Fellowship schemes. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry asking about the delay in salary payment elicited no response.  Correction An earlier version of this report had erroneously mentioned that the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) had to take a bank loan to pay the salaries for December 2020. The shortfall was met out of internal resources of the institute, TISS had said. The Telegraph withdraws the claim about the bank loan and apologises for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
10-02-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate raid on portal facing Adani suit||The Enforcement Directorate has launched searches at NewsClick, a news portal that has been slapped with a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group, and premises associated with its management since Tuesday morning. The portal is known for its coverage of the peasants’ movement and investigative reports on big companies, notably the Adani group which filed the defamation suit last year for two articles. The Opposition as well as the protesting farmers suspect that the Adanis would be among the biggest beneficiaries of the three controversial farm laws. There is nothing to suggest that the ED raids, which stretched past 11pm, are linked to the defamation suit. The ED, which usually probes money laundering allegations, has not formally disclosed any details of the investigations that led the central agency to the doors of NewsClick in south Delhi’s Said-ul-Ajaib. The homes of NewsClick’s editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha and editor Pranjal Pandey in Saket as well as HR head Amit Chakraborty and technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha in Chittaranjan Park were searched. Purkayastha, Pandey and Sinha are associated with the CPM. Purkayastha heads the Free Software Movement of India and was a founding member of the Delhi Science Forum, a CPM-backed society to popularise science and a think tank of science policy. He was jailed as an SFI activist during the Emergency and is a member of Delhi University’s Court, the apex review body of the varsity. Sinha was the party’s representative at the Election Commission of India’s “EVM Challenge” in 2017. CPM politburo member Subhashini Ali tweeted: “The ED’s raid on Newsclick’s office and Prabir Purkayastha’s house is a result of fearless journalism. The popularity of Newsclick has increased greatly as a result of the tremendous coverage of the peasant movement.” The raids began at 10am and since then, NewsClick sources told The Telegraph, none of those searched or those who live with them could receive calls. In the afternoon, Pandey and Chakraborty were taken by ED officials to the website’s office. Around 2.30pm, Pandey was allowed to give a short statement to journalists waiting outside. However, no cameras were permitted to be used by the officials. Pandey said: “There has been an ongoing raid since morning. We were shown a notice. Right now, our documents are being checked. We are cooperating and will continue to cooperate.” Later in the evening, the NewsClick website carried a statement: “Truth shall prevail. We have full faith in the legal system.” ED officials have ordered dinner at the NewsClick office, and Pandey was allowed to call a friend to deliver medicine to him. Purkayastha and Sinha were brought by the ED to the Said-ul-Ajaib office late at night. The CPIML-Liberation, the Congress and several activists condemned the raids. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Subjugate, Suppress & Stifle is the only mantra of Modi Govt as proved by ED raids on @newsclickin today. Modi Govt wants to tell the media, particularly @abhisar_sharma & Pranjal: ‘Bol ke lab kyun azad hain tere!’” The verse is a pun on Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s poem Bol ke lab azad hain tere (Speak, that your lips are free.) Sharma is an anchor of the website’s videos. Several global news outlets and the rights group, the Committee to Protect Journalists, have spoken out against the raids. The news portal was one of the founders of the Digipub News India Foundation, an association of online news outlets, last year. The foundation called the raids “a clear attempt to suppress journalism critical of the government and its allies. Such use of state agencies to intimidate journalists and suppress adversarial journalism is detrimental to not only the freedom of the press, but also the very idea of democratic accountability.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
