11-02-2021||India|| Twitter row: Govt draft rules to regulate social media platforms include Code of Ethics||Amid a row with microblogging site Twitter, which has refused to block accounts of several personalities and organisations backing the farm protests, the Centre has come up with draft rules to regulate news-related websites, social media sites and OTT platforms, NDTV reported. According to reports, the guidelines comprise a self-regulatory framework that has a particular code of ethics and compliance reports. A “chief compliance officer”, who will work on a 24x7 basis, will be appointed to address complaints from law enforcement agencies. The officer will also submit reports on compliance regularly, while a grievance redressal mechanism portal and an oversight mechanism will also come into play, as per NDTV sources. The government will develop this oversight mechanism, meant to “coordinate adherence to Code of Ethics by publishers and self-regulating bodies”. The report also states that in case of an emergency, a Secretary-rank officer will have power to take actions. Although there is no mention of a punishment in the draft, it states that sites will have to remove any content flagged by a court or such agencies within 36 hours of receiving a notice. The new rules come into view a day after Union technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad issued a warning to social media sites about abiding by the laws. “You will have to follow the Constitution of India, you will have to abide by the laws of India,” he said, taking names of Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and WhatsApp. “You have millions of followers in India, you are free to do business and make money, but you will have to follow the Indian constitution,” he added. Twitter on Wednesday cited Indian law to resist the Narendra Modi government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians over posts related to the farm protests. Twitter made the announcements in the morning in a blog, hours before its senior management was scheduled to meet ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) officials. The ministry took umbrage to the Twitter blog post ahead of the meeting, stating that such action was unusual. “A deep sense of disappointment at seeing Twitter side not with ‘freedom of expression’ but rather with those who seek to abuse such freedom and provoke disturbance to public order, was conveyed to the Twitter representative,” the ministry said in a late-night release. Twitter’s argument — as articulated in the blog — for not acting against the handles of news media entities, activists and politicians is that such actions are not consistent with Indian law. “Because we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law,” the blog said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
11-02-2021||India||BJP won't rest before forming govt in Bengal with two-thirds majority: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that the BJP will not rest before forming the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority. He said that the "war" is not just to remove Mamata Banerjee from power in West Bengal but to turn the state into 'Sonar Bangla' (Golden Bengal). "We will not rest before forming the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority," he said while addressing the "social media warriors" of the BJP here. Shah said that it will be ensured that every voter can freely exercise his/her franchise during the upcoming state assembly elections due in April-May. Shah, known to be the master strategist of the saffron party, said that winning the West Bengal polls will pave the way for electoral successes in Odisha, Telangana and other states of the country where the BJP is not in power. He set a target for the BJP's social media team to reach out to two crore of the 10 crore population of West Bengal by propagating the party's messages and the Centre's achievements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
11-02-2021||India||Rahul uses Congress’ family planning motto to slam Centre over farmers’ issue||Stepping up the attack against the government over the three farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that these legislations would damage country's food security system as also "break the spine of farmers" and that the country is being run by only four people with a 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach. Gandhi, who was participating in the debate on Union budget in Lok Sabha, kept speaking on the three contentious agri laws, triggering protests from BJP members with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urging Speaker Om Birla to direct Rahul to speak on the budget. When the Speaker told Rahul to speak on the budget, he said he would talk only on the farmers' issue. Rahul said the Prime Minister, in his reply to the discussions on motion of thanks to the President's address, had mentioned that the opposition is talking about the farmers agitation but was not speaking about the content and intent of the laws. "So I thought let us make the Prime Minister happy and talk of the content and intent of these laws," he said, and alleged that "the intent of these three laws is to allow industrialists to buy unlimited quantities of foodgrains and hoard them as much as they want." Claiming that these measures will end the 'mandis' and will end the Essential Commodities Act, he said, "the new farm laws will destroy India's food security system and will hurt rural economy. The farmers are not going anywhere but will overthrow the government." Invoking the family planning slogan --Hum do Hamare do--, Gandhi attacked the government and said just four people are running the country. "Now four people are running the country...and everyone knows who they are," he said. The Prime Minister had said that these laws have given options to farmers -- "Yes, options are --hunger, unemployment and suicide", Gandhi alleged. The former Congress chief also said the agitation is not of the farmers alone but a movement of the country and the government will have to repeal the laws. Asserting that the farmers were only showing the way, he warned the Modi government that the ongoing farmers' protests against three agriculture laws will "dethrone" it from power. In a dramatic move, Gandhi also led his party members and those from the TMC and the DMK to observe a two-minute silence by standing to mourn the death of farmers during the ongoing agitation. Claiming that "200 farmers" have died during protests, he said he was doing this as the government has not paid tributes to them. The Congress leader also accused the government of "destroying” the MSME sector and said no new jobs are being created in the country because small industries are dying. "Agriculture is a sector of Rs 40 lakh crore. The intent of the laws are to give the monopoly of storing produce to a few persons, and prevent farmers from getting a good price. The idea is to break the spine of the farmers," he claimed. As Rahul was speaking, heated exchanges took place between the ruling party members, including ministers and the Opposition, with Joshi citing rules on specific debate and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asserting that as per rules, discussion of a general point is allowed and agriculture is related to the budget. Rahul also said first demonetisation hurt the country, then the GST and then the forced migration of labourers during the lockdown. "We had asked for a separate discussion on farmers. That was denied. In protest I am going to speak only on farmers and not on the budget. These people did not pay homage to dead farmers. I will observe silence for them, please join me," he said before standing and observing silence for two minutes. Reacting to Gandhi's action, the Speaker said that running the House was his responsibility and for leading the House on paying homage to those who have lost their lives in any tragedy. "You all are senior members and this is inappropriate behaviour. You can give me this in writing and let me undertake the responsibility I have been given," Birla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||CBSE issues new guidelines for conducting class 9, 11 exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education has directed schools under it to take steps to identify and resolve learning gaps, and then conduct examinations for Classes 9 and 11 by following COVID-19 safety protocols. The board has also recommended that the new academic session begin from April 1. "For Classes 9 and 11, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and thereafter, conduct examinations by strictly following COVID-19 safety protocols as per the Examination Bye-Laws," the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a letter to school principals. "This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course specially designed to address learning gaps," he said. Schools were shut in March last year as a precautionary measure following the outbreak of the coronavirus. During the subsequent nationwide lockdown, students moved to online classes. But as restrictions were gradually eased from June last year, schools reopened partially in a few states from October 2020 onwards. In the letter, Bhardwaj said, "While holding examinations/classes, COVID-19 safety protocols should be followed strictly. It would be appropriate to start the academic session 2021-2022 from April 1 to the extent feasible subject to the instructions of state governments." Schools are requested to follow the suggestions to make the next session more streamlined and ensure that learning gaps, if any, are addressed, he added. "Schools have opened in a majority of states and with the improvement of COVID-19 pandemic situation, it is expected that schools will be opened in other states and union territories. Schools should be fully geared up and prepared to welcome the students for face to face classes. This will help students attend schools for completing their practicals," Bhardwaj said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the schedule for board exams for classes 10 and 12. "The board has taken the decision to reschedule the class 10 and 12 exams from May-June, because of the unprecedented situation arising due to COVID-19 Pandemic. As a result, a number of schools have been seeking advice from CBSE regarding examinations for classes 9 and 11 and about the commencement of the new academic session, Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||CAA to be implemented as soon as Covid vaccination ends, announces Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal will be a contest between Narendra Modi's "development model" and her "destruction model" of governance. In \Bengal, where the BJP has launched a political blitzkrieg against the Mamata Banerjee government, he raked up the issue of the TMC supremo's opposition to the CAA, and asserted the contentious citizenship law will be enforced once the process of Covid vaccination has ended. Shah's whirlwind tour of the state and Assam was also marked by a social outreach to the Koch Ragbongshi and Matua communities whose concerns he sought to assuage. He claimed large-scale infiltration into Coochbehar district, which shares border with Bangladesh, has caused significant changes to its demography. The polls, he said, will be a fight between the "Vikas (development) model of the Narendra Modi government and Mamata Banerjee's Vinash (destruction) model". The home minister, who flagged off the fourth of the five 'Parivartan Yatra' of the BJP in Coochbehar, said the campaign is not for changing a chief minister, MLA or minister but ending infiltration and transforming West Bengal's condition. Addressing a rally in the north Bengal town, he said the yatra is also aimed at ending corruption patronised by "Bua-Bhatija" combine. The BJP has been accusing Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek, the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, of "institutionalising corruption". "This 'Parivartan Yatra' is not for changing a CM, MLA or a minister. It is for ending infiltration, it is for ending violence and building 'Sonar Bangla', it's for the transformation of Bengal. "You vote the BJP to power in Bengal. Leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state," Shah said. Addressing another rally in Thakurnagar, a stronghold of the Matua community, Shah said the process of granting Indian citizenship to refugees under the CAA, including to the Matua community, will begin once the process of COVID vaccination has ended. Accusing the opposition parties of misleading the minorities about the Citizenship (amendment) Act, he said, its implementation will not impact the citizenship status of Indian minorities. He said the Modi government had in 2018 promised it will bring in a new citizenship law and kept it when the BJP was voted to power again in 2019. Shah said, after the country was hit by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, its implementation had to be kept in abeyance. "Mamata didi said we made a false promise. She started opposing the CAA and saying she will never allow it. The BJP always fulfils the promises it makes. We have brought this law and refugees will get citizenship. As soon as the Covid vaccination process ends the process of granting citizenship under CAA will begin. All of you will be respected citizens of this country," he said. Matuas, originally from East Pakistan, are weaker section Hindus who migrated to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh. Many of them have been accorded Indian citizenship but a sizeable section of the population has not got it. The Matua community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, can tilt the scales in favour of a political party in at least four Lok Sabha seats and more than 30 assembly seats in Nadia, and North and South 24 Parganas districts. It once stood solidly behind the TMC but had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Asked if talks were held on the contentious National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Roy said no such matter was discussed as the Union home ministry has already declared the Koch- Rajbongshis as "aboriginals". "We belong to this land... so how can we be outsiders? Besides, we have been declared aboriginals by the home ministry," he said. The Koch-Rajbongshis along with five other communities in Assam has long been demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) status. "All our pending demands were discussed at the meeting, and now I can only say that good days are ahead for the Koch-Rajbongshi community," Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India|| Farmers’ protests now find place in Trevor Noah’s late night show||Stand-up comic and late night show host Trevor Noah is the latest international personality from the entertainment industry to highlight the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Through his popular TV programme "The Daily Show", the Emmy-winning presenter on Wednesday night explained the origins of the farmers' protest, their demands and the subsequent global support the agitation has received. On February 2, a tweet by pop star Rihanna triggered a wave of support for the protesting farmers by a number of global personalities, activists and politicians. "Why are India's farmers protesting? The government tried to change the decades-old agriculture laws and that's when the manure hit the fan," Noah tweeted, along with the video link. In the show's segment 'If you don't know, now you know', which ran over eight minutes, the 36-year-old South African comic pieced together news clippings to provide a holistic view of the protest. The video clip also mentioned the burning of effigies of Rihanna and Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, who had voiced her support. Noah, who delivers satirical news related to the international and American political matters in an entertaining way on "The Daily Show", said the government has decided that they've had "enough" of the protest because this is "a major crackdown". "Maybe they think postponing the law will satisfy the farmers. But think about it. In 18 months, people will be in the same position that they are in now. And the protests will happen all over again... "But this crackdown shows you how worried the government must be about the protest. And honestly they should be, because it's clear that these farmers are digging in for the long haul," Noah said in the video. Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, Hollywood veteran Susan Sarandon, actors John Cusack, Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa have also lent their support to the protesting farmers. The government had criticised the tweets by Rihanna and other international celebrities, saying facts must be ascertained before people rushing to comment on the issue, calling it "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Rescue operation on pause in Uttarakhand as water level rises in Dhauliganga river||The water level in the Dhauliganga river surged again on Thursday, forcing rescue workers to suspend efforts to reach the over 30 people trapped in the Tapovan hydel project tunnel after the flash flood four days ago. Officials called it a temporary halt to the massive effort by multi-agency rescuers to break through the sludge and debris that choked the tunnel after Sunday's disaster, which left 34 dead and about 170 missing. Hours before the sudden rise in the water, rescuers had also begun an operation to drill through the debris from the mouth of the river to reach life-saving devices to the trapped workers, an apparent change in strategy after trying to shift mounds of debris. But as the water level rose in the river which flows into the Alaknanda, rescue workers scrambled out of the tunnel with their heavy machinery. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said the work has been temporarily halted as a precautionary measure. Amid mounting concern over the lives of those inside, the focal point of the rescue operation remains the 1.5-km "head-race tunnel" -- a part of the 2.5-km long network of tunnels. "A drilling operation was started by the rescue teams at 2 am to peep into the slush-flushing tunnel that is about 12-13 metres below," Vivek Kumar Pandey, the spokesperson for the lead rescue agency, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), said in Delhi. As the continuous flow of slush and silt remains a major obstacle between the rescuers and those trapped inside, a boring operation by a huge machine is being undertaken to see if this problem can be addressed in a different way and the teams can go further deep inside, he added. Drilling through the debris started from around 68 metres inside the tunnel, Garhwal Commissioner Ravinath Raman, who is supervising the massive rescue effort at the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project site, told PTI. The focus at the moment is to take life-saving devices such as oxygen cylinders to those trapped by drilling, Raman said. The drilling is to be done for 12 metres to access the probable location of those trapped, he added. Till Wednesday, about 120 metres of slush from the mouth of the tunnel was cleared and those trapped inside were stated to be located somewhere at 180 metres, where the tunnel takes a slip or a turn. "More slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Pandey had said on Wednesday. ITBP chief S S Deswal had told PTI on Wednesday that his men and those from other agencies will continue with the rescue operation till "any length of time" or till a logical conclusion is arrived at and the trapped workers are located. He had expressed hope that those trapped inside might be safe with the help of possible air vents in the structure. An officer said no doubt that those trapped inside must be in a bad situation without food and water. "But there is hope against hope that they are surviving somehow as the temperature inside the tunnel is about 20-25 degrees Celsius and some oxygen is possibly available to them," the officer said. Workers at the 480-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel power project of the NTPC got trapped after a surge of water in the Alaknanda river system on Sunday, possibly triggered by an avalanche or glacier break. Apart from the over 450 personnel from the ITBP, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Army, the family members of those possibly trapped inside have stayed put outside the tunnel in anticipation of some news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||BJP not a believer of political untouchability, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Thursday that the BJP does not believe in political untouchability and values consensus in running the country, as he noted that his government has bestowed state honours on even the ruling party's political rivals to acknowledge their service to the nation. Addressing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs at an event here to mark the 53rd death anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyay, a party ideologue who had founded its progenitor Jana Sangh, Modi said the saffron party always puts "rashtraneeti" above "rajneeti" and gives respect to even its political rivals. In this context, he said the current government has honoured former president and Congress stalwart Pranab Mukherjee with Bharat Ratna and noted that Padma awards were given to former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and former Nagaland chief minister S C Jamir, both from the grand old party. Modi noted that he had said in Parliament that a government may run with majority but the nation runs with consensus. He also cited his government's tributes to national icons like Subhas Chandra Bose, B R Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and observed that any other dispensation would not have done it. Upadhyay's ideals of "antyodya" (empowering the most downtrodden) and integral humanism are the inspiration behind the government's welfare works and the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) programme to boost the economy, the prime minister said, adding that India has followed the principle of "nation first" in its external policy as well, without being influenced by any pressure. He urged the BJP units across the country to undertake 75 works for social welfare as the country approaches its 75th year of independence. Modi also suggested to the party MPs and other leaders to make a list of products they use in their daily lives and see if they can get rid of foreign stuff and instead, use their Indian alternatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Trudeau-Modi talk protest, democracy and dialogue ||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that he held a "good discussion" with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on many important issues, including on the two nations' commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue. Trudeau made a telephone call to Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday. "I had a good discussion with Prime Minister @NarendraModi on many important issues, and we've agreed to stay in touch," Trudeau tweeted. "The leaders discussed Canada and India's commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue," the Canadian Prime Minister's office said in a statement, in an apparent reference to the ongoing agitation by farmers in India. Trudeau in December said that Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests, and had expressed concern over the situation, evoking a strong reaction from India. India later summoned Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel and told him that the comments made by Prime Minister Trudeau and others in his Cabinet on the farmers' protest constituted an "unacceptable interference" in the country''s internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a "seriously damaging" impact on the bilateral ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has also emphasised that the new farm laws have been passed by India's Parliament after a full debate and discussion and urged foreign individuals and entities to ascertain the facts before rushing to comment on the agitation by farmers. "The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming," the ministry said in a statement last week. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the Government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," it said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. During the phone call, Trudeau and Modi underlined the need to work collectively in rebuilding a more sustainable and resilient global economy. "The two leaders had an exchange on their respective efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, protect the health and safety of their people, and provide economic support for their citizens," the statement from the Canadian prime minister's office said. The two leaders "spoke about India's significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world," it said. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines. The leaders also recognised the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery. "The two prime ministers reaffirmed their common interests in a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the importance of working together on global challenges such as climate change, strengthening global trade, and reinforcing the rules-based international order," the statement said. They underlined the need to work collectively in rebuilding a more sustainable and resilient global economy, it said. The leaders underscored the importance of the Canada-India strategic partnership anchored in shared values, strong people-to-people ties, and growing bilateral economic cooperation, it said. "The two leaders looked forward to working together at the G7, G20, and other international forums," it added. In New Delhi, the MEA in a statement said that Prime Minister Trudeau informed Prime Minister Modi about Canada's requirements of COVID-19 vaccines from India. Prime Minister assured Trudeau that India would do its best to support Canada's vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries already. Expressing his appreciation, Prime Minister Trudeau said that if the world managed to conquer COVID-19, it would be significant because of India's tremendous pharmaceutical capacity, and Prime Minister Modi's leadership in sharing this capacity with the world. Modi thanked Trudeau for his sentiments, the MEA statement said. The two leaders also reiterated the common perspective shared by India and Canada on many important geopolitical issues. They agreed to continue the close collaboration between both countries in fighting global challenges like climate change and the economic impacts of the pandemic, it said. The leaders looked forward to meeting each other in various important international fora later this year, and continuing their discussions on all issues of mutual interest, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Akhil Gogoi denied bail by SC in CAA protests case||The Supreme Court denied bail on Thursday to activist Akhil Gogoi, who is lodged in a Guwahati jail for his alleged role in the violent anti-CAA protests in Assam. A bench of justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose dismissed Gogoi's bail plea, saying, "We will not consider the petition at this stage." The bench, however, told advocate Runamoni Bhuyan that the petitioner may approach the top court for bail once the trial starts. Gogoi has challenged a January 7 order of the Gauhati High Court, which rejected his bail plea in a case related to his alleged role in the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) lodged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Krishak Mukti Sangram Parishad (KMSS) and Raijor Dal leader Gogoi is lodged in the Guwahati central jail since his arrest in December 2019. He was arrested on December 12, 2019 as a preventive measure, while protests against the CAA in the northeastern state raged on and resulted in violence at several places. Gogoi's case was subsequently handed over to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Disengagement pact in eastern Ladakh reached, informs Rajnath ||India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on Thursday, in a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff. Sharing details of the pact to defuse the tense military face-off in eastern Ladakh that severely strained ties between the two Asian giants, Singh also assured the Rajya Sabha that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China. India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone, he said. The defence minister said implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last, adding the two sides have agreed they should achieve complete disengagement at the "earliest" and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. Making a statement in the Upper House a day after China announced the disengagement process, Singh said both sides have agreed to remove structures that had been built since April last in North and South bank areas, and put in place a temporary moratorium on military activities including patrolling the traditional areas. The defence minister said under the agreement the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) will keep its troops in the North bank area to east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the Pangong lake areas, a major site of friction between the two large armies. He said the implementation of the pact started on Wednesday and it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake area so as to resolve all other remaining issues. "I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well thought out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of the Pangong lake," the defence minister said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. "The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner." "The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the South bank area by both sides," he said. The defence minister said patrolling will be resumed in the areas only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently. He said these are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in both North and South bank areas will be removed and the landforms will be restored. "I want to assure this House that in these talks we have not conceded anything. The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh," he said. "These will be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side. We have agreed that both sides should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols." Noting that the Chinese side is fully aware of India's resolve by now, he said it is India's expectation that the neighbouring country will work with the Indian side in full sincerity to resolve these remaining issues. "I would like this House to join me in paying gratitude to our armed forces who have shown grit and resolve under these extremely harsh climatic conditions of Ladakh which has resulted in the present agreement," he said. "Our Nation will always remember the sacrifices made by our brave soldiers which has been the foundation of this disengagement at Pangong Tso lake." The defence minister exuded confidence that the entire House, irrespective of political affiliations, is united together for upholding the country's "sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity and national security". "And further, this House is one in sending out the same message demonstrating the strength and unity of our Nation to the entire world," he said. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area. China on Wednesday said the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso started "synchronised and organised disengagement" from February 10 in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the ninth round of China-India Corps Commander- Level meeting. The ninth round was held on January 24 and it lasted for around 16 hours. Both sides had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||Drilling operation launched at Tapovan tunnel to rescue trapped workers||Rescuers launched a drilling operation on Thursday at the Tapovan tunnel, where an estimated 30-35 people have been trapped since a flash flood battered various villages and hydro-power projects in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, claiming 34 lives, while about 170 people are still missing. The focal point of the multi-agency rescue operation for the last over four days remains the more-than-1.5-km-long "head-race tunnel" of the total 2.5 km of the tubular structure, as every passing minute is mounting concerns over the safety of those trapped inside. "A drilling operation has been started by the rescue teams at 2 am to peep into the slush-flushing tunnel that is about 12-13 metres below," Vivek Kumar Pandey, the spokesperson for the lead rescue agency, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), said in Delhi. As the continuous flow of slush and silt remains a major obstacle between the rescuers and those trapped inside the tunnel, a boring operation by a huge machine is being undertaken to see if this problem can be addressed in a different way and the teams can go further deep inside, he said. Till Wednesday, about 120 metres of slush from the mouth of the tunnel was cleared and those trapped inside were stated to be located somewhere at the depth of 180 metres, where the tunnel takes a slip or a turn. "More slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," Pandey had said on Wednesday. ITBP chief S S Deswal had told PTI on Wednesday that his men and those from other agencies will continue with the rescue operation till "any length of time" or till a logical conclusion is arrived at and the trapped workers are located. "My boys are determined to locate those trapped...," the ITBP director-general had said in Delhi. He had expressed hope that those trapped inside might be safe with the help of possible air vents in the structure. "No doubt that those trapped or missing inside the tunnel must be in a bad situation as they have had no food and water for almost five days now. "But there is hope against hope that they are surviving somehow as the temperature inside the tunnel is about 20-25 degrees Celsius and some oxygen is possibly available to them," an officer working on the ground said. Workers at the 480-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel power project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) got trapped soon after the swollen Alaknanda river came hurtling down and washed away everything with its furious speed on Sunday. Apart from the over 450 personnel from the ITBP, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Army, the family members of those trapped inside have stayed put outside the tunnel in anticipation of good news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
11-02-2021||India||India logs more than 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 108 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,08,71,294 with 12,923 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,05,73,372, the health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll in the country due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,360 with 108 more people succumbing to it, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,05,73,372, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.26 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The country currently has 1,42,562 active COVID-19 cases, which account for only 1.31 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,40,23,840 samples have so far been tested in the country for COVID-19, including 6,99,185 on Wednesday. The 108 fresh fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and 14 from Punjab. Of the total 1,55,360 deaths caused by the viral disease, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,390, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,396), Karnataka (12,244), Delhi (10,884), West Bengal (10,220), Uttar Pradesh (8,696) and Andhra Pradesh (7,161). The ministry stressed that over 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress steps in with rallies ||The Congress leadership feels the time has come for direct political intervention to sustain the farmers’ struggle by mobilising public support across the country in the face of the government’s refusal to concede the demand for the repeal of the three controversial agriculture laws. The Congress, which has argued for long that the government was working on a strategy to tire out the protesting farmers and break the unity among the unions through coercion and defamation, has already launched parallel protest rallies in a bid to extend the scope of the movement in regions outside Delhi. They believe the protest can be sustained only by turning it into a people’s movement. The kisan mahapanchayats being held across western Uttar Pradesh has shown the way for the broadening of the struggle. While two major farmers’ rallies addressed by Congress leader Sachin Pilot were organised in Rajasthan over the past few days, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur to start the “Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan” campaign that will continue through February. Priyanka will address rallies in Meerut and Bijnour on February 15. She is expected to visit Mathura and Muzaffarnagar on February 20. While Wednesday’s rally in Saharanpur was impressive, Priyanka is scheduled to visit Allahabad on Thursday and take a dip at the Sangam, a mega event expected to motivate party workers for the month-long struggle. All senior leaders of Uttar Pradesh have been asked to participate in the farmers’ rallies across the state. While there will be meetings in every block of Uttar Pradesh, a 14km-long padyatra has been planned in every district on February 25. Priyanka appealed to farmers to join the protest and said the peasants shouldn’t take even one step backwards till the three laws were repealed. “The time has come to wake up... don’t go back. You have started a movement, it is a movement for your existence, a movement for your land. Don’t go back even one step. We stand with you, we will fight for you. We will not go back before these laws are scrapped,” she said at Chilkhana in Saharanpur. “You have seen them (the central government), you have seen everything and so be wise now, understand the truth. Whenever they make a promise, you can be sure that it will be empty,” the Congress general secretary added. “They have done everything for their big, rich friends, opened all the doors for them. But where were those millionaire friends when there was a lockdown, when the epidemic hit us? Where were they and where was this government when people were walking on these highways towards their villages? What did you (the government) do, how did you help them? Those people (the government and its rich friends) don’t care for you,” Priyanka said. She said the Congress would repeal the laws if it came to power. “You will get better minimum support price; laws would be made for you and not to put you on sale,” Priyanka said. “I appeal to each and every farmer of any caste or religion to join the protest.” The Congress units in states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat are also planning to start farmers’ conferences soon. Rahul Gandhi, who will proceed to Rajasthan after taking on the government over the budget in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, will address farmers’ rallies at Sri Ganganagar and Ajmer on February 12 and 13. His visits to Assam and Bengal will start next week. On Wednesday the Congress leader attacked the Prime Minister’s “andolanjeevi” jibe at farmers by tweeting: “The one who is selling the country is crony-jeevi.” Reacting to the Prime Minister’s reply to the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Lok Sabha, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said in a series of tweets: “Modiji, your commitment to farmer welfare is deceptive. You claim to be with farmers but actually you are with capitalists. Your policies establish this. You champion of divisive politics, you, not the Congress, are confused. You are the biggest example of autocratic rule in the garb of democracy.” Surjewala added: “You care for neither arguments and appeals, nor for human sensitivities. The most shameful example is your silence on the deaths of 220 protesting farmers. You champion of sermons, the entire country knows the difference between your words and deeds. You will realise if you introspect but your ideology doesn’t allow that. If you come out of self-delusion, you will repent over your failures in the last six years. But the problem is that you cannot see beyond I, me, my, myself. It is unfortunate that you pretend to be the mascot of democracy after crushing democracy everyday.” Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Ladakh troops disengagement claim||The Chinese and Indian troops at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh have started disengagement simultaneously, the Chinese defence ministry claimed in a statement on Wednesday. People’s Liberation Army (PLA) senior colonel Wu Qian, the spokesman for the ministry of defence, said in Beijing: “The Chinese and Indian front line troops at the southern and northern banks of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10…. This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India corps commander-level meeting.” India’s defence ministry and the Indian Army maintained radio silence and are yet to issue any statement on the Chinese defence ministry’s claim. Sources said China had been insisting that India vacate strategic heights on the south bank of the Pangong Lake on the LAC. Indian troops had last September occupied key heights on the southern bank of the lake after the PLA attempted to alter the status “unilaterally”. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh — the Depsang Plains, the northern bank of the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs — since May last year. The PLA has altered the unmarked LAC at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Military veterans had earlier termed the Chinese offer of disengagement from the south bank of the Pangong Lake as a “trap”, saying India should press for disengagement from all friction points along the LAC. “Why should disengagement be restricted to one or two places when there is a massive build-up all across the LAC? The ground assessment has revealed that the PLA troops are attempting the change the status quo in eastern Ladakh at several fronts,” a veteran had said. The disengagement process at the Galwan Valley on June 15 agreed upon between the two sides had gone awry when 20 Indian soldiers were killed and at least 76 injured during a violent clash with the Chinese troops inside the Indian side of the LAC. An unspecified number of PLA troops were also killed. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment along the LAC in Ladakh, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment and has established habitat facilities for its 50,000 additional troops deployed there, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Karnataka farmers gearing to hold rallies featuring Rakesh Tikait||Karnataka’s farmers are gearing to hold rallies featuring Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait to try and galvanise the farming community across southern India, having already held a series of protests in solidarity with their peers agitating in Delhi. While their main demand is the repeal of the three new farm laws, they also want the state’s BJP government to withdraw the new cattle slaughter law that is forcing farmers to spend huge sums on the upkeep of unproductive cattle, farmer leader Badagalpura Nagendra said. “We are getting Tikait to participate in a huge rally in Bangalore and a similar event in north Karnataka,” Nagendra, president of the state farmers’ association and Hasiru Sene (Green Army), told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “We want to bring farmers from all the southern states together to strengthen our movement against the new farm laws and other issues our community is facing.” The dates will be decided at Tikait’s convenience, Nagendra said. “We are looking towards dates at the end of the month since that would give us enough time to organise the events.” Asked to explain the choice of Tikait, Nagendra said: “Tikait is a national leader who commands respect from most of the farmers’ organisations. Since his presence has helped the agitation up north, we expect him to be a magnet for similar mobilisation in the south.” Nagendra said Dalit, student and workers’ organisations would join the upcoming protests to show “we are not alone in this fight”. On the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, which imposes a blanket ban on cattle slaughter and prescribes up to seven years’ jail for violations, Nagendra said it had hit the farmers badly. “It prevents us selling unproductive cows or calves and forces us to spend huge sums on their upkeep,” he said. “We will also be demanding (the Centre provide) a relief package of Rs 2 lakh crore for Karnataka, which has over the past 21 years witnessed 13 years of drought and 2 years of floods that have left farmers reeling.” As a prelude to the main events, the farmers will organise a march to the Assembly during the budget session, expected to begin in 10 days, Nagendra said. “That will be preceded by protests in the 150 taluks of Karnataka to mobilise farmers,” he said. Close to 50 farmers’ organisations in Karnataka had recently united under the Samyukta Horata (United Struggle) to air their concerns and express support for the farmers protesting in Delhi. The Horata effectively shut down the state’s highways on February 6 during the nationwide “chakka jam”. “We will continue to fight under the Samyukta Horata until the Centre and the state government heed our demands and end this climate of hostility towards farmers in the country,” Nagendra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||ED's marathon raid on NewsClick and a telling cup story||The Enforcement Directorate’s raid on the office of the NewsClick portal ended a little after 10.30pm on Wednesday, almost 37 hours after it began. However, searches continued at the home of Prabir Purkayastha, the editor-in-chief of the portal that has investigated big business and extensively covered the farmers’ protests. Purkayastha has been called to the ED office on Friday. Also held in Purkayastha’s house is Commonwealth Writers’ Prize winner Githa Hariharan, who also owns shares in PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt Ltd that owns the website. Hariharan runs the Indian Cultural Forum on the NewsClick premises. Editor Pranjal Pandey and HR head Amit Chakraborty have been allowed freedom of movement. Sources said ED officials have taken the phones and laptops of Pandey and Chakraborty as well as other electronic devices, including two hard drives, from their office and homes. The agency is yet to publicly reveal the reason for the raids. The ED had begun the raids as early as 8.15am on Tuesday at technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha Sinha’s home in Chittaranjan Park. Sinha was released at 1.30am on Wednesday. In 2012, Patna High Court had held that continuous search and questioning by the income tax department for 36 hours amounted to torture and was a violation of human rights. The ED works under the finance ministry and, like the income tax department, draws officers from the Indian Revenue Service. Columnist Aunindyo Chakravarty, a consultant with NewsClick tweeted: “I have been making videos for @newsclickin for more than a year now. Used to visit its office every week till Covid came. It is so small that as a visitor, I felt I should wash the cup that I was given tea in. Obviously, such an organisation must be of great interest to the ED. “I mean this quite literally. I saw everyone washing their cups and putting it back on the rack in a small kitchen. I too followed suit. It is cash-strapped and can’t afford to subscribe to video services. Yet, everything they produce is under creative commons for everyone to use.” Sources said those questioned were given questionnaires by the ED. At least one person faced tangential queries and remarks on their proximity to the CPM and the movement against the new farm regime, the sources added. Several of those investigated, including Purkayastha who was jailed during the Emergency, are associated with the CPM. The raids drew widespread condemnation from journalists’ organisations, Left parties and civil society groups, including the BKU Ekta Ugrahan that leads the farmers’ movement. Their statements also drew parallels with the slew of cases filed against journalists covering the farmers’ protests. The Editors Guild of India said: “In the recent past, the website has been at the frontline of reporting on the farmers’ agitation, the anti-CAA protests, and has been critical of various government policies and of a few powerful corporate houses. EGI is concerned that raids by government agencies are not used as coercive measures to suppress free and independent journalism. The Guild demands that care be taken to not undermine the news operations of NewsClick and that its journalists and stakeholders are not harassed under the garb of such measures.” NewsClick said in a statement that the raids’ purpose appeared to be to cow down an independent voice. “In the past, the income tax department, the ED, various central investigative agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and the National Investigation Agency have been selectively used in this manner against a range of people — from journalists to political leaders, to even farmers’ leaders…. The present raid at NewsClick appears to be on the same lines, and its purpose appears to be the same: to cow down an independent and progressive voice through a vindictive course of action. “In the meantime, NewsClick will continue to report and record voices of the unheard and unseen people of India, and the world, who are struggling to build a life of dignity and well-being,” the portal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||In farm law fight, Modi backs big business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extolled the corporate world in a Lok Sabha speech, took exception to the protesting farmers “abusing” the “private sector”, and again used the term “andolan jeevi” to disparage a segment of the protesters. The farmers, who fear the contentious laws would promote their corporate exploitation, have criticised not the entire private sector but “Adani and Ambani”, seen as the Prime Minister’s “crony capitalists” by critics and political opponents. Modi, however, used the sweeping expression “private sector” as he replied to the motion of thanks over the President’s address in the Lok Sabha. “To use improper words against the private sector may have got votes for a few people in the past but those times are gone,” he said. “The culture of abusing the private sector is not acceptable any longer.” Modi then appeared to be implying, without explanation, that attacking the private sector amounted to “insulting our youths”. “We cannot keep insulting our youths like this,” he said, before going on to laud the private sector. “The public sector is essential but the role of the private sector is also vital. If India is able to serve humanity it’s also due to the role of the private sector.... Wealth creators are important. If they don’t create wealth, how will it get distributed among the poor, provide jobs?” The Prime Minister argued that the running of every sector could not be left to “babus” — a somewhat condescending reference to officialdom, from petty clerk to bureaucrat. Modi accused his political rivals of tarnishing the farmers’ “pavitra (pure)” agitation and took a dig at the Congress, saying it was “divided and confused”. He said the party’s elders in the Rajya Sabha had listened intently to his speech on Monday (when too he had defended the new farm laws). “This (Lok Sabha members) seems to be a separate wing of the Congress party,” he said. Congress and Trinamul members protested uproariously for some time during Modi’s speech before the two parties walked out of the House separately. Modi’s praise of the private sector and targeting of “andolan jeevis” came sometime after this. He spoke for more than an hour and a half and ended his speech with an appeal to the farmers to come for talks. However, the farmers have already attended 11 rounds of talks despite repeatedly saying the government’s adamant attitude was rendering discussions fruitless. The government has sent no invite to the farm union leaders for talks in February so far. Modi acknowledged that in a big and diverse country like India, any law was bound to raise objections and might not turn out to be beneficial for all. He expressed readiness to talk and make amendments but insisted the laws were good, implying once again his lack of sympathy for the farmers’ demand for the acts’ repeal. “I consider the farmers’ agitation to be holy. But when andolan jeevis hijack holy agitations and showcase the photos of Naxals, terrorists and those in jail for harming the nation, is that not harming the farmers’ cause?” Modi said. “We need to differentiate between andolankaris and andolan jeevis.” Some human rights organisations that had joined the farmers’ protests had held up images of Father Stan Swamy and other rights activists and writers arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and accused of Maoist links. However, the trial has not begun let alone the verdict being delivered, which means none of them has been proved to be a terrorist or convicted of “harming the nation”. Modi referred to the violent protests at toll plazas and the destruction of telecom towers, mostly in Punjab, blaming it on “andolan jeevis”. He said the new farm laws were meant to help small farmers but the Congress had raised an outcry to hide the truth about them.The Prime Minister insisted that the old system of “mandis and APMCs” and the minimum support price (MSP) would continue, while the farmers would have the added option of selling their produce in the open market. The farmers have, however, been asking that if this is so, why is the government not turning the MSP into a legal guarantee as they have demanded? In answer to the farmers’ query why the laws had been thrust on them when they hadn’t sought any, Modi said: “The argument has been made, ‘Why did you provide when we didn’t ask?’ Is this a feudal system that people would beg and then the government would give?” “Nobody had demanded a law against child marriage and dowry but (such a law) was made for the nation’s progress. Nobody had asked for a law on the triple talaq but it was done for a progressive society.” Modi justified the need to involve the private sector in the agriculture business, saying the government lacked enough funds to invest in infrastructure-building in the sector. Talking to reporters later, Akali Dal member Sukhbir Singh Badal flagged how Modi had as Gujarat chief minister favoured a legally guaranteed MSP. “There is a massive difference between what Narendra Modi said as Gujarat chief minister and (what he is now saying) as Prime Minister,” Badal said. “During the term of the UPA government, Modiji had headed a meeting of chief ministers where he demanded the MSP to be made a legal guarantee. He has retracted that stance now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Kisans to march for Pulwama  jawans||The protesting farmers have decided to free the toll plazas in Rajasthan from Friday and organise a four-hour nationwide rail roko on February 18 as part of their plans to step up the movement against the farm laws. If anything, instead of mending fences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated assertion that the farm laws are good for the peasants and calling farmers names during his speeches in Parliament are adding fuel to fire, farmer union leaders said as they met on Wednesday at the Singhu border to take stock of the situation and plan protests to keep up the momentum. Apart from giving a call to free up the toll plazas of Rajasthan from February 12, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmer protests are being undertaken — has asked cultivators across the country to take out torchlight processions on February 14 in memory of the security personnel killed in the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 and the farmers who have died during the protests. The birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram, agrarian reformer who had fought for the rights of farmers, on February 16 will be used to “expose the falsehoods” being spread by the Modi government about the farm laws and minimum support price. Sir Chhotu Ram is credited with having initiated the passage of the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act in 1939, which became the basis for the market committees. The new farm laws seek to weaken the existing agricultural produce market committees by creating an alternative system with more facilitating provisions. Farmers fear that the private mandis will edge out the APMCs in due course, thereby robbing them of their assured avenue for sale of produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Hamid Ansari sees threat to rule of law||Former Vice-President Hamid Ansari has said “strident nationalism has taken over the political and cultural landscape and is making India intolerant, arrogant and insecure and undermining fraternity”. In an interview to Karan Thapar for The Wire news portal, Ansari said “a version of nationalism that places cultural commitments at its core and promotes intolerance and arrogant patriotism has tended to intrude into and take over the political and cultural landscape”. Referring to it as “hyper-nationalism” and “strident nationalism”, he said it was threatening dissent and making the country insecure about its place in the world. It is undermining the fraternity that has held together the many different peoples, cultures, religions and ethnicities that make up the country, according to Ansari. The interview was to mark the publication of Ansari’s autobiography By Many A Happy Accident: Recollections of a Life. Ansari, who was born in Calcutta and spent his formative years in the city, pointed out that the process leading to this hyper-nationalism began with the 2014 general election results and reached fulfilment with the 2019 outcome. Ansari said the 2019 verdict represented “the success of populism… assisted by authoritarianism, nationalism and majoritarianism”. Ansari, who had for long been associated with the Congress, said hyper-nationalism had caused “a subversion of core values”, leading to an erosion in secularism. “The term secularism itself has almost disappeared from the government’s official vocabulary”, replaced by a “politico-ideological effort… to superimpose… the primacy of a religious majority”. India was becoming a Hindu country, Ansari felt. Another consequence of this cultural hyper-nationalism was that “our commitment to the rule of law seems to be under serious threat”, Ansari felt. He said the country had lapsed into “arbitrary decision-making and even… mob rule”, with a “noticeable decline in the efficacy of the institutions of State”. According to the former Vice-President, another worrying consequence was that hyper-nationalism had made “the fault lines in our society more visible” and rendered the country more fragile. Fraternity has weakened and insecurity has grown, he observed. On the higher judiciary, Ansari said: “The approach of the superior judiciary… does little credit to an iconic institution and damages public confidence.” Asked what all this meant for India’s minorities, specifically Muslims, Ansari said it was making them insecure. He said their confidence in getting justice from the government had diminished. He said he did not believe that the Citizenship Amendment Act was necessary to give refuge to persecuted minorities. The government already has the power to do so, Ansari pointed out. Asked if cultural hyper-nationalism and its implications were reversible or whether the process had gone so far that it could not be rolled back, Ansari said a turnaround was possible but depended upon the choice the Indian electorate made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Diptheria low immunity alert: Study||A nationwide study has revealed that less than a third of children below 17 years in India have required immunity levels against diphtheria, a serious bacterial infection, despite a decades-old immunisation programme. The study led by researchers at the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, has found that about 30 per cent children aged 5 to 17 years are immune to diphtheria, while 70 per cent are partially immune or non-immune to the infection. The researchers say their findings help explain the troubling persistence of cases and outbreaks of diphtheria among children in India which accounted for nearly 77 per cent of global diphtheria cases over the past two decades. “The transmission of diphtheria is likely to continue in the country until the immunity gap is bridged through adequate coverage of primary vaccination and booster doses administered as part of the national immunisation and school health programmes,” the NIE researchers have cautioned. They have published the study’s findings in the journal Lancet Infectious Diseases. The diphtheria study piggybacked on a broader nationwide dengue survey in all age groups. The researchers measured antibodies against diphtheria in 8,309 blood samples from children aged between five and 17 collected during the dengue survey. They found 10 per cent of the samples were non-immune, 60 per cent were partially immune and 30 per cent were immune to diphtheria.The majority of children sampled in both rural and urban areas were partially immune. The study revealed caste differences in immunity levels — about 11 per cent of children from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were non-immune compared with about 9 per cent of children from the general of backward classes. Under children’s immunisation programmes, global diphtheria cases dropped by over 90 per cent between 1980 and 2000, but India reported over 79,000 cases of the global count of over 103,000 between 2000 and 2017. Paediatricians have observed for years that diphtheria — an infection marked by a sore throat, fever, and swollen glands in the neck — is making a resurgence in several states across India, likely because of gaps in vaccination coverage. Although the infection is treatable with antibiotics such as erythromycin or penicillin, deaths continue to occur. India recorded 897 deaths of about 41,600 cases in the decade ending in 2014, a case fatality rate of 2.2 per cent. Kerala had witnessed a particularly large outbreak of 734 cases between 2015 and 2017 in which three-fourths of the cases were among children aged above 10 years, and 134 of those cases among adults aged between 20 and 30 years. Priya Chandran, a community medicine specialist at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, who had investigated the outbreak had cautioned about the likely presence of unimmunised adolescents and waning immunity among immunised children. Now, the NIE study has corroborated those suspicions at a national level. “The decline in immunity observed in all regions (of the country) indicates inadequate boosting of immunity with booster doses,” the NIE team led by director Manoj Murhekar said in their research report. India’s immunisation programme recommends two booster between 16 and 24 months and between 5 and 6 years. A national technical advisory group on immunisation had two years ago recommended two additional doses of diphtheria vaccines for children at the age of 10 years and again at 16 years. “The two additional doses have since been introduced,” a health researcher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||No age relief plan for economically weaker sections ||The NDA government on Wednesday told Parliament that there was no proposal to offer age relaxation to candidates under the economically weaker sections (EWS) quota in jobs and admission to educational institutions. To a question from BJP leader Vivek Thakur on whether the government was considering a proposal to extend age relaxation to EWS candidates, minister of social justice and empowerment Thawaarchand Gehlot said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha: “No Sir.” Last year Gehlot’s ministry had mooted a proposal to give such a relaxation as demanded by beneficiaries. The NDA government introduced the 10 per cent reservation in the EWS category in central government jobs and admission to educational institutions in 2019. Before 2019, the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes  and Other Backward Classes  were entitled to 15 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 27 per cent reservation, respectively. The SCs, STs and OBCs get relaxations in age and qualifications under the eligibility criteria for jobs and admissions. Exceptions are also offered in the application fee. Candidates in the general category are allowed to appear for the civil services exams six times, subject to an upper age limit of 32 years. OBC candidates get nine attempts and are offered a three-year relaxation in the age criteria. SC and ST candidates can appear in the exams as many times as they want till the age of 37. The BJP leader in the Rajya Sabha, G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, had last year demanded that EWS candidates be also offered relaxations in age and qualification criteria. To another question, Gehlot said there was no proposal to exempt EWS candidates from application fee for jobs and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
11-02-2021||India||Supreme Court stays free Internet for poor students||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed a Delhi High Court judgment directing private schools in the national capital to provide free electronic gadgets and Internet to children from economically weaker section and other disadvantaged groups studying in private unaided schools in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The high court had held that children from the underprivileged sections were entitled to such benefits as a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right under the Right to Education Act. A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde issued notice on the special leave petition filed by the Delhi government challenging the high court verdict. Prima facie the bench agreed with the Delhi government that the high court should not have entered into a policy decision of the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Why coronavirus doesn’t last long on paper||Scientists in Mumbai have discovered why the novel coronavirus survives less than three hours on paper but remains viable for three to seven days on smoother materials such as plastic, glass, or stainless steel. Their study exploring the mechanisms through which the coronavirus expelled in respiratory droplets remains viable has also explained the puzzling observation of varying survival times on different surfaces made by US researchers nearly a year ago. Rajneesh Bhardwaj and his colleagues at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, have found that residues of droplets called thin films survive for a much shorter time on a porous surface, making it less conducive for the survival of the virus. “Our findings imply that covering glass, laminated wood or stainless steel with porous materials such as paper or cloth could reduce the risk of transmission from surfaces,” said Sanghamitro Chatterjee, a post-doctoral researcher and team member. Their study, which combined experiments on droplets and computer simulations, has suggested the coronavirus can survive for four days on glass, seven days on plastic or stainless steel, two days on cloth and only three hours on paper. Researchers at multiple academic institutions in the US were the first to show last March that the coronavirus could survive on cardboard for up to 24 hours but several days on plastic or steel. “That was a mystery actually — the respiratory droplets that hold the virus evaporate in seconds to minutes. The mystery was how can the virus survive even after the droplet has evaporated,” said Bhardwaj, associate professor of mechanical engineering. The IIT-Bombay scientists first used computer simulations to show that the droplets leave behind residual thin films — a surface of liquid about 100 times thinner than human hair where the virus can continue to remain viable. Then, they conducted experiments with droplets and residual thin films on different surfaces and found that thin films themselves have much shorter lifetimes on paper or cloth than on plastic, glass or stainless steel. “We now have a physical mechanistic explanation for the different survival times,” said Amit Agrawal, professor of mechanical engineering. “It is the geometric features of the surface rather than the chemical composition of the material that explain the differences.” Team member Janani Srree Murallidharan said the findings would help inform the public to exercise caution where necessary as well as to avoid unwarranted fears. During the early weeks of the pandemic last year, virus transmission from surfaces had stirred concerns. The scientists have published their findings in the journal Physics of Fluids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Bhima Koregaon case:  shocking data forensics report||Lawyers for a human rights activist who has spent almost three years in prison for alleged plots to incite violence and eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi have given Bombay High Court a data forensics report that concludes evidence had been planted in his computer. The report has been filed as part of a plea to quash the case against Rona Wilson and his co-accused in what has come to be known as the Bhima Koregaon case. Wilson, who belongs to the Committee for the Release of Political Prisoners, and 15 others are in judicial custody in Maharashtra. The undertrials include Stan Swamy, an 83-year-old priest, and Sudha Bharadwaj, lawyer and trade unionist. Many of the detainees are elderly academics, lawyers and rights activists, and several of them have chronic ailments. The case, which has drawn international attention, is being handled by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which reports to the Centre. The report of the Massachusetts-based Arsenal Consulting, which has been filed in the court, says Wilson’s computer — which Pune police had seized from his Delhi home in April 2018 -- was compromised for almost two years before it was seized. “Arsenal connected the same attacker to significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Mr Wilson’s computer for 22 months but to attack his co-defendants in the Bhima Koregaon case and defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well,” the report says. Last year, rights group Amnesty International and University of Toronto’s Internet watchdog Citizen Lab had revealed that in 2019, a coordinated spyware operation was used to target at least nine human rights defenders, eight of whom are campaigning for the release of the Bhima Koregaon detainees. Also in 2019, Israeli spyware Pegasus — sold only to governments — was discovered to have been used to spy on human rights defenders by penetrating their mobile phones via WhatsApp. Facing persistent questions in the Rajya Sabha that year, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the House: “To the best of my knowledge, no unauthorised interception has been done.” The Arsenal report is authored by Mark Spencer, the president of the company which had investigated several cases of terrorism, including the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013, for US agencies. The report adds: “It should be noted that this is one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering that Arsenal has ever encountered, based on various metrics which include the vast time span between the delivery of the first and last incriminating documents.” The most explosive revelation of the prosecution in a Pune court in 2018 was a letter found in Wilson’s computer. Public prosecutor Ujjwala Pawar had read out a part of it in court: “We are thinking along the lines of another Rajiv Gandhi-type incident. It sounds suicidal and there is a good chance that we might fail, but we feel that the party PB/CC must deliberate over our proposal. Targeting his road-shows could be an effective strategy.” The letter, signed “R”, is addressed to “comrade Prakash”. Arsenal has found this letter to have been planted in a hidden folder by malware that also enabled the attacker to spy on Wilson. Arsenal’s analysis was done on a digital copy of Wilson’s laptop hard disk, and a pen drive seized by the police. The attacker has not been identified yet. In all, 52 files were planted on Wilson’s computer, the jailed activist’s plea said. The NIA took the case over from Pune police early last year, as soon as the BJP had lost power in Maharashtra. The agency spokesperson did not respond to a call, nor to queries on the report WhatsApped by this newspaper. NIA sources have said that besides the purported electronic proof, the agency has other forms of evidence, such as witnesses, which it would present once the trial begins. In 2018, UN human rights experts said that terrorism charges in the case “are being used to silence human rights defenders who promote and protect the rights of India’s Dalit, indigenous, and tribal communities”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Twitter resists govt directive, cites Indian law||Twitter on Wednesday cited Indian law to resist the Narendra Modi government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians over posts related to the farm protests. But the microblogging site said it had permanently suspended over 500 other accounts and blocked access to some content in partial compliance with the Centre’s orders. Twitter made the announcements in the morning in a blog, hours before its senior management was scheduled to meet ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) officials. The ministry took umbrage to the Twitter blog post ahead of the meeting, stating that such action was unusual. Still, the meeting took place as scheduled and the IT secretary is understood to have insisted on full compliance with the directives issued since January 31 following the violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Ajay Sawhney, ministry secretary, stressed at the meeting that Indian laws must be followed irrespective of Twitter’s own rules and guidelines. He pointed to Twitter’s differential treatment of the Capitol Hill violence and the chaos at Red Fort. “A deep sense of disappointment at seeing Twitter side not with ‘freedom of expression’ but rather with those who seek to abuse such freedom and provoke disturbance to public order, was conveyed to the Twitter representative,” the ministry said in a late-night release. Monique Meche, vice-president, global public policy, and Jim Baker, deputy general counsel and vice-president (legal), who represented the social media platform at the virtual meeting, “affirmed their commitment towards following Indian laws and rules,” it said. Meche and Baker also expressed their continuing commitment towards building their services in India. They have also requested for better engagement between the government of India and Twitter’s global team,” the release said. Twitter’s argument — as articulated in the blog — for not acting against the handles of news media entities, activists and politicians is that such actions are not consistent with Indian law. “Because we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law,” the blog said. The ministry first responded to Twitter’s blog from the home-grown microblogging platform Koo, where many from the government and the BJP’s ecosystem are opening accounts. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt, the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt will share its response soon,” the ministry’s response read. The same message was later posted on Twitter. Initially, 257 handles using the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide” had been suspended in keeping with the government’s request. Later, 126 of these accounts were deactivated on February 1 while the others were restored by Twitter. The IT ministry in further notices asked 1,178 handles to be deactivated for allegedly spreading misinformation. Of these, 583 accounts have been deactivated. While the government had threatened penal action for non-compliance, Twitter had said while restoring the accounts that this action was in keeping with company policy, which favoured free speech. Pavan Duggal, cyber law expert, said: “Twitter is an intermediary and cannot sit in judgement or partially implement the order. Once a legal liability is denied, it has to be prepared for legal damages under the IT Act. At the same time, at some point in time, jurisprudence under cyber law needs to evolve as to can an intermediary cross the Lakshman rekha and challenge the government?” Other experts said the IT Act’s Section 69A had to be considered in entirety and flagged that it also spoke of reasonable restrictions. Twitter, if it does not act on a government order, has to face the consequences, including a jail term of seven years. Twitter said in the blog post on Wednesday: “We will continue to advocate for the right of free expression on behalf of the people we serve. We are exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted. We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow.” Twitter added that it had taken a range of enforcement actions -- such as permanent suspension of accounts in certain cases --- against more than 500 accounts escalated across all ministry orders for clear violations of Twitter’s rules. “Separately, today, we have withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under our Country Withheld Content policy within India only. These accounts continue to be available outside of India,” Twitter said. “We informed MeitY of our enforcement actions today, February 10, 2021. We will continue to maintain dialogue with the Indian government and respectfully engage with them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Trident behind glacial fragility||The combined effects of hydropower projects, deforestation and efforts to widen a pilgrimage road in Uttarakhand have exacerbated the fragility of the state’s glacial regions, making them vulnerable to disasters like Sunday’s flash flood, scientists and environmentalists said. Scientists are trying to determine the immediate trigger for the flash flood in Chamoli but, they say, the region’s vulnerability has increased over the years under the impact of global warming and local development activities. The Alaknanda basin, the region of Sunday’s flash flood, had seven hydropower stations in operation, eight under construction and four proposed stations. Mallika Bhanot, a volunteer with Ganga Avahaan, a citizens’ forum in Uttarakhand, has in a Twitter post described the Tapovan-Vishnugad and Vishnugad-Pippalkoti stations as “bumper-to-bumper HEP (hydroelectric power stations) on the Dhauliganga, a tributary affected by Sunday’s flash flood. “We’re seeing the cumulative effects of steady environmental degradation brought about by policies that have no focus at all on environmental protection,” Bhanot told The Telegraph About 45 per cent of Uttarakhand’s area is covered by forests and environmental groups have expressed concern about deforestation. “Deforestation and loose soil can enhance the dust levels in the environment,” said a senior scientist. Scientists have known for years that soot particles called black carbon can be transported long distances by wind to the Himalayas where they can contribute to glacial melting. Sections of environmental activists have expressed concern about the impacts of efforts to widen the Char Dham road, a 900km segment connecting four pilgrimage sites — Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath — with an all-weather road. Over 500km of the road has already been widened and, Bhanot said, the project is expected to contribute to deforestation through the destruction of tens of thousands of trees and to dislodge several million cubic metres of soil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flash flood: Sludge flow-back stalls tunnel rescue attempt ||Efforts to rescue 25 to 35 people trapped in a blocked mountain tunnel in Uttarakhand since Sunday morning’s flash flood have stalled because of flow-back by a “sludge” of rocks, slush and water that has hobbled the rescuers and poses a danger to them. Teams from the army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the state and national disaster response forces had by Tuesday evening cleared about 100 metres of the 180-metre tunnel but couldn’t advance thereafter. “Debris and water are flowing back while we are cleaning the tunnel. We need to be careful because the water and debris might flow back with enormous force when we try to move forward,” ITBP deputy inspector-general Aparna Kumar said. Thirty-four bodies — of labourers working on two hydropower projects and villagers from nearby areas in Chamoli district — had been recovered by Wednesday evening but 170 people were still missing, state authorities said. “There’s been hardly any progress in the rescue operation. We have recovered 34 bodies but have no confirmed details about the dead and the missing,” state director-general of police Ashok Kumar said. The number of the missing has been given out on the basis of the names provided to the government by the companies involved in the two power projects. A senior employee of one of these companies had said off the record that the company did not have full records of all the labourers because it hired them through small-time contractors. The Rishiganga hydropower project near Raini village has been completely destroyed while the NTPC’s project near Tapovan village is heavily damaged. It’s a group of Tapovan workers, managers and engineers who remain trapped in one of the project tunnels. Two other tunnels — one of each project — had been cleared earlier, with 27 workers rescued. The theory that the flash flood was caused by a “glacial outburst” — offered on Sunday and dismissed on Monday in favour of an avalanche theory — received a shot in the arm on Wednesday, with the additional claim of an earthquake as the possible trigger. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had on Sunday cited state scientists to suggest a glacier on the Nanda Devi mountain had broken apart and caused the devastation. Scientists elsewhere too said a glacial lake breaching its banks was the possible cause. On Monday, however, Rawat quoted the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, Dehradun — an arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation — to say satellite imagery suggested that recent snowfall on the mountains, loosened by a landslide, had come down in the form of an avalanche. He said there was no glacier on the Nanda Devi. However, the weather office said it had no evidence of heavy snowfall at the site since Thursday, either. Now a fresh study has suggested that a 500-metre-long “hanging glacier” on the Raunthi peak, 5,600 metres above the sea level, broke and caused the devastation. “According to an analysis of data collected by Planet Labs, an agency from San Francisco, the glacier was hanging at 82 to 85 degrees. A portion of the glacier and boulders slid and travelled about 11km on February 6 (Saturday) night and fell on the upper Rishiganga catchment area, which is at an altitude of 3,800 metres,” M.P.S. Bisht, director of the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC), Dehradun, told reporters. “The ice and debris formed an artificial lake (where the portion of the glacier fell). This lake collapsed the next morning, bringing devastation to the lower Rishiganga catchment area.” Bisht said an earthquake had occurred in the area at the time the hanging glacier broke and fell. He said there had also been fresh ice from recent snowfall on both sides of Raunthi, which too barrelled down along with the boulders. According to a USAC study conducted between 2002 and 2018, some 26sqkm of the 243sqkm glaciated area in the Nanda Devi region had vanished in the previous 37 years because of global warming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
