12-02-2021||India||Explosion in Tamil Nadu fireworks factory leaves 11 dead||At least 11 workers were killed and 36 injured when an explosion ripped through a fireworks factory near Sattur in this southern district in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Police said. The explosion occurred when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit in Acchankulam village, they said, adding the injured had been hospitalised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the deaths. Modi and Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each and three lakh each to the kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund and the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund respectively. The factory building was damaged badly under the impact of the explosion and many suffered burns. Palaniswami, in a statement, said all the 11 workers were killed on the spot and that he has ordered a probe into the incident, while assuring due legal action. Several fire fighting units were deployed to douse the fire and take up the rescue operations. Earlier, TV visuals showed relatives of the victims wailing near the mishap site while the injured were rushed to hospitals in ambulances. Modi said the "fire at a firecracker factory in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu is saddening." Posting in his official Twitter handle, @PMO India, he said "in this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope that injured recover soon. Authorities are working on the ground to assist those affected: PM @narendramodi." "An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each has been approved from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to a fire in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu. Rs 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," he said, in tweet, which was also made in Tamil. Palaniswami, in a statement, said all the 11 victims were killed on the spot and expressed grief over the deaths. "I was anguished to know that 36 persons have been injured in the explosion and have directed the officials to ensure due medical treatment to them," he said. He announced a sum of Rs three lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs one lakh to those who had suffered grievous injuries. The Chief Minister said he has directed expediting the relief work and asked the district collector Virudhunagar, home to the country's fireworks hub, to console the families of the victims in person. The collectors concerned should conduct periodic checks at such units to ensure workers' safety, he said, adding the factories should follow due safety measures in view of the coming summer season, indicating high temperatures then could lead to similar mishaps. Purohit said he was shocked and grieved to hear about the accident and prayed for the early and complete recovery of the injured. "I offer my deep condolences to the families of those who are mourning the loss of their near and dear ones," he said in a Raj Bhavan statement. Gandhi, in a tweet, said: "Heartfelt condolences to the victims of the firecracker factory fire in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu. It's heart-wrenching to think of those still trapped inside. I appeal to the state government to provide immediate rescue, support & relief," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered, death toll rises to 38 in Uttarakhand disaster||Two more bodies were recovered from the flash flood-hit areas of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Friday, taking the toll in the calamity to 38, as rescue teams battled on against the odds for the sixth consecutive day to get to 25-35 people trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel here. One body was recovered from the rubble at the demolished Rishi Ganga Hydel Project in Raini and the other from Maithana, district administration officials here said. A separate team of rescuers was formed under the supervision of the executive engineer of the Rural Works Department to expedite the search operation taking the help of locals and old photographs of the demolished Rishi Ganga hydel project. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel using excavators and JCBs are dredging through the muck to locate the missing, the officials said. At Tapovan, besides the continuing sludge clearing and drilling inside the tunnel, an approach road is being built near the Gauri Shankar temple so that a Pokland machine could be sent down in search of those missing in the debris. A cofferdam is also being constructed at Tapovan to prevent any more water from flushing into the tunnel. Meanwhile, with scientists spotting a new glacial lake in the higher reaches of Rishi Ganga, an eight-member team of the scientists of the Geological Survey of India was formed to inspect the lake, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. The GSI team is being sent to inspect the lake and submit its report to the district administration at the earliest, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Brazen compromise on security, says Congress on LAC pact||The Congress on Thursday fiercely confronted the Narendra Modi government’s triumphalism about a breakthrough with China on the intrusion into Ladakh, describing the agreement as “a brazen compromise on national security and territorial integrity”. Rahul Gandhi set the tone of discourse soon after defence minister Rajnath Singh’s statement in the Rajya Sabha with this blunt tweet: “No status quo ante=No peace & tranquillity. Why is the Government of India insulting the sacrifice of our jawans and letting go of our territory?” While Rajnath himself referred to outstanding issues with China, the tenor of his statement suggested satisfaction even as status quo ante had not been restored and Indian troops were clearly in a disadvantageous position compared to the situation prior to April-May 2020. Condemning the government’s stance as a “failure of Modi’s diplomacy and strategy”, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said that “the false bravado of a fake nationalist government was exposed”. Surjewala said in a statement: “Modi government is brazenly compromising national security and India’s territorial integrity. This is clear from defence minister’s statement. The Prime Minister is scared of even uttering the word ‘China’, much less ensuring that Chinese are pushed back decisively from illegal occupation of India’s territory in Depsang Plains, Gogra Hot Springs Sector, Pangong Tso Lake area and Chumur, southern Ladakh.” Accusing the government of misleading the nation, Surjewala said: “Modi government refused to give an unequivocal assurance for restoration of ‘status quo ante’ as on April 2020. Can the Prime Minister and defence minister explain their complete and total failure in protecting India’s territorial integrity? Why is the government agreeing to a selective disengagement only in Pangong Tso Lake area and that also by presumably changing the LAC to India’s disadvantage? Even in Pangong Tso Lake area, India was occupying Finger 4 and was patrolling up to Finger 8 on the north bank. India’s stance has been clear and unequivocal — LAC is up to Finger 8. As per defence minister’s statement, Indian troops will withdraw now to Finger 3.” Rejecting the BJP’s charge that the Congress was being irresponsible on such a sensitive issue, Surjewala said India’s territorial integrity was non-negotiable and was about partisan warfare and blame-game. He said, “Does it not tantamount to redrawing the LAC to India’s disadvantage and creating a buffer zone between Finger 3 and Finger 8, that is, on our side of the LAC? Our forces had shown extraordinary courage and valour in face of the Chinese aggression and had occupied the vantage points on ‘Kailash Ranges’ on the southern bank of Pangong Tso Lake area. Defence minister’s statement today would mean that our armed forces will be withdrawing from these vantage points in Kailash Ranges on the southern bank.” Arguing that one of the most strategic and provocative incursions into the Indian territory by Chinese was in Depsang Plains, Surjewala said: “The Chinese have occupied our territory 18 kilometres inside the LAC up to Y-Junction (bottleneck) and are stopping our armed forces from patrolling up to the PP-10, PP-11, PP-11A, PP-12 and PP-13. This has also jeopardised one of the most important and strategically placed airstrip of Daulat Beg Oldi. Even in the year 2013, China had intruded up to the Y-Junction and there was nearly a six months long stand-off between Indian and Chinese forces. The then UPA-Congress government and our armed forces successfully pushed the Chinese back to LAC at that point of time without ceding any territory.” The Congress statement further said: “Why is the government completely silent on pushing the Chinese back from Gogra Hot Springs? As per reports, Chinese are also patrolling up to Chumur in southern Ladakh. Why did the government not address this important strategic issue? Minister V.K. Singh undermined India’s position by making statement contrary to national interests and giving a handle to China to unjustifiably paint India as the aggressor. Why has V.K. Singh not been sacked for undermining India’s strategic position? Does the Prime Minister’s silence indicate that the statement was made by Singh at the behest of the government? If so, what is the reason for this brazen compromise of India’s national security?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||No territory conceded to Chinese, clarifies govt||India on Friday said it has not conceded any territory as a result of the agreement finalised with China for disengagement of troops in Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh. Hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese and raised questions over the agreement, the Ministry of Defence issued a strongly-worded statement, saying the effective safeguarding of country's national interest and territory in the Eastern Ladakh sector has taken place because the government reposed full faith in the capabilities of the armed forces. "Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them", the statement said. The ministry also made certain clarifications in the statement, and said, "the assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000 sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962." "Even the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol upto Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China," the MoD said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that as per provision of the agreement, China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. "India has not conceded any territory as a result of the agreement. "On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," it said. The ministry also asserted that permanent posts of both sides at the north bank of Pangong Tso are longstanding and well-established. "On the Indian side, it is Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 and on the Chinese side, east of Finger 8," the MoD said, adding the current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts. The statement said the ministry has taken note of some misinformed and misleading comments being amplified in the media and on social media regarding the disengagement currently underway at Pangong Tso, asserting that it is necessary to set the record straight and counter certain instances of wrongly understood information. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi questioned why the Prime Minister did not make a statement on the LAC situation and claimed that Singh "sheepishly" made a statement on the issue in both Houses of Parliament. "Why has he asked the Defence Minister to make the statement, the Prime Minister should say - I have given Indian land to China, this is the truth," he alleged. He said it has emerged that Indian troops are now going to be stationed at Finger 3 at Pangong Tso lake. "Finger-4 is our territory, that is where our post used to be. So, now we have moved from finger-4 to finger-3. Why has the Prime Minister Modi given up Indian Territory to the Chinese? This is the question that needs to be answered by him and by the Defence Minister," Gandhi said. "Why have Indian troops, after the hard work that they had done in capturing Kailash ranges, been asked to move back," the Congress leader asked. "What has India got in return for this? Most importantly, the more important strategic area, Depsang plains, why have the Chinese not moved back? These are the real questions. Why have they not moved from Gogra-Hot Springs," the former Congress chief asked. "It is the responsibility of the Prime Minister to protect the territory of the country. The Prime Minister has ceded Indian Territory to the Chinese. It is his responsibility to solve the problem," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Twitter blocks 97 per cent accounts, posts identified by Centre||Twitter has blocked over 97 per cent of the accounts and posts flagged by the IT Ministry for provocative content and misinformation around farmers' protest, sources said. This followed a meeting between Twitter representatives and the Information Technology Secretary on Wednesday evening where the US-based microblogging platform was issued a stern warning to comply with local laws or be prepared for action. The Ministry had questioned Twitter's delay in taking action on its order to block provocative content that could impact public law and order, whereas the American company had been quick to crack down when a similar instance occurred at US Capitol Hill. According to the sources, Twitter has now complied with the orders and over 97 per cent of the accounts flagged have been blocked. Twitter did not respond to queries on the matter. On February 4, Twitter was asked to take down 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content related to farmers' protest. Prior to that, the government had sought blocking of 257 tweets and handles in connection with the agitation by farmers over the new agricultural laws. Twitter had complied with the orders only to restore the accounts hours later. Twitter on Wednesday morning had said it has suspended over 500 accounts and blocked access to several others within India, but maintained that it would not block accounts of "news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians" as doing so "would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under the country's law. It, however, yielded to the orders later after the crucial meeting on Wednesday evening. In a statement after the meeting, the IT Ministry had stated that the microblogging platform had been asked to take strong action against "well-coordinated" campaigns "designed to create disharmony and unrest" in the country. Monique Meche, Twitter Vice President Global Public Policy and Jim Baker, Deputy General Counsel and Vice President Legal, had affirmed Twitter's commitment towards following Indian laws and rules. The executives had also requested for better engagement between the Indian government and the company's global team. Sources said Twitter's latest move to block the flagged accounts is itself a validation that the government's orders were backed by sound reasoning and logic. The government had made it clear that it will not negotiate with the platforms while insisting on compliance with its orders as it believed that a private commercial entity in India cannot unilaterally decide on public law and order, ignoring the democratic values of the country. IT Ministry was of the view that Twitter, being an intermediary, was required to take immediate action after receiving the government's notice to block handles, but did not move with haste to take down "atrocious" hashtags and "incendiary" content even amid a volatile situation. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had recently emphasised that the government is all for freedom of speech and expression and that it remains investor-friendly, but disrespecting democratic values is not acceptable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||TRP scam: Arnab's interim protection extended till March 5||The Bombay High Court hearing the TRP scam case on Friday extended till March 5 the interim protection against coercive action granted to journalist Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media that runs Republic TV channels. The interim relief was extended after the high court adjourned the hearing on ARG's plea challenging the investigation of Mumbai police in the TRP scam case. Friday's hearing was adjourned after the Maharashtra government's counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, pointed out that in its rejoinder affidavit filed last week to counter the police's charge sheet, ARG had relied upon several new documents that were not part of its petition. Sibal said that since he would need time to respond to the new documents, ARG's counsel senior lawyer Harish Salve must not rely upon those documents during his day's arguments. Salve, however, insisted on relying upon those documents. The court then adjourned the hearing after accepting Sibal's statement that the interim protection granted to Goswami and the others will continue till the next date. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said it will hear the plea through video-conferencing only for its interim prayer of protection on March 5. The bench will hear ARG's main prayers challenging the police's investigation and seeking the transfer of probe to the CBI or any other independent agency, on March 16 via physical hearing. Salve told the court that he had taken the vaccination for COVID 19 recently and was due for the next shot of the vaccine six weeks later. Therefore, he will not be able to travel to attend the physical hearing. The court then intervened on a lighter vein and asked the Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, when the judges and senior lawyers were likely to get the vaccine? "I am deviating, but Mr Singh (ASG), why is vaccination not happening for us also?" the bench asked. ARG media and Goswami had approached the high court last year, filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam. They alleged that the whole case was malafide and that they have been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Palghar lynching case, last year Last month, the Mumbai police had filed two affidavits in the case through Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch saying it had not targeted Republic TV or its employees. The police had said its probe was not a result of any political vendetta. The same HC bench on Friday adjourned another petition filed by Goswami, seeking to quash the case lodged against him in a 2018 abetment of suicide case. This plea will also be heard on March 5. Goswami and two others have been accused of abetting the suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik. The trio were arrested in the case and later released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi resigns from Rajya Sabha||TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha on Friday, saying he feels suffocated in the House as he is unable to do anything for the violence going on in his state, Bengal. "If you sit here quietly and cannot do anything, then it is better that you resign from here and go to the land of Bengal and be with people," he said in the Upper House of Parliament. Trivedi said the world looks at India when something happens. "What I mean to say is the way violence is taking place in our state. Sitting here, I am feeling perplexed as to what should I do," he added. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP said he is unable to bear various incidents that are happening in Bengal. "I am grateful to my party that it has sent me here, but now I feel a little suffocated. We are unable to do anything and there is an atrocity (going on). My voice of conscience is saying what Swami Vivekananda used to say -- arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached," Trivedi said while announcing his resignation from the House. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said there is a due process for resigning from the House and asked Trivedi to submit his resignation in writing to the chairman. Trivedi’s announcement stunned his party, the TMC, but the signs were visible, said sources close to him, ndtv.com reported. On Thursday, he had tweeted, praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech in Parliament at a time when his party boss Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been attacking the policies of the BJP and its leadership relentlessly. To Modi's shout-out to the private sector in India's progress and global standing, Trivedi tweeted: "I am personally in agreement with this. The way forward is to let our young talented mind innovate, create and distribute wealth. Pay Govt levies, create jobs. For that, our Govt officers (babus) too, need to encourage the youth." His Twitter account briefly vanished after his resignation. Reacting to Trivedi’s announcement on Friday, Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Roy said he was saddened. "This is unfortunate. I am saddened. It is not good that he has resigned. I knew he was dissatisfied but I did not know he would quit," he said. Trivedi was nominated to the Rajya Sabha last year by the TMC. He was a Lok Sabha MP from Barrackpore but had lost the 2019 parliamentary election and had felt sidelined in the party since. He was defeated by Arjun Singh, a former Trinamool leader who had joined the BJP. Another MP, Sukhendu Roy, questioned why Trivedi was allowed to speak out of turn in the Rajya Sabha, and said on his resignation: "Trinamool means grassroots. This will give us an opportunity to send a grassroots worker of ours soon to the Rajya Sabha." Moments after the news emerged, senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya told reporters: "Dinesh Trivedi is more than welcome to join BJP. He has taken a year to quit the Trinamool". The BJP leader said he had met Trivedi a year ago and he had told him "things were not good". TMC has lost several leaders to the BJP in the run up to the Bengal elections due in April-May. The trickle turned into a flood when in December 2020, Mamata Banerjee lost her top aide Suvendu Adhikari, who first quit as minister after an extended period of uncertainty, and then immediately joined the BJP. Over 40 more leaders and workers followed him out of the Trinamool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Centre, Twitter served notice by SC on monitoring fake news||The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from the Centre and Twitter India on a plea seeking a mechanism for regulating content and advertisements spreading hatred through fake news and instigative messages via bogus accounts. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre and Twitter Communication India Pvt Ltd on the plea filed by one Vinit Goenka, which said there are hundreds of fake Twitter handles and bogus Facebook accounts in the name of eminent people and high dignitaries. Advocate Ashwini Dubey, appearing for Goenka, said directions are needed for establishing a mechanism to regulate hateful content on the social networking site. The bench said that it is issuing notice in the matter and tagging the plea with other pending matters. The plea filed through Dubey said, These fake Twitter handles and Facebook accounts use real photo of constitutional authorities and eminent citizens. Therefore, common man relies upon the messages published from these Twitter handles and Facebook accounts. The PIL said that fake news is the root cause of many riots, including the one in Delhi earlier this year, and bogus accounts are used to promote casteism and communalism which endangers fraternity and unity of the country. It is submitted that presently a total number of Twitter handles in India is around 35 million and total number of Facebook accounts is 350 million and experts say that around 10 per cent Twitter handles (3.5 million) and 10 per cent Facebook accounts (35 million) are duplicate/bogus/fake, the plea said. Political parties use fake social media accounts for self-promotion and image building and to tarnish the image of opponents and contesting candidates, especially during the elections, the plea submitted. The plea has also sought directions to make a law as per which an action can be initiated against Twitter and their representatives in India for willfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalize them. The petition further said that a representation to the authority concerned to act in accordance with the law of the country against social media giant Twitter was filed but no action has been taken so far by authorities concerned. It also pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs has banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act on July 10, 2019, yet it continues to have an active presence on Twitter and allegedly espouses hatred, terrorism and sedition, criminal acts. "The logic and algorithms that Twitter uses should be shared and vetted by Indian government authorities or competent authority for screening anti-India tweets... KYC of all social media handles in India must be conducted for making social media safe and accountable and traceable," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
12-02-2021||India||Mallikarjun Kharge to succeed Ghulam Nabi as leader of Opposition||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge is likely to replace Ghulam Nabi Azad as the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and the party has written to the chairman of the Upper House of Parliament in this regard, sources said. The Congress has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for appointing Kharge to the post of leader of the Opposition after Azad's retirement, they added. The post will fall vacant after Azad's tenure as a Rajya Sabha member ends on February 15. Azad is a member of the Upper House from Jammu and Kashmir, which does not have an Assembly currently after it was made a Union Territory with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. Kharge, a Dalit leader from Karnataka, was the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. The grand old party could not get the leader of Opposition's post in the previous and the current Lok Sabha as its numbers were less than the mandated 10 per cent of the total number of seats in the Lower House for claiming the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||India records 9,309 fresh Covid cases, 78 casualties in a day||The daily new COVID-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the third time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,80,603, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the seventh time in February, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 9,309 infections have been reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,55,447 with 78 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,89,230 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,35,926 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,47,89,784 samples have been tested up to February 11 with 7,65,944 samples being tested on Thursday. The 78 new fatalities include 25 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 7 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,447 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,415 from Maharashtra followed by 12,402 from Tamil Nadu, 12,251 from Karnataka, 10,886 from Delhi, 10,225 from West Bengal, 8,696 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,161 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Rahul slams govt over LAC disengagement pact||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the government over its agreement with China on disengagement in eastern Ladakh and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese. His attack on the government came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh assured Parliament that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said Singh "sheepishly" made a statement on the LAC situation in both Houses of Parliament and it emerged that Indian troops are now going to be stationed at Finger 3. "Finger 4 is our territory, that is where our post used to be. Now we have moved from Finger 4 to Finger 3. Why has Prime Minister Modi given up Indian territory to the Chinese? This is the question that needs to be answered by him and the Defence minister," Gandhi said. "Why have Indian troops, after the hard work that they had done in capturing Kailash ranges, been asked to move back," Gandhi asked. "What has India got in return for this? Most importantly, the more important strategic area, Depsang plains, why have the Chinese not moved back? These are the real questions. Why have they not moved from Gogra-Hot Springs," the former Congress chief asked. "It is the responsibility of the prime minister to protect the territory of the country. The prime minister has ceded Indian territory to the Chinese," he alleged. The Indian government's position at the beginning of this was status quo ante as in April 2020 that is what they were negotiating for, he asserted. In a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff, Defence Minister Singh had announced in Parliament on Thursday that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Singh had shared the details of the pact to defuse the tense military face-off in eastern Ladakh that severely strained ties between the two Asian giants. In an identical statement later in the Lok Sabha, he had said the disengagement process was "going on well", and that the implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Cricket Association of Uttarakhand: ‘Internal affairs’ guardians silent||After Bollywood, cricket. The poison is spreading. Former India opener Wasim Jaffer has faced a barrage of abuse and targeted disinformation after he quit as Uttarakhand’s cricket coach and was accused by officials of forcing religious-based selections. Although Jaffer, who played 31 Tests for India and was a colossus of domestic cricket, has received support from some former players, conspicuous by their silence were most of the luminaries of the game who had last week bristled at international criticism of the government’s handling of the farm protest and tweeted in support of the ruling dispensation. Jaffer quit on Tuesday, accusing Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) officials of pushing “undeserving players”. The trolling began after CAU secretary Mahim Verma publicly accused Jaffer of “communalising the team and favouring Muslims”. He also alleged that Jaffer had dissuaded players from chanting “Rambhakt Hanuman ki jai” and allowed a Muslim cleric to enter a Covid-induced bio-bubble to conduct prayers. Jaffer has denied both allegations. On Thursday, the CAU sought a report from senior team manager Navneet Mishra on the alleged bio-bubble breach. “The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand has taken cognisance of the seriousness of the Wasim Jaffer incident and accordingly instructed its senior team manager Navneet Mishra to submit a detailed report on the matter,” Verma said in a media release. Online, a troll army pounced on Jaffer, who has over 19,000 first-class runs and 57 centuries at an average above 50, with a barrage of invectives. Some videos claimed he was involved in proselytising — an unproven allegation that, if true, does not signify anything illegal. The trolls claimed that those supporting Jaffer were hypocrites as they had not supported Sachin Tendulkar when he and other former Indian players tweeted in support of the government over the peasants’ movement. Jaffer has defended himself against the allegations, tweeting on Wednesday night: “1. I recommended Jay Bista for captaincy not Iqbal but CAU officials favoured Iqbal. 2. I did not invite Maulavis 3. I resigned cos bias of selectors-secretary for non-deserving players 4. Team used to say a chant of Sikh community, I suggested we can say ‘Go Uttarakhand’ #Facts.” Iqbal Abdulla is a spinner. The chant of the Uttarakhand team is the Sikh religious slogan “Rani Mata Sache Darbar ki jai”. Some of Jaffer’s teammates and other cricketers backed him. Spinner Anil Kumble tweeted: “With you Wasim. Did the right thing. Unfortunately it’s the players who’ll miss your mentor ship.” All-rounder Manoj Tiwary tweeted: “I would request the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand (BJP) Mr. Trivendra Singh Rawat 2 intervene immediately nd take note of the issue in which our National hero Wasim bhai was branded as communal in the Cricket Association nd take necessary action. Time 2 Set an example #WasimJaffer.” Seamers Irfan Pathan and Dodda Ganesh too tweeted in favour of Jaffer. “Unfortunate that you have to explain this,” Pathan tweeted in reply to Jaffer’s tweet explaining his stand. Notable for their silence were Tendulkar, captain Virat Kohli, India’s head coach Ravi Shastri and the other cricketers who had tweeted in support of the government’s farm laws with the hashtags “IndiaStandsTogether” and “IndiaAgainstPropaganda”. A joke doing the rounds on Twitter on Thursday was: “Fans ask Indian cricketers to support Wasim Jaffer since it is cricket’s ‘internal matter’.” The government and its backers had claimed that the farm protest and its handling were India’s “internal matter”. Sudheendra Kulkarni, a former BJP member who was in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s PMO, tweeted: “Stop bringing the virus of communalism into cricket. I stand by #WasimJaffer, the pride of Indian cricket. He’s rendered great service to the game. Has an almost unbeatable record as the highest run-scorer (12,038) in Ranji Trophy. Stop maligning India’s Muslim heroes!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Amit Shah buys citizenship time, hurts Matua community||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday steered clear of laying down a clear timeframe for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), disappointing many in the Matua community that has a significant presence in over 30 Assembly seats in Bengal. Shah said the citizenship issue of the immigrant Matua community would be resolved “the moment” the vaccination process for Covid-19 was over and the pandemic situation was under control. Addressing a public rally at the Matua headquarters in Thakurnagar, Shah said: “We have passed the CAA.… The moment the vaccination process is over and the corona situation is under control, all of you will get citizenship.” Probably aware that such an announcement would not cut much ice, he promised a slew of initiatives for the Matua community if the BJP came to power in Bengal. Seeking to make his promise about the CAA more credible before the audience, Shah said no one, not even Mamata Banerjee who has opposed the act tooth and nail, can stop its implementation. “I was supposed to come here earlier but could not because of some unavoidable reasons, which made Mamata Didi happy as she thought I wouldn’t come any more. But let me assure you that I will keep coming back till she is defeated,” Shah had said at the beginning of his speech, drawing loud cheers. But his comment linking the implementation of the CAA with the completion of the vaccination — a repeat of the answer he had given this correspondent during his December 20 Bolpur trip — came as a shock for many in the Matua community. State BJP leaders had raised expectations that the Union home minister would at the Thakurnagar rally roll out a definite schedule for the act’s implementation. It remains unclear when the vaccination campaign in a country of 130-crore-plus people would conclude. As the BJP had reaped political dividends from Matua-dominated areas of the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by dangling the citizenship carrot, the community has been eagerly awaiting the implementation of the CAA. Against this backdrop, chief minister Mamata Banerjee recently spun a counter-narrative. She said the BJP was confusing the Matuas by promising citizenship even though these immigrants from Bangladesh, most of whom possess documents like the voter card, Aadhaar card, ration card and land deeds in their names, were already Indian citizens. The two contrasting narratives on citizenship will be at the core of the Trinamul-BJP tussle in the 30-odd Matua-dominated Assembly segments — spread over North 24-Parganas, Nadia and north Bengal — in the upcoming elections. If the immediate reactions of some in the audience after the rally were any indication, the BIP should have reason to worry. “It’s very clear that we will not vote for the BJP if they cannot resolve the citizenship issue,” Harashit Gonsai, a prominent community leader, told The Telegraph after Shah’s meeting. Disappointment was visible on the face of Gonsai, who was surrounded by his associates. He said he would convey his feelings to Santanu Thakur, the BJP MP from Bongaon and the tallest Matua leader. Other Matua community members like Saikat Giri, a BJP supporter who had come from Nadia, were equally upset. “Citizenship is our key demand, but there was no clear answer when we will get it,” Giri said. The 27-year-old school teacher, who has an Aadhaar card and a ration card, could not explain why he felt his Indian citizenship was in doubt. This lack of clarity is not unique to Giri: scores of Matuas think they need a citizenship card or an equivalent document to have the same status as other Indians. That the Matuas were expecting a specific announcement was clear from the speeches that community leaders delivered before Shah’s arrival at the venue. Most of the speakers said their demand was unconditional citizenship through the CAA. Some of the speakers fuelled hopes that Shah would deliver on the demand soon, leading many in the audience to expect the issue to be resolved before the Assembly polls. The manner in which Shah began his speech bore hints that an announcement was imminent. He said: “I had promised that I would come to Thakurnagar and clear the confusion about the CAA.” He then switched to topics such as the contribution of Matua icons like Hari Chand and Guru Chand Thakur towards the social uplift of the community, and the misrule of the Mamata government, before returning to the main theme. “Once the CAA is implemented, the refugees will get the respect that has been their due for a long time. We will also be able to slam the doors on illegal infiltrators,” Shah said. His failure to offer a timetable dashed hopes, but the Union home minister couldn’t have done anything else as his ministry had recently informed Parliament that the deadline to prepare the CAA rules had been extended to July 9, 2021. Although many in the community were upset, Santanu, chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha and the local MP, expressed satisfaction with Shah’s promise. “We are satisfied with what he said today.… He came such a long way to offer the citizenship assurance. It is a great gesture. We don’t see any uncertainty on the issue any more,” he said. Asked if his organisation had demanded any specific timeframe for the implementation of the CAA, he said: “We cannot demand a deadline for obvious reasons. Our people have realised that implementation is not possible overnight.” While Santanu was prepared to allow the Centre time to tackle the pandemic, he was unequivocal in his demand for a simplified process of citizenship, effectively a reassertion of the demand for unconditional citizenship. This demand, many in the BJP believe, is the real challenge as the act requires a citizenship seeker to apply for the status, which in turn implies that he or she has been living illegally in India. Most Matuas this correspondent spoke to said they did not want to convey the impression that they had been living illegally in India. “The pandemic may have given the home minister a chance to explain the delay in the implementation of the CAA, but the question is: what will happen when the rules are finally announced in line with the provision of the act that Parliament passed?” a Matua leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Content and intent that ‘hamare do’ won’t utter: Rahul Gandhi||A possible Freudian slip by the Centre that told the nation its “hamare do” are “Adani and Ambani” got Rahul Gandhi a laugh and much real estate on social media. But beneath the wisecrack lay a political cut and thrust that Parliament had almost forgotten. The occasion on Thursday was the discussion on the general budget in the Lok Sabha. But Rahul spoke only on the contentious farm laws, ambushing the government after it had denied a separate debate on the ongoing farmers’ movement despite the Opposition’s passionate pleas and tumultuous protests. By the time Rahul had concluded by declaring he would not touch upon the budget in protest against the denial of a separate debate on farmers, he had landed several lethal punches. One, Rahul addressed a direct reply to Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has been saying no Opposition leader has explained what is wrong with the farm laws. “The Prime Minister had said the Opposition is talking about the protests but is not talking about the content and intent of the laws. So I thought today, let’s make the Prime Minister happy and talk about the content and intent of the farm laws,” Rahul said, springing the topic. Two, his cheek ensured that the treasury benches tried their best to thwart him by shouting. Unwittingly, the government ended up giving the impression that it did not have the courage to discuss the farm laws. With an audacious call for a two-minute silence, Rahul led an unparalleled expression of solidarity with the farmers from the floor of the House. The government, which has been religiously ignoring the deaths of scores of protesting farmers, again ended up looking cold-hearted. The talking point swirled around the “hum do, hamare do” slogan Rahul had borrowed from the family planning campaign. Amid uproarious protests by BJP members who insisted that the Congress leader could not be allowed to raise the farm laws while discussing the budget, Rahul said: “Like corona’s new strains, the family planning slogan of ‘hum do, hamare do’ has re-emerged. Only four persons are running this country — hum do, hamare do.” As BJP members rose in protest and Opposition MPs burst into an “Adani-Ambani” chorus, Rahul said: “Naam sab jaante hain (Everybody knows the names). Those beautiful, chubby pictures you must have seen on the hoardings of ‘hum do, hamare do’. Now this is about four people running the country.” The Congress MP’s insinuation hung mischievously in the Lok Sabha air. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi leapt to his feet and said, interrupting Rahul: “It is wrong to say that 40 per cent storage capacity is with Adani and Ambani. He will have to prove his allegation.” Ripples of laughter flowed through the Opposition benches. Rahul recalled Modi’s complaint 24 hours earlier that the Opposition was not discussing the “content and intent” of the new farm legislation bouquet and proceeded to critique them, law by law. “The first law says anybody can buy food grain as much as he wants. The objective is to finish off the mandis (wholesale markets),” the Congress MP said. He added: “The second law allows the big corporate (entities) to store unlimited amounts of grains, vegetables and fruits. There is no stock limit. The intent is to start unlimited hoarding in the country by killing the Essential Commodities Act. “The intent of the third law is to prevent farmers from approaching the courts in case of disputes. The real intent is to allow one corporate friend to sell everything — which will finish off small farmers and traders — and to allow another corporate friend to create storage monopoly. The Prime Minister said it is optional. He has of course given three options — One, hunger; two, unemployment; and three, suicide.” Contending that the plan was to hand over the agriculture business, worth Rs 40 lakh crore, to “hamare do”, Rahul said: “Unlimited storage will allow manipulation of prices. They are conspiring to break the backbone of India. They are breaking the backbone into pieces to be handed over to two friends. This will destroy the rural economy and India’s food security. This is not the first attempt; Modi started it with note-bandi and continued it during the corona-induced lockdown.” The Congress MP warned the government against presuming that the farmers would end their protest. “Do not commit the mistake that this is a farmers’ protest. Farmers are only showing the way; this is a people’s movement. If you think you can suppress the poor and the kisan-mazdoor with your power and money, you are mistaken. The people will remove you from power. The government will have to withdraw the farm laws.” Rahul wrapped up his speech by appealing to all the members to stand in silence for two minutes as the government had refused to pay homage to the over 200 farmers who have died in protest. While most of the Opposition members promptly stood up, the BJP continued to protest loudly. This prompted Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who had repeatedly intervened to ask Rahul to speak on the budget, to say: “It is my responsibility to conduct the proceedings. Your conduct was not good. It was not dignified behaviour. We all respect farmers, soldiers; people have died in the Uttarkhand tragedy…. You could have asked me for a condolence motion.” Congress leaders stoutly defended Rahul’s conduct, asserting that parliamentarians would have to invent ways to raise critical concerns if legitimate parliamentary devices to express public sentiment in the House were not allowed. Rahul, too, said: “We wanted a debate on farmers. The Speaker consulted the government. But the government did not allow the debate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Nationalist Congress Party rift in Kerala||The Kerala political landscape is set for a realignment with the Nationalist Congress Party divided on whether to stay with the ruling Left Democratic Front or switch sides to the Opposition coalition led by the Congress. The simmering differences within the NCP headed by Sharad Pawar came to the fore when it became clear that it would not get the contentious Pala Assembly seat in the upcoming Kerala elections. With the Kerala Congress (Mani) led by Jose K. Mani having switched to the LDF in October 2020, and Pala being the traditional hub of the party originally formed by Jose’s father K.M. Mani, it was expected to cause a rift within the ruling front since the seat is now held by the NCP. A section led by NCP state president T.P. Peethambaran Master and Mani C. Kappan has made it clear that they would not settle for anything less than the Pala seat that the party snatched from the UDF in the 2019 bypoll following K.M. Mani’s death. The historic win for the LDF ended the five-decade reign of the Kerala Congress (Mani) that was then a part of the UDF. But after Jose made the move to the LDF, it became immediately evident that he wanted the Pala seat that his father had nurtured for five decades. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan recently informed the NCP leadership that Pala would not be available this time and instead offered the Kuttanad Assembly seat to the party. But the NCP itself is divided on whether to leave the ruling front that is forecast to win a second consecutive term. A faction led by transport minister A.K. Saseendran, who is most likely to stay back by splitting the party, has complained to Pawar about Kappan openly claiming he would contest only from Pala. “Neither the central unit nor the state unit of the NCP has so far held any discussions on leaving the LDF,” Saseendran told reporters on Thursday, making it clear which side he preferred. But Peethambaran and Kappan are in Delhi to hold the final round of discussions with Pawar and Praful Patel, who is in charge of the Kerala unit, and arrive at a decision on Friday. Kappan has no doubt about where he would contest from. “I have already said I will contest from Pala,” he told a news channel. Asked by a news channel what would he do as the LDF has already spoken the last word on Pala, Kappan quipped, indicating at a shift away from the ruling front: “You just have to guess.” In another sign that the NCP was headed for a split, posters featuring images of Kappan have appeared across Pala, welcoming the pre-poll “Aishwarya Kerala Yatra” of Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala. There is also talk that Kappan would participate in the march once it reaches Pala, the hub of central Kerala’s Christian community. “We expect the NCP to take a call (on whether it would leave the LDF). We welcome him (Kappan) to join us,” Chennithala told reporters on Thursday, adding “there is nothing wrong if he wants to join the yatra”. State Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran also invited the NCP faction to join the alliance. “I welcome Kappan to the UDF. We can give him our ‘hand’ symbol if he joins us,” he said. While the NCP is not a major player in Kerala, having them on its side would mean a “moral victory” for the UDF after the exit of the Kerala Congress (Mani) last year. “Getting the NCP or even Kappan will be a moral victory for us although even he would need our votes to win in Pala,” said a senior Congress functionary who did not want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Farmers’ agitation: Justin Trudeau raises protests with Narendra Modi||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau raised the “recent protests” during his telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. This was the first time the two leaders had spoken after India warned Canada in December that relations could be affected if the Canadian leadership continued to comment on the farmers’ agitation. Trudeau had then spoken up for the farmers’ right to protest peacefully. According to the readout of Wednesday’s conversation, issued by Trudeau’s office, “the leaders discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue.” None of this was mentioned in either Modi’s tweet on the conversation or the readout issued by the external affairs ministry subsequently. “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery,” Modi had tweeted on Wednesday night. The Indian readout too focused mostly on New Delhi’s vaccine diplomacy: “Prime Minister Trudeau informed Prime Minister Modi about Canada’s requirements of Covid-19 vaccines from India. Prime Minister assured the Canadian PM that India would do its best to support Canada’s vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries already.” The Canadian readout acknowledged India’s efforts in promoting vaccine production: “Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Modi spoke about India’s significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines.” Trudeau’s call to Modi came four days after Canadian shadow health minister Michelle Rempel Garner asked his administration whether it had reached out to India, and the Prime Minister specifically, for Covid vaccines. On January 28, the Indian external affairs ministry had listed Canada among the countries where vaccines were likely to be sent on a commercial basis. Further, according to the Canadians, the two Premiers reaffirmed their common interest in a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the importance of working together on global challenges such as climate change, strengthening global trade and reinforcing the rules-based international order. The Indian readout did not go into the specifics of the discussion on the Indo-Pacific but contained a reference to committing the two countries to fighting the challenge of climate change together. After highways were dug up and water cannons used on November 26 to stop farmers from moving towards Delhi to pressure the Modi government to repeal the three contentious farm laws, Trudeau had in December spoken up for their right to protest peacefully. India had responded with a warning that such comments could affect bilateral ties but Trudeau iterated his views at a media conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir minus status, toll still high||Casualties seem to have risen sharply among security forces in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in the first full year after the scrapping of the special status, challenging the government’s projection of the move as a panacea for the region’s problems. Police intelligence data accessed by The Telegraph suggest that violent deaths increased almost 38 per cent among security force personnel, from 129 in 2019 to 178 in 2020. These figures include the casualties from both combat and non-combat violence - such as suicides, fratricidal killings and accidents - as well as the deaths in Ladakh from the Chinese intrusion. While the army’s figures show a decline in violent deaths, from 99 in 2019 to 86 in 2020, they do not include the non-combat casualties or the Ladakh toll. Figures available with police intelligence show that 178 security force and police personnel were killed last year, 112 in combat and 66 in non-combat violence. Non-combat violence such as suicides or attacks on colleagues or officers is largely a result of stress, suggesting the August 5, 2019, decisions have not eased the pressure on the forces. Some of the stress may, however, have been a result of the Covid-related restrictions on leave and movement. Of the 66 non-combat deaths, the report says, 35 were suicides - apparently the highest in 10 years. Among the 112 killed in combat, 35 died in hit-and-run militant attacks, the police intelligence report says. Another 31 died in firing from across the Line of Control, 26 in gunfights with militants and 20 in clashes with the Chinese army in Ladakh. The standoff along the Line of Actual Control is seen widely as a fallout of the scrapping of Article 370 provisions and bifurcation of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state into two Union Territories. It is believed that the move to bring Ladakh directly under the Centre's administration angered Beijing, which lays claim to the area. The casualties in Pakistani shelling too are perceived to be a consequence of increased hostilities between the two countries following the August 2019 decisions. Army figures show 86 deaths among all the security forces across Jammu and Kashmir in militant attacks or cross-border shelling. Two of the army's dead were colonels. One of them, Colonel Santosh Babu, was among the 20 soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops on June 15 last year. The Valley was no less hostile to the forces, who lost Colonel Ashutosh Sharma of 21 Rashtriya Rifles, Major Anuj Sood and three jawans in one of the deadliest gunfights in May in north Kashmir. Earlier in April, the army had lost five members of the elite special forces during a four-day operation in the Keran sector of Kupwara. The police intelligence figures show that the two Union Territories witnessed more than 460 conflict-related causalities in 2020, against 368 in 2019, marking a 25 per cent surge. Among the dead were 221 militants, of whom at least 176 were local and at least 30 were foreigners. The militants lost 40 commanders, including two operational chiefs from the Hizbul Mujahideen and one from the Jaish-e-Mohammed. Both the police and army figures put the militant casualties at 221, against 159 the year before. The only solace has been a decline in civilian killings, from 80 in 2019 to 68 in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier disaster: Gushing muddy water halts rescue work for four hours||Rescue work in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, where 25 to 35 people are feared trapped in a tunnel, had to be suspended for four hours on Thursday when dark-coloured ice and muddy water came hurtling down the Rishi Ganga and raised the water level in the river’s downstream. When work resumed around 6pm, the rescue workers had to again abort the operation after proceeding only around 2 metres into the Niti Valley tunnel as they encountered a thick steel mesh and a concrete structure. The team has been able to move around 102 metres into the tunnel by clearing debris. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) workers feared trapped since Sunday’s flash flood are believed to be stuck around 180 metres inside. Eyewitnesses said a huge mass of black ice and water mixed with mud and sludge began flowing down the Nanda Devi mountain in the upper Rishi Ganga catchment area around 2pm and eventually reached downstream, raising the water level in the river. The rescue workers, alerted by their colleagues, scrambled out of the tunnel, whose mouth is located on the bank of the river, with their machines. “We had never seen such a spectacle before. Black-coloured ice and water came down the river with great force. Sunday’s calamity seems to have played havoc with the Rishi Ganga river. This is beyond our imagination. Scientists must study today’s incident against the backdrop of the flash flood of Sunday,” said Bhawan Singh Rana, the panchayat chief of Raini, the most affected village where a hydro-power project has been destroyed. “The water level goes up in the hilly rivers when there is rainfall but today was a sunny day. There must be some lakes on the top of the mountain and they are collapsing for some reason,” Rana said. Thirty-four bodies — of labourers working on two hydropower projects and villagers from nearby areas in Chamoli district — had been recovered by Wednesday evening but 170 people were still missing, state authorities said. Teams from the army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had to stall the rescue work inside the tunnel on Wednesday too because of flow-back by a “sludge” of rocks, slush and water. The work had resumed on Thursday around 11am but had to be stopped again at 2pm when the river water level rose. When the men entered the tunnel again around 6pm their path was obstructed by a thick steel mesh and a concrete structure. “The debris could not be cleaned because of the obstruction,” a government source said. Ashok Kumar, the director-general of police of Uttarakhand, said: “There are adverse situations preventing us from continuing the rescue work. We are considering the option of drilling from above to enter the tunnel.” He said there had been no communication with those who might be trapped inside. “Vertical drilling looks like an important option for us,” said Aparna Kumar, deputy inspector-general of the ITBP who is camping in the area since Sunday. She said the NTPC believed that its workers were trapped near the T-point at the end of the first tunnel, which is straight and 180 metres long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
12-02-2021||India||State plane blow to Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was scheduled to travel by a state government aircraft to Dehradun in Uttarakhand on Thursday, but the permission to use the plane was not granted to him even after he had boarded it, sources said. The governor later took a commercial flight, the Raj Bhavan said. The Raj Bhavan said the governor’s secretariat had written to the state government  seeking permission for the use of aircraft “well in advance” on February 2. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the Maharashtra government had followed all the norms.  “If the governor wants to use the government plane for private work, here are some rules and had the government violated those rules, it would have been in the dock,” he said. According to the  Raj Bhavan, Koshyari is scheduled to preside over an IAS event at the Lal Bahadur Shastri academy of Administration at Mussoorie on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||CBSE writes to principals about commencement of new academic year from April||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday wrote to the principals of its affiliated schools about the commencement of the new academic year from April with the plan to hold in-person lessons for students of Classes IX to XII and the conduct of assessment for Classes IX and XI. Academic activists of students of Classes IX to XII will come back to regular face to face mode in schools affiliated with Central Board of Secondary School (CBSE) from coming academic year, if the advice by national board is accepted by states. “It would be appropriate to start academic session 2021-2022 from 1st April, 2021, to the extent feasible subject to the instructions of the state governments,” said the CBSE letter. The board exams for Classes X and XII will be held with a reduced syllabus in May and June. The CBSE said exams for Classes IX and XI should be held by following Covid protocols. A CBSE official said schools had already opened for students of Classes IX to XII in most of the states to help them clear their doubts and conduct practical classes. The schools are taking all precautions, he said. The official said the CBSE had reduced its syllabus up to 30 per cent for students of Classes IX to XII for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. However, the reduction is unlikely to continue in 2021-22. “The plan is that classes for students of IX to XII will go on as usual in schools. So there is no merit in continuing the reduction in syllabus,” the official said. Last year, the CBSE had deleted chapters on federalism, nationalism, citizenship, democratic rights, diversity, religion and caste, demonetisation and GST, among others, from the syllabus of students of higher classes. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Delhi, said the opening of institutions for adolescents was essential. “Over the last year, students have faced a significant learning gap. When they come for doubt clearing and practical classes, we find that they are unable to sit for long periods and write. Their ability to conduct practical experiments has also been affected. This is the case of those who have had access to online classes. Those who have had no access to online classes will face a learning gap of a year,” Wattal said. Commenting on assessment, she said online exams and tests were not a fair medium for assessing a student’s knowledge, skills and abilities. Real-time school was essential for a collaborative environment, making learning productive for both scholastic and co-scholastic activities, she said. Wattal said it was also important to start normal classes as the syllabus for competitive examinations like JEE and NEET had not been reduced and students were expected to cover the entire course. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Group of Schools in Delhi, said online learning cannot be a substitute for in-person classes. “In any case online learning is not available to all the children. Things have vastly improved now. All Covid-19 related restrictions should not be applicable to schools only. Let us not forget that learning losses have a serious impact in the long term,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Social media firms must stick to Indian laws: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union IT and communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said all social media platforms were welcome in India but must adhere to Indian laws, the warning coming amid a row over Twitter’s refusal to fully comply with a government order to deactivate a host of accounts. Prasad said social media companies had taken immediate action when rioters targeted Capitol Hill in Washington but ignored directives for similar action after chaos broke out at the Red Fort during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade. “This double standard would not work here,” he said. Prasad flagged controversial content such as those with the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmersGenocide. “Yeh kya mazak hai (What kind of a joke is this)?” he said. “Please don’t spread enmity, violence and misinformation. Please follow the Constitution of India and the law of the land. Otherwise we will be very strict,” he said, replying to a question in the Upper House. Prasad said that while social media platforms had their own self-regulatory mechanism to check and evaluate inflammatory content, that did not mean they would not follow Indian rules. “This will not work here,” he said. The Constitution guarantees freedom of speech but Article 19(2) also says this freedom is subject to “reasonable restrictions” for the sake of preserving the country’s “sovereignty and integrity”. On Wednesday, Prasad’s ministry had expressed displeasure at Twitter for failing to remove all the 1,100-plus accounts and posts the government had accused of spreading misinformation about the farmers’ protests. The government was riled after Twitter had in a public blog post said it had taken down only half the accounts and posts flagged by the government. The microblogging site had cited Indian law and “our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression” to resist the government’s directive to act against news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians. But the government told Twitter’s representatives that the microblogging site had to follow its orders and that this was non-negotiable. Asked about the steps the government had taken to check the spread of misinformation on social media, Prasad told the House “we have recently flagged Twitter” on the matter. His ministry officials are talking to Twitter. “Our commitment (to) freedom of media, right of individuals and independence of the judiciary is complete and total. But we are equally concerned about the safety and security of India,” Prasad said. He told MPs the government was working on new guidelines that would address gaps in the protection of Indians’ privacy on social media. “Work is in progress,” he said. Prasad said he wanted to convey to the media platforms that freedom was important but they could not abuse it by showing unbidden revenge sex videos, porn, street violence and videos that ignite passions and fuel violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Economic adviser prod to release consumer expenditure survey report||A year after the NDA government withheld the release of a consumer expenditure survey for suspected discomfort over unfavourable findings, its chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian has demanded its release, a minister has informed Parliament. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha by Congress members L. Hanumanthaiah and G.C. Chandrasekhar who wanted to know if the chief economic advisor had demanded to make the survey report public, minister of state for statistics and programme implementation Rao Inderjit Singh said in a written reply: “Yes Sir”. The National Statistics Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had conducted an all-India survey on household consumer expenditure from the period July 2017 to June 2018. But the ministry decided not to release the report citing a higher divergence with the administrative data. According to a report in Business Standard, the survey found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. After the demand was made by Subramanian, the government is at present considering to release the report. “The ministry has followed a rigorous procedure for vetting of data and reports which are produced through surveys. The results of this survey were examined and it was observed that there was a significant variation in the levels in the consumption pattern as well as in the direction of the change while comparing with other administrative data sources. The matter is being looked into and finalisation of the results of the Consumer Expenditure Survey 2017-18 is under consideration,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Military veterans question India’s continued silence on restoration of status quo||Military veterans and security experts have expressed concern about the disengagement process agreed with China over the Pangong Lake and questioned India’s continued silence on the restoration of status quo as it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion. They are also asking why, under the pact announced by defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament on Thursday, India has agreed to stop patrolling territory that it controlled till now. “Is there a deal within the deal? We talk about the ‘fog of war’; this seems to be the fog of peace and fog of disengagement,” a former lieutenant general said. Rajnath told the Rajya Sabha that neither side would patrol its traditional areas on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks until they have worked out all the modalities in diplomatic and military talks. He did not mention any demand or agreement for restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020, but said the disengagement was aimed at restoring peace and tranquillity to the border areas. Several veterans said that agreeing not to patrol areas claimed by India “amounts to further territory loss for India and a huge disadvantage tactically for its army”. They said the Chinese army seemed to be trying “salami-slicing tactics” to impose a revised status quo. The term refers to an aggressor country claiming another’s territory and disputing the rival’s claim so forcefully that the territory becomes a “disputed” one. During the process of dispute resolution, the aggressor ends up getting a part of it. Among the other questions the veterans said Rajnath had left unanswered: Will the Indian troops also subsequently vacate the strategic heights on the Pangong Lake’s south bank that they had occupied last September after the Chinese attempted to alter the status “unilaterally”? Why no mention of the Depsang Plains, operationally critical for the Indian army, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines? Will India press for disengagement at all the friction points? “It’s shocking that we are withdrawing from territory we have controlled. Chinese troops have stopped us doing our normal patrolling at several friction points since May last year. And now we have agreed to step back from our claimed territory,” the retired lieutenant general who spoke to this newspaper said. “This seems a very dangerous disengagement process. The restoration of peace and tranquillity does not mean restoration of status quo ante.” Colonel Ajai Shukla (retd) tweeted: “On the heights above Pangong Lake, India is restricted to west of Finger 2/3. On the lake shore, China can now patrol till its claim line along Finger 4. India can no longer patrol till its claim line at Finger 8. Line of Actual Control (LAC) has effectively shifted west by 8km.” He added: “Rajnath Singh @DefenceMinIndia is a careful man. In Parliament, he refrained from claiming that India’s core demand — restoration of the pre-April status — had been met. Instead, he claimed that the disengagement would ‘substantially restore’ the situation to pre-April 20.” In the Pangong Lake area, India claims the territory till Finger 8 but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8 since May last year. Rajnath told Parliament the Chinese army would return east of Finger 8 on the north bank and the Indian troops would go back to their Dhan Singh Thapa Post at Finger 3 on the north bank. Neither side will patrol this area. Veteran Sushant Singh tweeted: “Two final points: One, the whole process is rather complex and uncertain, worsened by an environment of deep mistrust and hostility between the two sides. Two, anything other than return to status quo ante works in China’s favour (two steps forward, one step back kind of move).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Centre to Parliament: India, China disengagement begins||The government on Thursday informed Parliament that India and China had begun disengagement at the Pangong Lake under an agreed process that stipulated neither would patrol its traditional areas till the modalities had been worked out at the operational and diplomatic levels. India broke its silence on the disengagement process in the Rajya Sabha a day after the Chinese defence ministry spokesperson announced that the two countries’ frontline troops had begun a “synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10” at the southern and northern banks of the Pangong Lake. The government’s silence till Thursday morning was attributed to the need to make important announcements first in Parliament when the national legislature was in session. Presenting a statement, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong Lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” He added: “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides.” Describing these as “mutual and reciprocal steps”, Rajnath said the structures built by either side since April in the north and south bank areas would be removed and the landforms restored. He said the two sides had agreed to a temporary moratorium on military activities in the north bank, including patrolling in the traditional areas. Patrolling will resume only after both sides have reached an agreement in their diplomatic and military talks. Rajnath said that within 48 hours of the completion of disengagement in the Pangong Lake area, senior commanders will meet to address and resolve all remaining issues. He did not identify the remaining issues, but these should include the disputes over Depsang and Demchok besides the Galwan Valley, prised open by the Chinese last summer after having remained a settled issue since the 1962 war. Rajnath sought to assure the House that India had not conceded anything under the agreement. Opposition members sought clarifications, permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the Rajya Sabha, but Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu disallowed them. He cited national security and emphasised that the negotiations with the Chinese were still on. Congress member Jairam Ramesh reminded Naidu of his direction to Rajnath in the last session to organise an in-camera briefing for party leaders on the situation along the Line of Actual Control. Naidu said Rajnath had been in touch with him on this and that they had decided to wait a while before having the in-camera briefing. He said this had been communicated to some of the party leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Aged publisher and author held for 60 hours at Saket||The 73-year-old online publisher, Prabir Purkayastha, and the 67-year old award winning author, Githa Hariharan, have been held for around 60 hours at their Saket home as Enforcement Directorate officials continued their “search and survey” of premises associated with the news portal, NewsClick. Hariharan owns shares in PPK NewsClick Studio Pvt Ltd that owns the website and runs the Indian Cultural Forum on the NewsClick premises. An email and a WhatsApp message from this newspaper to ED director Sanjay Kumar Mishra asking whether this was a record duration for a raid by an agency of the finance ministry, among other details, have failed to elicit any response. Sources who witnessed the searches in at least six locations in the national capital have confirmed that bank and investment documents, tax returns, email history caches, mobile phones, computers, hard disks — tools of journalism, including contacts of sources, and tools to manage finances — have been taken. Besides Purkayastha’s home and the offices of NewsClick and its sister concerns located on two floors of a narrow building in south Delhi’s Said-ul-Ajaib, the homes of editor Pranjal Pandey, HR head Amit Chakraborty, technology columnist Bappaditya Sinha and an employee named Shekhar have been searched. ED officials left the portal’s office, and restored the freedom of movement of everyone, besides Purkayastha and Hariharan, late on Wednesday night. Many unions, clubs and guilds of journalists from India and abroad have condemned the raids. The website has been hailed by trade unions and farmer groups who have termed the raids as a return of the Emergency. A statement by the Indian Women’s Press Corps on Thursday condemning the raids said: “The IWPC believes that in a country, in which freedom of speech and expression is guaranteed by the Constitution, the expression of views divergent from that of the establishment are an essential part of a vibrant democracy and cannot be muzzled. Raids or charges of sedition cannot be used to shape and coerce the media and shut down those who differ. The Indian media is far too large and diverse to be intimidated by these messages of fear.” NewsClick’s website continues to function with reporters working from their homes, filing reports and uploading them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
12-02-2021||India||Adivasi Mela brings smiles to faces of women in Odisha||The coronavirus-induced lockdown had wiped the smile off the face of 40-year-old Ambika Tope of Odisha. With her income drying up, the tribal woman was unable to pay the tuition fees of her two children — 13-year-old daughter and son, aged eight. Her husband, who works as a daily wager, had also been rendered jobless. However, the tribal fair that concluded here on Tuesday, helped Ambika and many other tribal women to resume their earning activities. The annual fair registered business worth Rs 2 crore, according to officials. Nearly 2.5 lakh people visited the fair which commenced on January 26. For Ambika and thousands of tribal women, who faced a tough time on the economic front because of the pandemic, the Adivasi Mela, organised by the Odisha government, came as a boon. The stalls set up by them at the fair sold a variety of products, including rice, pulses and spices and generated tremendous response. Ambika, who hails from Jhirapani under Bisra block of Sundergarh district, said: “We faced all kinds of hardship during the lockdown. Our income dropped to zero. Shopkeepers who used to buy our products like spices stopped their purchases. I had daily arguments with my husband. He started drinking which added to our woes.” Ambika, who was unable to buy even a packet of biscuits for her children during the lockdown, is happy that the bad phase is behind her. “Things have improved after the lockdown. Business has been much better for the last two months. Things are beginning to normalise. I have also started repaying the loan of Rs 50,000 that I had taken,” she added. Similar is the story of Sita Khadia, who had also set up a stall at the fair. “The response was good. I am going back home with a good income. There is demand for our products such as spices and desi rice. During the lockdown I had taken a loan of Rs 1 lakh to keep my family going and to restart my business. Now things are looking much better. Lockdown was a sudden decision that hurt us like the decision to stop the circulation of old Rs 500 notes. Such decisions take people by surprise which is not good. People should be informed about such moves in advance,” said Khadia. The fair drew people from all walks of life as typical tribal products including mandia, turmeric, raw rice and tribal jewellery were on offer. Adivasi Tribal Language and Culture member secretary A.B. Ota told The Telegraph: “Earlier we used to set up 300 stalls every year. But this time we put up only 90 stalls because of Covid restrictions. Last year, the tribals had done business worth Rs 6 crore. But this time the business was lower compared to last year as the stalls had been reduced. Despite the Covid restrictions, the tribal women did good business. The response from visitors was good.” Lalatendu Mohapatra, special officer, exhibition, said: “The I&PR (information and public relations) department, under the direction of secretary S.K. Singh, had put up a photography exhibition focussing on tribals which was a major attraction of the fair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
