13-02-2021||India||FM is harmful for Indian economy: Adhir||The Congress on Saturday alleged that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was harmful for the economy of the country and had pulled down the economic indicators while profiting a few capitalists. Reacting to the FM’s reply to the Union Budget discussions in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, Congress leader in the Lower House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also said that the FM, instead of answering queries, kept hurling “derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi”. “Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is harmful for the economy of the country. How does she explain Oxfam report revelations which said the lockdown made India’s billionaires 35 per cent richer, while 84 per cent of households’ support income suffered a loss and 1.7 lakh people lost their jobs every hour in April, 2020 alone,” Chowdhury said. The Congress leader asked how does the FM explain that income increase for India’s top 100 billionaires since March 2020, which is enough to give each of the 13.8 crore poorest people a cheque of over Rs 94,000 each. “The finance minister’s misplaced priorities include tax concession for corporate in financial year 2019-20 that amounted over Rs 1.4 lakh crores. Instead of creating jobs, they used the money for trimming up their balance sheets,” alleged Chowdhury, asking how does she explain reducing the outlay for agriculture. He said the budget for agriculture had been reduced from Rs 1.54 lakh crore in the previous budget to 1.48 lakh crores in this budget, a cut of 6 per cent. “It has been reduced from 5.1 pc to 4.3 pc of overall budget. What could be the possible explanation for slashing the MGNREGA fund in her budget? The allocation to MGNREGA has been cut from Rs 1.66 lakh crores this year to Rs 96,773 crores in 2021, a cut of around 42 per cent,” Chowdhury said, attacking the FM for petroleum subsidy which, he said, had hit everyone. The Congress leader said that instead of answering their queries, the FM “kept hurling derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi”. “This is the government which does not honour the leaders and workers of the opposition party. By riding roughshod over the opposition, they have been trampling each and every demand of our party,” said Chowdhury. Asked about whether Rahul Gandhi would visit the LAC if a related proposal of the parliamentary standing committee on defence goes through, Chowdhury said when the opposition wanted to visit Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, they were not allowed. “When we sought that the government send an all-party delegation to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 we were not allowed to go. But the government allowed European Union leaders under an orchestrated visit. Even later they kept sending ambassadors of other countries to Kashmir for picnics but did not allow their own MPs to go,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Morcha demands judicial probe into ‘false cases’ slapped on protesters||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged 'false" cases slapped on the farmers. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and, instead, approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM's legal cell, alleged that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the "conspiracy" behind the January 26 violence and the alleged "false cases" against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. Another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The Morcha leaders claimed that "false" cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to "harass" them. Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in prison canteen. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Hole drilled in Tapovan tunnel to locate trapped persons||Security personnel drilled a hole on their way to a possible location of over 30 people trapped inside the sludge-choked Tapovan tunnel, making headway at last in the prolonged rescue efforts. However, efforts were afoot on Saturday to widen the hole so that a camera could be inserted into the tunnel to get a clue of the trapped men, officials said. Drilling of a 12-metre-long hole of 75 mm diameter in the intake adit tunnel to its inside has been successful, National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Tapovan, General Manager, R P Ahirwal said. "This is a good sign as there is no water or slush pressure observed in the silt-flushing tunnel," he said in a release. "However, the camera could not be inserted due to the presence of slush. Drilling of a larger diameter hole has been planned now. Meanwhile mucking from the intake adit tunnel is in progress. The diameter of borehole shall be 250-300 mm," he said. The marathon rescue operations at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project which suffered heavy damages in the Rishi Ganga avalanche entered the seventh day on Saturday. So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 people are still missing. As many as 25-35 people are believed to be trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of Rishiganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water which reduces chances of its breaching or causing a flash flood. The lake, which has formed over Rishiganga after the flash flood, had increased the concern of experts on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India|| Bombay HC judge who sparked controversies takes oath for one more year||The Bombay High Court's judge Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, who had delivered two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases, on Saturday took oath as the high court's additional judge for one more year. Justice Ganediwala's earlier tenure as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court ended on Friday. Justice Nitin Jamdar, the senior-most judge at the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, administered the oath of office to her. The oath-taking ceremony was attended virtually by the Bombay High Court's Chief Justice Dipankar Datta. Last month, the Supreme Court collegium had withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts. The collegium had recommended that she be given a fresh term as an additional judge for two years. However, the government issued a notification on Friday saying she has been given a fresh term as an additional judge for one year. Additional judges are usually appointed for two years before being elevated as permanent judges. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Ganediwala had recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make any "skin-to-skin contact" with the minor and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||PM looking to hand over agriculture sector to his two friends, alleges Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to "hand over" the entire agriculture business to his "two friends". Addressing farmers at Rupangarh in Rajasthan, he said 40 per cent people of the country are stakeholders of the farming business. "It is the business of 40 per cent people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders, labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws," he claimed but did not name anyone. "Narendra Modi said that he is giving options but the options are: hunger, unemployment and suicide," he alleged. Gandhi, wearing a Rajasthani safa or turban, reached the rally venue driving a tractor with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotsra sitting with him on both sides. The former Congress chief spoke while standing on a platform made of two tractor trolleys while the farmers sat or stood on tractor trolleys around the platform. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot were also present with Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Government has done more for J&K than its previous rulers, says Shah||The Modi government has done more for Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was scrapped in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted in the Lok Sabha on Saturday He reeled out statistics to assert that the Union Territory’s development has been the government's top priority. Replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, he also slammed some opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negates the hopes of the region getting back its erstwhile statehood. This legislation has nothing to do with statehood, and Jammu and Kashmir will be accorded the status at an appropriate time, Shah said. He said the region's union territory status is temporary and then took a swipe at the Congress and other parties -- which had backed Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir -- saying this was a temporary provision but they continued with it for over 70 years before the Modi government annulled it in August 2019. Jammu and Kashmir has been a top priority for the current government since it took power in 2014, he said. Decentralisation and devolution of power have taken place in the union territory following the revocation of Article 370, Shah said, noting that panchayat elections saw over 51 per cent voting. Panchayats have been given administrative and financial powers for local development, something they lacked earlier, he added. Now people chosen by the masses will rule Jammu and Kashmir, not those born to "kings and queens", he said, attacking dynastic parties in the region. Even our rivals could not allege any wrongdoing in these polls which were conducted fairly and peacefully, he said. Work on two AIIMS in the region has begun, and the Kashmir Valley will be connected to the railways by 2022, the minister said. He also gave the assurance to the people of Jammu and Kashmir that "no one will lose their land". The government has sufficient land for development works, Shah said. The bill seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. Shah said the government expects that around 25,000 government jobs will be created in Jammu and Kashmir by 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
13-02-2021||India||Right-wing outfit to moot 'Mata-Pita' puja against Valentine's Day||Right-wing outfit Shri Ram Sene on Saturday said it would counter Valentine's day by observing 'Mata-Pita' puja on February 14. The organisation would deploy its members in various parts of Karnataka, where there would be chances of 'vulgarity' in public places, in the name of Valentine's day celebrations. "Every year we organise the 'Mata-Pita' pooja across the state. We would organise the event at 50 to 60 places," the outfit chief Pramod Muthalik told PTI. The fringe outfit President said there will be volunteers of the organisations at the probable places such as pubs, bars, malls, ice cream parlours and parks to ensure that there is no vulgarity in public places. He, however, pointed out that the members of the outfit will not take law into their hands but would work in tandem with the police to prevent such incidents. In a press release, the Hubballi unit of Shri Ram Sena said, "The western culture is trying to attract the youth towards it, which has an adverse effect on our invaluable heritage and leads to unacceptable drugs, sex and love jihad. Valentine's day is a clear example of it." Meanwhile, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, "We will not allow anyone to take law into their hands." "If anyone has any grievances, let them come to us," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Nirmala takes a dig at Rahul, terms him 'doomsday man'||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he is becoming a "doomsday man" for India by constantly insulting constitutional functionaries and creating fake narratives on various issues. Replying to the general discussion on Budget in Lok Sabha, she said the former Congress chief was creating fake narratives but does not have the patience to listen to replies to allegations levelled against the government. "We need to recognise these two tendencies of the Congress party... this makes it clear that their belief in a democratically elected Parliamentary system is completely finished," Sitharaman said. Responding to Rahul Gandhi's speech on Thursday, during which he talked about farm laws but declined to speak on the Budget, she said, "he is probably becoming a doomsday man for India." The Minister further said that Gandhi laid the "foundation" but did not speak about the Budget during the discussion on it. Sitharaman said she wanted Gandhi to speak on 10 issues but was disappointed as the Congress leader made no mention of them. "I wanted to know from the Congress why it took a U-turn on the farm laws but no reply came," she said, adding that Gandhi did not tell the House why Congress governments in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh did not waive farm loans promised in their manifesto. Sitharaman further said Gandhi did not talk about the farmers issue in Punjab where Congress is in power and the steps being taken by the government with regard to stubble burning. Gandhi also did not refer to any clause in three agri bills which was against the farmers, she said. Congress party is only concerned about "Hum Do and Hamare Do," Sitharaman said adding that she expected Gandhi to return the land which "Damadji" had taken from farmers at a pittance. Also, she added, Gandhi did not say anything about the statement of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who had advocated reform of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC). She also accused Gandhi of insulting constitutional authorities recalling the incidence when the Congress leader tore an ordinance promulgated by its own government led by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Regretting that the Congress has joined the break India fringe group and continuously creating a false narrative to demean India, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Editors Guild of India’s webinar called off amid disruptions by unknown persons||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday said its virtual webinar on reporting challenges from Naxal areas was subjected to relentless attacks and disruptions by unknown persons. Calling the incident shocking, the Guild said it had organised the webinar as part of its series 'Unheard Voices: Reporting from Conflict Zones' and its speakers included some of the most seasoned Indian journalists who have been reporting from Naxal areas. Within a few minutes since the start of the webinar, some of the participants started posting frivolous song videos, the Guild said in a statement. "The meeting host tried shutting down the window of each such guest, but the number of such disruptors kept on increasing. Soon, some of them started posting obscene messages on group chat as well as shared screens with pornographic content and abusive language. Eventually, the meeting had to be ended without even one of the guest speakers getting a chance to speak," it said. Calling it a blatant attack on the freedom of speech, the Guild demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this violation. "The Guild is shocked and disturbed by this unprecedented attack by those who clearly did not want the speakers' voices to be heard. Naxal infested areas have been subjected to some of the most horrifying and gruesome instances of state excesses. The webinar speakers have been at the forefront of chronicling the conflict and the human rights abuses over the last few decades," it noted. The Guild said it sees this as a blatant attack on the freedom of speech. It demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this attack on free speech and book the guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu taken to Red Fort to recreate R-Day vandalism scene||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch on Saturday took actor-activist Deep Sidhu and another accused Iqbal Singh to Red Fort to recreate the scene of events that unfolded at the historic monument on Republic Day during the farmer's tractor parade, a police officer said. Sidhu, according to police, was a "prominent player" behind the January 26 violence and vandalism at the Red Fort. He was arrested from Karnal bypass in Haryana on Monday night by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell. On Tuesday, Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by a city court here. A senior police officer said Sidhu and another accused arrested in the case Iqbal Singh were taken to the Red Fort by a crime branch team to recreate the scene of events that unfolded on Republic Day at the monument. The team probing the case will inspect the spot to ascertain and corroborate the route taken by them, their activities at the Red Fort and how things unfolded at the monument on Republic Day when the violence broke out, the officer added. Iqbal Singh, who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night by the northern range of Delhi Police's Special Cell. The Delhi police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters. Of them, Sidhu, Iqbal Singh and Sukhdev Singh have been arrested. Police said raids are being conducted to nab the other accused. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died on that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, says SC||The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, the Supreme Court said as it dismissed a plea seeking review of its verdict passed last year in which it had held the occupation of public ways during the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh here was not acceptable. The top court said there may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting the rights of others. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Kirshna Murari said, We have perused the review petition and record of the civil appeal and are convinced that the order of which review has been sought, does not suffer from any error apparent warranting its reconsideration. The bench, which has passed the order recently, said it has considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded its opinion that the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties. The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting rights of others , the bench said, while dismissing a plea by one Shaheen Bagh resident Kaniz Fatima and others seeking review of last year's verdict of October 7. The top court, which considered the matter in the judges' chambers also rejected the prayer for open court hearing in the matter. The apex court had on October 7, last year held that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. It had said the occupation of public ways in the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh locality here was not acceptable. Observing that democracy and dissent go hand in hand, the apex court had said constitutional scheme comes with the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties. It had said the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule during India's freedom struggle cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy. However, while appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against legislation...we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely, the top court had said. The apex court's verdict had come on a plea by lawyer Amit Sahni against blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by those protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which aimed to provide Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. It had held that the protest at Shaheen Bagh was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters. The top court had said such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests, is not acceptable and the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments or obstructions. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone, it had said, adding, We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest. Restrictions were imposed on the Kaindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15, 2019, due to the protests. Later, due to COVID-19 pandemic, the area was cleared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||India logs more than 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 103 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,08,92,746 with 12,143 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries crossed 1.06 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,55,550 with 103 daily new fatalities, data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,00,625, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total number of active COVID-19 cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,571 active cases of COVID-19 in the country, which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases, data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The 103 new fatalities include 36 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and 8 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,550 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 51,451 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,408 from Tamil Nadu, 12,259 from Karnataka, 10,889 from Delhi, 10,229 from West Bengal, 8,698 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Dense fog engulfs Delhi||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Delhi on Saturday morning, with the visibility dropping to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 250 metres at Palam at 8.30 am, MeT officials said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius, they said. The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "very poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 331 at 9 am, real-time data of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed. Relative humidity was 100 per cent at 8.30 am, they said, adding that the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 27 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||External affairs minister urged to not let Russia force Indian students to return||The BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth, on Friday requested external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to urge the Russian government to ensure that Indian students studying in that country are not “forced” to return to their respective institutions as the spread of coronavirus has not stopped. “There are about 6,000 Indian students, including 200 from my state, who study mostly medicine at various institutions in Russia,” Seth wrote in a letter that he handed over after meeting the minister in New Delhi on Friday. During the pandemic, the government had brought back these students from Russia, Seth said, adding that their institutions, through various channels like their Indian agents, were now asking them to return. “These students were attending online classes,” the letter said, adding that the students as well as their guardians are now worried that their institutions were telling their wards must return to Russia now. “The students are not coming out openly against such a decision (of their institutions) as they are afraid this might put their career at stake and affect their future,” Seth further said. The students said that the family of one of them had to spend a huge amount of money to bring back his body when he died in Russia during the pandemic, Seth said. He added that the students had to face many other difficulties in that country. In the letter, copies of which have been shared with a section of media, Seth urged Jaishankar to take up the matter with the Russian government so that these students are not “forced” to return at this stage. That will bring relief to both the students and their guardians and will also protect their future, Seth added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||DRDO to tie up with IIT Bhubaneswar on research  ||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is keen to tie up with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhubaneswar to take up various kinds of research in the field of defence and turn the institution into a centre of excellence. It has asked the prestigious institute to come out with innovative plans to develop long-term partnership with DRDO. Addressing the students of the IIT, Bhubaneswar on its 13th Foundation Day in the virtual mode on Friday, chairman, DRDO and scientific advisor to defence minister Dr G. Satheesh Reddy said: “We need to promote research, put up start-ups and have a synchronisation with the industries to make the country prosperous.” Reddy said: “The DRDO wants to actively make partnership with IIT, , in many specific research areas. We want to develop it as a centre of excellence in the field of defence research like other prominent organisations like IIT Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. It would support their innovation by giving funds to make it a reality.” The head of the country’s premier defence research organisation said, “DRDO is releasing funds under Technological Development Funds up to Rs 10 crore to promote start-ups. Besides we have a plan to give Rs 1 crore to the passing out students to set up start-ups if they come up with a plan that is feasible. We are ready to promote such start-ups in large numbers. Lots of youngsters are entering the defence research field.” The DRDO chairman said, “ With the collaboration of the Ministry of Higher Education, the DRDO plans to involve more and more students from the reputed institutes in various fields of research. We need to decentralize. We are generally technology followers. Now we have to change the trend and have to be the frontrunners in the field of technology. If the country has to prosper, we have to be technologically advanced. Lots of research and innovation work is to be done. The academic institution should do the fundamental research and then only specialised institutions will take it further.” He said DRDO is working with around 295 academic institutions on different research projects and more than Rs 10,000 crore is involved in these projects. Stating that India has matured and become self- reliant in many areas of defence like making ballistics of inter-continental range, radar, sonar technology, tanks, fighter planes and even space technology, Reddy said, “The Prime Minister will soon dedicate a newer version of Arjun tank.” Director IIT, Prof R.V. Raja Kumar said: “Covid-19 has thrown up many challenges. We need to rise to the occasion. We have decided to open courses on bio-engineering and generate human resources on bio engineering.” Expressing serious concern on the flash flood disaster in Uttarakhand, Raja Kumar said, “There is a serious gap in the field of disaster studies.” Commenting on the current education system, Raja Kumar said, “The coaching system that we subject our children to in order to achieve success in various entrance exams like JEE is not healthy for the nation. Students miss out on a lot of things in their most formative years. Now we are planning to offer them things like sporting activities that they miss once they enter the IITs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||Malayalam cinema professionals design face mask to show support for farmers||When the masks of many an icon have come off, some Malayalam cinema professionals have taken recourse to the humble face shield to express solidarity with farmers. Several of those associated with films in Kerala have pitched in with a range of initiatives from reciting poetry to something as simple as designing a face mask to show their support for the farmers braving adversities in the fight for their rights. A group that includes a noted actor on Friday released the first look of the mask that would be launching on Monday. Conceived by actor and playwright Joy Mathew, known for his powerful character roles on screen and outspoken comments off it, the mask features an image of ready-to-be-harvested crops and the message “In solidarity with the Indian farmers” emblazoned on it. “I thought it’s a great idea to convey the message across through the discernible since wearing a mask is mandatory because of the Covid pandemic,” Mathew told The  Telegraph on Friday. While top stars are yet to speak publicly on the issue, some actors have been vocal with their support for the farmers. “I always stand by the farmers. But the question of how much of support they need emerged after celebrities like Akshay Kumar and Sachin Tendulkar spoke out against those commenting (on the farmers’ protest) from abroad. Even some of our top stars have been silent,” Mathew said. It is the same idea that’s often on display in football dugouts where coaches and players wear masks bearing their team logo. “So I thought why not have a message for the farmers on the mask itself? That’s how the idea was born and quickly taken to the next phase,” said Mathew, who wrote and directed Shutter, a celebrated film that has been remade in several languages. With more masks under production, Mathew and his friends plan to launch it at a farmers’ solidarity event on Monday at Kodungallur in Thrissur district. “We are not forcing the masks on anyone. Those who are interested can buy them for Rs 15 apiece, which leaves a margin of Rs 3 (against the production cost of Rs 12) that we will donate to the protesting farmers,” the actor said. “Now I don’t know if donating to farmers would be construed as anti-national,” Mathew guffawed, referring to the attempts to discredit the peasants’ movement and the trend of maligning those speaking up against the government. He insisted that his group did not back any particular political party. “As a free Left group, we have always taken up all kinds of causes,” Mathew said. The group had protested, among others, seeking justice for a nun allegedly raped by a bishop in Kerala, against the Centre’s proposed citizenship matrix, in solidarity with the rape victim of Kathua and two minor siblings raped in Walayar, Palakkad, and against the cold-blooded political murders at Periya in Kasaragod where alleged CPM activists had hacked to death two Congress workers. The masks will be distributed through Silence Books, a publishing house in Kozhikode. “We are a group of likeminded individuals with theatre and literary background and have always raised our collective voice in matters concerning the society,” said P.C. Jossy, who runs the publishing house. Although big names in the Malayalam film industry have been silent, there are those like critically acclaimed actors Parvathy Thiruvothu and Manikandan Achari who have not minced words. “I am with the farmers in every sense. There are no two ways about it,” Parvathy told a channel recently. “The cut, copy, paste reactions from celebrities is very disgusting behaviour,” she said, taking a swipe at Bollywood bigwigs and cricket icons siding with the government and tweeting identical messages after its handling of the farmers’ crisis received international condemnation. “When they use the ‘India against propaganda’ hashtag they need to realise what they are doing is the real propaganda,” Parvathy said, referring to the pro-establishment celebrities. Achari, who rose from humble beginnings to grab the attention of top-notch filmmakers in Kerala, has recited a strongly worded Malayalam poem in support of the farmers. “With the soil, with the farmers. Let the farmers win this fight and win their rights,” he said, declaring his solidarity after the minute-long recital of poet Kureeppuzha Sreekumar’s lines that reminds how the downtrodden are always the ones who toil on the land, sow seeds, endure the hot sun, go to bed hungry and yet have nothing to bank on. Music composer Bijibal and lyricist B.K. Harinarayanan had last month released a video titled “Vith (Seed) — With the farmers”. A tribute to the farmers fighting for their rights, the duo had recited lines that roughly translates to: “The yield from the farms belong to the farmers and their determination cannot be drained off by the hammer of power”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
13-02-2021||India||India-China clash: Demilitarised buffer zone in eastern Ladakh rattles veterans ||Military veterans on Friday questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a 10km-wide, demilitarised buffer zone within India-claimed territory in eastern Ladakh as part of the agreement with China to disengage troops from the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. They said India had committed a “big blunder” by not forcing China to agree to simultaneous disengagement from the Depsang Plains, which is operationally critical for the Indian Army and where the Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Their expressions of concern came on a day Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding Indian land to the Chinese — an allegation a defence ministry statement denied without naming anyone. During the bilateral disengagement from the Galwan Valley last summer, too, veterans had expressed dismay at India agreeing to retreat from held positions to create a buffer zone within territory it claims. “India agreeing to retreat from Pangong Lake areas and create a buffer zone within its territory has serious implications,” a former lieutenant general told The Telegraph. “This is a big blunder, considering the buffer zone has been created without restoring the April 2020 status on the Depsang Plains. Does that mean we are giving legitimacy to China’s claim over the Pangong Lake areas?” Retired Colonel Ajai Shukla tweeted: “Indian, Chinese troops start disengaging in Ladakh’s Pangong sector. A buffer zone separates the two sides — a 10-km stretch between Finger 3 and Finger 8. Indian Army has patrolled this area since the 1962 Sino-Indian war but now cannot enter the zone.” India claims territory till Finger 8 on the Pangong Lake’s north bank but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8. Under the disengagement agreement, the Chinese would return to the east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will reciprocate by pulling back to their permanent base near Finger 3. Neither side will patrol the buffer zone till all the modalities are worked out at operational and diplomatic levels. The government has not given details of the disengagement process relating to the lake’s south bank, where India had captured key heights — the Kailash Range — last September. The Congress has accused the government of agreeing to withdraw troops from their vantage position on the Kailash Range that overlooks the Pangong Lake’s south bank. Friday’s defence ministry statement did not comment on this charge. Sources in the security establishment said that during the nine rounds of military talks, China had been adamant about not proceeding with the disengagement talks until India had agreed to vacate the Kailash Range. There’s no clarity on disengagement from the Depsang Plains and other friction points, such as Gogra and Hot Springs where the Chinese have occupied India-claimed territory. Shukla contrasted India’s firm stand against Pakistan over Siachen with its capitulation to China. “When Pak said: ‘Lets demilitarise Siachen now, we can keep discussing Kashmir later’, India rightly said no! Siachen is a part of the Kashmir dispute,” he tweeted. “But when China said: ‘Lets demilitarise Pangong now, we can discuss Depsang & Gogra later’, India has blundered in accepting.” Shukla added: “Delhi’s errors: 1. Vacating Kailash Range — our best bargaining chip — in the 1st settlement. Having got what it wanted right at the outset, China has zero interest in further talks. 2. Not forcing China to include Depsang — our biggest vulnerability — in the 1st settlement.” Friday’s defence ministry statement said “outstanding issues” like the Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs “are to be taken up within 48 hrs of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement”. But a former army commander stressed that the Depsang Plains were too important to be held back for later. “It’s incomprehensible that India entered into an agreement with China without finalising the disengagement process from the Depsang Plains. Why the tearing hurry?” he said. He said that control of Depsang would allow China to threaten the Indian strategic airfield at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude over 16,000 feet. “The DBO airstrip was built after the 1962 war to check Chinese incursions,” he said. The airstrip lies near the newly built and strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO Road that runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations between 14,000 feet and 16,000 feet. The road connects Leh with the DBO at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. China wants to dominate the road, which India’s army uses to support its soldiers deployed on the LAC. Another veteran said the disengagement agreement might be based on some kind of “give and take”, given that defence minister Rajnath Singh had mentioned not a word about the LAC status quo being restored to what it was before the May 2020 Chinese incursion. He added: “The partial disengagement seems to have been necessitated by the harsh climate, with the temperature falling to minus 40 degrees in the higher altitudes where troops of both countries are deployed.” The veteran said that both sides might be keen to diminish their troop presence and pull back some heavy weaponry considering the hostile weather. “Disengagement is a long-drawn process. The real test will come in the summer. We have to watch what the Chinese army’s response is over the next few months. They can always return to the no-man’s land between Finger 3 and Finger 8,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Below-50 Covid vaccine criteria on the table||The criteria to determine who below 50 years would be eligible for Covid-19 vaccines first will prioritise those with advanced or combinations of chronic health disorders over those with disorders under control, according to doctors familiar with the norms. A panel of experts drawn from multiple specialities has submitted its report to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) suggesting criteria for disorders involving the brain, endocrine system, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys and other organs, the doctors said. “The carefully calibrated criteria prioritise those expected to be at the highest risk of severe coronavirus disease,” said a senior doctor who was not authorised to reveal the details. People below 50 with combinations of disorders such as both kidney disease and heart failure, or those with both hypertension and diabetes or a history of stroke, would be prioritised over those with health disorders under control, the doctor said. Patients with coronary heart disease, those who have already had coronary stents or undergone coronary bypass surgeries, or those who have had strokes are obvious candidates for the vaccines, another doctor associated with the exercise said. “There will be no screening for this; people might use their existing clinical records,” the doctor said. The eligibility criteria are expected to include certain quantitative measures, such as specific thresholds for hypertension and blood sugar and other blood biochemistry markers for kidney or liver disease. “One obvious high-risk category would be all the people on dialysis,” said Vivekanand Jha, a nephrologist and executive director at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, who is not a member of the expert panel. Among an estimated 200,000 people on dialysis across the country, he said, around 40 per cent would be under 50. “People undergoing dialysis have low immunity and need to be prioritised for the Covid-19 vaccines,” Jha said. The Union health ministry, relying on recommendations from the expert panel and the NEGVAC, is expected to make public within days to weeks the eligibility criteria for people below 50 and the process through which those eligible can register for vaccines. India’s vaccination campaign is seeking to immunise nearly 30 million healthcare and frontline workers, to be followed by a second phase to vaccinate around 270 million people who are either aged above 50 or have chronic health disorders. The campaign had till Friday vaccinated over 5.8 million healthcare workers and 1.9 million frontline workers. The expert panel includes specialists in cancer, cardiovascular disorders, kidney disease, respiratory medicine and other chronic health conditions. Sources said the criteria in India for people with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) would be “broadly similar” to what the American College of Cardiology has proposed in the US — the prioritisation of all patients with advanced CVD over those with well-controlled CVD. The ACC has recommended, for instance, that patients with poorly controlled hypertension, insulin-dependent diabetes or diabetes with vascular (blood vessel) complications should be considered at higher risk than patients with optimal medical parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Bihar farmer hangs himeslf over electricity bill||A Bihar farmer who received an electricity bill for around Rs 50,000 in December and paid Rs 25,000 after taking loans hanged himself on Thursday after power officials insisted on full payment, his family said. Family members of 48-year-old Dinesh Singh of Naugai village, Rohtas district, said the bill — for the connection to a borewell on his small patch of farmland — was an inflated one. Officials of the state-run South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL) said the bill was correct. They said Dinesh had never been billed since he had taken the connection in October 2010, and that the December 4, 2020, bill covered the entire period since then — along with interest. Key points that emerged from conversations with the farmer’s family and power officials: No staggering: SBPDCL general manager (revenue) Arvind Kumar said: “Sometimes a consumer does not get billed. When it’s detected, his power consumption is traced through our system and he is billed accordingly. One or two such cases happen.” Couldn’t the bill amount have been staggered over a few months, since it was not Dinesh’s fault that he was never billed before? “There is no provision for sending bills in a staggered manner,” Kumar said. Bill high, says relative: Younger brother Ramesh Singh agreed that Dinesh had never been billed for the borewell connection, which he had secured “a few years ago” for his 10-cottah (half a bigha or one-fourth an acre) farmland. He said the borewell was run only twice a year — during the rabi (winter) and kharif (monsoon) crop seasons — and just for a few days, that too only if the rainfall was deficient. “There’s no way the bill could be so high,” Ramesh said. “He (Dinesh) was extremely perturbed after receiving the bill in early December. He visited the nearest electricity office many times to get the bill rectified but ended up harassed and frustrated.” The bill: The bill amount was Rs 49,453, if paid by the due date of December 19. It included dues of Rs 48,471.23, and Rs 984.68 for the latest month (November), with a Rs 3.78 rebate for timely payment. If unpaid by December 29, the amount rose to Rs 49,818. The bill shows actual dues of Rs 28,620.70 and accumulated interest of Rs 19,850.53. However, it gives the consumption figures for only the last 11 months and not a complete break-up from 2010, which means it does not explain the amount charged. Kumar had no answer why this had happened. Unmetered connection: The borewell connection was unmetered, as the bill showed and electricity department executive engineer Prem Kumar Praveen confirmed. Asked how such connections are meant to be billed, power officials said they were billed for a fixed number of monthly units, determined in advance on the basis of the presumed needs of the farmer. Kumar, the SBPDCL general manager, expressed surprise that Dinesh’s connection was an unmetered one. “Such connections were stopped way back in 2005,” he said. He agreed this was a lapse on his department’s part. The maths: Agriculture-related connections are billed at 65 paise per unit, power officials said. Since Dinesh’s actual dues were Rs 28,620.70, he would have consumed 44,030 units. Assuming he had incurred this bill between October 2010 and November 2020, he would have had to consume 44,030/122 or about 360 units a month. The bill shows a flat 275-unit consumption per month for the past 11 months. Since the consumption is fixed in advance for unmetered connections, the gap of 85 units a month remains unexplained. “There’s no way a motor-pump could have used up such a huge amount of electricity drawing water from the borewell,” Ramesh said, referring to the figure of 275 units a month. He iterated that the pump remained switched off most of the year. Dinesh leaves behind his wife and six daughters, four of whom are unmarried. Ramesh said Dinesh had submitted two applications to rectify the inflated bill. “He was worried about losing the power connection. He borrowed money and paid Rs 25,000 in the hope of a compromise, but the officials kept asking him to pay the full amount. He finally gave up his life without telling us,” Ramesh said. Praveen, the executive engineer, told reporters: “Dinesh paid Rs 20,000 on December 28, 2020, and Rs 5,000 on February 6, 2021. We probed his application to rectify the bill but there was no error in it.” Naugai mukhia (headman) Ramashray Singh said: “The bill made an illegal demand of money from Dinesh and the electricity officials just made him run around and harassed him.” Ramesh said the family had not filed a case against anybody in connection with the suicide. “We don’t even know who was responsible for the inflated bill or who harassed him and made him run around so much. How can we lodge a case?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Artistes issue statement of support for Munawar Faruqui||Creative personalities from several countries on Friday issued a statement of support for comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court last week after spending more than a month in jail on the charge of hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui had been arrested in Indore before he could get on stage for a stand-up act, prompting many to draw a parallel with the Orwellian concept of Thoughtcrime. The 110 signatories include historian Rajmohan Gandhi, dancer Mallika Sarabhai, actors Swara Bhaskar, Pooja Bhatt and Kalki Koechlin, film directors Shonali Bose, Anand Patwardhan and Canada’s John Greyson, comedians Kunal Kamra and Sanjay Rajoura, authors Amitava Kumar and Arundhati Roy, UK-based architect Sofia Karim and Brazilian feminist activist Sonia Corrêa. They said in a statement: “The superintendent of police reportedly said Munawar was going to insult Hindu gods, and even praised the vigilantes! Munawar faces criminal charges of ‘uttering words with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings’… among other sections of India’s penal code, for jokes he never cracked, in a performance that did not take place.” In George Orwell’s novel 1984, Thoughtcrime is a criminal offence that covers politically unorthodox thoughts, unspoken beliefs and even doubts that contradict Ingsoc, the ideology of the rulers of Oceania. The signatories said: “Munawar’s bail applications were rejected by the magistrate, sessions and high court of Madhya Pradesh, and he had to go all the way to the Supreme Court of India just for interim bail, which was his legal right. He has now been released on bail, but the charges against him in the states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh remain. We call for the dropping or dismissal of these trumped-up charges for all six individuals (the accused in the case).” They added: “We are well aware that Munawar’s performance pieces include contemporary politics and society. Munawar took risks that all artistes take. But the stakes are higher for him. He comes from a humble background.” “His family lost their home during the large-scale 2002 violence in Gujarat, and moved to Mumbai where Munawar sold utensils and did other odd jobs during the day and studied at night. He started stand-up comedy just two years ago, quickly garnering some success. “As artistes and concerned individuals, we are alarmed that in a country that claims to be the world’s largest democracy, a stand-up artiste was imprisoned for over a month, and faces serious criminal charges, for no crime.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Supreme Court bins FIR against inter-caste couple||The Supreme Court has quashed an FIR against a highly educated inter-caste couple, saying such marriages are the way forward for reducing rising caste and communal tensions in the country. The court slammed Karnataka police for threatening to implicate the newly weds in criminal cases. While the girl hails from Karnataka, the boy is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka police had travelled all the way to Uttar Pradesh to threaten the couple, according to the complaint. “Educated young boys and girls are choosing their life partners which, in turn, is a departure from the earlier norms of society where caste and community played a major role,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, who authored the judgment, said. “Possibly, this is the way forward where caste and community tensions will reduce by such inter-marriage but in the meantime these youngsters face threats from the elders, and the courts have been coming to the aid of these youngsters…. “We are fortified in our view by earlier judicial pronouncements of this court elucidating that the consent of the family or the community or the clan is not necessary once the two adults agree to enter into wedlock… and that their consent has to be piously given primacy,” Justice Kaul wrote.The bench, which also had Justice Hrishikesh Roy, passed the recent verdict while allowing the petition filed by the college teacher couple, Laxmibai Chandaragi and Santosh Singh Yadav, complaining that although they were adults, Karnataka police had come to Uttar Pradesh and were harassing the girl to record her statement at Murgod police station in the southern state’s Belagavi district. The cops had registered the FIR on the basis of a missing person’s complaint registered against the husband by the father of the girl, Basappa Chandaragi.Despite Laxmibai sending her marriage certificate to the parents on October 15, 2020, Karnataka police insisted that she record her statement at Murgod police station, failing which cases of theft of jewellery would be registered against her husband, who would be arrested and left without a job. The apex court noted that while Santosh was an MTech from an NIT in Tiruchirapalli, Laxmibai had MA and BEd degrees. Santosh worked as an assistant professor at Jain College of Engineering, Belagavi, and Laxmibai as a lecturer at Karnataka Lingayat Education Society Pre-University College, Bailhongal, when they met and fell in love. Subsequently they shifted to Uttar Pradesh and got married, following which the girl’s parents lodged the missing person’s complaint. Citing its earlier judgment in the Shafin Jahan Vs Asokan case, 2018, in which the court had approved the marriage of a Hindu girl with a Muslim youth, Justice Kaul said: “…The choice of an individual is an inextricable part of dignity, for dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice. Such a right or choice is not expected to succumb to the concept of ‘class honour’ or group thinking’.” The bench added: “…Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable and even matters of faith would have the least effect on them.” The court questioned the manner in which the investigating officer of Karnataka police had conducted himself by threatening the couple instead of filing a closure report. “The intervention of this court would really not have been required in the given facts of the case if the IO had conducted himself more responsibly in closing the complaint, and if he really wanted to record the statement of petitioner No. 1 (Laxmibai), he should have informed that he would visit her and record the statement instead of putting her under threat of action against petitioner No. 2 (Santosh) to come to the police station,” the judgment said. “The way forward for the police authorities is to not only counsel the current IOs but device a training programme to deal with such cases for the benefit of the police personnel. “We expect the police authorities to take action… in the next eight weeks to lay down some guidelines and training programmes how to handle such socially sensitive cases,” the bench said. “The proceedings in pursuance to the FIR… registered at Murgod police station… are quashed with the hope that the parents of petitioner No. 1 will have a better sense to accept the marriage and re-establish social interaction not only with petitioner No. 1 but even with petitioner No. 2. “That, in our view, is the only way forward. Under the garb of caste and community to alienate the child and the son-in-law will hardly be a desirable social exercise,” the court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Money-laundering reports malicious says NewsClick||News website NewsClick on Friday described as “misleading and malicious” media reports that alleged money-laundering on its part. The Enforcement Directorate’s continuing search at the Delhi home of 73-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha and author Githa Hariharan crossed 85 hours at 9pm on Friday. The ED is yet to respond to queries from this newspaper but a former chief commissioner of income tax, who was also chief election commissioner, said it was rare for anyone to be detained so long. Asked about precedents of long raids by the Union finance ministry’s agencies, T.S. Krishnamurthy told The Telegraph: “Among the very long raids was that on the Jaipur Royal family…. I do not know the facts of this (NewsClick) case but we normally don’t have the power to detain people for so long.” Purkayastha suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. Hariharan, 67, has a heart ailment. They have not tested their health parameters since the raid began. A source who has witnessed the raid at their home said both have been experiencing insomnia, and Purkayastha is showing signs of severe fatigue. The ED has raided seven other locations linked to NewsClick, a news website known for its coverage of the farmers’ movement and investigative reports on big business. After the raid on his home ends, Purkayastha is expected to be summoned to the ED office to have his statement recorded. In 1975, tax officials had raided Jaipur’s palaces and forts for a fortnight and reported finding more than 800kg of undeclared gold after days of search with a metal detector. In 2013, Patna High Court had ruled that subjecting a person to a continuous income-tax raid for 36 hours amounted to violation of human rights. Such long “searches” have, however, continued. The ED is yet to reveal what information it has recovered so far from the mobiles, laptops, email caches and bank documents of several NewsClick shareholders and employees that sources said it had seized.A newspaper on Friday quoted unnamed ED sources who claimed that NewsClick had received Rs 30.51 crore from foreign companies to publish news on its sister concern, Peoples Dispatch, an international news site run in collaboration with several global news outlets. This, even if true, is not in itself illegal. The ED is mandated with enforcing the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. NewsClick said in a statement: “Communication devices of directors and senior management have also been seized, which has, therefore, limited their ability to return to work or indeed, respond to queries of the media. Despite this harassment, NewsClick has cooperated fully with the authorities, and will continue to do so. “We are, however, disturbed to note reports in various media outlets based on information allegedly provided by senior officials of the Enforcement Directorate. The selective leak of misleading facts is nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of Newsclick and discredit our journalism.” Sources told this newspaper that in addition to questionnaires on financial transactions, tangential queries had been made on the proximity of NewsClick employees to the CPM, the farmers’ agitation and the influence of Gautam Navlakha, who had been associated with NewsClick as a contributor and as one of its initial shareholders. Rights activist Navlakha is in a Navi Mumbai prison facing trial in connection with the alleged Elgar Parishad Maoist plot. Co-accused Rona Wilson has submitted a data forensics report by an American firm that says key purported evidence in the case was planted on his computer through Internet malware. Purkayastha, a CPM member, was jailed during the Emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Govt denies ceding land to China, silent on Kailash||India has not ceded any territory to China as part of the ongoing disengagement process at the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh, the defence ministry said in a statement on Friday. The reiteration came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding territory to China. “The effective safeguarding of our national interest and territory in the eastern Ladakh sector has taken place because the government has reposed full faith in the capabilities of the armed forces,” the ministry said. “Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday told Parliament that India and China had begun disengaging troops from the Pangong Lake’s north bank under an agreement that stipulated that neither would patrol its traditional areas till the modalities had been worked out at the operational and diplomatic levels. On Friday, the defence ministry said it had taken note of “some misinformed and misleading comments being amplified in the media and on social media regarding the disengagement currently under way at Pangong Tso”. “The assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000sqkm currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962,” the statement said. “Even the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China.” Under the disengagement agreement, the Chinese troops will return east of Finger 8 on the lake’s north bank. Reciprocally, Indian troops will pull back to their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. “Permanent posts of both sides at the north bank of Pangong Tso are longstanding and well-established. On the Indian side, it is Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 and on the Chinese side, east of Finger 8. The current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts,” the statement said. “India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo.” On the other friction points, the ministry said, Rajnath’s statement had made it clear that there were outstanding problems to be addressed, including those relating to Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. “The outstanding issues are to be taken up within 48 hrs of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement,” the statement said. However, the statement was silent on the Congress allegation that the government had agreed to withdraw troops also from their vantage position on the Kailash Range overlooking the Pangong Lake’s south bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi calls Narendra Modi a 'coward' for failing to stand up to China||The India-China agreement on disengagement from the Pangong Lake’s banks has led Rahul Gandhi to accuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding a piece of “Bharat Mata” to China and call him “a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese”. “Why has Modi given Indian territory to China? It is absolute 100 per cent cowardice, nothing else. The Prime Minister is a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese,” the former Congress president said at an early morning news conference on Friday. Military veterans too have expressed concern that the agreement commits India to stop patrolling territory it claims and controls — saying this means giving up more territory — and questioned the government’s silence on the restoration of status quo ante.Rahul has consistently been querying Modi’s silence on the Chinese intrusion and alleging the Prime Minister is afraid. “The defence minister (Rajnath Singh) sheepishly made the statement (about the disengagement agreement) in both Houses of Parliament (on Thursday). Why doesn’t the Prime Minister say, ‘I have given India’s territory to the Chinese?’ This is a question that needs to be answered,” Rahul said. “Our forces worked hard to occupy the Kailash ranges. Why have Indian troops been asked to move back? What has India got in return? Why are Chinese troops not vacating Depsang, Gogra-Hot Springs?” India claims territory till Finger 8 but the Chinese have advanced 8km up to Finger 4 from their erstwhile position at Finger 8. Rajnath has now told Parliament the Chinese will return east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will go back to Finger 3 from Finger 4. Rahul flagged the government’s decision to move back troops to Finger 3 despite Finger 4 being India-claimed territory. “It is crystal clear that Modi has bowed to China. He has surrendered,” he said. “I’m surprised the press is behaving like it is. This is absolutely absurd. You have a responsibility to raise these things. People should be enraged. The Prime Minister has given Indian territory to the Chinese.”Asked about the government’s argument of give and take, he said: “The ‘give’ is clear. We have given up Finger 4. The ‘give’ is clear — they are allowed to sit in Depsang. The ‘give’ is clear — they are in Gogra-Hot Springs. What is the ‘take’? You have fallen silent because the reason is clear. There is no ‘take’.” Rahul later told two farmer rallies in Rajasthan that Modi lacked the guts to confront China and could only raise walls to stop the protesting farmers and use force against them.“The defence minister yesterday said in Parliament an agreement had been reached with China. What is the agreement? That Modi has decided to give up the land grabbed by Chinese troops,” he said. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala later issued a statement responding to the defence ministry’s clarification that no territory had been ceded to China. “The government’s unpardonable, blatant and brazen compromise of national security and India’s territorial integrity stands exposed and the Prime Minister and defence minister have undermined the astounding valour and insurmountable grit of our armed forces,” the statement said. “The statement of the defence ministry, issued as part of ‘Operation Cover-up’, has uncovered the conspiratorial mask of a weak-kneed leadership that India does not deserve. The gaping holes in the statement are writ large. The statement made yesterday and the defence ministry’s statement today completely omit the fact that the government has agreed to withdraw Indian armed forces from dominant positions in ‘Kailash Ranges’ (southern bank, Pangong Tso lake area), where the Chinese are at a disadvantage, without any quid pro quo by China. Why has the government committed this unpardonable compromise with our national security?” Surjewala added: “Why is the government withdrawing from Finger 4 to Finger 3 on the northern bank of Pangong Tso lake area? One of the most strategic and provocative incursions into the Indian territory by the Chinese is on the Depsang Plains. “The Chinese have occupied our territory 18 kilometres inside the LAC up to Y-Junction (bottleneck). This has also jeopardised the... strategically placed Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip. “Why is the defence ministry undermining India’s territorial integrity by describing Depsang as ‘outstanding problem’, while in reality ‘Depsang Plains’ is India’s territory? Why did the defence ministry describe even ‘Gogra and Hot Springs’ as an outstanding problem?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Supreme Court of India issues notice to Centre and Twitter||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to the Centre and Twitter India on BJP leader Vinit Goenka’s petition seeking the formation of a regulatory mechanism to check advertisements and paid content that may be hateful, inciting or seditious. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde tagged the petition along with other PILs in which petitioners had sought a leash on mainstream and social media from promoting hate and seditious propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Chauri Chaura violence and its run-up||Chauri Chaura is a small town not far from Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. But for a violent incident 99 years ago during the Non-Cooperation Movement, this place which was then a village would probably have remained unknown. On February 4, 1922, a mob of 3,000 freedom fighters set fire to the police station in Chauri Chaura killing 26 policemen, including an inspector. This was the third instance of violence during the movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi a year previously, after two smaller incidents had been reported from Bombay and Madras. The Chauri Chaura violence was the last straw for the apostle of non-violence. He immediately summoned a meeting of those Congress Working Committee members who were not in jail and asked them to pass a resolution suspending the movement. This sudden suspension was deeply resented by many in the Congress, especially the younger leadership. Jawaharlal Nehru, then 32 years old and imprisoned in Allahabad along with his father Motilal Nehru, received the news with “amazement and consternation”. “We were angry when we learnt of the stoppage of our struggle at a time when we seemed to be consolidating our position and advancing on all fronts,” Jawaharlal wrote in his autobiography. Subhas Chandra Bose wrote: “To sound the order of retreat just when public enthusiasm was reaching the boiling point was nothing short of calamity. The principal lieutenants of the Mahatma, Deshbandhu (Chittaranjan) Das, Pandit Motilal Nehru and Lala Lajpat Rai, who were all in prison, shared the popular resentment.” The withdrawal of the movement and the differences among the top leaders of the Congress misled the imperial government into thinking that the Mahatma’s influence was on the wane and that it was time to act against him. Gandhi was arrested on the charge of sedition and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment. But the importance of Chauri Chaura can only be understood if we recall the events that led to it. The brutal Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919 and the findings of the Hunter Committee that looked into the incident had shattered Gandhi’s faith in the British sense of justice. Besides, the end of the First World War had witnessed the dismemberment of the Khilafat (Caliphate). The Mahatma prevailed on the Congress to adopt as India’s national demands the redress of the triple wrong of the Rowlatt Bills (which allowed indefinite imprisonment without trial, among other things), Jallianwala Bagh and Khilafat. He concluded that the old methods had to be given up and decided to launch the Non-Cooperation Movement. A special session of the Congress was called in Calcutta in September 1920 and was presided over by Lala Lajpat Rai, who had recently returned from the United States. Here, the Mahatma himself moved the resolution on non-cooperation. He was opposed by not only Rai but other stalwarts like Bipin Chandra Pal, Chittaranjan Das and Madan Mohan Malaviya. Motilal Nehru not only supported Gandhi but mobilised support for the resolution among the delegates. After a long and heated discussion, the resolution on “non-violent non-cooperation” was adopted. It asked for the surrender of titles, resignation from nominated seats in the local bodies, and boycott of the law courts, government schools and colleges and all official functions. Further, the people were asked to boycott foreign goods, promote swadeshi (goods made in India) and work for the establishment of swaraj (self-government). This opened a new chapter in the nation’s history. The days of “prayer, petition and protests” were over, according to Acharya Kripalani, an early associate and biographer of Gandhi, who would become Congress president on the eve of Independence. The resolution on non-cooperation and constructive work passed by the special session had to be ratified at a regular plenary session that was held in Nagpur three months later. Here the top leaders of the Congress who had opposed Gandhi in Calcutta fell in line and fully supported him: the resolution was moved by Das and seconded by Rai. The Nagpur session was a turning point in the history of the freedom struggle, with the Mahatma emerging as the unquestioned leader of the independence movement. Motilal, who had renounced his lucrative legal practice immediately after the Calcutta session, was now joined by Das who too gave up his huge practice at the Bar. They inspired many others to give up their comfortable lifestyles and adopt austerity, simplicity and khadi. The people’s response throughout the country was overwhelming. Lawyers gave up their practice; teachers and students left government schools and colleges. Many new national schools, colleges and vidyapeeths opened in urban and rural areas. A Tilak Swaraj Fund was set up in memory of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who had died on the eve of the Calcutta session, with the objective of raising Rs 1 crore, a huge sum those days. The target was exceeded. The enthusiastic popular response caused a jittery government to resort to a policy of extreme repression. When the Prince of Wales arrived in India in November 1921 and was greeted by a complete hartal and bonfires of foreign clothes, the government retaliated by arresting all the key leaders. Nearly 20,000 civil resisters were in jail by the end of the year. The atmosphere in the country was tense but the people were ready for any sacrifice. The Mahatma was preparing to launch a mass civil disobedience programme in Bardoli, Gujarat, when reports of the Chauri Chaura violence reached him. The leaders who had criticised Gandhi for suspending the movement later realised that he had taken the right decision. Jawaharlal wrote a decade later: “There is little doubt if the movement had continued there would have been growing sporadic violence in many places. This would have been crushed by the government in a bloody manner and a reign of terror established which would have thoroughly demoralised the people. These were probably the reasons and influences that worked in Gandhiji’s mind, and granting his premises and the desirability of carrying on with the technique of non-violence, his decision was right.” As a result of the Non-cooperation Movement, the Congress became a mass movement that created an awakening among millions of people to become participants in the struggle for independence regardless of the torturous road ahead. It is therefore not Chauri Chaura but the whole Non-cooperation Movement that needs to be celebrated. It was this movement that set us on the right path to freedom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
13-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier blast: Families of trapped NTPC workers gherao officials||Relatives of the 30-odd engineers and workers of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) who are feared trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel following the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday gheraoed NTPC and administrative officials at the rescue spot on Friday. The relatives alleged that the relief and rescue operation had been “shoddy” and said their patience was being tested. “We are here since Sunday evening. Since then the officials have been telling us that they would be able to reach the trapped people within a day. There is no water, no food and no hope for those who could still be alive and hearing the voices of the machines deployed to clean the tunnel,” said Dina Nath, whose nephew Ranjan Kumar is among those feared trapped. “Six days is a very long time for those trapped. We fail to understand why we are technologically so backward that we are not able to clean a tunnel to save so many lives,” Dina Nath added. “We are crying and begging the whole day with officials and politicians to do something, but those coming here look so detached from the crisis. We gheraoed some officials today but they deployed police and the CISF to keep us at bay,” he told reporters. Shouting slogans against the state government and the NTPC, the protesting group, consisting mostly of women, said the NTPC hydel power project was a “curse” for the people of the area. “First we lost our fields and now we are losing our men. The project is a curse on us. It is the sixth day and sludge has not been cleared up to even 100 metres inside the tunnel,” one of the protesters, Deveshwari Devi, said. The CISF and police personnel at the project site stopped the protesting kin 100 metres from the mouth of the tunnel where a massive effort was underway by a combined team of the army, state disaster response force, National Disaster Response Force and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police to reach those stuck inside. Tapovan’s former pradhan Dharmpal Bajwal, who led the protesters, said four people from his village were missing and their kin were now losing patience. Since Wednesday, the rescue teams have been able to clear sludge up to around 100 metres inside the tunnel, according to announcements from the government’s emergency control room. The NTPC employees are believed to be trapped around 180 metres inside the tunnel, where they had been working when the flash flood struck. The rescue work had to be stopped on Wednesday when sludge began to flow back. The rescue effort witnessed another setback on Thursday when black-coloured ice water mixed with mud and sludge came hurtling down the Nanda Devi mountain and raised the water level in the Rishi Ganga river, on whose bank the tunnel’s mouth is located. When work resumed four hours later, the teams hit a roadblock in the form of a thick mesh of wires and a concrete structure. “We had no option but to deploy the police at the rescue site when the relatives of those feared began protesting on Friday,” said a local government official on the condition of anonymity. Two more bodies were recovered from the flash flood-hit areas of Chamoli on Friday, taking the toll in the calamity to 38. One body was found amid the rubble at the demolished Rishi Ganga Hydel Project in Raini and the other from Maithana, district administration officials said. Ashok Kumar, the director-general of police of Uttarakhand, said: “We have recovered 38 bodies and 166 people are still missing. We have not been able to progress much inside the tunnel. Now, we are deploying a machine to drill the tunnel from above.” The tunnel is located 20 metres below a barrage. Residents of Raini, the village most affected by the calamity, complained that the rescue teams were yet to start searching for those who had been working on the barrage when it collapsed under the force of water and ice on Sunday. Ravindra Thapaliyal, a resident, said: “The government’s focus is on those trapped in the tunnel at Tapovan village. Two members of my family were on the barrage when the flash flood struck. They are still missing. There are bloodstains on the barrage. The rescue teams should also look for those missing from the barrage area.” DGP Kumar said rescue teams had been sent to look for bodies that might be buried along the banks of the river, where the flash flood deposited large amounts of sludge and debris. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said: “We have got information that a (glacial) lake has formed near Raini village. While there is nothing to worry, we need to be alert. Experts are working on it.” An eight-member team of scientists from the Geological Survey of India has been formed to inspect the lake, Chamoli district magistrate Swati S. Bhadauria said. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
13-02-2021||India||Trudeau commended farmer talks: Govt||The Centre has confirmed that Canadian Premier Justin Trudeau had discussed the farmers’ protests with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday but said this was to commend the “efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting in democracy….” Foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava was asked about the Canadian readout of the conversation stating that the leaders “discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue’’. There was no mention of this in the Indian readout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
