14-02-2021||India||Won't let govt sit in peace till our demands met: Rakesh Tikait||Upping the ante against the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they won't let it sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met. Addressing a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at the Indri grain market in the district, Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre's farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir. "Till the time the government does not decide in our favour, talks to the committee (spearheading the agitation) and does not agree to the demands, we won't let it sit in peace," Tikait said, demanding the repeal of the laws. He once again reiterated that the Centre's farm laws "will finish the public distribution system." The laws will not only impact farmers but also small traders, daily wagers and other sections, he said. Questioning the government's intention behind bringing the laws, Tikait said, "Godowns were built first and the laws came later. Don't farmers know these laws are in favour of big corporates? Business on hunger will not be allowed in this country." Tikait reiterated that the panch (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) will remain the same. "Whatever decisions are taken by the committee are acceptable to all. Farmers of the country stand behind it," Tikait said. Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were also present on the occasion. Rajewal said farmers have been protesting for months but the government is not listening to their demands. Pal said over 200 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the agitation said their sacrifice will not go in vain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Had to fight for something I had never done, says Munawar||Days after his release from jail in a case against him for allegedly insulting Hindu deities, stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui has said that it is never his intention to hurt anyone's feelings through his jokes. Stating that the "herd mentality of fighting on the internet" as well as "someone's politics" can ruin a person's life, Faruqui said he had to suffer for something which he had not done. Faruqui, 32, who was arrested on January 1 in connection with the case and was in Indore Central Jail since January 2, was released from the prison late night on February 6, a day after he was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. In a YouTube video of over 10 minutes posted late night on Saturday, the comedian said, "How can I hurt someone's feelings? How can I cause heart pain? I apologise four times even if I bump into someone by mistake." "It can never be my intention to hurt someone's feelings through my jokes," he said. He said that the internet debates over worthless topics, abuses and hatred being spread there should stop. "Why have we forgotten that the internet is for entertainment and information?" he asked. "Shall we only keep on fighting on the internet? Anyone can fall prey to this herd mentality, politics. I did not fall prey to it. But I was bruised for something which I had not done," he said. Someone's politics and herd mentality can ruin a person's life, he added. An artist works hard to entertain people, the comedian said, adding that art and entertainment have always united the people. "Some people are spreading hatred online. But why are we making them celebrities? You have to decide whether you want to spread love or hatred on the internet? "I can't give up comedy, I am alive because of it. I will win the hearts of the people who hate me. For this, I have to work harder. Every artist does not get this challenge. I have got it and will win their hearts," he added. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Modi unveils BPCL’s Rs 6,000 cr petro-chem complex in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday dedicated to the nation a Rs 6,000 crore petrochemical complex of oil major Bharat Petroleum here and Ro-Ro vessels of Inland Waterways at Willingdon Islands, asserting these projects would energise India's growth trajectory.  On a brief visit to Kerala, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the Cochin Port Trust's International Cruise Terminal and Cochin Shipyard's Vigyana Sagar, a campus for Marine Engineering Training Institute.  At a function here, he also laid the foundation stone of Cochin Port Trust's South Coal Berth and said these projects covered a wide range of sectors and will energise India's growth trajectory.  Referring to the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) located close to its Kochi Refinery that will produce Acrylic Acid, Oxo-Alcohol and Acrylates, which are predominantly imported, at present, he said it would save considerable foreign exchange every year.  Besides, a wide range of industries would gain, and employment opportunities will be generated, he noted.  According to BPCL, these products have applications in paints and coatings, solvents, adhesives, water treatment chemicals, construction industry and super absorbent polymeramong others.  Speaking on the two new Roll-on/Roll-off vessels,deployed between Bolgatty and Willingdon Island on National Waterway-3, Modi said a distance of almost 30 kilometres on road would become 3.5 km through waterways, leading to less congestion and more convenience, commerce and capacity-building.  Asserting that the Centre was undertaking many efforts to improve tourism related infrastructure in Kerala, Modi said the inauguration of Sagarika, the International Cruise Terminal in Kochi is one example of this.  Sagarika Cruise Terminal will cater to over one lakh cruise guests, he said.  The Prime Minister noted the rise in local tourism due to pandemic related restrictions on international travel.  "This is a great opportunity for added livelihood to those in the local tourism industry and deepening of connection between our culture and our youth", he said.  Modi exhorted start-ups to think about innovative tourism related products.  Noting that the tourism sector in India has been growing well in the last five years, he said India has risen from 65th to 34th position in the World Tourism Index ranking.  He said capacity building and future ready infrastructure are two important factors for national development.  "Todays development works of Vigyan Sagar' and reconstruction of the South Coal Berth will contribute to both these factors.  Vigyan Sagar,the new knowledge campus of Cochin Shipyard, will particularly help those wanting to study marine engineering.  South Coal Berth would bring down logistics costs and improve cargo capacities", he said.  The Prime Minister also said the definition and scope of infrastructure today has changed.  "It is beyond only good roads; development works and connectivity between a few urban centres.  Through the National Infrastructure Pipeline, Rs 110 lakh crore is being invested for infra creation," Modi said.  Outlining the countrys plan for development of the Blue Economy, he said "our vision and work in this sector includes more ports, improving infrastructure in current ports, off- shore energy, sustainable coastal development and Coastal connectivity.  Dwelling on the Pradhan Mantri Matasya Samapada Yojna, the Prime Minister pointed out that it caters to diverse requirements of fishermen communities.  "It has provisions for ensuring more credit. Fishermen have been linked with Kisan Credit Cards.Similarly, work is underway to make India a hub for sea-food exports", he said.  Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Mansukh L Mandaviya and V Muraleedharan attended the event at nearby Ambalamedu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Govt has always taken care of Sri Lankan Tamils, says Modi in Chennai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said his government has always taken care of the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils and 'consistently' flagged the issue of their rights with the leaders in the island nation. India was always committed to ensuring that the Tamils there lived with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity, he said here, after launching various government projects in railways and defence sectors. Modi recalled the various welfare initiatives taken by the Centre in the housing and health sectors aimed at benefiting the Lankan Tamils, and said he was the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Jaffna (in 2015) in northern Sri Lanka. "Our government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of Tamil brothers and sisters in Sri Lanka. It is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna. Through development work, we are ensuring the welfare of the Tamil community," he said. India has constructed 50,000 houses for displaced Tamils in north eastern Sri Lanka and another 4,000 in the plantation areas while "we hope to open soon" the Jaffna Culture Centre, he added. "The issue of Tamil rights has also been taken up consistently with Sri Lankan leaders. We are always committed to ensuring that they (Tamils) live with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity," Modi said. The Sri Lankan Tamils issue has always had an emotional connect in Tamil Nadu and has often dominated the political space here. He pointed to India's efforts in railway projects for Jaffna and Mannar, air connectivity from Chennai to Jaffna and the initiatives in the health sector. Modi also said the country was proud of its security forces, as he paid tributes to the CRPF jawans who were killed in the terror attack in Pulwama district of south Kashmir in February, 2019. "No indian can forget this day. Two years ago, the Pulwama attack happened. We pay homage to all the martyrs. We are proud of our security forces and their bravery will continue to inspire generations," he said at the function. He said the country's armed forces had shown time and again they were fully capable of protecting "our motherland". Forty CRPF personnel were killed in the terrorist attack carried out by Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. The country's armed forces signify India's ethos of courage, he said. "They have shown time and again that they are fully capable of protecting our motherland. Time and again they have also shown India believes in peace, but India will protect sovereignty at all costs. Sainya shakti and dhairya shakti (strength and courage) of our forces are remarkable," the PM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Disengagement in eastern Ladakh is surrender to China, says Antony||Senior Congress leader and former defence minister A K Antony on Sunday alleged that disengagement in both the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso Lake areas and the creation of a buffer zone was a "surrender" of India's rights. Addressing a press conference, he also said that at a time when India was facing multiple challenges at the border and was facing a two-front war-like situation, the increase in defence budget this year is meagre and insignificant and was a "betrayal" of the country. The government had on Friday emphatically stated that India has not "conceded" any territory following the disengagement agreement with China in Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh. Antony said he was sad that the Narendra Modi government was not giving proper priority to national security at a time when China was getting belligerent and Pakistan continued to promote terrorism. He said disengagement was good as it reduced tension but it should not be done at the cost of national security. "Both disengagements in Galwan and Pangong Tso are a surrender," he alleged, adding that it amounted to surrendering of areas traditionally controlled by India. "We are surrendering our rights," he alleged, noting that Galwan Valley as Indian territory was never a disputed land even in 1962. "Disengagement and buffer zone means surrender of our land at the moment," he alleged while warning that the government is not understanding the importance of this disengagement and creation of the buffer zone. He warned that China can play mischief anytime by helping Pakistan in Siachen. "We want to know from this government when there will be status quo ante as on mid-April 2020 in the entire India-China border," he said, asking what was the government's plan in this regard. He also said that the government must take the country and the people into confidence on the restoration of status quo ante at the borders. He said the government always consulted leaders of all political parties before taking such a decision and must keep national security in mind. Antony alleged that the government did not increase the defence budget to "appease" China and to give a message that it did not want to confront them. "To appease China, the government sent a message by not increasing this defence budget that we do not want to confront you. To appease China, we have agreed to disengagement on China's terms," he alleged. When the whole country is facing serious challenges from both China and Pakistan, the senior Congress leader said the armed forces are demanding support and substantial increase in the defence budget. "But compared to last year's revised defence budget, this budget has made a meagre and insufficient increase of only 1.48 per cent. "It is a betrayal of the country. The government has let down our armed forces. The government is not paying proper attention of national security," he further charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Congress will not implement CAA, will protect principles of Assam Accord, says Rahul||Accusing the BJP and RSS of dividing Assam, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that his party will protect every principle of the Assam Accord and will never implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in the state. Addressing his first public rally in Assam's Sibsagar district ahead of the assembly elections due in March-April, Gandhi said that the state needs its "own chief minister" who will listen to the voice of the people and not one who listens only to Nagpur and Delhi. "The Assam Accord has brought peace and it is the protector of the state. I and my party workers will protect each principle of the Accord. There will not be a single deviation from it," he said. Gandhi said illegal immigration is an issue in Assam and exuded confidence that the people of the state have the capability to resolve the issue through dialogue. Alleging that BJP and RSS are trying to divide the state on the issue of Assam Accord, he said, "If Assam is divided, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah will not be affected, but the people of Assam and the rest of India will be affected." Talking about the controversial CAA, the senior Congress leader said that if his party comes to power in the state, the law will not be implemented under any circumstance. All party leaders, including Gandhi, were seen wearing 'Gamocha' (Assamese scarf), where symbolically the CAA word was crossed, giving a message against the controversial law. Gandhi said Assam needs a chief minister from their "own people" who will listen to their issues and try to resolve them. "Remote control can operate a TV but not a CM. The current CM listens to Nagpur and Delhi. If Assam gets a CM like this again, it will not benefit the people. The youths need a CM who will give jobs to them," he said. Taking a dig at the prime minister, the Union home minister and "businessmen close to them", Gandhi said, "I have devised a new slogan for Assam -- Hum do, humare do; Assam ke liye humare aur do, aur sab kuch loot lo." He alleged that natural resources and PSUs in the state are being "sold off" to two leading businessmen of the country. Gandhi also accused the Modi government of "looting" public money during the Covid-19 pandemic and waiving huge amounts of loans of his "two businessmen friends". He said that the Congress government under the leadership of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi had brought peace to Assam by ending the era of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Modi inaugurates metro extension project, lays foundation stone at IIT Madras||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated the Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension and laid the foundation stone for several other infrastructure projects in different sectors, including railways, in Tamil Nadu, describing them as symbols of innovation and indigenous development. He also said the decade was going to belong to India, adding the entire world was looking at it with positivity. At a grand event at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here, he flagged off the 9.01 km service from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar in North Chennai, completed at a cost of Rs 3,770 crore. With this extension, the PhaseI covers a total length of 54.05 km and people can travel from the north Chennai locality to the airport in the south using the Metro rail. Modi dedicated to the nation the Chennai BeachAttipattu fourth line and the Railway electrification of Villupuram Cuddalore-Mayiladuturai Thanjavur-Mayiladuthurai-Tiruvarur Single Line Sections. He also laid the foundation stone for the Discovery Campus of IIT Madras, which will be built at nearby Thaiyur at an estimated cost of Rs 1,000 crore in the first phase over an area of 2 lakh sqm and the extension, renovation and modernisation of the Grand Anicut Canal System. In his speech on the occasion, the Prime Minister said the infrastructure projects inaugurated were symbols of innovation and indigenous development. Asserting that this year's union budget showed the government's commitment to reforms, Modi said: "The world is looking at India with great enthusiasm and positivity. This decade is going to be India's because of the hard work of 130 crore Indians." He also highlighted the importance of conservation of water, saying it was not a national issue alone but a global one. "Per drop more crop," he added. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and other cabinet members, senior leaders of ruling AIADMK M Thambidurai, K P Munusamy and leaders from alliance parties participated in the event. The venue, the sprawling Nehru Indoor Stadium premises, and the entire Periamet neighbourhood in the heart of the city came under a three-layered security blanket. Traffic diversions and heavy deployment of police personnel were made as part of security measures for the Prime Minister's brief visit to the state this year. Several youngsters at the venue sported T-shirts hailing the chief minister and many raised slogans praising Modi and Palaniswami. Earlier, the Prime Minister arrived at the airport here, and then flew in a chopper to INS Adyar from where he drove to the function venue. All along the way, a good number of supporters and the public turned up to greet the Prime Minister as artistes played traditional musical instruments to welcome him. Modi waved at the people who waited on the kerb to have a glimpse of the leader. At the event, Modi, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam paid floral tributes to the portraits of late chief ministers M G Ramachandran (AIADMK founder) and J Jayalalithaa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||14, including women and a child, dead in Kurnool road accident||Tragedy struck a group of pilgrims on their way to Ajmer Dargah as 14 of them, including eight women and a child, were killed and four injured in a road mishap in Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh early on Sunday, police said. The accident occurred when a mini-bus in which the victims, all relatives and hailing from Madanapalle in Chittoor district of the state, were travelling collided with a lorry at Madapuram around 4 AM, Kurnool District Superintendent of Police K.Fakirappa said. The passengers were on their way to the Ajmer Sharif Dargah in Rajasthan, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy were among those who expressed sorrow over the loss of lives. Reddy announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs 1 lakh to the injured. Preliminary investigation suggested the driver apparently lost control and the bus first crashed into the road median, rolled to the other side and hit the lorry, the SP told PTI. Only four children survived the crash and all had been admitted to a hospital where the condition of one of them was stated to be critical, he said. "The accident might have been due to over speeding of the mini bus or its driver might have been drowsy. Fourteen people died on the spot and another four (injured) were shifted to hospital. One of the children is said to be in a critical condition," the Police official added. Kurnool Collector G Veerapandiansaid the administration would also examine if there was any defect in the vehicle. A tweet posted on PMO India handle said: "The road accident in Andhra Pradesh Kurnool district is saddening. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. I hope that the injured recover at the earliest: PM." Expressing sorrow over the loss of lives, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to provide necessary medical help to the injured as he wished them a speedy recovery. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families, an official release said. Veldurthi police station sub-inspector Peddaiah Naidu said they received information about the accident from a local person and the personnel immediately rushed to the spot. "Only four children survived and all of them are being treated in hospital," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
14-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrest 21-year-old for sharing farmers’ ‘toolkit’ posted by Thunberg||A 21-year-old climate activist has been arrested from Bengaluru for being allegedly involved in sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmer's protest on social media, police said on Sunday. Disha Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday. She was picked up from her house for questioning and was later arrested for her alleged involvement in formulation and dissemination of the "toolkit Google doc", a senior police officer said. Ravi, who is a graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration from a private college in Bengaluru, is also one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India'. "In connection with a case regarding the investigation into the criminal conspiracy related to the toolkit document, Disha Ravi has been arrested from Bengaluru. "She was one of the editors of the toolkit Google Doc and a key conspirator in the document's formulation and dissemination," said Anil Mittal, Additional Public Relations Officer (Delhi Police) in a statement. She was produced before a Delhi court here on Sunday. She has been remanded to police custody for five days, he said, adding that further investigation is in progress. Her laptop and mobile phone has also been seized for further investigation and the police are ascertaining if she was in touch with more people who were involved in the case case. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Their parade had dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestors died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had on February 4 lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code, the police had said. Addressing a press conference earlier, a senior Delhi Police officer had said initial investigation linked the document with a pro-Khalistan group named "Poetic Justice Foundation". According to the police, the "toolkit" has a particular section that mentions "digital strike through hashtags on or before January 26, tweet storms on January 23 onwards, physical action on January 26 and watch-out or join farmers march into Delhi and back to borders". The "toolkit" was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Covid: India records 12,194 new cases, 92 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases surpassed 1.09 crore with 12,194 new infections, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the eighth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total coronavirus cases rose to 1,09,04,940 and the death toll increased to 1,55,642 with 92 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,11,731 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.31 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,37,567 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,62,30,512 samples have been tested up to February 13 with 6,97,114 samples being tested on Saturday. The 92 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 5 each from Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,55,642 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,489 from Maharashtra followed by 12,413 from Tamil Nadu, 12,263 from Karnataka, 10,889 from Delhi, 10,230 from Bengal, 8,699 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Eight more bodies recovered week after Chamoli glacier burst, toll rises to 46||Eight bodies were recovered on Sunday from the flash flood-ravaged hydel project sites in Tapovan and Raini of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, taking the toll in the calamity to 46, even as search and rescue operations were intensified. Five bodies were recovered from the intake adit tunnel of the NTPC's 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project. These are the first bodies to be recovered from the site where muck-clearing and drilling operations have been underway on a war-footing since last Sunday. Three others were recovered from Raini, where a 13.2 MW hydel project along the Rishiganga was destroyed in the calamity. The recoveries take the toll in the disaster to 46, while 158 people remain missing, officials said. The bodies have been kept at a temporary mortuary built in Tapovan, they added. Two of the bodies have been identified. One hails from Narendra Nagar in Tehri district and another from Kalsi in Dehradun district, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. She said a helicopter has been kept ready at the site to provide medical help to survivors, if any. The NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project had suffered extensive damage in the flash flood, which also demolished the Rishiganga hydel project. Rescue teams continued widening a hole into the Silt Flushing Tunnel at the project site in Tapovan where around 30 people are believed to be trapped. Rescuers had said on Saturday that they were still hopeful of finding survivors, notwithstanding the numerous challenges like the muck and the water from Dhauli Ganga constantly flowing into the tunnels.The river had deviated from its path after the flash floods leaving 166 missing. The State Emergency Operation Centre here had said that scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of the Rishi Ganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water, which reduces chances of it breaching or causing a fresh flash flood during the rescue operations. The lake is at the confluence of Raunthi Gad and Rishi Ganga. According to Central Water Commission (CWC) chairman Saumitra Haldar, it is 400 metres in length, 25 metres wide and 60 metres deep. The CWC is examining possibilities of what can be done if the water rises to a "critical" level. It is conducting simulation studies and also examining the possibility of carrying out a controlled blast to drain out the water. P K Tiwari, Commandant of the National Disaster Response Force, had said that based on their experience, they are optimistic about saving lives and mentioned the possible presence of air ducts and gaps in the tunnel. So far, 20 bodies and 12 human limbs have been cremated after DNA sampling, the DM said. A compensation of Rs 4 lakh each was also paid to the kin of five victims of the calamity from Dehradun, Bageshwar and Haridwar districts of Uttarakhand and Lakhimpur Kheri and Aligarh districts of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s barbs hit home, called 'doomsday man for India' by Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said Rahul Gandhi “is probably becoming a doomsday man for India”. The finance minister devoted a considerable part of her reply in the Lok Sabha to the general discussion on the budget to responding to the Congress MP, suggesting that Rahul’s barbs had hit home. But the finance minister’s moniker for Rahul raises some fundamental questions. Is the Opposition MP a “doomsday man for India” or was he doing his job by highlighting that the government was not doing its job? The following are some of the issues flagged by Rahul: Demonetisation On November 9, 2016 — a day after the demonetisation — Rahul had said: “Once again Mr Modi shows how little he cares about the ordinary people of this country — farmers, small shopkeepers, housewives — all thrown into utter chaos. The real culprits sit tight on their black money stashed away abroad or in bullion/real estate.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had steamrollered such opinions. Countless people suffered, at least a hundred died and the economy was dealt a body blow by the ill-planned adventure. The Indian economy never really recovered from that staggering disruption. The government insists the demonetisation was a success. But its key objective — unearthing black money — was not met. Even the grand claims about digitisation are dubious: the value of bank notes currently in circulation is 57 per cent higher at Rs 28.23 lakh crore (as of February 5, 2021) compared with Rs 17.97 lakh crore on November 4, 2016 — four days before Modi announced the demonetisation. Most economists had decried the move. One admirer of the demonetisation had stood out: The Global Times, run by the Chinese communist party’s mouthpiece, praised the note recall. But later the publication called the demonetisation a failure. Covid As early as February 12, 2020, Rahul had warned that “the coronavirus is an extremely serious threat to our people and our economy. My sense is the government is not taking this threat seriously. Timely action is critical.” On February 24, the Namaste Trump event was held in Ahmedabad, where then US President Donald Trump and Modi serenaded each other in front of a huge crowd. On March 3, Modi assured the country: “There is no need to panic. We need to work together, take small yet important measures to ensure self-protection.” Rahul issued warning after warning, culminating in a March 18 appeal: “Quick aggressive action is the answer to tackling the coronavirus. India is going to pay an extremely heavy price for our government’s inability to act decisively.” It took another six days for the announcement to be made of a nationwide lockdown — abrupt, without preparation, and ruthless. A humanitarian tragedy unfolded on Indian roads. It was a man-made, not virus-created, disaster. Migrant crisis Within a few days of the lockdown, Rahul had realised the magnitude of the crisis — something sections of the mainstream media ignored while the government continued to sink its head in the sand. “Out of work and facing an uncertain future, millions of our brothers and sisters across India are struggling to find their way back home. It’s shameful that we’ve allowed any Indian citizen to be treated this way and that the government had no contingency plans in place for this exodus,” Rahul said on March 28 as the highways witnessed an inhuman tragedy on a scale never seen after Partition. Not that the Opposition MP had confined himself to criticising the government. He had offered solid suggestions. “It’s important that we have a strategy to come out of the lockdown. The lockdown allows time and space to put in medical resources: ramp up testing abilities, prepare hospitals, get ventilators…. So, all of India needs to fight this together,” he had said. “The fight against the coronavirus is on two fronts — medical and economic…. Like the Nyay scheme, give money directly to 20 per cent of the poor because they are facing difficulties…. There will be a shortage of food but there’s plenty of storage in the warehouse. Give food to the poor and include those as well who do not have ration cards. Create a way for food safety….” Finance minister Sitharaman did not think twice before declaring in the House on Saturday: “Continuously he created fake narratives.… Gandhi said so many people will die due to Covid-19.…” As on Saturday night, over 1.5 lakh Indians had died of Covid. It is not a negligible count although it may appear low compared with the overall population and the tolls elsewhere. The full cost to life and the living is yet to unfold. Still, the minister thought nothing of reducing the gravest global crisis of our time into a bragging point. China On Saturday, Sitharaman recalled a “border” issue while discussing the budget. “When there was a crisis on the border, instead of talking to us, they were talking to the embassy and inquiring about the border,” she said, presumably referring to China and the Doklam standoff of 2017. Much water has flowed down the ravines of the Ladakh border since then. Many Indian government leaders are terrified of even uttering China’s name in most of their comments on the transgressions and bloodshed committed by the Chinese along the Ladakh border. The Prime Minister is yet to clarify what he had meant when he said there was no intrusion even after 20 Indian soldiers had been killed. Opaqueness has been the hallmark of the Modi government’s China policy. Rahul has been persistent and fearless — as an Opposition MP should be. A sample of Rahul’s observations and questions that are yet to evoke a satisfactory reply from the government: May 29: The government’s silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. GoI must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening. June 9: Once Raksha Mantri is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh? June 17: How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land? June 20: PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese: 1. Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed? June 21: Narendra Modi Is actually Surender Modi. Farmers The Opposition MP was among the first to gauge the deep resentment among the farmers towards the new farm laws. As early as in October, Rahul had held tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana. His words of caution were treated with derision by the government. The issue has now snowballed into something Modi has never faced before. Doomsday Man? Sounds more like an Opposition MP trying to do his job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Kashmir BJP chief hands out badges to police graduates||Pictures showing Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina awarding badges to fresh police graduates at a passing-out parade have triggered controversy, prompting a former army brigadier to claim these were the “first steps towards neo-fascism”. The photos, showing Raina pinning badges on the uniforms of probationary deputy superintendents and other police officers, come amid allegations about various arms of governance being politicised in the country. A former officer with more than three decades in the Jammu and Kashmir police said no politician had ever before awarded badges to the pass-outs. “Normally, it is done by police officers or relatives (of the graduates) but not politicians because we are expected to be apolitical,” he said. It was the BJP’s official Twitter handle that posted the pictures on Friday evening. “J&K President Sh.@ImRavinderRaina awarded badges to the newly passed out Dy SP & Sub Inspectors at Police Academy, Udhampur,” the tweet read. One of the pictures shows Raina, who does not hold any constitutional post, and another former party MLA posing with more than a dozen pass-outs. Two others show Raina pinning badges on the shoulders of, respectively, a woman police officer and a male officer. The pictures were from an event on Friday at the Sher-e-Kashmir Police Academy in Udhampur, Jammu, where lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and other senior dignitaries were present. Academy director S.D. Singh Jamwal, who is an additional director-general of police, played the incident down, claiming the media was “creating this all” and some people were giving the matter a “twist”. The incident left many incensed, including former Brigadier C.K. Sood who lost his son, Major Anuj Sood, to a gunfight last year in Kashmir. “This is all that the new normal speaks of. First steps towards neo-fascism in India,” Sood, who operates the @Zachaldar handle, tweeted. “Won’t be surprised if HM (home minister) does the honours to IPS officers this year. JKP (Jammu and Kashmir police) is just the start.” Former chief minister Omar Abdullah spoke about challenging Raina’s act in the courts. “Never fails to amaze me how most of the J&K administration, both civil & police, grovels in front of BJP functionaries,” Omar tweeted. “The state president pins badges & ranks in a police passing out parade having no position of authority in J&K what so ever. Shame on this government.” Omar added: “Early next week we will challenge this undemocratic action in the courts of law.” Jamwal said Raina, a former Rajouri MLA, had awarded the badges to a few “relatives or friends” from his erstwhile constituency after the official event had ended. “Some people are giving it a twist. He was one of the spectators. How could he award badges?” Jamwal told The Telegraph. “He did not do it with all the 600 pass-outs, just two or three of them from his constituency, his relatives or friends…. If he had done it with all of them, there could have been some motive.” Jamwal said local MLAs are routinely invited to such events. But the invitees were former MLAs since Jammu and Kashmir has no Assembly now. “When I became ADG I got it (pinning of the badge) done through my father,” Jamwal said. “We all do it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Farmers demand judicial inquiry for R-Day tractor rally violence||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day and the allegedly “false” cases slapped on peasants. Addressing a media conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and instead approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of the SKM’s legal cell, said a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the “conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence and the alleged “false cases” against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. During the Republic Day chaos, over 500 police personnel had been injured while a protester died. On January 26, a section of the protesting farmers who had reached ITO clashed with the police. Many farmers drove their tractors to the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was hoisted. At the news conference, another farmer leader, Ravinder Singh, said 122 farmers had so far been arrested by Delhi police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that the SKM would provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The SKM leaders claimed that “false” cases were being slapped on farmers, charging them with serious offences such as dacoity and attempt to murder to “harass” them. “Ten farmers have been granted bail so far and five bail applications have been filed. Priority is being given to those farmers who are not booked under Section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder) or other serious offences,” the SKM said in a statement later. Ravinder Singh said the SKM would provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer to be spent in the prison canteen. An SKM legal team had on Friday visited the Tihar jail where 112 farmers are lodged, he said. The union leaders have requested Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman and senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha to ensure that the farmers are kept in one jail. In the statement, the SKM demanded that its legal panel be allowed to meet the arrested farmers without any restrictions and that its monetary help be disbursed among them. “The SKM legal panel has strongly condemned the Delhi government and the police for issuing notice under Section 160 CrPC to the farmers in order to rope them in false cases,” the statement said. Under this section, an investigating officer can through a written order direct any person to present themselves before him or her if it appears that the person is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case. “We have not come here as part of any political programme. We have come here today for the farmers, who have fed all of us our whole lives,” the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) quoted Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, Mahatma Gandhi’s graddaughter, as saying during her visit to the Ghazipur protest site on Saturday. Delhi police’s crime branch on Saturday took actor-activist Deep Sidhu and another accused, Iqbal Singh, to the Red Fort to recreate the events that had unfolded at the monument on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, a police officer said. Sidhu, according to the police, was a “prominent player” in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Latur Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra deducts salary for parent neglect||Latur Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra has started deducting 30 per cent salaries of seven of its employees for not taking care of their parents, its president Rahul Bondre said on Saturday. Six of the 12 employees against whom the complaints were received, are teachers. The deducted amount is transferred in the bank accounts of the parents, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier blast: Rescue teams widen hole to look into Tapovan tunnel||Rescue teams on Saturday began widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel on the way to the possible location of over 30 people trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel of the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project after a flash flood ravaged the area on Sunday. “We are working on a three-pronged strategy to reach those trapped in the tunnel. The hole we drilled yesterday is being widened to 1ft so as to reach a camera and a pipe inside the silt-flushing tunnel where the trapped are said to be located,” general manager of the NTPC project, R.P. Ahirwal, said. A hole with a diameter of 1ft will help send in a camera to ascertain their location and a pipe to flush out accumulated water from the tunnel, Ahirwal said. The other two parts of the strategy are clearing the desilting basin of the NTPC barrage through which muck is constantly flowing into the tunnels and restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga river to the right. The river’s flow has tilted to the left after the flash flood, hampering the sludge-clearing operation, Ahirwal said. Describing the rescue of people as a priority, he said the NTPC had put more than 100 of its scientists on the job. Asked whether an attempt could also be made to send rescue personnel to the possible location of those trapped inside the tunnel through the hole, the GM said it would need to be widened further for that and would be done if the need arose. “More than 100 of our scientists are on the job. They are devising strategies and having them implemented,” Ahirwal said. He said all resources and mechanical equipment required for the operation were available at the project site. However, citing the conditions inside the tunnel, he said: “We can operate only with a few machines at a time. The rest of them have to be kept on standby because our strategy is to keep the operations underway round the clock.” If for some reason an equipment stops working, there are alternatives on standby to ensure that the operations do not stop, he said. Ahirwal said many experienced workers of the project were missing since the calamity and those put on the job were new people. Talking about the biggest challenge being faced by the rescue team, the NTPC official said: “The rescue personnel are going to the tunnel where the men are likely to be trapped. Muck is constantly coming down from the NTPC barrage (above the tunnel) and its desilting basin, hampering the rescue effort. The water of the Dhauliganga too is coming into our tunnels through the desilting basin as it has tilted to the left after the avalanche. Restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga to the right is a big part of our strategy.” The sludge-choked contours and conduits of the barrage’s desilting basin can also be removed more effectively only if the flow is restored to its earlier position. The work on restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga has begun with the help of heavy machines, Ahirwal said. Vijay Rana, a local resident who said he had worked on the construction of the tunnels, said he and some other people were not far from the Rishiganga when the flash flood washed away a hydro-power project at Raini village. “Jeet Singh Thakur, a deputy general manager of the NTPC, had entered the tunnel near the Rishiganga barely two-three minutes before the flash flood in a Mahindra Bolero car,” Rana said. “A crane had also gone inside. We know Thakur for long. He was involved in the construction of the tunnel and he must be aware how to protect himself and the other workers in an emergency. Usually, workers come for work in the morning after having breakfasts. Some of them carry lunch packs. The rescuers have told us that it is possible to survive for seven days without food in case there is enough oxygen to breath. We are hopeful,” Rana added. Relatives of the missing workers on Saturday gheraoed Anil Kumar, the sub-divisional magistrate of Chamoli, a little distance from the rescue site, demanding that the search be expedited. They had surrounded some administrative and NTPC officials on Friday. Sanjay Kumar, a resident whose relative is missing, said: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said his government will provide every support to the state for the rescue operation. We fail to understand why the state government is still so slow. Why didn’t they use a heavy drill machine on the first day itself?” So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 are still missing. DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne said 11 of the dead had been identified. Eighteen body parts have also been recovered from the flood-hit areas, of which 10 have been cremated after taking their DNA samples, he said. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, during an aerial survey of the Rishiganga, had found that a glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it had begun to release water, which has reduced the chances of it breaching or causing a fresh flash flood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||TMC MP claims of being put under 'surveillance'||Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Saturday wrote to the Delhi police commissioner claiming she was being put under “surveillance” after BSF personnel were purportedly deputed outside her residence in Lutyens Delhi. The MP from Krishnagar in Bengal, known for her fiery speeches in Parliament, is facing a privilege motion brought against her in the Lok Sabha by BJP MPs for citing allegations of sexual misconduct against a former Chief Justice of India. While her remarks were expunged from the records, the BJP is seeking her dismissal from Parliament. In her letter Moitra requested commissioner S.N. Shrivastava to “kindly remove the personnel immediately”. She also took to Twitter to post a photo in which three paramilitary forces personnel were seen purportedly outside her residence. “3 BSF men w/assault rifles outside my home. Say they are from Barakhamba Road police station for my ‘protection’. Still outside my home. Am a free citizen of India — people will protect me. Request Honb’le HM @AmitShah ji & @HMOIndia to remove immediately,” Moitra tweeted. Delhi police report to Union home minister Amit Shah. “Don’t waste resources on protecting just me, protect everybody. I don’t need anything special, I don’t take security. If you’re surveilling me, ask me & I’ll tell you. Indian democracy is already under threat, don’t make us feel like we’re living in Russian Gulag,” she said in another tweet. “Our brave young men sign up for the BSF to guard India’s borders — using them for durwan duty outside my home is a bit silly, isn’t it, @CPDelhi, @MHAIndia?” In her letter to the police commissioner, Moitra said the station house officer of Barakhamba Road police station had visited her at her residence around 6.30pm on Friday. She said that soon after, around 10pm, three BSF personnel “armed with assault rifles had been deputed outside my residence”. “The conduct of these armed officers indicate that they are making notes of movements to and from my residence, it appears to me that I am under some sort of surveillance,” Moitra said in her letter. Requesting Delhi police commissioner Shrivastava to withdraw the personnel, the MP said in her letter: “Upon making inquiries, I was informed that the armed officers had been deputed from police station Barakhamba Road for my protection. However, I being an ordinary citizen of this country, did neither ask nor want any such protection.” Contacted, a home ministry spokesperson refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||Finance Minister aims ‘doomsday’ gun, Congress MP unfazed by  jibe||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said in Parliament that Rahul Gandhi was probably becoming India’s “doomsday man”, recalling his grim predictions on a range of subjects from Covid to the farm laws. The former Congress president, however, told farmer rallies that he was merely discharging his duty of telling the truth to the country. Sitharaman’s comments came during her reply to the budget debate, and in response to Rahul’s “hum do hamare do” jibe, accusing the government of working for only two crony capitalists. While he did not name anyone, a Union minister named Ambani and Adani. “Why does Rahul Gandhi insult constitutional authorities — President, Prime Minister, former Prime Minister, Speaker? Why does he always create fake narratives, predicting Covid will destroy everything, people will die?” she said. “He will constantly say things which will demean India, insult India, which will show India in poor light. Saying that nothing will go well for India. He will ask their (Chinese) embassy in the midst of border tension what is happening. “Never trust(s) Indian government, always joining the fringe group for doing politics. Dreadful abuse, destructive politics. Probably he is becoming a doomsday man for India. He will say, ‘I will not debate budget’; what role (does) he want to play?” Sitharaman devoted most of her speech to rebutting Rahul’s charge of crony capitalism, suggesting his attack had rattled the government. She argued that the BJP and its parent, the Jana Sangh, had explicitly supported India’s entrepreneurs and businesses unlike the Congress, which swung between socialism and liberalisation. She wondered whether the affordable houses built by the Narendra Modi government, the rural roads and village electrification, were meant for crony capitalists. The finance minister offered a 10-point rebuttal, which included questions about unkept loan-waiver promises in Congress-ruled states.She said the phrase “hum do hamare do” should denote the four Gandhi family members (presumably including Robert Vadra) and wondered whether the “damaad” (son-in-law) would return the land he (allegedly) took from small farmers in Haryana. An unfazed Rahul, however, repeated his accusations at rallies in Rajasthan, saying the Prime Minister was conspiring to hand over the Rs 40 lakh crore agriculture trade to his capitalist friends. “This is not about farmers alone. This is India’s problem; the Prime Minister is snatching what belongs to 40 per cent of India’s population to be given to his cronies. The farmers have realised this; every citizen should understand the nature of the threat and join them,” he said. Rahul participated in a tractor rally along with chief minister Ashok Gehlot and other senior party leaders in Kishangarh. He told a farmers’ meeting in Makrana: “Don’t believe what I say (if you so wish) but it is my duty to tell you the truth. I’m doing my duty. “They made fun of me when I said the coronavirus was going to cause serious damage. Now I’m telling you that Modi is clearing the decks for his capitalist friends to take over the agriculture trade. This will destroy the kisan-mazdoor and snatch the future of the youth.” Rahul recalled that he had refused to discuss the budget in the Lok Sabha and concentrated only on the farmers. “Whenever there is a tragedy, members stand in silence for two minutes to offer condolences. Over 200 farmers died but neither House of Parliament offered condolences,” he said. “I asked Lok Sabha members to stand up for two minutes after I spoke. While the Opposition members stood up, no minister, no BJP member stood up. That was an insult to the farmers. The Speaker told me that I should have given it to him in writing if I wanted condolences for the farmers. “I’m going to give it in writing to both Houses. I’m sure the Lok Sabha Speaker will allow two minutes of condolences for the farmers who lost their lives during the protest.” He asked the farmers: “Did I commit a mistake by standing in silence and asking the members to offer condolences?” As a cry of “No” went up, Rahul said: “Even if that was a mistake, I will commit that again. Let them do whatever they can. Let them throw me out of Parliament. But I will do that again.” Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury later said: “There is a saying in Hindi, ‘Khisiyani billi khamba noche’ (a reference to someone taking their frustration out on the wrong person)’. Sitharaman is not a finance minister, she is a minister of pique. She, along with the Prime Minister, ruined India’s economy. “How does she explain that 85 per cent of Indians suffered income losses during the lockdown while India’s billionaires became richer by 35 per cent? She gave tax relief to the corporate sector, money that was used in cleaning up their balance sheets. “Why are the prices of petrol and diesel rising? The government gets angry and starts hurling derogatory remarks when we ask uncomfortable questions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
14-02-2021||India||G.N. Saibaba admitted to jail hospital with Covid||G.N. Saibaba, the paraplegic professor serving a life sentence at Nagpur Central Prison for links with the banned CPI (Maoist), has been admitted to the jail hospital to be isolated for Covid-19. The 53-year-old professor, who taught English at Delhi University’s Ram Lal Anand College until his arrest in 2014, is paralysed below his waist due to polio and his family says his arms are getting paralysed because of irregular medical treatment by jail authorities. Maharashtra prisons spokesman Shahu Bibhishan Darade told this newspaper that after testing positive in prison, Saibaba was taken to the Government Medical College for a check-up. “As per government guidelines only those with serious symptoms are admitted to hospital. His condition is not serious, hence he has been shifted from his cell to the prison hospital,” Darade said. Saibaba’s wife and brother on Saturday urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to shift him to a private hospital in Nagpur. In the letter, the Delhi-based A.S. Vasantha Kumari and the Hyderabad-based G. Ramadevudu said: “The test was performed at the request of family members as Dr Saibaba informed us over telephone that he was facing severe symptoms of the virus. This is a serious attack on Dr Saibaba, who suffers from 19 health ailments and has serious comorbidities, including heart and kidney issues that can lead to further complications under Covid-19. “Currently, he has a very high fever with low oxygen levels which might drop further if he does not receive treatment or is in stressful environments. He has severe headache, constant breathlessness, frequent bouts of hiccups, blocked nose and throat with severe joint and muscle pain.” Over the past week, several prisoners in Nagpur including don turned politician Arun Gawli have tested positive for the coronavirus and are in the prison hospital. Saibaba’s parole applications have repeatedly been rejected despite him having hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with left ventricular dysfunction. The letter said: “Being 90 per cent physically challenged, Dr Saibaba was assigned two helpers, both of whom have tested negative for Covid. Currently, because of this he has no helpers to take care of daily needs or help him in emergency situations and has been kept in isolation. The Government Medical College Hospital, Nagpur, is not an optimal place to shift him as it is overflowing with patients and may intensify the infection further.” Last year, Saibaba had threatened to go on a hunger strike demanding access to letters, books and medicines. Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, 80, had to petition Bombay High Court last year to be moved to a private hospital after he caught a urinary tract infection in the jail hospital that had failed to change his urinary catheter for three months. Rao, facing a different case on similar charges, had also got Covid in a Navi Mumbai prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||House praise for employment scheme Modi panned||A parliamentary panel has extolled an employment programme that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had six years ago termed a “living monument to (the Congress’s) failures” but which his government had to fall back on last year after the lockdown left millions jobless. The standing committee on labour has praised the role of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme in providing livelihood to unskilled workers, including unemployed migrant labourers who had returned home after the lockdown. It has also recommended an enlargement of the scope for projects under the scheme, which provides for paid unskilled work for up to 100 days a year to every rural household. The recommendation comes amid a cut in funds for the scheme compared with the revised allocation for the last financial year. The panel, headed by Biju Janata Dal member Bhartruhari Mahtab, tabled its report on “social security and welfare measures for inter-state migrant workers” in Parliament on Thursday. “The committee (members) are of the firm opinion that there is no better scheme than the MGNREGS to provide sustainable livelihood to the unskilled workers, including the inter-state migrant labours,” the report says. “In fact, by enacting the MGNREGA law in 2005, the Indian Parliament had set in motion a process that provides for a specific and significant welfare provision, constitutive of the very idea of citizenship.” The NDA government had initially been keen to dilute the scheme and limit its application to 2,500 of the country’s 6,000 blocks. But the proposal did not fructify. When the pandemic-induced lockdown forced millions of suddenly jobless migrant workers to return home early last year, swelling the ranks of the unemployed in the villages, the job scheme was widely acknowledged to have provided succour to a large segment of them. In tacit admission of this, the government had revised the 2020-21 financial year’s allocation for the scheme from Rs 61,500 crore to Rs 111,500 crore. However, the budget for 2021-22 allocates only Rs 73,000 crore for the scheme. The government had told the parliamentary panel that the scheme’s scope encompassed 262 categories of projects related to agriculture and allied sectors. The gram panchayats decide the projects and engage job card holders who have demanded work. The committee has suggested expanding the list of permissible projects. It has suggested the rural development ministry — which oversees the scheme — work in collaboration with other ministries, departments and the state governments to enhance the employment opportunities. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee, a body of civil society activists and researchers, has demanded the allocation for this financial year be raised to at least Rs 175,000 crore and the permissible days of work from 100 to 150 per family a year. Rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar has denied any plan to increase the permissible days of work. The panel’s report says 10-12.5 crore migrant workers leave their villages and families to work outside. It has sought the creation of a database of migrant workers, echoing a demand voiced by many since the lockdown left these workers in the lurch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||Garment workers fired during lockdown, rehired after protest||More than 1,200 Indian garment workers who were fired by an H&M supplier in Karnataka during the coronavirus lockdown last year are set to be rehired in a rare win for labour unions. Garment manufacturer Gokaldas Exports Limited has agreed to re-employ 1,257 workers — mostly women — who were laid off when it closed a factory near Mysore in Karnataka in June, said two Indian unions and global federation IndustriALL. The organisations said an agreement signed this month with Gokaldas — which has not yet been made public — would also allow the Garment and Textile Workers’ Union (GATWU) to negotiate in any factory where at least 20 per cent of the workers were members. Gokaldas could not be reached for comment. On its website, the company says it is India’s largest manufacturer and exporter of clothing, and hires more than 25,000 people at 20 factories. Swedish retailer H&M — Gokaldas’s biggest buyer — said it was “positive that an agreement has finally been reached” but could not give further details as it was not a signatory to the pact. Jayaram K. Ramaiah, legal advisor for Bangalore-based GATWU, said the agreement could set an example for other manufacturers. “This is not just any win for workers, it is historic,” he said, praising the workers for protesting for several weeks. “We want to take this beyond the present victory... to create a model factory and a harassment-free environment for all workers,” Ramaiah told Reuters over phone. “This is just the beginning.” Under the agreement, the laid-off workers will be rehired in other Gokaldas factories by August, according to the unions. India’s multi-million-dollar garment industry, which employs at least 12 million people, has faced scrutiny for labour rights abuses and advocates fear the Covid-19 pandemic could put more pressure on suppliers and lead to greater worker exploitation. The Gokaldas factory in question was the only one among more than 20 facilities which was unionised, IndustriALL said. Gokaldas said in June that H&M order cancellations led to the factory’s closure yet the brand denied this and stated that it had paid for all products as agreed, according to the union, which criticised the Indian manufacturer for “union-busting”. In several garment-producing countries — from India to Cambodia and Myanmar — activists say factory bosses have used the economic fallout from the pandemic as an excuse to target and fire union members while keeping on non-unionised workers. In response to questions about the Gokaldas factory, a spokesperson for H&M said the retailer would continue to strengthen freedom of association in its supply chain. “We recognise there is a continuous need to address these issues,” she said. The lay-offs were illegal under Indian labour law because Gokaldas’s management had not engaged with the state government before closing the factory, according to a report in December by the Alternative Law Forum — a legal research group. Hundreds of workers at the factory protested for about 50 days after the mass firing, and continued to do so despite threats from bosses at Gokaldas, the three unions said. One of them, 50-year-old Padma — a GATWU member who had worked at the factory for a decade — described the protests as “very tough... the most difficult I have ever been part of”. “But now that our union is being recognised, I hope any future issues will be settled faster and through talks,” the widow and mother of two said over phone. “It should not have to take such a long protest again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
14-02-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt holds polls in disputed Odisha villages||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday went ahead with rural polls in some of the disputed villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Odisha’s Koraput district despite stiff opposition from local officials. The government of the neighbouring state also held panchayat polls in some other bordering villages in Malkangiri, Ganjam and Gajapati districts of Odisha. Earlier on Friday, Koraput district collector Abdaal Muhammed Akhtar had written a letter to his Vizianagaram counterpart Dr M. Hari Jawaharlal urging him not to hold the panchayat elections in Kotia as the matter was sub judice. Akhtar had pointed out that following the Odisha government’s petition, the Supreme Court had on Friday posted the matter for hearing on February 19 and issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh government on the issue. “I am to, therefore, request you that considering the sub judice nature of the matter and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India’s oral observations, you may kindly desist from going ahead with any plan to allegedly conduct elections inside Kotia gram panchayat of Pottangi block in Koraput district,” said Akhtar. Both Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have been entangled in a legal battle since 1968 over the ownership of 21 out of the 28 villages under Kotia gram panchayat. BJP leader and former MP Jayaram Pangi who hails from the area, told reporters: “As the Odisha government did not take any concrete steps to stop the elections, the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday held elections in seven villages. We did not feel the presence of the Odisha government here. For the first time, Andhra Pradesh was able to hold the election following the process of nomination and later election. The counting process has begun.” All the villagers have dual voter cards and they cast votes in the elections held in both the states, sources said. Though the Pottangi block development officer was seen requesting people not to participate in the polls on Saturday, his pleas fell on deaf ears. Odisha government sources said the Kotia panchayat has 28 villages under it. But the Andhra Pradesh government went ahead with its plan to hold rural polls in seven villages of the panchayat. They have also re-christened three of the major villages under Kotia panchayat. While Tala Ganjeipadar village has been renamed Ganjaibadra, Patu Sineri has become Pattuchennuru and Fagun Sineri has been changed to Pagulchennuru. In order to appease the people and to ensure their loyalty to Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had last week announced he will visit Kotia panchayat soon and also unveiled developmental projects worth Rs 18 crore for the area. At present, developmental projects worth Rs 150 crore are being implemented in the area..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
