15-02-2021||India||Twitter deletes Anil Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi, restores later||Amid the ongoing controversy surrounding the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with a toolkit case, micro-blogging platform Twitter on Monday said a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. In his tweet, Vij says those with "seeds of anti-nationalism...should be destroyed... whether Disha Ravi or anyone else". Hourse arlier Twitter issued a notice to Vij, saying it had deleted the tweet based on a complaint from a user in Germany. The complaint was under Germany'sNetwork Enforcement Act, which obliges social network providers to delete unlawful content within a short time frame.His full tweet (inHindi) has been translated as: "If seeds of anti nationalism have been sown in somebody's thought process, he/she should be destroyed from roots...whether she is Disha Ravi or anyone else. In the screenshot shared by the home minister, a message from Twitter reads: "Twitter is required by German law to provide notice to users who are reported by people from Germanyvia the Network Enforcement Act reporting flow... We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under theTwitter rules. "Ravi was arrested on Sunday in connection with a "toolkit" - later also tweeted by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg - relating to the farmers' protest against the new agriculture laws.The police alleged Ravi was a key conspirator and, in an attempt to revive a Khalistani group, prepared and spread a document that is meant to "spread disaffection against the Indian state". They have also named Nikita Jacob, a lawyer, and Shantanu Muluk, an activist, in this case. They said all three created the document and then passed it to others for editing.Ravi's arrest triggered outrage after it emerged Delhi Police did not get permission from a local court, as is the legal precedent. It also emerged that she did not have her own lawyer when she was produced in court on charges of sedition and conspiracy and sent to five days' police custody.Ravi, who argued her own case, told the court: "I did not make the Toolkit. We wanted to support the farmers.I edited two lines on February 3. "Jairam Ramesh, a former minister and lawmaker for the opposition Congress party, called her arrest and detention "completely atrocious" and "unwarranted harassment and intimidation". The chief ministers of both Bengal and Delhi have also expressed outrage. Mamata Banerjee condemned the centre for arresting those protesting against its policies and Arvind Kejriwal called Ravi's arrest an "unprecedented attack on democracy". Last week the Supreme Court issued Twitter and the centre a notice on a petition asking for a mechanism to check fake news, hate messages and incendiary content on its platform. Social media accounts were used by political parties to "tarnish the image of opponents'', particularly during elections, the BJP's Vinit Goenka, who filed the petition, said. This comes at a time the centre is demanding the deletion of 1,000 accounts and posts that it says are spreading provocative content linked to the farmers' protests. Twitter said the content was not blocked because the centre's orders were not in line with Indian laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
15-02-2021||India||Kanhaiya meets Nitish aide, sets off speculations in NDA||Many eyebrows were raised in Bihar on Monday as news broke of a meeting between CPI's rising star Kanhaiya Kumar and Ashok Choudhary, a minister and key aide of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. A fiery former JNU student leader, Kanhaiya has been soft toward Nitish Kumar despite their parties rarely getting on the same page on most issues. Kanhaiya met Choudhary on Sunday. During his failed bid for the Lok Sabha in 2019, the former student leader had avoided attacking Kumar. Kumar had come out in support of Kanhaiya when the JNU controversy erupted in 2016. The JD(U) was then not a part of the BJP-led NDA. The two retained the soft spot for each other even after Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA in 2017. Choudhary had headed the state unit of the JD(U) during the assembly elections and played an instrumental role recently in enlisting the support of the sole BSP MLA Zama Khan and independent legislator Sumit Singh, both of whom were inducted into the cabinet last week. He had also caused jitters in the LJP, an ally turned adversary, by inviting its sole MLA Raj Kumar Singh to his residence for a book launch function a few weeks back. Choudhary's meeting with Kanhaiya, a staunch communist, came at a time when the charismatic young politician is said to have been left mortified by a censure motion that the CPI recently passed against him. The party action had followed alleged manhandling of a key CPI official attached to the state headquarters here. Earlier, there had been tensions between the aspiring leader and his party during the Lok Sabha elections when the CPI reportedly insisted that he share a part of money he had raised through crowd-funding. Kanhaiya had fought from his home constituency Begusarai, where he lost to Union minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh by a massive margin. Nonetheless, the contest had created a lot of buzz and brought many celebrities from far-off places to the dusty town in support of the young leader who has been slapped with a sedition case for allegedly raising anti-national slogans at JNU. Sources close to Kanhaiya as well as Choudhary insisted that it was a "non-political" meeting and that both have known each other for long. It has, nonetheless, evoked reactions from those holding strong views on nationalism and against the so-called "tukde tukde gang". Subhash Singh, a state minister from the BJP quota, called the former JNUSU president a "lunatic" (paagal) and said his meeting with a senior leader of an alliance partner was "not appropriate" (theek nahin hai). Ajay Alok, a JD(U) spokesman, reacted "Kahaiya shall be welcome into our party if he chooses to give up his perverse (vikrit) ideology. Kanhaiya is also understood to have been disappointed with his party's decision to side with the RJD, which had queered the pitch for him in the Lok Sabha polls by fielding its candidate, and acknowledge Tejashwi Yadav as undisputed leader of the five-party Grand Alliance. Yadav, who has for all practical purposes inherited the legacy of his father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, is said to be wary of the former student leader who is of the same age but exhibits superior oratorical skills and grasp of issues. Some in the ruling alliance said on condition of anonymity that the meeting could have been yet another attempt by the JD(U) to raise its stock after its unsatisfactory performance in the assembly elections. A few hours after Kanhaiya's meeting with Choudhary, Chandan Kumar Singh, an LJP MP, called on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad latched on the development to berate the LJP, saying "Chirag Paswan has been alleging that his constituency of Jamui has been neglected and there has been no progress in Bihar at all. The meeting between his party MP and the chief minister is a rebuff to his brand of politics". The LJP sought to downplay the significance of the meeting. "Our respected MP must have met the chief minister with regard to development works in his constituency. We wonder what is there to be so excited about," LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said in a video statement. Paswan had pulled out of the NDA ahead of the assembly polls, vowing to decimate the JD(U) and help the BJP seize power. He fielded candidates against all JD(U) nominees, many of them rebels from the saffron party, a strategy that cost Nitish Kumar's party dear and reduced it to the status of a junior partner to the BJP in the state for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
15-02-2021||India||Opposition attacks Centre over climate activist's arrest||The action taken by the Delhi Police on an FIR related to a toolkit shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the ongoing farmer protests has triggered a war of words between the opposition and the ruling BJP. Accusing the government of "murdering democracy" by using force against a 21-year-old, the opposition on Monday said the voice of India cannot be silenced even as the BJP defended the action, saying a crime is a crime no matter at what age. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the opposition offensive following the arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi in the case and said the country will not be silenced. "Your lips are free to speak. Say that the truth is still alive. They are scared, not the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "India will not be silenced," he added. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime." RJD leader Manoj Jha said democracy is under threat. "I am worried about democracy, as it is passing through the most difficult times," he said. Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: "If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some toolkit propagandists." BJP general secretary B L Santosh tweeted: "21 year old...environment activist...student...Are these credentials for becoming a part of breaking India forces? How does she get the access for editing tool kit...? Why she is part of anti-national WhatsApp groups...? Many questions...But only one answer...21 year old." "Bengaluru, Greta Thunberg, Vegan, sole bread winner, student, 21 year old, passionate activist...so many attempts to white wash a sin...!! Not one anarchist ready to answer the question...How 21 year old student got access to edit Toolkit," he asked. Former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh have also come out strongly against the police action in the case, accusing the government of running an authoritarian regime as it was threatened by a student. "I strongly condemn the arrest of Disha Ravi and urge all students and youth to raise their voices to protest against the authoritarian regime," Chidambaram said. "The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22 year old student of Mount Carmel college and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation. "A 'took kit' to support the farmers' protest is more dangerous than the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory. India is becoming the theatre of the absurd and it is sad that the Delhi Police has become a tool of the oppressors," he said in a series of tweets. Ramesh said, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...." "This is Tanashaahi in New India called Amit Shahi," he said. "The arrest and the manner of arrest of green activist Disha Ravi shows clearly the intensifying Murder Of Democracy in India. But the young in India cannot be silenced. More power to them," the former environment minister added. In a tweet in Hindi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The ones with guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. The flames of courage from an unarmed girl have spread." She also used hashtags "ReleaseDishaRavi" and "IndiaBeingSilenced". Congress leader Rajeev Gowda said an activist who stands up for farmers, fights for the planet is arrested on flimsy grounds. "Has the government lost its balance? Will not such trumped-up charges, seeing conspiracy in regular social media mobilisation, do more damage to democracy?" he asked. Reacting to the Opposition charges, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said, "A criminal is a criminal, gender and age are immaterial if not a juvenile. Just for your knowledge, Kasab was 21 when he attacked Mumbai." "Supporting 'farmers' is not a crime but conspiring against India and inciting others surely is," he said. BJP's IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya said, "The Left has been using young impressionable minds as cannon fodder for their deranged politics for a long time. From JNU to Jamia, AMU to Nadwa and now Disha Ravi, are all part of their sinister plot...Unfortunately they are abandoned soon after they have served their purpose." The Delhi Police said non-bailable warrants have been issued against two people for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to farmers' protests on social media, two days after it arrested climate activist Ravi in connection with the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to five days' police remand by a Delhi court on Sunday. The two suspects against whom the non-bailable warrants have been issued are Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, the police said, adding that the duo was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Farmers ridiculed in Parliament, ministers called them traitors: Priyanka Gandhi||Accusing the Narendra Modi-led Union government of insulting farmers, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said the men who protect the country's borders are sons of farmers. Addressing a "kisan panchayat" in UP's Bijnore, the Congress leader said farmers were ridiculed in Parliament and dubbed as traitors by ministers. "The farmer who is standing on your door, his son is standing at the border of the country. The farmer whom you are insulting, his son is safeguarding the country's border,” she said referring to the protest against the farm laws at the Delhi borders. They were given a new name 'aandolanjivi' and 'parijivi'. All of you know the meaning of 'parijivi'. Your ministers called the farmers traitors, she said. Priyanka also criticised Haryana minister J P Dalal, who had stoked a controversy on Saturday saying the farmers who died during the course of the agitation would have passed away even if they had stayed back home. Stressing that martyrdom is a significant thing, she said, "No one has the right to raise a finger on a person who has attained martyrdom while protesting for his rights, be it the prime minister or any other minister." Attacking the prime minister, the Congress leader alleged that the central laws are not for farmers but for his capitalist friends. The country is not blind and every citizen is watching as to what is happening in the country for the past seven years. His capitalist friends are running the entire media, his capitalist friends run his elections, she said. All big industries set up in the past 75 years have been sold and plans are afoot to sell the unsold ones. What will such a government do for you," Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked. Further lashing out at the PM, she said, "The prime minister can go to the US, hold a gathering for Trump (ex-US president), visit China and Pakistan, and there is no country which he has not visited. And you could not go two-three kilometres from your house and meet the farmers who are saying please come and talk to us." "There are two types of leaders. There are some leaders who have a lot of arrogance and they forget as to who gave them power. In the history of the country, whenever a leader has become arrogant, the people of the country have taught him a lesson, and he feels ashamed. Then he understands what his religion is. His religion is not to divide people but to work for their development. Top priority should be given to the public and you (leader) should be behind them," she said. After the Congress leader ended her speech, a two-minute silence was observed for the farmers who died during the course of the protest. The farmer unions protesting against the centre's farm laws have claimed that over 200 farmers have died during the course of the agitation that started in November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||'Toolkit' created by Disha, Nikita and Shantanu, claims Delhi police||The Delhi Police on Monday alleged that climate activist Disha Ravi along with two other suspects Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created the "toolkit" document related to the farmers' protest and shared in on social media. The police claimed Disha, who was arrested by the force on Saturday from Bengaluru, sent the "toolkit" to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg via Telegram app. Addressing a press conference, Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Prem Nath claimed that Disha deleted a WhatsApp group she created to spread the "toolkit". The Delhi Police earlier today issued non-bailable warrants against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest on social media, two days after it arrested climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the case. The police said that the trio was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements. The police have been conducting raids in Mumbai and other places to nab the duo. The Delhi Police had on Sunday claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police on Sunday told the court that Ravi's custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Police also alleged that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State." "She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police claimed in a tweet. Nath claimed that Nikita and Shantanu attended a zoom meeting organised by 'pro-khalistani' group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) and added that Jacob was also one of the editors of "toolkit" document. "Disha, Shantanu and Nikita created and edited the toolkit. Disha sent the toolkit to Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app. Disha deleted a WhatsApp group which she created to spread the toolkit. Due procedure was followed during Dishal's arrest," he said. Ravi was sent to five days police remand on Sunday by a Delhi court here. Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestor died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about e-mail id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||WhatsApp and Centre get SC notice over lower privacy standards for Indians users||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre and WhatsApp to reply to a fresh plea alleging lower standards of privacy for Indians in comparison to European users saying it is the duty of the judiciary to protect citizens' privacy. People have grave apprehensions that they will lose their privacy and it is our duty to protect them, the top court said. "You may be two or three trillion companies but people value their privacy more than money," a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told WhatsApp even as it sought to argue that Europe has special data protection laws which India doesn't. The apex court issued notice to the government and the Facebook-owned app on an interim application filed by Karmanya Singh Sareen in a pending petition of 2017. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioner, argued that the messaging app was applying lower standards of privacy for Indians and they be barred from sharing data with Facebook. The bench observed, "We are impressed by Mr. Divan's argument that it was proposed before us that a data protection law would be brought into force. "Now under this policy you will share data of Indians." Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, contended that Europe has a special law (General Data Protection Regulation) and it will follow law if the Parliament makes a similar law here. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that citizens have great apprehension about loss of their privacy and they think that their data and chats being shared with others and it has to be looked into. The Centre told the apex court that the social media apps cannot share data of users and data must be protected. The petitioner challenged privacy policy alleging that there is huge metadata of users which is being shared for profit. The top court had in 2017 referred social media platform WhatsApp's privacy policy matter to a Constitution bench saying it concerns the larger issue of privacy and right to personal liberty. The appeal filed in the apex court by Karmanya Singh Sareen and Shreya Sethi assailed the Delhi high court verdict on the ground that no relief was granted for data shared by users post-September 25, 2016, and it amounted to an infringement of fundamental rights under Article 19 (Freedom of Speech and Expression) and 21 (Right to Life) of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Vijay Rupani tests positive for Coronavirus||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has tested positive for coronavirus, said a hospital where the CM is admitted after he fainted in a rally. He has mild symptoms and his condition is stable, the Ahmedabad-based medical facility said on Monday. On Sunday, Rupani, 64, fainted on stage while addressing a rally in Vadodara for the upcoming civic polls in the state, following which he was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted to the U N Mehta Heart Hospital here. Rupani's sample was collected on Sunday night and sent for RT-PCR test which has come out positive for coronavirus, said a health bulletin issued by the hospital on Monday. "His symptoms are mild and his condition is stable," it said. The hospital also said the chief minister fainted on Sunday due to "tiredness and physical weakness". His ECG, blood test and other examinations were conducted and their results are normal, it said. State Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel told reporters that on Sunday night it was decided to keep Rupani under observation for 24 hours. "After his test report came out positive for coronavirus, he is being treated for the infection as per the course and protocol," said Patel, who also holds charge of the health department. It has been decided not to allow any visitors to meet Rupani, he said. Rupani had mild fever since the last couple of days and was taking medicine for the same, Patel said, adding the CM does not have any co-morbid condition like diabetes or blood pressure. The CM will undergo regular medical checkup and will be given treatment as per the requirement. He will be discharged as per the decision of doctors, Patel said. He said Rupani fainted during the rally on Sunday due to "exhaustion and sleeplessness" caused due to his very busy schedule since the last one week. Rupani addressed rallies in Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Vadodara in the last two days. He was regularly attending meetings of the BJP's state parliamentary board and also giving interviews to TV channels in the wake of the upcoming local body polls, he said. Patel also informed that BJP's MP from Kutch Vinod Chavda and state party general secretary Bhikhu Dalsania had also tested positive for coronavirus a few days back. Both of them are undergoing treatment at the U N Mehta Heart Hospital, he added. Elections to six municipal corporations, including Vadodara, will be held on February 21, while those for various other municipalities, districts and taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||SC grants 5-day bail to arrested Kerala scribe to visit ailing mother||The Supreme Court Monday granted 5-day bail to journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being allegedly gang-raped, to visit his ailing mother for five days. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, however, said that during his visit he shall not give any interview to the media, including social media. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that Siddique will not meet members of the public except his relatives and doctors concerned. It said Siddique will be escorted by a team of Uttar Pradesh police officers and police at Kerala will cooperate with them. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020 while he was on his way to Hathras, home to the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men on September 14. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage. The police had said it has arrested four people having alleged links with the PFI in Mathura and identified the arrested persons as Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Three more bodies recovered, toll rises to 53 in Uttarakhand glacier burst||Three more bodies were recovered on Monday from the flood-ravaged Tapovan tunnel, taking the toll in the glacial disaster in Uttarakhand to 53. The bodies were recovered this morning from the Adit tunnel at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad project site, Chamoli District Magistrate, Swati S Bhadauria, told PTI. Rescue efforts are now underway at the Silt Flushing Tunnel (SFT) only with the help of excavators as a camera or a pipe cannot be inserted due to mounds of sludge and water choking it, the district magistrate said. "The SFT at Tapovan where drilling was completed on Saturday night in the hope of inserting a camera to locate those believed to be trapped inside is also badly choked with slush and water," she said. "Rescue or recovery is possible only with the help of excavators now," she said. Officials said over 150 people still remain missing after the February 7 devastation, possibly triggered by an avalanche in the upper reaches of the Alaknanda river system. A surge of water in Dhauliganga and Rishiganga rivers had ripped through two hydel projects. Asked about the chances of survival of those missing or trapped, the district magistrate said, "We must always try to be hopeful when the circumstances are adverse." Around 30 people, who were at work inside the tunnel when the flashflood occurred, are believed to be trapped inside the SFT at Tapovan. The last rites of those pulled out dead after DNA sampling and other formalities have also been going on and compensation cheques are also being distributed among the next of kin of the deceased. Families of those from outside Chamoli district killed in the tragedy are being paid compensation of Rs 4 lakh each through bankers cheques by the concerned district administration. Over 500 ration kits carrying foodgrains and essentials have already been distributed among residents of over a dozen villages that were cut off from the district headquarters following the disaster that struck a week ago. Electricity supply has been restored in all affected villages except Pang where solar lanterns have been provided to residents for the time being, she said. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||After Disha Ravi, non-bailable arrest warrants issued against two activists in toolkit document case||Non-bailable warrants have been issued against two people for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest on social media, the Delhi Police said on Monday, two days after it arrested climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru and sent to five days police remand on Sunday by a Delhi court here. The two suspects against whom the non-bailable warrants have been issued include Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, police said, adding that the duo was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements. "Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. The two are wanted in connection with the toolkit case. They are suspected to be involved in preparing the documents and were also in direct interaction with pro-Khalistani elements," a senior police officer said. The police are conducting raids in Mumbai and other places to nab the duo. The Delhi Police had on Sunday claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Police also alleged that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State." "She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police claimed in a tweet. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police on Sunday told the court that her custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called Ravi's arrest unprecedented attack on democracy while the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is leading the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders, too condemned the activist's arrest and demanded her immediate release. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestor died during the Republic Day violence. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about e-mail id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. Nikita Jacob on Monday approached the Bombay High Court seeking transit anticipatory bail. Jacob's plea seeking urgent hearing was mentioned before the Bombay High Court's single bench of Justice P D Naik on Monday. The high court said it would hear the plea on Tuesday. Jacob in her plea sought transit anticipatory bail for a period of four weeks so that she can approach the court concerned in Delhi to apply for pre-arrest bail. The advocate in her plea said she is unaware whether she is named as an accused or witness in the case. "However, the applicant (Jacob) fears that she may be arrested due to political vendetta and media trial," her application said. It further said the FIR registered in the case was "false and baseless" and Jacob has already cooperated with the cyber cell of the Delhi police and recorded her statement. "Some entity named Legal Rights Observatory appears to have filed a false and baseless complaint with the Delhi police and seeks to pin the blame for violence on January 26, 2021 upon the applicant as well," the plea said. As per the application, on February 11, a team of Delhi police came to Jacob's house in Goregaon area of Mumbai with a search warrant and seized documents and electronic gadgets. "The applicant has no religious, political or financial motive or agenda for researching, discussing, editing and circulating communication packs/toolkits for raising awareness, let alone to incite violence, riots and/or cause any other physical harm," the application said. It said Jacob was a practising advocate in the Bombay High Court who volunteers for environmental causes. "The applicant was deeply concerned about the recent farm laws and villainising of farmers," the application said. It said Jacob's personal information and details are being circulated on social media. The application further said that absolute lies are being spread to incite hate and violence against Jacob by claiming she has ties with political parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||Fifteen killed as truck overturns in Maharashtra||Fifteen people were killed and five others injured after a truck carrying labourers overturned and fell into a roadside pit in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district in the wee hours of Monday, police said. The accident took place near a temple in Kingaon village around 1 am when the papaya-laden truck was on its way to Yawal tehsil in Jalgaon from Dhule, an official from Yawal police station said. The deceased included two children, aged 3 and 5 years, and a 15-year-old girl. The labourers belonged to Abhoda, Vivra, Kerhala villages and Raver tehsil in the district, the official said. After the accident, police and some locals rushed to the spot and the truck was brought out of the pit with the help of a JCB machine, he said. Fifteen people were killed and five others, including the truck driver, received injuries, the official said. The injured people have been admitted to Jalgaon Civil Hospital where two of them are reported to be in a serious condition, he said. Jalgaon's Additional Superintendent of Police Chandrakant Gavli told PTI that the accident may have taken place due to a technical fault in the vehicle. "But, we have asked the regional transport office (RTO) to submit a report. A case has been registered against the truck driver under Indian Penal Code Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder)," he said. The deceased have been identified as Hussain Muslim Maniyar (30), Sarfaraz Tadvi (32), Digambar Sapkale (55), Narendra Wagh (25), Dildar Tadvi (20), Ashok Wagh (40), Durgabai Adakmol (20), Ganesh More (5), Sagar Wagh (3), Sharda Ramesh More (15), Sangeeta Ashok Wagh (35), Yamunabai Ingle (45), Kamlabai More (45), Sabnoor Tadvi (53) and Sandip Bhalerao (25), another official said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday expressed grief at the loss of lives, and conveyed their condolences to the bereaved families. "Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet posted by his office.  Kovind said he was deeply distressed by the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra's Jagaon. "Deeply distressed to learn that a truck carrying labourers, women and children overturned near Jalgaon in Maharashtra resulting in deaths of many. My thoughts and prayers are with their families and wish an early recovery for the injured," Kovind said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||India logs 11,649 fresh Covid cases, 90 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,09,16,589 with 11,649 new infections, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the ninth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,732 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,21,220 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.29 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total COVID-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,637 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,67,16,634 samples have been tested up to February 14 with 4,86,122 samples being tested on Sunday. The 90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra and 15 from Kerala, 6 from Tamil Nadu and 5 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,55,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,529 from Maharashtra followed by 12,419 from Tamil Nadu, 12,265 from Karnataka, 10,891 from Delhi, 10,232 from West Bengal, 8,702 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
15-02-2021||India||For IIT, Abdul Kalam’s BC Roy  is Narendra Modi’s SP Mookerjee||On Saturday night, IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation on February 23: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.” Fourteen years ago, on May 17, 2007, while laying the foundation stone for the project, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the then President, had said: “I am very happy that this multi-speciality research centre is named after the great personality of India, Dr B.C. Roy, who was a freedom fighter and a professional doctor.” Between the foundation stone-laying and the inauguration, the name of the institute has undergone a metamorphosis that reflects the change the country, too, has undergone. Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee — founder of the Jana Sangh, the precursor to the BJP — appears to have elbowed out Dr B.C. Roy, the maker of modern Bengal. This newspaper sent text messages to the director asking whether Prime Minister Modi would be inaugurating the same facility that was initially named after B.C. Roy, but there was no response till 10pm. Repeated calls to the mobile number of the director went unanswered. Registrar Tamal Nath said he had no information whether the facility renamed after Mookerjee would be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. Sources said the hospital for which Kalam had laid the foundation stone and the one proposed to be opened on February 23 were the same. The super-speciality hospital at Balarampur outside the campus is part of the IIT’s plans to start its own medical college and has come up on an 18-acre plot belonging to the institute. The sources said the decision to rename the hospital after Mookerjee, who was not a medical doctor, was taken last December at a meeting of all the heads of departments at IIT Kharagpur and teachers. But the first known official word on the subject came only on Saturday night when Tewari, the IIT director, uploaded the Facebook post. The post made no mention of either the original name of the project or what President Kalam had said then. According to the government’s website on the former President, Kalam had gone on to say in his address on May 17, 2007, at Kharagpur: “He (B.C. Roy) has done so much to the country in medical and political system. Dr B.C. Roy believed that Swaraj would remain a dream unless the people were healthy and strong in mind and body. He made contributions to the organisation of medical education, established hospitals, medical college, and centre for training women in nursing and social work. I am sure this name will be ringing in the minds of all the students and faculty members and the tradition of service set by Dr. B.C. Roy will be followed.” Campus sources said that B.C. Roy’s name had been proposed by Ajay Kumar Roy, then head of the school of medical science and research, IIT Kharagpur. He had sent the name to the IIT’s board of governors and the board had approved the name. “It was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science,” an official said. A teacher said that many in the faculty had been stunned by the renaming but could not speak out as the authorities had issued a gag order in June barring teachers from “making adverse criticism of any current policy and action of the institute” in public. “We are so terrified that we don’t oppose any policy in private, either. When the director said the Prime Minister himself would be inaugurating the facility, we realised that there was no point protesting,” said a teacher who did not want to be named. Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharagpur, said: “It will be quite a spectacle at IIT Kharagpur that the small hospital on the campus will continue to be known as BC Roy Technology Hospital and the super-speciality one would be renamed after someone who has nothing to do with medicine.” The IIT now provides indoor and outdoor medical facilities for common ailments at the BC Roy Technology Hospital, located in the heart of the campus. An official said the director did not want both facilities to be named after B.C. Roy, so the super-speciality hospital had been renamed after Mookerjee. Last year, Prime Minister Modi had renamed Kolkata Port Trust after Syama Prasad Mookerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Climate activist arrested, cry of ‘witch-hunt’ of youths||Delhi police have arrested a 22-year-old climate activist from Bangalore on sedition charges, accusing her of being an “editor (of) and key conspirator” behind a social media “toolkit” on the farmers’ agitation that Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had tweeted early this month. The Delhi police’s long silence on Disha Ravi’s arrest and a haze on whether transit remand was obtained before she was taken to Delhi have prompted activists to call the police action “sinister” and an “extra-judicial abduction”. According to Delhi police, the toolkit — which allegedly provided advice on how to participate in the January 26 Kisan Parade — was part of an international conspiracy, with Khalistani involvement, to wage war against India. Bangalore police were tight-lipped but sources said Delhi police officers had taken Disha into custody from her north Bangalore home on Saturday, seized her laptop and mobile phone, and flown her to Delhi the same night. While Delhi police report to the BJP-run Centre, Karnataka has a government headed by the party. Disha broke down during her production at Delhi’s Patiala House courts on Sunday, denied the conspiracy charge and said she was only supporting the farmers’ protest. She has been remanded in police custody for five days. A business administration graduate from the Mount Carmel College in Bangalore, Disha is part of the Thunberg-initiated Fridays For Future global movement that encourages schoolchildren to skip classes on Fridays to demonstrate for action to prevent climate change. An unsigned media release from a group of “youth-based environmental collectives” that condemned Disha’s arrest described her as the sole earning member of the family. A friend said Disha worked for a company that made “vegan products”. The group accused the government of targeting dissenting youths and urged it to stop the “witch-hunt” and “start treating citizens of this country with greater humility and respect”. A Delhi police tweet said on Sunday, tagging the offices of the Prime Minister and the home minister: “Disha Ravi, arrested by Delhi police, is an editor of the toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination.” The police added: “She started WhatsApp group & collaborated to make the toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc. In this process, they all collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg. “Later, she asked Greta to remove the main Doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims.” Thunberg had on February 3 night shared an old toolkit that expressed support for the Republic Day tractor rally and provided details of the upcoming online and street protests. She then realised her mistake and on February 4 uploaded an updated toolkit that offered tips on how to join the farmers’ ground protests, express support on social media, sign petitions and demonstrate near Indian missions abroad. While the police were not very forthcoming, it appears the charges are related largely to the older toolkit. On February 4, Delhi police had registered an FIR against the unnamed creators of the toolkit, alleging an international conspiracy to defame the country and wage “social, cultural and economic war against India” by instigating the farmers’ protest. Charges were slapped under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). A statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the farmers’ protest, said: “SKM condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of the farmers. We also demand her immediate unconditional release.” The statement from the “youth-based environmental collectives” said: “We are extremely distressed to find out that a daughter of a single mother, an avid animal lover, sole earning member of the family was whisked away forcefully by members of Delhi police. “To imply that toolkits are some conspiracy gizmos used by foreign forces to destabilise India is as stupid as the ‘Cow was abducted by aliens’ rubbish that was aired by some mainstream media channels that are now airing this nonsense. “We know Ms Disha to be a member of this vast collective network. We know her to be a person of immense integrity who has nothing but the best interests at heart. She, like us, is invested in this work that we do because she knows and understands the severity and seriousness of the climate crisis all of us find ourselves in.” It added: “We are sure that her social media and personal equipment that have been confiscated will reflect nothing other than the immense concern that she, like us, has for this world…. We are... extremely worried about her safety and well being.” The group demanded that Disha be “released immediately, her records (be) expunged and she (be) escorted safely back to her home and to her family”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||50-year-old farmer commits suicide over inflated bill in Uttar Pradesh ||A 50-year-old farmer in Uttar Pradesh hanged himself allegedly after he was handed an inflated electricity bill of Rs 1.5 lakh and slapped by officials when he said he did not have the money to pay it. In protest, people placed Ramji Lal’s body in front of the local electricity department office and refused to proceed with the last rites until a case is filed against the sub-divisional officer and junior engineer, who had allegedly had gone to the farmer’s house and slapped him in front of his family members. Police assured the protesters that action would be taken after necessary procedures. The victim’s nephew, Ramcharan, and other family members lodged a police complaint that the amount of Rs 1,500 had erroneously been shown as Rs 1.5 lakh in the bill. The incident took place at Sunaira village in Aligarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||NewsClick: Raid ends after 113 hours||The Enforcement Directorate’s NewsClick-related searches ended after 113 hours at the home of its 73-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha on Sunday around 1.30am. Raids on the investigative news site, that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit by the Adani group and has extensively covered the farmers’ protests, started at several locations in the capital on Tuesday morning. Eight officers wound up the raid at the South Delhi apartment where Purkayastha lives with 67-year-old author Githa Hariharan. After the officials left, Purkayastha thanked civil society and journalists for their support. He told reporters waiting outside: “We are not interested in being the news, we want to cover what is happening, what the news is. And this (the raid) is something that we will take the way it is meant to be taken. This will not stop us. We will continue to do what a news organisation should do, which is cover people’s issues and take positions.” The ED is yet to explain why the raid took so long or why  the two senior citizens were confined. Their two sons, who live elsewhere in the capital, were allowed to visit under the supervision of the ED. Hariharan was allowed to attend an online literature festival on Saturday. The ED is also yet to publicly reveal its findings and charges, if any. Purkayastha said: “It is one of the longest raids that I know of by the ED. Basically, it seems to be that I have a lot of emails. I am an old email user, since 2005, of gmail. It seems I had too much for them to take down quickly.” A source confirmed that the officials had largely been copying email and other electronic data from devices at the home since Thursday. Purkayastha is expected to be called to the ED headquarters this week. Some NewsClick shareholders and their families whose homes were searched have also faced tangential remarks or queries on their links to the CPM, the farmers’ protests, and jailed rights activist Gautam Navlakha who was associated with the website. Several of them, like Purkayastha who was jailed during the Emergency, are members of the party. On Friday, NewsClick described news reports of alleged illegitimate financial transactions as a “selective leak of misleading facts”. “Nothing but a malicious attempt to smear the image of Newsclick and discredit our journalism.” The Left and the Congress had condemned the raids. On Saturday, former Union minister Yashwant Sinha tweeted: “Raid on NewsClick Editor’s house has gone on for 80 hours. Can there be a worst example of govt’s attempt to gag the media. Yet even the media is quiet. Are you afraid your turn will come sooner than later? Stand up and be counted.” Congress MP Karti Chidambaram also tweeted: “How many will this @BJP4India regime try to silence & intimidate via it’s favourite agency @dir_ed? Where is the collective outrage among the media fraternity? The media won’t even stand up for one of its own?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||A.K. Antony accuses Modi government of “appeasing” Beijing||Former defence minister A.K. Antony has described the terms of disengagement with China as “surrender”, accusing the Narendra Modi government of “appeasing” Beijing by compromising on India’s territorial integrity. “It’s surrender. Decreasing tension on the border is good. But on what terms? At what cost? At the cost of national security? On terms dictated by China? This is a compromise with India’s territorial integrity,” the former defence minister, who knows the nature of border disputes with China, declared on Sunday. “They (the government) agreed to disengagement on Chinese terms. Then to appease China, they sent a message that they don’t want to confront China by not increasing the defence budget (sizeably),” the former defence minister said. Antony explained: “Last year’s revised estimate for defence was Rs 4.71 lakh crore. This year’s allocation is Rs 4.78 lakh crore. An increase of a mere 1.48 per cent. Meagre. Insignificant. This is betrayal. The government has let the forces down. “We are facing almost a two-front war situation. Pakistan, as usual, is creating trouble. They are still encouraging terrorism. China has become more belligerent. We see troops mobilisation and infrastructure development all across India’s borders with China. Then this message to China through the budget.” The BJP has used the word “appeasement” for decades to torment the Congress for its policies towards minorities. Now the ruling party has to confront this charge in the context of China — an accusation that is bound to cut deep as Modi has built his persona on a projection of robust leadership. After Rahul Gandhi’s blunt attack on Modi’s handling of the Chinese intrusion as “one hundred per cent cowardice”, Antony’s charge of appeasing China and compromising on India’s territorial integrity too takes aim at the Prime Minister’s carefully crafted image. Antony said: “Areas traditionally under Indian control have been given up. We have ceded our land to create a buffer zone inside Indian territory. Our forces used to patrol till Finger 8. The Chinese came to Finger 4. The area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 was disputed. Scuffles occurred occasionally but we never accepted the Chinese claim. India had a post at Finger 4. But we have now agreed to be stationed at Finger 3, the permanent headquarters there. The Chinese have clearly gained. We have surrendered.” Cautioning the country against adverse fallouts, the former defence minister said: “If this pattern goes like that in Arunachal, Depsang, Gogra, Hot Springs, what will happen? The government is not realising the dangers. It is creating a wrong precedent. In 2017, China agreed on the status quo in Doklam but they are still there. The government must tell the nation what plan it has to restore status quo ante April 2020. The LAC cannot be redrawn.” Pointing out that the Galwan Valley was never a point of dispute, Antony said: “We should understand the importance of the Galwan Valley. If China wants to play mischief, it can help Pakistan capture Siachen. I don’t know how our brave soldiers took control of the Kailash ranges. That was miraculous. We could have used that as a bargaining counter. But we agreed to withdraw from there. Why are we ceding our national interests? We lost 20 soldiers… we thought the government would honour their sacrifice. It is sad that the Modi government is not giving proper priority to national security.” Ironically, the charge has come on the anniversary of the day 40 CRPF personnel were killed in Pulwama in 2019, a tragedy that changed the course of the last general election. Many Congress leaders recalled the Pulwama incident, wondering about the security and intelligence failures that led to the massacre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Kashmir: Three former chief ministers allege detention at homes||Three former chief ministers and their families were allegedly confined in their homes on Sunday, the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack that killed 40 CRPF personnel, prompting Omar Abdullah to take a swipe at “new” Kashmir. Police neither acknowledged nor denied the allegation but said the trio — Omar, father Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti — had been informed in advance not to travel on Sunday in the light of adverse intelligence inputs. Omar denied the police had issued any such advisory. “This is the ‘naya/new J&K’ after Aug 2019. We get locked up in our homes with no explanation. It’s bad enough they’ve locked my father (a sitting MP) & me in our home, they’ve locked my sister & her kids in their home as well,” Omar tweeted. No restrictions were placed on the movement of politicians in Jammu, however, despite the police claiming to have seized 6.5kg of improvised explosive devices near the Jammu bus stand and averted a terror attack on the anniversary. The February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack had brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war and helped the Narendra Modi government make terrorism, Pakistan and a muscular nationalism its main campaign planks for the April-May general election, which it won. During the Pulwama attack’s first anniversary last year, the three former chief ministers were in the middle of months of detention that had begun when the government abrogated Article 370 provisions on August 5, 2019. A People’s Democratic Party spokesperson said Mehbooba and her family too had been confined in their home. Omar, Farooq and Mehbooba live in Srinagar’s Gupkar neighbourhood. Following Omar’s allegation, the police claimed that VIP movement had been “discouraged” on Sunday. “Today is 2nd anniversary of dreaded Lethpora (Pulwama) terror incident. There shall be no ROP on ground. Due to adverse inputs, movement of VIPs/ protected persons has been discouraged and all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour today,” the Srinagar police tweeted. “ROP” stands for “road-opening party” — a group of personnel who secure a road before movement by the security forces or any VVIP. Omar suggested the police claim was untrue. “Please share the written communication address to me & acknowledged by me (or my office) informing us in advance of these restrictions. Surely this anniversary didn’t come as a surprise to the administration,” he said. On Saturday, Mehbooba had been prevented from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, a 17-year-old student killed on December 30 along with two others in an alleged gunfight. The police claim the trio were militants but their families have denied the allegation. The police recently lodged an FIR against Mushtaq’s father and relatives for demanding his body. The three were buried 150km from their homes as part of a government strategy not to hand over militants’ bodies to their families. Mehbooba has uploaded a video on her Twitter handle, in which she seeks an explanation why she is not being allowed to visit Mushtaq’s family. Jammu police chief Mukesh Singh said two men — Suhail, a Kashmiri studying nursing in Chandigarh, and Qazi — had been detained in connection with the explosives haul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Crony capital will exploit farmer, and consumer too: Ratan Khasnabis||While the US and western Europe, bastions of capitalism, massively subsidise their farm sector, the pro-market and pro-capital Narendra Modi is not ready to grant a legal guaranteed even to the minimum support price (MSP). Why? What is the difference between advanced western capitalism and crony Indian capitalism? Ratan Khasnabis, the eminent Marxian professor of economics, explores this contradiction in an interview with the author, a professor of human sciences. Q: Our country’s ruling dispensation has been described as a Rightwing conservative government devoted to the principles and practice of market economy. If true, why isn’t the NDA following the market principles of the US and western Europe and subsidising the farm sector heavily? Khasnabis: There is a basic and big difference between advanced capitalism in the West and crony capitalism in the developing world. Advanced capitalism knows very well that capitalism cannot survive without subsidising agriculture which, because of its nature of production, has to remain less capital-intensive. In fact, the same amount of invested capital will generate less surplus in agriculture compared to non-agriculture. Hence, you cannot attract capital to agriculture unless you ensure a higher rate of profit in this area. This provides the rationale for subsidising agriculture, corn production in particular, in a framework of capitalist production with the provision for free mobility of capital from one sector to the other. The hard truth is that unless you provide subsidy, capital will move away from agriculture. In a closed economy, on the other hand, corn prices will go up, wages will increase and industrial profit will decline. In short, by not subsidising agriculture, you may thus kill your industry. Corn import may be suggested as a way out but no advanced country finds it prudent to do so because it may endanger food security, the political cost of which is very high. Capital in advanced countries is aware of this logic. No wonder then that US farmers got more than $22 billion in government payments in 2019, the highest level of farm subsidies in the last 14 years, and the corporate sector paid for it. In NDA’s India, however, there has developed a political dispensation that addresses the issue of agricultural reforms from the perspective of a very tiny section of capital, the section which wants to grab agriculture without paying its dues. In other words, that capitalism where the political dispensation is designed to serve the interest of a very tiny section of capital is crony capitalism. Here lies the difference between advanced capitalism in the West and crony capitalism in India. Crony capitalism in India and in the developing world establishes a smooth and steady relationship with the political power in dispensation, and they act together for mutual benefit. This tiny slice of crony capitalism supports the political power financially and the political power, in turn, bends laws and rules to suit their purpose. Q: How does crony capitalism operate and function? Let’s take a specific example of a specific product, say, rice or wheat? Khasnabis: Crony capital would target a double exploitation. It would pay less than the minimum support price to the producers. This is likely to happen because the corn market will now be under monopsony (many sellers and one or only a few buyers) without any MSP obligations. This is one aspect of exploitation — exploiting the producers by denying the MSP. The other aspect is that the consumers would have to pay more because the PDS (public distribution system) is likely to be undermined as mandi (regulated wholesale market) procurement is expected to reduce first and then stop eventually. In this situation, rice and atta will come in the market under various brand names, each having a higher price tag. For a section of Indians, accessibility to food would therefore be denied. The middle class or the upper class, not covered under the Food Security Act, would also have to pay more. Indeed, in this context, crony capital would find a market for super-exploitation. The middleman or phorey or dalal will very much remain present in the procurement process. The crony is unlikely to develop an alternative procurement machinery covering remote villages because that will be highly expensive. The commission that the middlemen get will be added to the overall cost and transferred to the buyers. The cronies, to be bitterly candid, will pay nothing. Q: This implies that the hated and criticised middlemen will continue to operate even after the implementation of the three farm laws? Khasnabis: Yes. They will get a new jersey. Their physiognomy will change but they will be very much present and active as the middlemen of the big companies, linking the latter with the actual producers. One needs to state very clearly here that capitalism, advanced or crony, cannot operate without dalals. So, (the idea that) phoreys will vanish once the farm laws are implemented is nothing more than a pipe dream. Q: The government has not given an official undertaking on a permanent legal guarantee for the MSP. In contrast, the big brothers — the US and western Europe — buy directly from the farmers and build their butter and cheese mountains. Even the prices of farm products at the retail and wholesale levels are controlled by the capitalist government. In short, not the principle of capitalisation but well-worked-out welfare measures are adopted to sustain the farm sector in the advanced West. Khasnabis: I explained why capitalism needs a subsidised agriculture. I would add that the advanced capitalist countries have added a crucial welfare dimension to it. Gone are the days of the Irish famine. But then, such measures too serve capital. Capital gets a healthy workforce that contributes to total productivity and growth as a result of these welfare measures. Q: The advanced and capitalist First World fulfils the preconditions of food security religiously. It doesn’t rush blindly into the cultivation of cash crops. Here, however, food security is being threatened and already hints are being dropped on the need to import basic foodstuff. That means our “capitalist” government is not following the principles of the big brothers even in this sphere. Why? Khasnabis: One of the three new laws for the farm sector creates a legal provision for contract farming. Under contract farming, large areas under food crop (cultivation) will be converted into cash crop (fields) and the products will target the international market, particularly the markets in western Europe where tropical fruits and vegetables are in high demand. As a result, all the four pillars of food security — availability, access, utilisation and stability — will be threatened, as has happened in Burkina Faso (in sub-Saharan Africa), which exports strawberries but has to import wheat. This grossly unequal trade-off is being allowed under the new political dispensation that confines its interests to serving a limited section of capital. Advanced countries never face such a situation because they have carefully developed a system where a tiny section of capital can never optimise its interests at the cost of the interests of capital at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Writers, activists and academics condemn Delhi police’s “sinister” arrest of young climate activist||A group of 80 writers, activists and academics on Sunday condemned Delhi police’s “sinister” arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi from Bangalore as an “extra-judicial abduction” and demanded her immediate release. “The government’s heavy-handedness is clearly focused on terrorising and traumatising these brave young people for speaking truth to power, and amounts to teaching them a lesson,” the statement said. The signatories include environmentalist Ashish Kothari, Carnatic vocalist and rights activist T.M. Krishna, writer Nityanand Jayaraman, Leo Saldanha of the Bangalore-based Environmental Support Group, and Kavita Krishnan of the All India Progressive Women’s Association. “A confident government must appreciate this resilience of our youth and hold open dialogues with them across the country. The current actions of the Indian government, instead, amount to gagging democracy itself,” the statement said. “India should count itself fortunate that conscientious young Indians are actively engaged with shaping their futures in the face of ecological catastrophes. Aware that the government policies are hurting millions and harming the environment, these youngsters are exercising their constitutional rights and performing their fundamental duties by systematically holding the government accountable.” Police have accused Disha of being an “editor” and “key conspirator” behind a Google Doc toolkit that allegedly provided advice on how to participate in the January 26 Kisan Parade and was shared early this month by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. Disha faces sedition and other charges, with the police alleging the toolkit was part of an international conspiracy to defame and wage war against India. The activists’ statement castigated the Delhi police for their “secretive operation” that violated the “due process of law” and betrayed their “disregard for the rule of law”. “Delhi police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year-old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction,” the statement said. The Delhi police have stated Disha’s age as 22 years, and an unsigned media release from a “youth-based environmental collective” that condemned the arrest described her as the “daughter of a single mother”. The activists’ statement said the manner in which Disha was taken away to Delhi was a violation of the due process of law. “Delhi police’s disregard for the rule of law is no secret. However, this action against an individual without following the due process of law, and in clear violation of norms for arrests and detentions laid down by the Supreme Court, reflects absolute contempt for constitutional principles,” it said. “The act of criminalising young people for extending solidarity to a struggle that resonates with their own aspirations for a healthy and secure future, strikes as a new low.” Several Congress leaders too criticised the arrest, Jairam Ramesh calling it “harassment and intimidation”. “Custodial interrogation of a young woman without any criminal antecedents cannot be justified,” Anand Sharma tweeted. Former home minister P. Chidambaram said: “The Indian State must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi... has become a threat to the nation. A ‘tool kit’ to support the farmers’ protest is more dangerous than the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory! India is becoming the theatre of the absurd and it is sad that the Delhi police have become a tool of the oppressors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Narendra Modi faces Twitter barrage from critics ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi faced a Twitter barrage from critics in Kerala and Tamil Nadu as he visited the two states on Sunday. While Tamil Nadu netizens revived the hashtag “GoBackModi”, also used during earlier visits, their Kerala counterparts dusted off the “PoMoneModi” hashtag from 2016, when the state had erupted against the Prime Minister’s comparison of its tribal infant mortality rate with Somalia’s. “Po Mone Modi” is derived from a film punch line and effectively means “Get lost, Modi”. Modi was in Tamil Nadu to lay the foundation stones for a few development projects and hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank to the army. He later flew to Kochi, where he inaugurated a petro-chemical project. #PoMoneModi and #GoBackModi were among the top trending hashtags on Twitter since Saturday night. Many from either state used both hashtags. One of them, Mohan Gandhi, tweeted: “Divided by language, united by feelings, say no to Sanghis.” Dhivya Marunthiah wrote: “The biggest victory of this hashtag is that they don’t need paid bots to make it trending. This is pure emotion of our people. Hey Hindia that’s #Tamilnadu & #Kerala for you.” “Hindia” is a sarcastic coinage against Hindi chauvinism. The reference to “bots” — software applications that run automated tasks over the Internet and are used widely to multiply social media “likes” — was an obvious dig at the BJP’s IT cell. A tweeter from Kerala, Rofl Republic, posted this comment: “Kerala, never forget how PM Modi compared Kerala to Somalia and insulted Keralites. Never ever forget!” Modi had in the run-up to the 2016 Kerala elections told a campaign rally that infant mortality among the state’s scheduled tribes was worse than Somalia’s. While Somalia has one of the highest rates of child malnutrition and infant mortality in the world, Kerala has the lowest infant mortality rate in India. “Kerala is against fascism, Kerala is against CAA, Kerala is against BJP, Kerala is with farmers,” tweeted Silpa. People from other states too joined in, Kamran from Bangalore tweeting: “He lied about 50 days, he lied about ending terrorism, he lied about ending corruption, he lied about ending counterfeit currency, he lied about demonetisation, and many many more…. This is the face of lies.” After the November 2016 demonetisation, Modi had said: “Give me 50 days, burn me alive if I’m wrong.” Many netizens tweeted news clippings of that comment. Some contrasted Modi’s security-cocooned travels with Rahul Gandhi’s knack for wading into crowds. “Rahul Gandhi walking on the roads & greeting common people, will Modi ever have guts to walk on any TN road and greet common people?” Madhu tweeted, posting pictures of the Congress leader mingling with huge crowds in Tamil Nadu. A Prime Minister’s security protocol discourages any impromptu mixing with crowds. Some seemed to enjoy egging netizens from the two states on to outdo each other. “Normally the BJP IT cell gets into a hashtag war with other parties. Today, the hashtag contest is actually between Tamizh (Tamil) & Malayali folks. Nobody can beat #GoBackModi on a Tamil (vere level) global scale. But Malayalis can hold their fort on #PoMoneModi. Game on folks!” tweeted Suby. “Vere” means “another”. Visits by Union home minister Amit Shah too have faced similar Twitter rage in Tamil Nadu and Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Five bodies found in tunnel, toll 50||Rescue teams on Sunday recovered 12 more bodies, including five brought out from the sludge-choked Tapovan power project tunnel where about 30 people were feared trapped after the flash flood in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on February 7. Six bodies were found from Raini upstream and one from the riverbank in Rudraprayag.  The number of those confirmed dead now stands at 50. Officials said 154 people still remain missing. Rescuers had so far failed to reach anyone — dead or alive — in the tunnel network at the National Thermal Power Corporation’s 520MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
15-02-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui shocks fans by announcing upcoming video on YouTube channel  ||Comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court last week, had left fans shocked by announcing an upcoming video titled “Munawar Faruqui Leaving Comedy” on his YouTube channel. It was his latest joke, as the 32-year-old admitted in the video uploaded on Saturday night, saying the title should have been spelt “Munawar Faruqui Living Comedy”. The stand-up comedian had spent more than a month in an Indore prison on the charge of hurting religious sentiments. His defence was that he had been arrested before he could get on stage and was being prosecuted for things he did not say. He said in the video: “I can’t give up comedy; I am alive because of it. I will win the hearts of the people who hate me. For this, I have to work harder. Every artiste does not get this challenge. I have got it and will win their hearts.” The Mumbai-based comedian added: “There are some who are spreading hate. What do you want to do? To spread hate or ignore them and use the Internet in the right way?… Abuse is not content; it is just hatred. “If we want to ban something, why don’t we ban hate on the Internet? Without thinking, people argue about things for hours, hurl abuses. Why can’t we use the Internet properly? The herd mentality, this politics, anyone can become a victim. “I am not even a victim. I have just received a few scratches for something I didn’t even do. The politics and herd mentality of some people can actually ruin lives.” “I don’t want people against me, I want people to stand with me…. Comedy has kept me alive, how can I quit it?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
15-02-2021||India||Row over Jagannath temple bylaw changes in Odisha||The Centre’s attempts to bring about changes in important laws without due consultation and without taking into account the ground realities has resulted in embarrassment for the NDA government time and again. The latest example is the way the Union ministry of culture was forced to withdraw the draft heritage bylaws of the National Monuments Authority (NMA) for the Jagannath temple in Puri following protests by sevayats (servitors) and the temple administration. However, the culture ministry seems not to have learnt any lessons from the Puri fiasco and is now facing fresh protests over its draft notification to bring about amendments in the heritage by laws governing the 11th century Lingaraj temple and other important shrines in Bhubaneswar. On Saturday, BJD MPs met Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi in New Delhi and demanded that the proposed bylaws relating to the Lingaraj temple and some other important shrines be withdrawn. On Friday evening, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted: “Central Govt should immediately withdraw the National Monuments Authority Draft Bylaws on Ananta Basudev & Brahmeswar Temple of #EkamraKshetra. It would have been appropriate for the Central agencies to take the State into confidence on sensitive religious issues.” On Tuesday, the Odisha government wrote to the Centre for the withdrawal of the notification about changes in the bylaws for the Lingaraj temple and other shrines of the state. The main objection is that if the bylaws are implemented there would be no construction in the first 100-metre radius of these structures which will be declared as a prohibited area. Similarly, the next 200 metres will also be a no-construction zone as it would be declared as a regulated zone. For any construction work in the regulated zone, permission of the authorities would be needed. The issue has triggered resentment among various sections of people in the state. “Babus are drafting laws without doing any homework. They are drafting them sitting in AC rooms. As they remain ignorant about the sentiments of the people, there are protests over several laws passed by the NDA government recently,” said lawyer Bana Bihari Mohanty. Social activist Sudharsan Das said: “In a democratic country, Parliament formulates laws. But stakeholders must be consulted. The emphasis on dialogue is missing now. In the case of the controversial farm laws, adequate consultation was not done with the farmers. “Similarly, in case of the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple there had been no consultation with the temple servitors, the main stakeholders. Now we want to know whether the stakeholders have been consulted while formulating the bylaws for the Lingaraj temple.” Intellectuals, too, have expressed displeasure at the present trend of laws being framed without due consultation. “These days bureaucrats are taking advantage of the ignorance of ministers which creates problems,” said Amareshawar Mishra, professor of political science, Utkal University. The situation arising out of the dispute has left the state BJP leaders embarrassed. Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi’s silence on the issue of bylaws for the Lingraj temple in the Ekamra Kshetra, as the old town area is known, has raised eyebrows. Even posters questioning her silence on the issue have appeared in Bhubaneswar. Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader and minister Ashok Panda, who hails from the area, said: “The silence of Bhubaneswar MP on the issue raises many questions. She should raise the issue in Parliament.” Aparajita told The Telegraph: “I am in Delhi because Parliament is in session. I will be back in Bhubaneswar on February 15. I will look into the matter of the NMA and take appropriate steps after talking to all and visiting the area.” Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who had earlier protested on the heritage bylaws for the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple, tweeted: “The chief minister has not been properly briefed on the applicability of the bylaws framed by the NMA.” The minister assured that the Centre is committed to address all the objections of Odisha government through dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
