16-02-2021||India||ED attaches Amnesty International India properties worth Rs 17 crore in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday said it has attached over Rs 17 crore bank deposits in connection with its money laundering case against two entities of Amnesty International (India), the global human rights watchdog. The agency said in a statement that a provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) "attaching bank accounts of Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL) and Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT)". It said "both the entities have acquired the proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties. The order involves attachment of movable properties worth Rs 17.66 crore being proceeds of crime". This money laundering case of the ED is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR filed against AIIPL, IAIT, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF) that was filed under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and the Indian Penal Code (120-B which denotes criminal conspiracy). "Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) had been granted permission under the FCRA during 2011-12 for receiving foreign contributions from the Amnesty International UK," it said. However, the statement said the same was cancelled on the basis of the "adverse" inputs received. "Since permission/registration has been denied to the said entity on the basis of adverse inputs received from security agencies during the year 2011-12, AIIPL and IAIT were formed in the year 2013-14 and 2012-13, respectively to escape the FCRA route and carried out NGO activities in the guise of service export and FDI," the agency alleged. A probe found, the ED said, that upon cancellation of the FCRA licence by the Union government, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust and Amnesty entities adopted "new method" to receive money from abroad. The agency said Amnesty International, UK sent Rs 51.72 crore to AIIPL in the guise of export of services and the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). "For export proceeds/advances to Amnesty International UK there was no documentary proof, such as invoices and copies of agreement between AIIPL and Amnesty International UK, has been furnished by AIIPL to the authorised dealer (AD) banks." "It is prima facie found that Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd and others have obtained foreign remittances to the tune of Rs 51.72 crore in the guise export of services and the FDI from Amnesty International (UK) whose source is the donations from individual donors," the ED alleged. The agency has earlier attached some properties in this case and the total attachment value now stands at Rs 19.54 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Sedition law can’t be invoked to quieten the disquiet: Delhi court||A Delhi court has said the law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling miscreants. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail to two persons - Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram - arrested by Delhi police earlier this month for allegedly committing sedition and spreading rumours by posting fake video on Facebook during ongoing farmers' protest. The court said that the law of sedition was a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in the society. However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants. Evidently, law proscribes any act which has a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence," the judge said in an order passed on February 15. In the absence of any exhortation, call, incitement or instigation to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence or any allusion or oblique remark or even any hint towards this objective, attributable to the accused, I suspect that Section 124 A (sedition) IPC can be validly invoked against the applicant, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Supreme Court lodges suo motu cognisance against Rajdeep Sardesai for tweets||The Supreme Court has registered a suo motu contempt case against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai for his tweets allegedly scandalising the judiciary. The case was registered following a petition filed by one Aastha Khurana through advocate Om Prakash Parihar under Article 129 of the Constitution to the Chief Justice of India for initiating contempt proceedings against Sardesai. On September 17, 2020, Attorney General K K Venugopal had declined his consent to initiate contempt action against Sardesai. That the present contempt petition under Article 129 of the Constitution of India is being filed by the petitioner against the alleged contemnor/respondent for wilful disobedient comments passed on each and every decision/judgement passed by this court which leads to cause disrespect to the superior court of India in the minds of citizens of India , the plea has said. Article 129,of the Constitution states that the Supreme Court shall be a court of record and shall have all the powers of such a court including the power to punish for contempt of itself. The plea has said that the top court in the past has passed various landmark judgments and on each judgement, the alleged contemnor has passed various disrespectful comments and questioned the fairness and credibility of the court. It referred to a tweet by Sardesai made on August 31, 2020 in respect to the top court verdict imposing a fine of Rs one on advocate Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Maharashtra government can impose another lockdown amid rising covid cases: Mumbai mayor||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday warned that the Maharashtra government could think of imposing a "second lockdown" in light of the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city. Speaking to reporters here, the mayor said COVID-19 cases are rising fast in Mumbai and it has become a matter of concern for the civic body and the state government. Increase in the number of suburban services and resumption of all other activities could be a reason for the surge in COVID-19 cases, she said. The three-point programme of wearing masks, social distancing and sanitising hands regularly is not being followed by most people, she said. Pednekar further said that while the authorities had planned to reopen schools in the city, they are again reviewing the decision. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Health Minister Rajendra Tope have already started holding review meetings to discuss the situation, she said. "We could face another lockdown, but it is in the hands of citizens to avoid it by following the COVID-19 protocol, which they had abided by under the state government's 'My family My Responsibility' programme," the mayor said. Mumbai recorded a single-day spike of 493 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, which took the city's tally of infections to 7,05,441, including 19,701 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Court allows Disha Ravi access to lawyer, speak with her family in police custody||A court here on Tuesday directed Delhi Police to hand over to 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi a copy of the FIR and other documents related to her arrest in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media on the farmers' protest and allowed her to speak to her family. Besides the FIR, the court also directed the police to provide her the copies of the arrest memo and remand paper which was placed to seek her custodial interrogation. The court also permitted her to get warm clothes, masks and books. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma allowed Ravi to speak with her family members over phone for 15 minutes a day and meet with her lawyer for 30 minutes a day, while she is in police custody. The court passed the order on an application filed by Ravi through her lawyer. The court had on Sunday sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Ravi, arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday, was produced before a court here and police had sought her seven days' custody. While seeking her custody, the police had told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the "toolkit" and many other people were involved in the matter. A "toolkit" is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The "toolkit" was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Activist Shantanu Muluk gets temporary anticipatory bail in ‘toolkit’ case||Environmental activist Shantanu Muluk, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi Police in connection with the toolkit shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg about the ongoing farmers' protest, on Tuesday got temporary anticipatory bail from the Bombay High Court. The high court on Wednesday will pass its order on another suspect, advocate Nikita Jacob's similar plea. Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the Aurangabad bench of the HC granted Muluk, resident of Beed in central Maharashtra, ten days' transit anticipatory bail to enable him to apply for protection before the appropriate court in Delhi. Muluk and Jacob had on Monday approached the high court separately seeking transit anticipatory bail, after a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against them. According to Delhi Police, the duo were involved in preparing the toolkit document and were in direct touch with "pro- Khalistani elements". Jacob's plea for pre-arrest bail was heard by Justice P D Naik at the high court's principal bench in Mumbai which said it would pass the order on Wednesday. Advocate Hiten Venegavkar, appearing for the Delhi police's cyber cell, assured the Mumbai bench that "no prudent officer" would arrest a person when his or her application is pending in court. The Delhi police on Saturday arrested environmental activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru in the case and named Muluk and Jacob as suspects. The case has been lodged under IPC sections 124(a) (sedition), 153 (a) (promoting enmity among different groups) and 120 (b) criminal conspiracy. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, argued that the alleged toolkit was prepared by a number of people and "only spoke of support to the protesting farmers". "It does not talk about any violence or about the January 26 incident at the Red Fort (when a tractor rally by protesters led to violence)," Desai argued. Serious charges of sedition have been invoked against a person like Jacob who is only a young environmental enthusiast, the lawyer said. Advocate Venegavkar, however, claimed that the toolkit was created and authored by Disha Ravi and Jacob along with many others who are part of the Khalistan movement. He also contended that the HC does not have the powers to grant any relief when the matter pertains to another state. Jacob, instead of cooperating with the investigation, absconded from her residence, he alleged. "A team of Delhi police went to Jacob's house on February 11 with a search warrant. She was questioned and her statement was recorded at her residence itself instead of taking her to the local police station," Venegavkar said. "The police team left her house on February 11 since it was after sunset and told her that they would return the next day for further investigation. Since then, Jacob is absconding," he said. To this, Justice Naik said she must have apprehended arrest. Desai said Jacob had indeed left the house as she feared arrest, adding that if granted bail, she would cooperate with the probe agency. Justice Naik, before reserving order, said he would not go into the merits of the case but only consider whether a case was made for the grant of transit anticipatory bail. Jacob and Muluk in their pleas said they were targets of political vendetta. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the `toolkit' to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||SC reserves verdict on Patricia Mukhim’s plea against Meghalaya HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a plea filed by journalist Patricia Mukhim against Meghalaya High Court ruling which refused to quash an FIR against her for allegedly creating communal disharmony through her Facebook post. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat heard arguments during which senior advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Mukhim, submitted that there was no intention to create disharmony or conflict through the post which referred to an incident of a murderous assault on July 3, 2020. "It has to be seen what was the intent of my post. I am drawing the attention of the Chief Minister and police towards the attack. My aim was to highlight the criminal element present in the society. I am performing my role as a responsible citizen, Grover argued. The counsel for the Meghalaya government told the top court that communal colour was given to the scuffle between minor boys and her post shows it was a communal incident between tribal and non-tribal people. On November 10 last year, the single bench judge of Meghalaya High Court in his ruling found Mukhim guilty of creating communal disharmony, a crime under Section 153 CrPC and refused to quash an FIR filed by the Lawsohtun Dorbar Shnong (a traditional institution). Mukhim had hit out at the Lawsohtun village dorbar (council) on Facebook for failing to identify the murderous elements after five boys were attacked at a basketball court in July this year. Eleven people were picked up and two were arrested in the case. The police complaint was filed against Mukhim by the village council on July 6 for her post on the social media, alleging that her statement incited communal tension and might instigate communal conflict. She was subsequently booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. and other provisions of the IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Four returnees test positive for South Africa Covid strain||Four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India in January, while one tested positive for the Brazil variant strain in the first week of February, the Centre said on Tuesday. In India, the South Africa strain has been detected in four returnees -- one from Angola, one from Tanzania and two from South Africa in January, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said. All travellers and contacts have been tested and quarantined. "ICMR-NIV is attempting to isolate and culture the South African variant of SARS-CoV-2, while the Brazil variant of SAS-CoV-2 has been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV-Pune," ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava told reporters at the health ministry briefing on Covid. According to the ICMR chief, existing vaccines have the potential to neutralise the UK variant and experiments are on to assess the effectiveness of the vaccines against the South African and Brazilian variants. One Brazil returnee has tested positive for the Brazil variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the first week of February. The traveller and contacts have been tested and quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Women's commission asks Delhi police for details on Disha's arrest||The Delhi Commission for Women has sent a notice to the Delhi Police on the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi in the 'toolkit' case and sought a report on issues like why she was not provided a lawyer of her choice when produced before a court here. Taking cognisance of media reports, the panel in a statement, issued on Tuesday, also said that Ravi was produced before a court in Delhi without a lawyer of her choice being present there. The activist was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday by the Delhi Police for allegedly creating and sharing a protest toolkit backing the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new agri laws. Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image, the Delhi Police had said on Monday. Police claimed that she had sent the toolkit to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also "coaxed her to act on it". Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Muluk, who are absconding. Citing media reports and claims by activists, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) said Ravi was arrested and taken to Delhi from Bengaluru by police and her whereabouts were not disclosed, not even to her parents. It has also been alleged that police did not present her at a court in Bengaluru for transit remand, before bringing her to Delhi, it said. However, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said Ravi was arrested in accordance with the law which "doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old". The DCW has asked the Delhi Police to provide a copy of the FIR registered in the matter, reasons for allegedly not producing Ravi before a local court for transit remand, reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the court here, and a detailed action taken report, the statement said. The commission has asked police to provide the information by Friday, it added. Shrivastava has also said that Ravi has been sent to five-day police custody and the matter was being probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Bus falls into a canal in Madhya Pradesh, atleast 37 dead ||At least 37 people, including 16 women, died after the bus they were travelling in fell off a bridge into a canal near Patna village in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district on Tuesday morning, a senior official said, adding that search operations are still going on. After fishing out 18 bodies initially, rescuers have retrieved 19 more bodies until now, said Rewa Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Jain. "A total of 37 bodies, including 16 women, 20 men and a child, have been fished out of the Bansagar canal until now," he said, adding that a magisterial probe has been ordered. Prima facie, 44 passengers were travelling on the bus at the time of the accident, which occurred around 8:30 AM. "Seven persons managed to swim to the banks of the canal after the incident and 37 bodies have been recovered. The 44 passengers have been identified so far," Jain added. Earlier in the morning, Inspector General (Rewa zone) Joga had confirmed the recovery of 18 bodies from the accident site. The bus landed into the canal near Patna village, around 80 kms away from the Sidhi district headquarter, around 8:30 AM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
16-02-2021||India||Contemplating 'some action' on regulating OTT platforms, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it was contemplating "some action" on the issue of regulating OTT platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which was initially of the view that the petitioner should approach the government for the remedy, asked the government to file its response within six weeks to the PIL seeking OTT regulation by an autonomous body. At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said the Centre was contemplating some action on the issue of regulating OTT platforms. The CJI sought to know from Jain as to what would be the action from the government and asked him to file the response in six weeks while tagging the matter with the pending petition. The top court had on October 15 last year issued notices to the central government, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and Internet and Mobile Association of India. The plea filed by advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia also sought a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms. With cinema theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board, the plea said. At present, however, there is no law or autonomous body governing the digital content to monitor and manage these digital contents and it is made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, it said. Lack of legislation governing OTT/Streaming Platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds. The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms, the plea said. None of the OTT/Streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, it said. The ministry had earlier told the top court in a separate case that there is a need to regulate digital media and that the court may first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Police custody of Deep Sidhu extended by seven days||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by seven days the police custody of actor-activist Deep Sidhu in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Bhujali after expiry of his police custody in the case. Police sought extension of his custodial interrogation, saying it was required for further investigation and to identify other accused persons in the case. The court had on February 9 sent Sidhu to police custody for seven days after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. The police had said there are videos where Sidhu can be allegedly seen at the site of the incident. "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators. Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details," the police had alleged. "He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," the police alleged. Sidhu's counsel, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by public servant (188). He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Delhi police write to Zoom for details of January 11 meet||The Delhi Police has written to video conferencing platform Zoom seeking details of those who participated in the January 11 meeting organised allegedly by a pro-Khalistani group to prepare a protest "toolkit" backing the farmers' agitation, officials said on Tuesday. Police alleged that Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu were among the around 70 people who had attended the meeting through Zoom app, days before the Republic Day violence in the national capital that left over 500 police personnel injured and one protester dead. "The Delhi Police has written to video conferencing app Zoom seeking details of participants who attended the meeting on January 11," the official said. On Monday, Joint Commissioner of Police (cyber) Prem Nath had alleged that the e-mail account created by Shantanu is the owner of this Google document. "Pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) founder Mo Dhaliwal had contacted them (Jacob and Shantanu) through a Canada-based woman named Punit," Nath had said. "Nikita and Shantanu had on January 11 attended a Zoom meeting organized by PFJ in which modalities were decided to create the 'toolkit' titled 'Global Farmer Strike' and 'Global Day of Action, 26 January'," Nath said.  Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi was made in accordance with law which "doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or 50-year-old". Talking to reporters at an event here, Shrivastava said it is wrong when people say that there were lapses in the arrest of the 22-year-old activist. "Disha Ravi's arrest has been made in accordance with law which doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old," the Delhi Police chief said. He said Ravi has been sent to five-day police custody and the matter was being probed. Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image, the Delhi Police had said on Monday. The data was also deleted, police claimed, adding that Ravi's Telegram account shows many links related to the toolkit had been removed. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Shantanu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, toll rises to 58||Two more bodies were recovered early Tuesday from the Tapovan tunnel where intense rescue operations were underway for the 10th consecutive day in search of those missing in the Uttarakhand flash floods. "With the recovery of two more bodies, the cumulative toll in Chamoli's glacial disaster has mounted to 58 while 146 are still missing, a police official said. While one body was recovered past midnight, another was recovered around 2 am from the tunnel, the official deputed at a temporary mortuary at Tapovan where the bodies are being kept told PTI. So far eleven bodies have been recovered from the sludge choked intake Adit tunnel of the flash flood ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project. The multi-agency rescue effort in Chamoli district is focusing on the Tapovan tunnel where about 30 workers were feared trapped. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Daily Covid cases below 10,000 for fourth time this month||The daily new Coronavirus infections fell below 10,000 for the fourth time this month taking India's tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,09,25,710, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the tenth time this month, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,121 new cases were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,55,813 with 81 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,33, 025 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,872 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 20,73,32,298 samples were tested till February 15 with 6,15,664 samples being tested on Monday. The 81 new fatalities include 23 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,813 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,552 from Maharashtra followed by 12,425 from Tamil Nadu, 12,267 from Karnataka, 10,893 from Delhi, 10,233 from West Bengal, 8,704 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,163 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Delhi police name two more in the 'toolkit' sedition case||An arrest warrant has been issued against a young lawyer. An engineer is also facing arrest. Their whereabouts are not known. Disha Ravi, a young climate activist, is already in police custody in what is being referred to as the “toolkit” case. Amid a litany of charges that have been described by sections of civil society as “absurd”, one levelled by Delhi police against the youths stood out: “The main aim of the toolkit was to create misinformation and disaffection against the lawfully enacted government.” The police added that the toolkit sought to amplify fake news and other falsehoods and precipitate “physical action” on Republic Day. Such vague charges can be levelled against almost all groups, not just critics of the government but even supporters who on Monday were using their own toolkit with identical sentences to condemn Disha and other activists. Delhi police’s explanation came as they named two more accused in the “toolkit” sedition case. The police said they had obtained non-bailable arrest warrants against Nikita Jacob, a Bombay High Court lawyer, and Shantanu, a Maharashtra-based engineer, but found they were not at their homes. The police did not mention Shantanu’s surname but some TV channels said it was Muluk. Officers claimed Nikita and Shantanu had prepared the social media toolkit along with Disha, a 21-year-old climate activist arrested by Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday. The toolkit is a Google document that police say was part of a Khalistani conspiracy to wage war against India by, among other things, instigating violence during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally. “A woman named Puneet, based in Canada, connected these people to the pro-Khalistan Poetic Justice Foundation and through them created toolkit Google documents titled ‘Global Farmer Strike’ and ‘Global Day of Action, 26 January’,” Joint commissioner of police (cyber cell) Prem Nath said. He said Nikita had been the first suspect and had named the two others during questioning earlier this month. Nath said Delhi police had on February 4 come across the toolkit on Twitter, and their investigations suggested the Poetic Justice Foundation and people associated with it had created it. The Canada-based, 11-month-old foundation, whose founder has been accused of making a pro-Khalistan statement, says it “challenges structures of oppression and discrimination through intersectional grassroots advocacy”. In any case, even membership of a banned organisation is not an offence in India unless accompanied by violence or incitement to a crime, according to a Supreme Court ruling in 2011. The Centre had sought a review of this ruling in 2016. Nath said the toolkit mentioned, under the head “Prior Action”, programmes such as a “digital strike” through hashtags on January 26 and earlier; a “tweet storm” from January 23 onwards; “physical action” on January 26; and entry into Delhi for the Kisan Parade before returning to the capital’s border. These are standard phrases that youngsters use online to organise protests. “Physical action” need not mean violence and it could signify any democratic form of protest such as a rally or a picket. “The second part of the same document mentions tasks such as disruption of India’s cultural heritage such as ‘yoga’ and ‘tea’ and targeting Indian embassies abroad in various capitals,” Nath said. “Disha, who is associated with the environmental movement called Fridays For Future, sent the toolkit document to Greta Thunberg on Telegram and coaxed her to act on it.” Thunberg, a teenaged Swedish climate activist and global celebrity who had launched Fridays For Future in 2018, tweeted the toolkit on February 3, drawing wide attention to it. “Based on the incriminating evidence collected from Disha’s device and in view of the fact that she had deleted her WhatsApp group, she was arrested,” Nath said. Nath said Nikita and Shantanu had on January 11 “attended a Zoom meeting organised by the Poetic Justice Foundation where the modalities of the (agitating farmers’ and their supporters’) Global Day of Action were worked out”. “Based on the course of action decided at the Zoom meeting, Nikita, Shantanu, Disha and others collaborated to draft the toolkit. The document they drafted had secessionist and pro-Khalistani content embedded into it through links and texts,” Nath alleged. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in an apparent allusion to the toolkit, recently told an event in tea-growing Assam that there was a conspiracy to defame Indian tea. Nath said: “The time-bound action points and programme given in this toolkit, when viewed in the context of the actual developments in Delhi, clearly showed that the action plan that was formulated in the toolkit document was executed in exactly the same manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers support Disha Ravi and NewsClick||The protesting farmers have come out in full-throated support of young climate activist Disha Ravi and the news portal NewsClick, refusing to be cowed into silence by the troubles they themselves are having with law enforcement agencies, particularly since the incidents of Republic Day. “India’s young environmentalists do understand and appreciate that unviable farming leads to unsustainable farming too,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Monday. After a quick, short statement on Sunday condemning the arrest of the 22-year-old who had backed the farmers and demanding her immediate unconditional release, the Morcha — the banner under which the farmers are gathered on Delhi’s borders since November — issued a detailed response on Monday. The statement explained the obvious connect between Disha’s persuasion as a climate activist and their occupation of farming and repeated the Morcha’s demand for her “immediate unconditional release”. “It is unsurprising that farmers end up adopting desperate unsustainable practices to make ends meet when their farming gets riskier due to increasingly adverse markets (due to unfair trade egged on by big corporations) and compounded by climate change,” the Morcha said. The three farm laws “rammed down” by the Centre do not guarantee remunerative markets for farmers and instead make the markets riskier for them, with greater vulnerability to exploitation, it added. The Morcha said: “In such a situation, the possibility of farmers adopting unsustainable production practices is higher. It is this inter-linkage between viability and sustainability that activists like Disha Ravi have understood in their extension of support for the farmers’ protests.” The Morcha also offered an environmental perspective to its demand for a legal guarantee of a minimum support price for all crops, arguing it would help farmers diversify from mono-cropping of paddy and wheat and provide a lasting solution to the straw-burning problem that contributes to pollution in north India every winter. “It is such solutions that the environmental activists are striving for. It is therefore unsurprising that environmental activists are lending support to the ongoing farmers’ movement, and only those who do not understand the issues involved here will feign surprise at why people like Disha Ravi are supporting the movement,” the statement said. “We are deeply concerned and anguished about the brazen misuse of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement.” Last week, when the Enforcement Directorate was raiding NewsClick, which had provided a detailed coverage of the farmers’ protests and related issues, the Morcha had said: “The government is clearly afraid of the strengthening movement and is trying to choke the voices of citizens and democracy in numerous ways. SKM condemns the continuing attacks on media that is amplifying the voices of the movement, and the raids on NewsClick are the latest in this stifling of democracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Congress protests jump in cooking gas prices ||The Congress on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of profiteering on petroleum products, pointing out that the price of an LPG cylinder had been raised by Rs 175 in the past two months. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “In the last two months alone, LPG gas prices have gone up by Rs 175 per cylinder. It used to cost Rs 594 for a cylinder in the national capital in December. It is now costing Rs 769 each cylinder. In February, we have seen a price rise of Rs 75. This is despite the fact that the price of international crude oil has remained very low.” Pointing out that Indians were reeling under extreme economic distress and job losses, Shrinate said: “It tells you a lot about how this government functions and thinks. They are not just insensitive, they want to make money on people’s miseries. They have amassed a whopping Rs 24 lakh crore through high taxes, an amount that actually belongs to the people of this country.” “When we were in the government, the tax on diesel was around Rs 3 per litre. Today, it is nearly Rs 32 per litre. On petrol, it was just a little over Rs 9 per litre, today it is at about Rs 33 per litre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||SC issues notices to Centre, CVC and ED chief||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre, Central Vigilance Commission, the Enforcement Directorate and its incumbent director Sanjay Kumar Mishra on the alleged illegal one-year extension granted by the government retrospectively to the officer. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat sought response on the PIL filed by NGO Common Cause through advocate Pranav Sachdeva alleging that Mishra had been granted “illegal retrospective change in appointment order” by which his tenure has been increased from two to three years. Appearing before the bench, advocate Prashant Bhushan submitted that Mishra could not have been given any extension since he had already superannuated and such illegal extensions have an effect of destroying the supposed independence of the office of ED director. He sought quashing of the impugned office order, dated November 13, 2020, issued by the central government and a direction to make a fresh appointment in a fair and transparent manner strictly in accordance with the mandate of Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003. As per Section 25(a) of the CVC Act, the central government appoints the ED director on the recommendation of the committee consisting of the Central Vigilance Commissioner as chairperson, vigilance commissioners as members and secretaries of the Union home, personnel and finance ministries as other members. Further, Section 25(c) of the Act provides that no person below the rank of additional secretary shall be eligible for appointment as a director of enforcement and Section 25(d) provides that he shall continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office. In the present case, the NGO contended that Mishra, vide an order dated November 19, 2018, was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The said two-year tenure came to an end on November 19, 2020. Mishra also reached the retirement age of 60 years in May 2020, the petition said. However, vide the impugned office order of November 13, 2020, it was notified that the President has been pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Mishra as the ED director to the effect that a period of “two years” has been modified to “three years”. “Thus, by virtue of the impugned Office Order, dated 13.11.2020, the appointment order dated 19.11.2018 has been modified with retrospective effect and the Respondent No. 2 (Mishra) herein has been given an additional one year of service as Director of Enforcement in the Enforcement Directorate,” the petition said. “Further, as per the news reports the CVC committee had met on 12.11.2020 to recommend the modification to Respondent No. 2’s appointment. It is submitted that the impugned Office Order, dated 13.11.2020, issued by the Respondent No. 1 (the Centre) is in the teeth of Section 25 of the CVC Act as the said Section provides that a person has to be above the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India to be eligible for appointment as a Director of Enforcement. Thus, as the Respondent No. 2 has already reached his retirement age in May 2020, therefore, after the end of Respondent No. 2’s two-year period on 19.11.2020, the Respondent No. 2, by virtue of not holding any post above the rank of Additional Secretary, would have been ineligible for appointment as a Director of Enforcement again,” the petition said. “However, the Respondent No. 1 has employed a circuitous route in order to ensure that Respondent No. 2 gets one more year as Director of Enforcement by way of retrospectively modifying the appointment order dated 19.11.2018 itself,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Deregulation of map-making in India ||Indian entities would no longer need government approvals to collect and offer geospatial data, high-resolution maps, and street views of physically accessible areas across the country under new guidelines announced by the Union science and technology ministry on Monday. The guidelines for geospatial data — topographic information about features and objects across a terrain — are intended to liberalise data collection and use by removing constraints and regulatory approvals without diluting security concerns, top ministry officials said. “Map-making in India stands completely deregulated from today,” Jitendra Singh, minister of state for the departments of atomic energy and space and the Prime Minister’s Office, said. Under the guidelines, Indian entities would no longer require prior approvals, security clearances, or licences for the acquisition and production of geospatial data, including high-accuracy maps and surveys of street views and territorial waters at finer than 1m horizontal and 3m vertical resolutions. Such data would need to be stored within the country. “If an area is physically accessible, there would be no further restrictions on surveying and mapping there,” science and technology secretary Ashutosh Sharma said. But sensitive installations would not be marked on the maps. Experts have welcomed the guidelines saying restrictions and requirements for approvals had until now hampered domestic growth of the geospatial data sector that has potential applications in myriad areas — from navigation, business, and governance to healthcare and tourism. “This could potentially allow an Indian company to offer similar map-based services and street views the way Google does,” said Rahul Chopra, a Pune-based specialist in applications of geospatial data. The Centre had rejected a proposal submitted by Google in July 2015 to provide its street view service in India. The service allows users to explore locations through 360-degree panoramic street-level imagery and view public areas — from shopping centres to tourist spots. The new guidelines also specify that all geospatial data generated using public funds, except classified geospatial data, would become available for scientific, economic and developmental purposes to “all Indian entities without restrictions”. Sharma said foreign entities could license but not be able to own fine (high accuracy) data. “The earlier restrictions primarily due to security concerns had meant the country’s entire coastline was beyond the reach of mappers,” Chopra said. “With those restrictions gone, we could look forward to the growth of applications in sectors such as real estate or business or healthcare.” Geospatial data, for instance, could be used to track the growth rate of towns and cities, to develop population maps that businesses could use to rely on to plan their growth or to map healthcare establishments across cities or states. Industry analysts expect the guidelines to help expand India’s geospatial economy which currently is estimated to be worth Rs 25,000 crore and employing 250,000 people. “With these guidelines, we expect the domestic geospatial economy to grow to Rs 50,000 crore by 2025,” said Sanjay Kumar, the chief executive with Geospatial Media and Communications. Earlier, amid the restrictions or no clear rules, Kumar said, “the industry had to operate in a grey zone and that kept major companies at bay.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
16-02-2021||India||Bihar Assembly polls: Election authorities order probe into inflated bills||Election authorities have ordered a probe into inflated bills submitted by private contractors and agencies for logistical services rendered during the Bihar Assembly polls, parts of which have already been paid raising suspicion of a corrupt nexus involving officials. A senior election department official said that in some districts, the bills for the transport, lodging, food and water of election personnel, police and central paramilitary forces and the movement of poll-related material during the October-November 2020 polls were nearly 10 times higher than those submitted during the April-May 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He said that while the bills this time were expected to be higher because of the requirements of social distancing — such as an increased number of booths and personnel and more complicated arrangements for lodging and transport — “it cannot account for around a 10-time increase”. “We have asked all the district magistrates to verify the bills submitted for expenditure during the Assembly elections,” the principal secretary of the state election department, H.R. Srinivasa, who is also the Bihar chief electoral officer, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Inflated bills have been submitted in several districts, particularly East Champaran, Kaimur, Gaya, Banka, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga and Patna.” He said he had ordered probes in each of Bihar’s 38 districts during a videoconference with all the district magistrates earlier this week. “A committee of district officials that verified the expenditure bills for the Assembly elections has cut the amount under this head down to Rs 32 crore from Rs 42 crore. But it’s still too high,” he said. “The expenses should have been Rs 10-12 crore. We have stopped the payments and will probe every aspect of the matter.” East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok told this newspaper: “Although the number of booths was increased by around 1.5 times and the deployment of paramilitary forces was four times higher compared to the Lok Sabha elections in our district, we are looking at an average expenditure of Rs 3 crore per Assembly constituency as a reasonable figure. This takes into account the various social-distancing measures adopted because of the pandemic. We have initiated the probe.” Several district magistrates did not take calls or said they had joined their posts just around a month ago. A few said they would be able to comment only after consulting documents. “The entire issue should be rigorously probed and punitive action taken against the errant contractors and companies,” a senior poll panel official said on the condition of anonymity. “The probe should also cover the payments already made to ascertain whether the wrongdoers acted in collusion with government officials to get the bills passed.” Poll panel sources said the number of booths had been increased by around 63 per cent to 1.06 lakh to ensure social distancing during the Assembly elections. The number of paramilitary companies was increased from 700 during the seven-phase general election to 1,200 for the three-phase state polls. In some sensitive districts like East Champaran, the paramilitary deployment was higher compared to others. The Assembly polls were held across 11 days, compared with 38 days during the Lok Sabha polls in Bihar, but the central forces came a little early to ensure there were no last-minute hitches while arranging the pandemic-dictated logistics. More polling personnel were deployed too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Arrested journalist Siddique Kappan to go home, with armed guard and gag ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed that imprisoned journalist Siddique Kappan be released for five days to meet his critically ill mother in Kerala, rejecting objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. Kappan cannot give interviews or meet members of the public during the visit home, the apex court said after Mehta claimed the journalist would use the opportunity “to have himself paraded in public and gather support for his activities”. To Mehta’s suggestion that Kappan’s mother may not be as critical as suggested, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde replied: “Whoever be the man he is not likely to lie (about) his mother’s imminent death. If this is false then we will never entertain such petitions ever in the future.” Kappan, 41, has been in a jail in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, since being arrested in early October on terror charges while travelling to Hathras where a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered. He is accused of planning to foment trouble and being a member of the extremist Popular Front of India (PFI), which he denies. The bench of Justices Bobde, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian passed its order after hearing senior advocate Kapil Sibal, counsel for the Kerala Union of Working Journalists which has espoused Kappan’s cause, and Mehta who was representing the Uttar Pradesh government. The court order said: Sibal had told the top court that its earlier order allowing Kappan to talk to his mother over videoconferencing did not fructify since she was extremely sick and feeble at the scheduled time. He pleaded that Kappan be allowed to meet his mother since she “is not likely to survive for long”. Mehta cut in: “The ground which is raised is tempting for even me to agree. Let me reply by tomorrow.” But Justice Bobde shot back: “What is tempting in this – (that) one wants to see his mother for the last time?” Mehta said there were posters outside Kappan’s home asking he be treated as a martyr. The Chief Justice said: “We will see that it does not happen and then we will not grant bail.” Mehta said that during the attempted videoconferencing, the mother could not even recognise the son, prompting Justice Bobde to say: “We are on his mother and not any political matter.” He added: “This is not fair. If she dies what will you do? We are not on his political antecedents.” Mehta said the investigating agency did not think the mother’s condition was as serious as was being projected. “The PFI is banned and a person belonging to it is found carrying material spreading communal and caste hatred,” he said. “There are posters in Kerala and the wife of Kappan is collecting money (against) his name as if he is a martyr. He is described as the successor (to) a Haji or something who is responsible (for) a massacre. When he goes (home), political opinions would be formed.” But Justice Bobde said: “We are taking Mr Sibal’s proposition on face value...: We will ensure he (Kappan) is not paraded, has an armed guard and only stays home, does not give interviews and then comes back to jail again.” Mehta persisted, saying the application was “a very well thought out ground by petitioner to circumvent the legal process”. The bench brushed the objections aside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Government’s ‘fascist self’ visible, says Congress||The Congress on Monday said the Narendra Modi government was revealing its “true fascist self” by targeting young activists as senior leaders including Rahul Gandhi described the action as another example of cowardice. Quoting the famous couplet by Faiz Ahmed Faiz — “Bol ke lab azad hai tere, Bol ke sach zinda hai ab tak (Speak, that your lips are free, Speak, for truth is still alive)” — Rahul tweeted: “They are frightened, not the country. India won’t be silenced.” Priyanka Gandhi too expressed similar sentiments, arguing that those possessing guns were scared of an unarmed girl. While Delhi police on Saturday arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bangalore, arrest warrants were issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob of Mumbai. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said at a news conference: “If the government thinks that a 21-year-old Disha and a 22-year-old Nikita can damage the strong foundations of the Indian democracy, they don’t know what they are talking about. They are only revealing their true fascist self.” “Democracy is damaged by persons who celebrate the Pulwama tragedy (referring to Arnab Goswami who said in a purported WhatsApp chat — ‘with this we won like crazy’), democracy is damaged by those who get bail and role in J&K as DSP (referring to police officer Devinder Singh who was arrested for links with terrorists), democracy is damaged by those who divide Hindu-Muslim. Questioning and dissent strengthen democracy. But for this government, dissent is anti-national,” she said. Shrinate added: “That the government stooped so low as to arrest young activists shows two things: One, the government is coward; two, they fear free speech. They are extremely scared of women. No matter what they do… they can close down (Twitter) handles, they can pressurise (social media) platforms, they can arrest persons arbitrarily. The reality is the more they do this, more voices of dissent will rise.” Senior party leader and top lawyer Kapil Sibal said: “Disha Ravi is a climate activist. Is the state so weak that a tweet threatens its security? Is the state so paranoid that a  22-year-old is a national security threat? Is the state so intolerant that it cannot tolerate youth standing with farmers? Is this the change Modiji  wanted?” Posting a report from The Daily Telegraph, which said Disha’s arrest is the latest escalation in India’s crackdown on free expression and political dissent as it seeks to stifle the farmers’ mass protests, party MP Shashi Tharoor wondered: “Doesn’t the Government of India care about the damage it is doing to its own global image?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||AAP to BJP: If this is not Emergency, what is?||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday came out in support of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday on sedition charges, accusing her of being the “key conspirator” behind a social media “toolkit” being used to publicise protests against the new farm regime. A day after Disha was sent to police custody for five days, Kejriwal tweeted: “Arrest of Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.” Party MLA Raghav Chadha termed the arrest an “extrajudicial abduction” and called upon the youth to protest. “The BJP reminds us about the Emergency at the drop of a hat but at the end of the day, the BJP itself is taking us towards another Emergency… The Delhi police have not produced any transit remand or followed any proper legal procedure in this arrest. On behalf of AAP, I want to ask BJP if this is not an Emergency then what does an Emergency look like,” he said. Chadha added: “Dissent is not equal to sedition. The difference of opinion between the ruling party or with the policies or laws of the government is also not sedition... AAP demands that Disha Ravi should be immediately released and all the youth should come together to raise their voice against the BJP, peacefully.” The AAP has also denied reports that Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, another person whose arrest has been ordered in the case on Monday, is its member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||NGO says Disha Ravi arrest an attempt to criminalise dissent ||The NGO, Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), on Monday termed the charges on 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi as “absurd” and an “attempt to criminalise dissent” as it condemned her arrest as “illegal” and in violation of the Constitution and procedures prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). In a statement issued here, the NGO has alleged that the Delhi police’s special cell had violated all norms and procedures of the CrPC and the Constitution while arresting Disha from her home in Bangalore. “The allegations against her are absurd to say the least and are an attempt to criminalize dissent and protest. Further, Delhi police have failed to follow any of the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v State of Bihar (2014) when it comes to arrest,” it said. In the 2014 case, the apex court had clearly laid down that it would be a contempt of court if the police arrested any person for offences which entail a punishment upto seven years, unless such an arrest was essential. “Being ‘arrested’ from Bengaluru, she should have been produced before the competent court in Bengaluru for obtaining transit remand since she is being moved between states, but was not. She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Patiala House Court in Delhi — by no means the ‘nearest magistrate’ as required by clause (2) of Article 22,” the statement said. Article 22 prescribes various safeguards before a person is arrested and sent to either police or judicial custody. “She also did not have an opportunity to seek appropriate legal counsel. These actions of Delhi police have made a complete mockery of the ‘procedure established by law’ in depriving Disha Ravi of her right to life and liberty. Such illegal actions by Delhi police would amount to a kidnapping under the pretence of law,” the statement added. The NGO also recorded with “deep disappointment the complete abdication of duty by the Duty Magistrate in Patiala House Court”. According to the organisation, magistrates have an important constitutional role to play under Article 22 to ensure that any detention by the police is strictly in accordance with the law and procedure. “However, the concerned Magistrate has performed their task in a mechanical manner that has resulted in a serious violation of human rights. Such an attitude among the judiciary renders the valuable right under Article 22(2) a virtual nullity and must be deprecated in the strongest possible manner. Such behaviour is regrettably common and requires judges and police being answerable and accountable for treating matters of life and liberty in a routine and casual manner,” the statement said. It added: “We therefore call upon the authorities to immediately release Disha Ravi from illegal detention and take disciplinary action against the concerned officers. Failing which we call upon the Delhi High Court to take immediate, suo motu cognizance of the illegal detention of Disha Ravi and release her, and initiate disciplinary action against the Duty Magistrate who has performed their constitutional duty in a casual and desultory manner.” We call upon courts and judicial authorities across the country to properly sensitize and train magistrates in the performance of their constitutional duties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Fear engulfs youth climate activists after arrest of Disha Ravi||Fear seems to have engulfed the community of youth climate activists after the weekend arrest of Disha Ravi and the issuance of non-bailable warrants against two others in the social media “toolkit” controversy. Many of Disha’s peers are afraid even to protest the arrest of the 21-year-old, accused of sedition for allegedly being an “editor and key conspirator” behind a toolkit that purportedly facilitated participation in the Republic Day farmers’ parade in Delhi. “The situation is frightening. We are neither traitors nor terrorists, just young citizens trying to create awareness on environmental issues. We are not doing anything against our country,” a Bangalore-based activist of the Karnataka wing of Fridays For Future (FFF), with which Disha was associated, told The Telegraph on Monday. “We are unable to take a call on protesting Disha’s arrest or even on consulting a lawyer on what to do next because most of the volunteers are scared,” the activist, who declined to be named, said. Delhi police had on Saturday picked Disha up from her Bangalore home and taken her to Delhi, the swift and hush-hush operation described as “sinister” and “extra-judicial kidnapping” by a group of writers and activists. The Delhi police say the toolkit was part of an international conspiracy, with Khalistani involvement, to wage war against India. The toolkit was tweeted early this month by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who in 2018 launched FFF, a global collective of students. A Pune-based FFF activist told this newspaper her mother was extremely worried and wanted her to keep a low profile. “Soon after Disha’s arrest my mother asked me to lie low and stay away from social media. I have never experienced this kind of a scary feeling and keep asking myself, ‘Who’s next?’” the 23-year-old activist said, declining to be named. She said FFF’s Karnataka unit was its first in the country. “Now we are active in all the states, and most of the activists are school students seeking a better, greener and safer world,” she said. “We are not anti-nationals, just young people who want a better tomorrow for ourselves and future generations.” She described as “extremely dangerous” the social media trend — escalated by Disha’s arrest — of portraying activists in general as “terrorists” and “anti-national”. “Suddenly, ‘editing’ and ‘toolkit’ are the new dirty words. I don’t understand what is wrong with editing a Google document and why they feel threatened by a simple thing like a social media toolkit, something that even international agencies such as the United Nations use to create awareness about their projects and programmes,” the activist said. Google documents can be used for real-time collaboration among a group whose members can simultaneously edit it and see the changes made. The high-tech tool can be used to create text documents, slide shows, drawings, spreadsheets and surveys. “These days every digitally empowered agency or individual uses such toolkits, which can be a strategy to run an awareness campaign on what Twitter handles to use, or when and what to share,” the Pune-based activist said. She said large numbers of student activists had flocked to FFF during the pandemic lockdown and taken part in its campaigns. “That’s how important technology has become in communicating with youngsters. We use all available social media platforms to hold webinars to educate children on the issues we take up.” As accusations flew on social media against Disha, Mohammed Zubair, whose profile describes him as a co-founder of fact-checking portal AltNews, tweeted: “Disha’s parents are supporters of Narendra Modi. Imagine what’s going on in their minds when (they) see tweets by ministers and BJP officer (sic) bearers demanding #DishaRavi to be killed.” Haryana minister Anil Vij has tweeted in Hindi: “Those who have seeds of anti-national activities in their mind must be completely eradicated. Be it Disha Ravi or anyone else.” Zubair later tweeted a video clip, whose authenticity could not be independently confirmed, in which Disha is purportedly heard saying her parents “support him”, an apparent reference to Modi who remains unnamed. “So, lot of the main (mainstream) press is Right-wing. So my parents support him, I don’t. Everyone who doesn’t support him is silenced in the most horrific way, and it isn’t shown by the mainstream press, so you have to go to the alternative press,” goes the audio, accompanying the image of a woman who resembles Disha. “And even the alternative press was sued for publishing what they did. So there is next to no freedom of press in India.” Apart from sedition, Disha faces the charges of promoting enmity between groups, provocation with intent to cause riot, and criminal conspiracy. A Delhi court on Sunday remanded her in five days’ police custody. Disha works in a Bangalore-based company that manufactures plant-based vegan alternatives to dairy products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Odisha Congress seeks bandh support with chocolates to protest price hike of commodities||Congress workers in Odisha on Monday tried to seek public support for the six-hour Odisha bandh organised by the party by offering chocolates and dressing up like Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convince people that they were being hit by the steep rise in the prices of different commodities because of the unprecedented hike in petrol and diesel prices. Impressed by the public support for the bandh, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders also admitted that rise in fuel prices had hit the common man hard. In Cuttack, Congress workers offered candies to people who came out of their houses during the bandh which was in force from 7am to 1pm and convinced them about the need to protest the rise in prices. “We don’t want to resort to any kind of violence. By offering chocolates to people we were able to connect with them and convince them about the justification for what we were doing,” said party leader Manas Chaudhury. At Umerkote in Nabarangpur district, about 520km from here in southern Odisha, a Congress worker dressed up as the Prime Minister Narendra Modi rode a bullock cart and mockingly inquired from passers by if the prices on petroleum products had fallen. In Bhubaneswar, leader pedalled in streets protesting fuel price hike. Resentment over price rise is mounting. Chhabi Behera, a daily wager with no political links, was upset with the hike and supported the shutdown called by the Congress and AICTU against steep rise in the prices of essential commodities. “I don’t belong to any political party but I am against the price rise. I support those fighting against the price rise,” she said. Chhabi, who lost her husband a few years back and is now bringing up her two children all alone, said, “What pains me most is the continuous rise in the prices of essential commodities such as onion and pulses. Though we have a gas connection, we are hardly able to refill it every month. As the price of the gas has almost touched Rs 750, we buy a refill once in four months now.” On being asked how she would cook without gas Chhabi said, “I stay with my mother in law who continues to collect fire-wood from different parts of the city. As the cyclone Fani and Amphan had uprooted many trees, firewood is easily available. We use it for cooking but collecting wood is a strenuous job.” The bandh, however, remained peaceful in the state. All the market places were closed and vehicles remained off the road. Trains were stranded at different stations because of the shutdown. Pradesh Congress committee president Niranajan Patnaik said, “The bandh remained peaceful across the state. There is an overwhelming support for the cause. The Centre has reduced the corporate taxes by 10 per cent but increased the prices of petroleum products.” The BJD, which claims to maintain equal distance from both the BJP and Congress,  said fuel price hike is a common man’s problem. “The sole intention is to ensure profit for private oil companies by not putting a cap on the prices. In a democratic welfare country, there should be a check on price rise of essential commodities including gas,” said BJD spokesperson and MLA Amar Satpathy. He said, “States are not getting any profit from the cess being collected by the Centre. The Centre should stop blaming states for its problems and putting pressure on state’s exchequer. Otherwise state’s economy will crumble down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
16-02-2021||India||Servitor injured in Puri temple clash ||A servitor of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple sustained head injuries following an attack by another servitor inside the temple premises on Monday. Sources said a servitor Ramakrushna Khuntia carrying an earthen pot was entering the temple through its southern gate that was opposed by another servitor (a Yatri Sahyak or servitor engaged to assist devotees) Damodar Gocchikar. The latter said this was against the tradition. However, Khuntia insisted on entering through the southern gate that led to a scuffle between the two. An angry Khuntia hit Gocchikar with the earthen pot he was carrying, causing serious head injuries to the latter. Police detained Khuntia. Gocchikar was rushed to the hospital from where he has been released following treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
