17-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Cabinet clears caravan tourism policy to revive the sector||Against the backdrop of Covid-19 and need for safe travel, the Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday approved a new 'caravan tourism' policy that seeks to provide incentives to tour operators and at the same time boost employment opportunities in the pandemic-battered sector. The policy, aimed at addressing safety concerns of travel enthusiasts, was cleared at the weekly cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The policy has two parts - caravan and caravan parks - allowing tourists to enjoy the state's natural beauty and a range of other attractions, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. It will also boost employment opportunities in the tourism sector, which has been badly affected by the pandemic, it said. A caravan is a specially-built vehicle used for the purpose of travel, leisure and accommodation. A caravan park is a place where such vehicles can stay overnight and provide amenities and facilities for tourists. Benefits like waiver of stamp and electricity duties, and GST refund will be provided to tour operators under the policy, the statement said. Caravans and caravan parks will have to be registered with the tourism directorate, which will train their promoters in marketing, management and hygiene aspects, it said. The CMO statement said accommodation facilities for tourists and private investment will get a boost under the policy. Family picnics can be arranged in places other than hotels and resorts and no development zones can be utilised better, it said, adding that remote areas with tourist attractions will become easily accessible. Caravan parks can be set up in places which are well equipped with basic amenities like water, road and electricity, the statement said. Caravans can be parked in these places, which can come upon private or government land. Owners of caravan parks will have to ensure the safety and security of travellers and provide them necessary facilities, including for the differently-abled, the statement said. Caravan parks can also come up on the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) guest house areas and open land belonging to the state-run body. The statement said caravans will have beds, kitchens, toilets, sofas and tables and these vehicles in different sizes will be registered with the transport commissioner apart from the tourism directorate. Registration fee will be Rs 5,000 and licence of operators will be renewed on payment of Rs 2,000, it said. In another decision, the cabinet gave a go-ahead for setting up a skilled university while centres of excellence in all the six revenue divisions of the state. These will function as divisional centres of the university, the statement said. The cabinet also approved the Pimpri-Chinchwad-Nigdi elevated line of the Pune metro project. The existing Pimpri-Chinchwad-Swargate route has been amended for the purpose and the extended line will cost Rs 946.73 crore and have three stations, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||PM Modi to address top military commanders at Combined Commanders’ Conference in Kevadia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the top commanders of the three defence forces at the Combined Commanders’ Conference in Gujarat’s Kevadia in the first week of March. "The Combined Commanders' Conference 2021 is scheduled to be held at Kevadia in Gujarat. The Prime Minister would be addressing the top commanders of the Indian Army, Air Force and the Navy at the event and is expected to give directions to the defence forces for being prepared for the challenges in the near and distant future," as reported by ANI. The Commanders' Conference is attended by the commander-in-chief rank officers of the three services and the tri-services organisations such as the Integrated Defence Staff Headquarters, Strategic Forces Command and the Port Blair-based Andaman and Nicobar Command. The conference would also see the participation of the Chief of Defence Staff. This post was created soon after the government came to power in 2019 as one of the first major military reforms. During the event, presentations regarding the progress made in the field of the creation of theatre commands are expected to be given to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is also expected to be briefed on the restructuring of the Army formations in view of the recent Chinese aggression in the Ladakh sector. As per plans, the Defence Ministry will be creating the Air Defence Command as the first step towards restructuring of defence forces in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||Cabinet clears signing of free trade agreement between India and Mauritius||More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius, with the Indian government on Wednesday approving the signing of a free trade agreement between the two countries. The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved signing of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) between India and Mauritius, an official statement said. It said that Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. "The CECPA between India and Mauritius covers 310 export items for India, including food stuff and beverages (80 lines), agricultural products (25 lines), textile and textile articles (27 lines), base metals and articles thereof (32 lines), electricals and electronic item (13 lines), plastics and chemicals (20 lines), wood and articles thereof (15 lines), and others," the statement said. In a free trade agreement, two trading partners cut or eliminate customs duties on a host of products besides liberalising norms to promote services trade. With respect to trade in services, Indian service providers will have access to around 115 sub-sectors from the 11 broad service segments such as research and development, telecommunication, construction, distribution, education, environmental, financial, tourism, recreational, yoga, audio-visual services, and transport services. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including professional services, R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, tourism, recreational and transport services. Both sides have also agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the pact. The agreement will be signed on a mutually convenient date and will come into force from the first date of the following month. According to the statement, it will be the first trade agreement to be signed by India with a country in Africa. It is a limited agreement, which will cover trade in goods, rules of origin, trade in services, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary (related to food safety and animal and plant health protection) measures, dispute settlement, movement of professionals, telecom, financial services, customs procedures and cooperation in other areas, it added. India and Mauritius have been negotiating this pact since 2005. This is the first such agreement approved for signing by the Modi government since it came to power in 2014. The bilateral trade between the countries dipped to USD 690 million in 2019-20 from USD 1.2 billion in 2018-19. While India's exports in 2019-20 aggregated to USD 662 million, the imports stood at USD 27.89 million. Mauritius was the second top source of foreign direct investment into India in 2019-20. India received USD 8.24 billion (about Rs 57,785 crore) foreign inflows from that country in the last fiscal. India has implemented free trade pacts with countries like Japan, Korea and ASEAN (Association of South-East Asian Nations). It is also negotiating similar agreements with Australia, New Zealand and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||Apollo plans to launch private market for Covid-19 vaccines by March||Apollo Hospitals Enterprises on Wednesday said it plans to launch a private market for vaccines against Covid-19 within weeks across the country, a move that may help in making India achieve its August target, Bloomberg reported. In an interview with Bloomberg Television, the health care chain’s Managing Director Suneeta Reddy said they are working with the Centre to provide vaccines for health workers, and has also trained 6,000 people besides allocating 3,500 inoculation sites. “Our expectation is maybe March. We have the advantage of so much of the manufacturing happening in India, so there will be vaccinations available unlike in a lot of other countries. There is great potential to cover many more people,” Reddy said. Eleven states have inoculated less than half their healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccines, according to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday that underline the challenge ahead to meet the deadline a week away. India has inoculated over 6.1 million healthcare workers, about 61 per cent of nearly 10 million nationwide due to receive the vaccines, since the vaccination campaign began on January 16, but the states lagging are causing concern among health officials. The health ministry has set a February 24 deadline for healthcare workers to receive first doses of the vaccines and plans to start the campaign to inoculate people above the age of 50 years in March. Over 2.4 million, or about 26 per cent, of around 20 million frontline workers across the country have also received the first doses of the vaccines. Eight states have already vaccinated 40 per cent or more of their frontline workers, but 10 states have covered less than 10 per cent. However, at this rate, India will fall short of its target to inoculate 300 million people by August, Bloomberg reports. “I believe it's achievable, but I do believe public and private have to work together. We can exceed those numbers -- if we do achieve these vaccination goals, India will be well prepared for the second wave,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||China prepares for Round 2 of disengagement at LAC: Report||Large numbers of tank transporters near the headquarters of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Rudok and Xiadullah across Rezang La and Karakoram Pass indicate that the Chinese Army are making preparations for the second round of disengagement, Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday quoting experts. The disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) began last week, ending a 10-month-long standoff between the two armies in Eastern Ladakh. From February 10, frontline troops of China and India at the south and north banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh started synchronised and organised disengagement, the Chinese defence ministry announced. “All I can say is that the disengagement process is moving on well, though the date of next meeting of military commanders is yet to be decided,” Hindustan Times quoted a senior Indian official as saying. The Indian government, however, acknowledged this the next morning. Presenting a statement at the Parliament, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong Lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” He added: “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides.” The militaries of China and India have been engaged in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic-level talks to resolve the face-off. On January 24, the ninth round of China-India Corps Commander-level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||Threatened over donating money for Ram Temple, alleges HD Kumaraswamy ||Days after stoking controversy with his multiple tweets on the Ram Temple donation drive, former Karnataka chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy on Wednesday alleged that he was threatened to donate for the construction of the shrine in Ayodhya. The former Karnataka CM alleged three people, including a woman, came to his house and threatened him for not giving donation for the construction of Ram Temple. "Who is giving the information? Where is the transparency? Several street people are collecting donations by threatening many. I’m also a victim. Some three persons, including a lady, came to my house and they threatened me and said ‘why are you not giving the money’. I request VHP people to be transparent,” he said while speaking to reporters. Kumaraswamy on Monday took to Twitter to accuse the RSS of marking houses of those who did not give donations for Ram Temple in Ayodhya and alleged it was similar to what the Nazis did in Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
17-02-2021||India||Two persons from 'Delhi police' seized Shantanu Muluk's hard disk from house, says father||Two persons claiming to be the personnel of Delhi Police seized a computer hard disk and other items from the house of green activist Shantanu Muluk, a suspect in the "toolkit" case related to the farmers' protest, without a search warrant on February 12, in Beed in Maharashtra, his father Shivlal Muluk has told local police. Beed superintendent of police Raja Ramaswami said on Wednesday that Shivlal Muluk made a representation to the police on Tuesday. "We got representation yesterday. We'll enquire & accordingly take needful action (sic)," reads the message texted to PTI by Ramaswami. On Tuesday, the Bombay High Court granted transit anticipatory bail to Shantanu Muluk for 10 days. Shivlal Muluk, 54, made the representation as a "responsible citizen" to Beed Police and urged the SP to take appropriate action regarding the 'search' conducted at his house, an official said. The letter stated that two persons visited the residence of the Muluks in Chanakyapuri area in Beed on February 12 around 5.30 am and introduced themselves as officials of the Delhi Police by showing their identity cards, the official said. The duo told the Muluk family that Delhi Police wanted to know about Shantanu, saying he had committed treason and he had been in contact with pro-Khalistan people, the official said quoting the letter. The duo then searched all rooms in the house and took away a hard disk, an environment-related poster, a book, and a mobile phone cover from Shantanu Muluk's room, it stated. According to Shivlal Muluk, the police officials did not show any search warrant and also didn't obtain any permission from the family before taking away these items, the letter said. The police officials also didn't prepare any 'panchnama' of the seized material, it stated. A Panchnama is a record of witness testimony, usually prepared by the police, during the investigation of a crime or after a death. The police officials also told the Muluk family that the seized material will be returned to them later, as per the representation. Shivlal Muluk also claimed that the visiting police team had asked him to come to the government guest house in Beed for questioning. The letter stated that Shivlal Muluk as a "responsible citizen" was informing about the visit of the Delhi Police to Beed SP as no local government official accompanied them. When contacted on phone, Shivlal Muluk said on Wednesday that he was not in a condition to speak. According to the Delhi police, Shantanu Muluk and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". On Wednesday, the Bombay HC also granted transit anticipatory bail to Jacob. The Delhi police on Monday alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu had created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Congress sweeps Punjab municipal corporation polls||The ruling Congress on Wednesday won seven municipal corporations in Punjab’s state local body polls, media organisations reported. However, according to a PTI update at 3:45 pm, the party had won six seats. The results for seven corporations -- Moga, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Pathankot, Batala, and Bathinda -- were declared on Wednesday, and Congress had clearly sweeped all of them, according to media organisations. The win in Bathinda, represented by Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the Lok Sabha, came as a surprise after 53 years. Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents the Bathinda urban assembly seat, tweeted expressing happiness over the win. “Bathinda will get a Congress Mayor for the 1st time in 53 years! Thank you to ALL Bathinda residents,” he said. The counting of votes started at 9 am for elections to 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils in the state. The State Election Commission had ordered on Tuesday re-polling at two polling booths of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. Therefore, the counting for the entire civic body will take place on Thursday. Tight security arrangements have been made at the counting centres, they further said. Over 70 per cent voting was recorded in the civic body elections on February 14. A total of 9,222 candidates were in the fray, of which 2,832 were independents, 2,037 from the ruling Congress and 1,569 from the Shiromani Akali Dal. The BJP, AAP and the BSP had fielded 1,003, 1,606 and 160 candidates respectively. The BJP and the Akali Dal, which walked out of the National Democratic Alliance last year over the farm laws issue, have fought the elections separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Journalist Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation case filed by former minister MJ Akbar||A Delhi Court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in M J Akbar's criminal defamation case against her over the allegations of sexual harassment, saying a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. Ramani had accused the former editor of sexual misconduct amid the #MeToo movement of 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar saying that no charges were proved against her. "Women can't be punished for raising instances of sexual abuse," the court said, adding, "The Indian constitution allows women to put forward her grievances before any forum and at any time". The court said it is shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. "The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities," it said, adding that the society must understand the impact of sexual abuse and harassment on its victims. The court, while referring to MJ Akbar's claim that Ms Ramani's allegations had tarnished his image, observed that the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of right to dignity. In a newspaper article, Ramani had said the alleged sexual misconduct took place around 20 years ago, when Akbar headed Asian Age. He had called her to his hotel bedroom for a job interview and behaved inappropriately, she had said. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||SC allows MP, HP to be parties on plea challenging interfaith marriage laws||The Supreme Court Wednesday permitted an NGO to make Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as parties to a pending petition challenging the controversial state laws regulating conversions due to inter-faith marriages. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde also allowed Muslim body Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind to become a party to the petition on the ground that a large number of Muslims are being harassed under these laws across the country. The apex court on January 6 had agreed to examine controversial new laws of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand regulating religious conversions due to interfaith marriages. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however refused to stay the controversial provisions of the laws and issued notices to both the state governments on the petitions. The pleas, filed by advocate Vishal Thakre and others and an NGO 'Citizens for Justice and Peace', have challenged the Constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 which regulate religious conversions of interfaith marriages. During the brief hearing, senior advocate C U Singh appeared for the NGO and sought impleadment of Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh as parties saying they have also framed laws on the lines of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The controversial UP ordinance was cleared by the state Cabinet and given assent by Governor Anandiben Patel on November 28. The ordinance relates to not only inter-faith marriages but all religious conversions and lays down elaborate procedures for any person who wishes to convert to another religion. The Uttarakhand law entails a two-year jail term to any person or persons found guilty of religious conversion through force or allurement . The allurement can be in cash, in kind of employment, or material benefit. Thakre and others in their plea have said that they are aggrieved by the ordinance which curtails the fundamental rights of the citizens of India which has been provided in the Constitution. The plea said the laws passed by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand against 'Love Jihad' and punishments thereof may be declared ultra vires and null and void, because they disturb the basic structure of the Constitution as laid down by the law. It said they are against public policy and society at large. The plea filed by Mumbai based NGO said that both the legislations violate Articles 21 and 25, as they empower the state to suppress an individual's personal liberty and the freedom to practice religion of one's choice. Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, in its application filed through advocate Ejaj Maqbool, raises the issue of fundamental rights of the Muslim youth who are being allegedly targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14, 21 and 25. The application said that besides Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have also enacted similar legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Modi's advice for Indian start-ups||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged India's startup founders to think how to create institutions and not focus on valuations alone. Addressing the Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum here, Modi said that startups should not restrict themselves only to valuations on exit strategies. They should think of creating an institution that can outlive this century by creating world class products that will set the global benchmark of excellence. The Prime Minister further said the large population of the country is the IT industry's biggest strength as people are eager to adopt newer solutions. IT industry's corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts to develop lateral thinking in rural kids can prove to be a gamechanger for India, Modi noted. The country is not short of ideas, he said, adding that it needs mentors to help turn ideas into reality. The IT industry will have to develop solutions for societal good which leverage on the wide optical fiber cable (OFC) network we are laying across the country, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Nikita Jacob granted transit anticipatory bail by Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to advocate Nikita Jacob, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the "toolkit" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over the ongoing farmers' protest. Justice P D Naik gave Jacob three weeks' time to approach the court concerned in Delhi for relief. The court in its order noted the applicant (Jacob) is a permanent resident of Mumbai and the FIR is lodged in Delhi, and the relief sought by her now is only temporary. "The applicant apprehends that she will be arrested at any point of time. She has to make arrangements to seek relief from a court in another state. Hence, this court is of the opinion that protection as sought by the applicant can be granted for a temporary period," Justice Naik said. The HC said since Jacob would be approaching the court concerned in Delhi to seek anticipatory bail, it would not be appropriate for this court to make any observations on merits of the case. "The applicant is granted transit anticipatory bail for a period of three weeks to enable her to approach the court concerned in Delhi," Justice Naik said. The court said if Jacob is arrested in the three-week period, then she shall be released after furnishing a bond of Rs 25,000. Justice Naik also took note of the fact that another suspect in the case, Shantanu Muluk, an engineer based in Maharashtra's Beed district, was granted transit anticipatory bail for 10 days by the HC's Aurangabad bench on Tuesday. Jacob and Muluk, who claim to be environmental activists, had approached the Bombay HC after a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against them. According to the Delhi police, the two along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". The Delhi police on Monday alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. The accused persons have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 124(a) for sedition, 153(a) for promoting enmity between different sections of the society and 120(b) for criminal conspiracy. Jacob's plea was opposed by the Delhi police's cyber cell which sought dismissal of the same. Advocate Hiten Venegavkar, appearing for the Delhi police, on Tuesday argued that this court does not have the jurisdiction to grant any relief as the FIR is lodged in another state. He further said when the Delhi police team searched Jacob's house on February 11, they had informed her that they would be questioning her further on February 12. "However, Jacob went absconding since then. Due to this, the Delhi court issued a non-bailable warrant," Venegavkar said. He claimed Jacob and Disha Ravi had authored and created the toolkit document, which gave detailed directions on how the protest should be carried out, and it was made much before the January 26 "riot" incident at the Red Fort in Delhi. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, had argued that the toolkit was prepared by a number of people in support of the farmers and does not talk about violence or the Red Fort incident. Desai said Jacob apprehended arrest, which was fortified by the issuance of a non-bailable warrant, and hence, left her house on February 12 and moved this court seeking transit anticipatory bail. Jacob and Muluk in their pleas said they were targets of political vendetta. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Man seen in video swinging swords at Red Fort arrested||A 30-year-old man who was allegedly swinging swords that "motivated" the protesters at the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic Day has been arrested, police said on Wednesday. Maninder Singh, who works as a car AC mechanic, was arrested around 7.45 pm on Tuesday near the C D block bus stop in Pitampura in northwest Delhi. "Singh was seen in a video swinging two swords at Red Fort with intent to motivate or radicalise and energise the violent anti-national elements indulging in brutal assault or attack on police persons on duty with swords, 'khandas', iron rods, axes, 'barsaas', sticks etc and damaging historical monument Red Fort on Republic Day," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said. The suspect, who runs a sword-training school in an empty plot near his house in Swaroop Nagar, has "disclosed to have been radicalised by seeing provoking Facebook posts of various groups. He used to frequently visit Singhu Border and was highly motivated by speeches made by leaders there", police said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. According to police, Singh had "motivated" six people of the neighbourhood. All six of them, riding upon bikes, had accompanied tractor rally of farmers heading from Singhu border towards Mukarba Chowk on Republic Day. Before joining tractors parade, Maninder had kept two swords with him -- 'khandas' having a size of 4.3 feet -- that were used in swinging at Red Fort. The swords have accused recovered from his house, police said. As per their plan, the suspect and with his five associates and other unknown armed miscreants entered the Red Fort and he did sword dance or swing. "That sword dance had motivated violent protesters to cause more mayhem at Red Fort by indulging in all sorts of violence against public servants, including policemen on duty there, and causing damage to historical monument of Red Fort," Kushwah said. A long video of him purportedly swinging swords at Red Fort on January 26 has been found in his mobile phone. Other photos of his presence at Singhu border are in his phone, police said, adding that an investigation was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||India logs 11,610 fresh Covid cases, 100 casualties in a day||With 11,610 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,09,37,320, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,06,44,858, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,913 in the country with 100 more fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,06,44,858, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.33 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. There are 1,36,549 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which account for only 1.25 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,79,77,229 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 6,44,931 on Tuesday. The 100 new fatalities include 39 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and seven from Tamil Nadu. Of the total 1,55,913 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,591, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,432), Karnataka (12,273), Delhi (10,894), West Bengal (10,235), Uttar Pradesh (8,704) and Andhra Pradesh (7,163). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Kiran Bedi pens farewell note before leaving||Outgoing Lt Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said whatever work done was a sacred duty fulfilling her constitutional and moral responsibilities. A day after she was removed as the Lt Governor of the Union Territory, the former IPS officer thanked the Centre for a life time experience in serving Puducherry. She also thanked all those who worked with her closely. Bedi said she could say with a deep sense of satisfaction that during her tenure 'Team Raj Nivas diligently worked to serve larger public interest'. Bedi, who has been at loggerheads with the elected government and particularly with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy also said "whatever was done was a sacred duty fulfilling my constitutional and moral responsibilities." She asserted that Puducherry has a very bright future. "It is now in the hands of the people." She wished for a prosperous Puducherry. In a surprise development late on Tuesday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan announced that Bedi will cease to hold the office of Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, just a week after Narayanasamy petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to recall her. Hailing the replacement of Bedi, the CM had said, "it marks victory for the rights of the people". Telangana Governor Tamizhisai Soundararajan has been assigned additional charge of Puducherry following removal of Lt Governor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||BJP to micro-manage poll campaign from Calcutta’s five-star hotel||If the chariot is a BharatBenz, where will the charioteers check in to blow the conch shells? A five-star hotel, of course. The BJP will micro-manage its Bengal poll campaign from the luxury of a five-star hotel — an uncommon choice in the state. The BJP’s Bengal unit is setting up a “media centre” at Hotel Hindusthan International (HHI). “We are booking several rooms at HHI, where our leaders coming from various parts of the country and state will stay and hold meetings till the Bengal elections are over,” a BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. “A part of the hotel will be used as a media centre where news conferences will be held.” HHI officials said they were not aware of any bulk booking. Another source in the BJP said the party would book rooms in several other hotels ahead of the polls as several senior leaders would be camping in Calcutta. There is nothing unlawful about political parties working out of hotels. Hotels have been linked with political bases in the past — the most famous in the world was Watergate in the US, the complex where the eponymous hotel and the Democratic National Committee headquarters was located when the scandal that felled Richard Nixon broke. But it is not a familiar feature in Bengal. Political rivals took swipes at the BJP, calling it a party of the rich and saying the Election Commission should keep an eye on its poll expenses and sources of funds. BJP old-timers expressed surprise at the party’s decision, seeing it as antithetical to the RSS ideals of austerity and alien to Bengal’s political culture. They expressed the fear that such “extravagance” would not go down well with an electorate that had never seen elections being managed from a hotel. The rath that BJP national president J.P. Nadda had flagged off in Birbhum last week was a BharatBenz vehicle, according to data associated with the registration number. BharatBenz is a brand of Daimler India Commercial Vehicles, a subsidiary of the German manufacturer Daimler AG. “For several months now, the party has been operating from a new address at Hastings on Calcutta’s southern fringes. The party has leased four floors in the building, which is enough space to oversee elections,” a party member of 20 years said. “We can’t understand the need to additionally rent a luxurious address. In elections outside Bengal, the party does rent hotel rooms; the same culture is being replicated here.” The state BJP’s social media and IT teams operate from the building at Hastings, where almost every leader, including Trinamul Congress turncoat Rajib Banerjee, has a designated room. Sources said meals for at least 250 people are prepared at the Hastings office every day. Renting a host of rooms at star hotels in the run-up to elections became the norm for the BJP ever since the current crop of leaders replaced the generation of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani. During last year’s Bihar elections, the BJP had booked a portion of a hotel in Patna where its senior leaders and star campaigners stayed during visits to the state. The party’s media centre too operated from the hotel. Several visiting seniors from Delhi and elsewhere, however, chose to stay at another luxury hotel near the Gandhi Maidan in Patna. In addition to renting the Hastings address, the Bengal BJP has renovated its headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, in central Calcutta. Apart from offices for leaders, the building houses a call centre for the party’s Calcutta zone. Once the election dates are announced, journalists will be restricted from entering the Hastings office and all news conferences will be held at Hotel Hindusthan, sources said. The BJP will also rent two upscale guesthouses in Calcutta with the elections in mind, they added. Political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty could not remember any political party renting a portion of a five-star hotel to supervise election management in the state before. “This is unprecedented. I can’t remember any political party booking rooms in a five-star hotel on a long-term basis for poll management,” he said. “However, this is the first time in 10 years that the Trinamul Congress is pitted against a party that can challenge it, not just politically but financially too.” Trinamul spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “This only shows that the BJP is a party of the rich. It has no connection with the poor. However, its expenditures will go in vain; it will lose the election.” CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim too castigated the BJP. “The BJP’s culture of five-star politics has set in since the advent of (Narendra) Modi and (Amit) Shah,” he said. “The money is coming from opaque sources like electoral bonds…. The hypocrisy is telling: BJP leaders check in at star hotels while indulging in the optics of eating at the homes of poor villagers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
17-02-2021||India||Evidence was planted in activist Wilson’s computer: US academic||A computing associate professor of Arizona State University has said a report that concluded evidence was planted in the computer of jailed human rights activist Rona Wilson “conclusively establishes that the malware was used for incriminating document delivery and there is no room for interpretation or doubt about this…”. “For an administration that admits to not even finding the instances of malware that are detectable by an ordinary virus scan software, leave alone the more sophisticated and custom installations of NetWire (the malware that was used to attack Wilson’s computer), to call the forensic report a distortion is unfortunate,” Jedidiah Crandall told an online news conference. Wilson, facing trial in the Bhima Koregaon case, has been in jail in Maharashtra for almost three years now. In response to a report in The Washington Post newspaper on the findings of Arsenal, the US consultant whose data forensics report has been filed in Bombay High Court, the National Investigation Agency had said it had found no evidence of malware in Wilson’s devices. Citing the Arsenal report, Wilson’s lawyers had recently asked Bombay High Court to quash the case. Crandall made his categorical assertion on Tuesday after reviewing the Arsenal report. Crandall has researched computer systems and cybersecurity and measured censorship, surveillance and other threats to Internet freedom to build a picture over time of how the Internet is evolving, according to Arizona University. At the media conference organised by a group called Mumbai Rises to Save Democracy, a lawyer and relatives of two of the 16 people jailed in the case spoke out against the NIA’s dismissal of the data forensics report. Rama Ambedkar, wife of jailed academic Anand Teltumdbe and granddaughter of B.R. Ambedkar, said: “This has gone on for too long. Arsenal has done the work that the responsible government agency should have done. We must immediately put this evidence at the centre of the case and not only release all accused on bail but also institute a special investigation team charged with the task of getting to the bottom of how such a conspiracy was created.” Sagar Abraham Gonsalves, the son of jailed academic Vernon Gonsalves, said: “At the time of the raid, spare phones, laptops and even CDs that were lying in the house were confiscated. My father asked for a clone copy back then, but he was refused.” Defence lawyer Mihir Desai pointed out: “In all, there were five instances of NetWire malware present on Wilson’s computer. Of these, two would have been detectable by ordinary anti-virus software. So, when the highest (investigative) agency of the country claims that no malware was detected, it points to either a complete inability to respond in the face of compelling evidence or sheer incompetence.” IIT Kanpur professor Sandeep Shukla added: “Other claims such as the possibility of the cloned hard drive being tampered with during transportation are reflective of a complete failure to understand the technical strength of good forensic analysis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||No incitement in ‘toolkit’ content, says Justice Deepak Gupta||None of the contents of the toolkit linked to Disha Ravi and available in the public domain is an incitement to violence, former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta has said. The assessment strikes at the root of the sedition charge levelled against the young climate activist by Delhi police who arrested her from Bangalore over the weekend. Although the Supreme Court had upheld the sedition law (Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code) in 1962, its application was limited to acts involving intention or tendency to create disorder, or disturbance of law and order, or incitement to violence. Justice Gupta told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “Now specifically coming to this young lady, this Disha Ravi case, what I have read from the toolkit… that part of which is available on the public domain, all that it says is ‘we should all get together, have a social war on social media and target the government, create a Twitter storm against the government and then on the 26th (January) we will all move to Delhi and then come back to the border’. “Now, none of them is an incitement to violence, I would say. At best, you can say Section 144 CrPC (prohibition on gathering of five or more persons at a place) was applicable in Delhi on that day (January 26) and you have violated Section 144, but it is not an incitement to violence. I don’t find any link (of the toolkit schedule) to the Red Fort incident or anything.” Violation of Section 144 can entail a maximum punishment of three years in jail but police usually take violators into custody and release them after a few hours. Section 124A can send a convict to prison for life and usually the suspects are not given government jobs until they are cleared of the charge. Justice Gupta, who had spoken on the issue on NDTV on Monday, pointed out to this newspaper that the misuse of the sedition law was not confined to any particular dispensation. “It is not this government alone; in West Bengal, there was a cartoon and the person was arrested. There was some challenge to the PDS system in Chhattisgarh and the person was arrested. There is a growing misuse of the defamation law, the sedition law and the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act) to stifle the voice of dissent,” he said. “Basically the idea is people get scared and they don’t speak up because nobody wants to go to jail. Some (governments) indulge in more, some indulge in less, but all of them indulge… almost all of them indulge…. “In 99 per cent of the sedition cases filed, they all end up in acquittal or discharge. Or the police do not file the chargesheet till three months or six months and the person goes home,” he said. Justice Gupta said that unfortunately even after Independence, instead of abolishing the sedition law, it was made harsher during  the term of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by amending the provision to make it a cognisable offence. It was a non-cognisable offence under the British Empire. Under a non-cognisable offence, a person can be arrested by the police only under a warrant from a judicial magistrate, unlike a cognisable offence where a cop can pick up a person and put him in the cell in the name of arrest. “In England, Australia, etc, it is abolished, but we continue with it. In the past five to six years, there has been an exponential increase in sedition cases. In my view, it is only an attempt to instil fear that if they talk against the power that be, we will take action,” Justice Gupta said. Magistrate’s duty Justice Gupta said it was also the duty of the judicial magistrate before whom an accused is brought to see that the allegations made by the police were not taken as the gospel truth. “That is why they go on Sunday before a duty magistrate who is not involved with the case at all,” Justice Gupta said. He was alluding to a practice of the police arresting a person during the weekend and seeking remand from the duty magistrate who may not have all the materials before him. On a weekday, a suspect has to be produced before a regular judicial magistrate who can scrutinise the materials placed before him minutely. Rhea parallel The former judge drew a parallel between the victimisation of the young climate activist and actress Rhea Chakraborty. Justice Gupta said Disha was being declared guilty and branded an anti-national by sections of the  media and others, much like Rhea had been after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “You kept a person behind bars for two days, three-five days, 10 days, 15 days, 20 day, a month. How do you return that or make up for the person’s lost liberty? There are channels and channels and in the news media she (Disha) is already like Rhea Chakraborty. This girl has already been proclaimed to be guilty and an anti-national. Just because we disagree, a person disagrees with the government, does not make that person anti-national,” Justice Gupta said. “They can always be patriots. Two patriots can always have different points of view on how the government should function,” the former judge said. Dissent “In my view, dissent is an essential part of democracy. If there is no dissent, there is no vibrant democracy. In a democracy, there has to be arguments, debate… otherwise, we will live in a stagnant society,” Justice Gupta added. He said the Supreme Court or the high courts could not be expected to suo motu intervene in such matters as it was for the aggrieved citizen to approach the judiciary. “In every case, the Supreme Court cannot intervene. Either somebody has to intervene or move the court. Disha Ravi has become a celebrated case. But when a poor villager is arrested, nobody bothers. So I don’t think this is a case where the court can take suo motu notice,” he said. Justice Gupta said that “on the larger context, when the matter comes up for bail or for other reasons, the Supreme Court should look into these aspects and, may be, lay down the law and guidelines on how and where they can be arrested”. Arrest-happy The former Supreme Court judge, known for his forthright views on citizens’ personal liberty, expressed concern at the growing trend in the country to arrest citizens for every petty offence even when there is no requirement under the law. “There is another tendency, which I find that now arrest has become the first thing. A person has to be arrested not to punish him, but because at this stage of investigation, it is only the police that believe the person might have committed an offence,” Justice Gupta said. “They are presumed to be innocent till proven guilty. So till that time, you don’t have to arrest everybody. If they cooperate with you, if you find that there is no chance of their absconding or running away, if you find that they are giving you computers or whatever you want, why should you arrest them? Why should you arrest them?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Less than 50 % healthcare workers inoculated in 11 states||Eleven states have inoculated less than half their healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccines, according to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday that underline the challenge ahead to meet the deadline a week away. India has inoculated over 6.1 million healthcare workers, about 61 per cent of nearly 10 million nationwide due to receive the vaccines, since the vaccination campaign began on January 16, but the states lagging are causing concern among health officials. The health ministry has set a February 24 deadline for healthcare workers to receive first doses of the vaccines and plans to start the campaign to inoculate people above the age of 50 years in March. Fourteen states have vaccinated 70 to 80 per cent of healthcare workers, Bihar on top with 80 per cent, followed by Madhya Pradesh (75), Uttar Pradesh (73) Kerala (71) and Rajasthan (70). In Uttar Pradesh alone 696,000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated. “But things are not so good elsewhere,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary. “There are 11 states where less than 50 per cent of healthcare workers have received the first dose of vaccines.” Among them are Karnataka that has vaccinated 49 per cent of healthcare workers, Andhra Pradesh (49 per cent), Delhi (42 per cent), Tamil Nadu (37 per cent), Punjab (37 per cent), Chandigarh (33 per cent) and Puducherry (22 per cent). “We’re telling the states to accelerate the process, add sessions and try to vaccinate as many recipients as possible during the sessions,” Bhushan said. The campaign began offering the second doses of the vaccines to healthcare workers on Saturday but has so far inoculated only over a third of the eligible beneficiaries — 170,628 (37 per cent) of the 454,049 recipients due for second doses till Monday. Over 2.4 million, or about 26 per cent, of around 20 million frontline workers across the country have also received the first doses of the vaccines. Eight states have already vaccinated 40 per cent or more of their frontline workers, but 10 states have covered less than 10 per cent. The campaign’s next phase will seek to inoculate 270 million people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. The campaign is intended to accelerate India’s move towards herd immunity — a threshold at which such a large fraction of people are protected from the infection that the epidemic stops. Only Kerala and Maharashtra now account for 72 per cent of the country’s 137,000 active cases. Bhushan said central teams had visited the states and provided guidance to control the epidemic. He said the teams had noted that the testing levels had declined in some parts of the two states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Four detected with South African strain of coronavirus in India||India has detected in four travellers from Africa the so-called South African novel coronavirus variant that has become a source of worry among scientists worldwide because of its potential to evade vaccines. The South African variant known as B.1.351 has been detected in one returnee from Angola, one from Tanzania, and two from South Africa, health officials disclosed on Tuesday, but declined to specify their locations in India. The B.1.351 variant that was first documented in South Africa in mid-December last year and has since spread to over 40 countries carries multiple mutations and appears to have increased transmissibility just like the B.1.1.7 variant first identified in the UK. But B.1.351 also has certain mutations that scientists believe could make some vaccines less effective against the variant. All the travellers’ contacts have been tested and quarantined and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, is trying to isolate and culture the variant, said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The travellers had arrived in India during the third and fourth week of January, a health official said. Bhargava said another variant that emerged in Brazil in January this year has also been detected in one returnee from that country. The NIV has isolated the Brazil variant and has begun experiments to assess the vaccine’s effectiveness against it, he said. Studies have already found that the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine named Covaxin, jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR, is effective against the UK variant which has so far been detected in 187 cases in India.“There is so far no evidence that either the UK or the South Africa variants have had any effect on the epidemic patterns in India — we don’t see any clustering, no unusual trends or reinfections,” a senior scientist associated with the sequencing effort told The Telegraph. Scientists in labs across the world are trying to determine how well current Covid-19 vaccines will work against these emerging variants. Some studies have suggested that the B.1.351 variant is less effectively neutralised by antibodies from vaccinated people. South Africa had earlier this month announced a plan to halt the rollout of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine amid preliminary evidence indicating marked reduction in vaccine efficacy against mild and moderate disease caused by the B.1.351 variant. However, given the small sample size in the South African study, the World Health Organisation has currently recommended that the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine should be used even if the variant is present in a country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Farm focus shifts back to border ||The collective of 32 Punjab farmer unions has decided to call off the mahapanchayats being organised across the state against the three controversial farm laws to free up peasants to move to Delhi’s borders in greater numbers and also ensure the success of the four-hour nationwide rail roko on Thursday. Addressing a media conference at the Singhu border, the Punjab union leaders said it was their considered opinion that there was no need for mahapanchayats in their state as the farmers there were already aware of the pitfalls of the three farm laws. The need of the hour is to strengthen the movements at Delhi’s borders to counter the canard that the numbers at these protest sites have thinned since the incidents of January 26, the union leaders said. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) leader Buta Singh Burjgill said arrangements had been made at the protest sites to cater to the change in weather in preparation for the long haul through the summer. Water pumps and motors have been installed, as also fans and coolers. According to Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala of the Kirti Kisan Union, the mahapanchayats are needed more for states that have joined the movement late. “We have gone through this exercise last year itself,” he said, articulating a concern that with the mahapanchayats drawing all the attention, the focus had shifted from the mobilisation along the borders of the national capital which is an important pressure point of the movement. However, as of now, the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) — the largest farmer union of Punjab — has not called off its Kisan-Mazdoor Ekta Rally planned to be held in Barnala on February 21. The Ugrahan group is not part of the 32-union collective but coordinates with them and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Since Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) turned the tide of a demoralised movement after the events of Republic Day with his tears two days later, union leaders have been busy organising mahapanchayats across the country to mobilise further support and counter the Narendra Modi government’s claim that only farmers of Punjab are opposed to the three farm laws. Apart from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, mahapanchayats have been organised in Telangana and Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Delhi Commission for Women issues notice to Delhi police||The Delhi Commission for Women on Tuesday sent a notice to Delhi police on the allegation that due procedure was not followed after climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested from her Bangalore home on Saturday in connection with the “toolkit” sedition case. The panel asked the police to provide a copy of the FIR, reasons for allegedly not producing Disha before a local court for transit remand, “not providing the lawyer of her choice” when she was produced before the Patiala House court in Delhi on Sunday and a detailed action taken report. “It has been alleged in the media by some activists that she was taken to Delhi from Bangalore by Delhi police with no disclosure of her whereabouts, not even to her parents. It has also been alleged that she was brought to Delhi from Bangalore without presenting her before a local court for transit remand,” the commission said in its notice. “It has been further alleged that Disha Ravi was produced before a court in Delhi without a lawyer of her choice being present in the court. This is a very serious matter.” The commission said: “In the light of the above, please provide the following information to the commission: (i) copy of the FIR registered in the matter, (ii) reasons for allegedly not producing the arrested girl before the local court for transit remand, (iii) reasons for allegedly not providing a lawyer of her choice to the girl when she was produced before the court in Delhi, (iv) detailed action taken report in the matter.” Delhi police had on Monday claimed that due procedure was followed and Disha was arrested in the presence of her mother and local police and she was represented by a lawyer. The police, however, did not comment on the transit remand. Delhi police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the police’s action. “We have filed cases pertaining to the Republic Day violence and a probe is on in the toolkit case. Many more details are yet to be revealed,” he said, adding that Disha was arrested after following all due processes. “Whether someone is 22 or 50 years old, law treats everyone equally. The court was in agreement with the decision to arrest her and remanded her in police custody for five days,” Shrivastava said. Sources in Delhi police on Tuesday said the role of some farmer leaders were also being probed in connection with the “toolkit” case and the ongoing probe into the Republic Day violence during the tractor rally, triggering apprehension that the Centre was now planning to crack down on protesters against the three farm laws. The police have also written to videoconferencing platform Zoom seeking details of those who participated in a January 11 virtual meeting organised allegedly by a pro-Khalistani group to prepare a protest toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation. The police had said on Monday that Disha and two other accused — Nikita Jacob, a Bombay High Court lawyer, and Shantanu, a Maharashtra-based engineer — had attended the meeting to gather online support for the farmers’ tractor rally. “We have written to Zoom to ascertain the identity of the others who had participated in the virtual meeting ahead of Republic Day,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi govt of diverting public attention||The Congress on Tuesday said the Narendra Modi government had conspired to keep people constantly busy in emotive and irrelevant issues to divert the nation’s attention from its failures and misdeeds. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a media conference: “The government always manufactures controversies, whips up emotions to keep people busy. Anger, hate and fear are powerful emotions. People get engrossed, forgetting their real concerns. That has been the ideological journey of the RSS-BJP — to play on emotions, whip up emotions that divide, create villains. Use distorted history and mythology for the purpose. That is the modus operandi.” Alleging that the mainstream media was also participating in State-sponsored distractions, Khera said: “They keep us blinded, they don’t want the people to see the examples of misgovernance on every front — be it economy, unemployment, farmers’ movement, women’s safety, etc. They are not worried about anything. They keep focus on two things — how to remain in power and how to help crony capitalists. As our leader Rahul Gandhi has said — working for hum do, hamare do.” Rahul had told Parliament last week that the government had refashioned the family planning slogan “hum do, hamare do”. While Rahul did not name anybody, a BJP minister named “Adani and Ambani”. The Congress has often accused the Modi government of headline and perception management. While Rahul and former defence minister A.K. Antony have made serious allegations against Prime Minister Modi, describing the terms of disengagement in Ladakh as surrender to China, the national discourse all of a sudden has turned to the arrest of environment activist Disha Ravi on the charge of editing and sharing a farmers’ protest toolkit. Nobody is asking the Prime Minister to explain the allegations about a compromise on the territorial integrity of India. Emotions do play a vital role in the BJP’s politics. The entire political discourse in the last parliamentary election had been hijacked at the last moment by a surgical strike inside Pakistan in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. Modi, who became Prime Minister in 2014 promising “achchhe din” — packaged around economic reforms, fight against corruption, two crore jobs every year, doubling of farmers’ income and countless other lofty promises — successfully concealed his failures behind the powerful emotion of nationalism by spinning a Pakistan-centric discourse in 2019. Prior to the Pulwama tragedy and the surgical strike, the political dialogue had been dominated by rising unemployment, agrarian distress, the disastrous demonetisation, the Rafale fighter jet scam, atrocities on women and the failure to bring back black money. The Prime Minister’s apathy to answer questions and debate his performance had further pushed him to a corner, but the emotions whipped up by the Pulwama tragedy and its aftermath dramatically transformed the political backdrop, pushing the Opposition’s narrative out of the electoral frame. The Congress, however, hopes that one emotion — triggered by the same government — will ultimately unite the people. Khera said: “The emotion of suffering — caused by historic unemployment, economic recession, farmers’ distress and rising prices of petroleum products — will unite people cutting across castes, religions, language and region. For six years and nine months, people have witnessed the frightening face of the Modi government in every sphere of life. This emotion will unite them and we are already witnessing this change. “No matter where we come from — which caste, which religion — when we pay Rs 90 for a litre of petrol, it pinches. And we all know this is despite the fact that the price of crude oil in the international market is very low. In May 2014 when the Congress relinquished office, crude oil in the international market was $109 per barrel and petrol was sold at Rs 71 a litre and diesel at Rs 57.28. Now when crude oil is $54.41 per barrel, petrol in Delhi costs Rs 89.29 a litre and diesel Rs 79.70. This is because of Modi tax. The cost of petrol today is Rs 31.82 and diesel Rs 33.46. The Modi government earned Rs 20 lakh crore by levying taxes.” Rahul also took a dig at the government over petrol prices, tweeting: “The Modi government is determined to loot the common people and serve the interest of hamare do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Sedition law cannot be invoked to gag ‘disquiet’||A Delhi court has said the law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten disquiet. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail on Monday to Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram, arrested by Delhi police on charges of sedition for allegedly posting fake videos on Facebook during the farmers’ protest. The court said the law of sedition was a powerful tool to maintain peace and order. “However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants,” the judge said. He noted that the law proscribes any act that can create disorder “by resort to violence” but that no call to violence was attributed to the two. The police had said the men forwarded two separate videos, one from Jharkhand and another of a Delhi police officer briefing his force, with a tagline that suggested a rebellion in Delhi police. Opposing bail, the police had accused them of intent to spread disaffection against the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Social activists urge Bangalore police to book Anil Vij ||Social activists have urged Bangalore police to book Haryana minister Anil Vij for tweeting that young climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for editing and sharing a protest toolkit, should be “eradicated”. The activists have also sought steps against Delhi police for taking Disha away from her home in Bangalore without following proper procedures involving her basic rights. Campaign Against Hate Speech, a Bangalore-based rights group, lodged a complaint with the city police commissioner’s office late on Monday seeking legal action against BJP leader Vij. “Desh virodh ka beej jiske bhi deemag mein ho uska samool nash kar dena chahiye fir chahe veh # Disha Ravi ho ya koi aur,” Vij had tweeted. In English, it could be translated to mean that whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, either the person or the thought has to be destroyed from the roots. The police in BJP-ruled Karnataka have yet to take follow-up action on the complaint against Vij. Vij said he was not afraid of police complaints being filed against him over his tweet. Challenging the interpretation of his tweet, the minister told reporters: “I have said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots. Let me make it clear, it is exterminating that seed of anti-nationalism and not exterminating the person.” Vij’s post had also prompted an investigation by Twitter. “Even Twitter investigated the tweet, they said nothing was wrong,” said Vij. Asked about the police complaint filed by the Karnataka-based group of activists, Vij said: “I am not afraid of such complaints or FIRs. Anyone can lodge a complaint, I will give a reply.”The 21-year-old climate activist was “picked up” from her home in north Bangalore on Saturday and arrested in Delhi before a court remanded her in five days’ police custody. According to Delhi police, Disha had edited and shared a social media toolkit on how to support the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. Disha is associated with the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, a students’ movement started in 2018 by Swedish climate change activist Greta Thunberg. A group of 70 social activists, lawyers and writers have urged Bangalore police to take action against Delhi police for the “flagrant violations of law” in taking away a resident of the city without following any procedures. “It is utterly distressing to note that Ms Ravi’s arrest has been carried out without any regard for her rights under the Constitution of India. Police officials are entrusted with the implementation of the law and are hence the foot soldiers of our criminal justice system,” stated the memorandum submitted to the police commissioner. “The entire incident was a clear and blatant violation of Articles 19, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India,” stated the memorandum. While Article 19 and its sub-sections provide for, among others, freedom of speech and expression, the right to assemble peacefully and to form associations or unions, Article 21 deals with personal liberty, and Article 22 governs the rights of those arrested in any case. “It is therefore deeply worrying that these authorities have begun to act with complete contempt for legal procedures and constitutional safeguards. We must identify that this is a threat to our criminal justice system and act appropriately to make amends,” Campaign Against Hate Speech said. The memorandum cited legal procedures governing inter-state arrests and noted that Delhi police should have informed Bangalore police and secured a transit warrant before taking Disha to the capital. Bangalore police have been mum on the matter. “It is pertinent to note that Ms Ravi’s family, her legal counsel and the public at large have been kept in the dark about the details and documents relating to the arrest,” the memorandum stated. To establish their point, the signatories have demanded copies of the permission to take Disha to Delhi, entries made in the jurisdictional police station, copies of the FIR, transit warrant and search warrant signed by a local magistrate, a list of public witnesses in Bangalore and Delhi, details of the women police officers who went to fetch her and the custody order. Lawyer and rights activist Vinay Sreenivasa, one of the signatories, told The Telegraph that every individual enjoys rights as enshrined in the Constitution. “Delhi High Court has laid out guidelines on inter-state arrest and on why police from other states cannot arrest or simply ‘pick up’ an individual without informing the local police,” he said, referring to last year’s Sandeep Kumar Vs the state of Delhi case. The memorandum cited the judgment that had cautioned against such inter-state arrests without taking the local police into account. “Such practice is obviously contrary to the police manuals and if such actions go unchecked, it will amount to condoning lawlessness by the police force. In a country governed by the rule of law, this is simply unacceptable,” the memorandum said, quoting from the judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Kiran Bedi removed as lieutenant governor of Puducherry||Kiran Bedi was removed as lieutenant governor of Puducherry on Tuesday night in a surprise move that came on a day the Congress-led government was reduced to a minority after the desertion of a fourth MLA. Assembly elections are due soon. The BJP had tweeted on Tuesday: “Congress Era Ends in Puducherry’’. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will hold additional charge of Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
17-02-2021||India||Hilal Lone booked under UAPA for his December election speech ||A National Conference leader in Kashmir who is the son of an MP has been booked under the anti-terror UAPA law for proclaiming at a public event that he was a proud beef-eater and that he planned to open an Islamic seminary to impart religious education even if the pass-outs were called terrorists. Hilal Ahmad Lone, the son of the National Conference’s Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone, had made the comments during an election speech in December. Hilal, whose father had also served as the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Speaker, had been arrested a few days after he had made the remarks and kept under preventive detention at the MLA’s hostel sub-jail in Srinagar. He was shifted to Hajin police station after the UAPA charge was added on Tuesday. A police officer said before Hilal was booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, he had been charged under IPC Sections 505 (incite people to commit offence against other communities), 153-A (promoting enmity between groups) and 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant). “GoI continues to shamelessly book Kashmiri mainstream leaders under UAPA for ‘hate speech’. The truth is that there won’t be enough room in Indian prisons if their own ministers, lawmakers & noxious IT Cell were brought to book for inciting communal passions against minorities,” PDP leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. NC leader Omar Abdullah said the BJP had a completely different standard when it came to hate speeches by its own leaders, tweeting a recent report of the non-government Association of Democratic Reforms that said 27 of the 58 MPs and MLAs with declared cases of hate speech against them were from the BJP. “They can call for hands to be cut off, people to be murdered & it’s fine,” Omar said. During his December speech, Hilal had been reacting to BJP leaders calling the new alliance in Jammu and Kashmir a “gang”. He had said the “real gang” was the one that had demolished the Babri Masjid and rioted in Delhi. “You assert that those who study in darasgahs (seminaries), in UP, in Assam, become terrorists. Those who study in mutts (Hindu monasteries) are saints, but those who pass out from darasgahs are terrorists,” Hilal had said. “In the coming days I might open a darasgah where I will teach Islam. If you tell me I am producing terrorists, (so be it). I will be producing such terrorists who are taught the Quran, taught Islam,” he had said. Hilal had said he was proud to declare that he ate “cow’s meat” because his religion allowed him to do so. “If you want to eat pork, eat it. We will not tell you anything. If we have to eat beef, we will eat it,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||Ahead of Bengal polls, Mohan Bhagwat meets Mithun||Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday drove to Mithun Chakraborty’s residence in Mumbai for a chat over breakfast, following which the actor proclaimed he had a “spiritual relation” with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief. Although both sides sought to dismiss claims that the content could be political, the meeting took place in the run-up to the Bengal elections. “Mohanji ke saath mera ek spiritual relation hai aur bahut dino se hai (I have a spiritual relation with Mohan Bhagwat and it has been there for a long time),” Mithun told reporters after the meeting. “Koi rajneeti nahi, kuch nahi (There was no politics, nothing at all). Only blessings and love. Nothing else,” the yesteryear superstar added. Officially, the RSS refrained from saying anything and privately claimed there was no political motive behind the meeting. Internally, BJP leaders said that though Mithun may not like to formally join the party, they would be more than happy if he agreed to campaign. “Mithun Chakraborty’s popularity is particularly high in rural Bengal and if he campaigns for us then it would help us in a big way,” a BJP leader said. RSS and BJP managers widely circulated a picture of the meeting. The BJP is known not to miss any opportunity in garnering votes with optics. Party insiders said the picture was sure to stir a discussion in Bengal, that has a deep emotional connect with Mithun although he has reduced his film load, and make the BJP more acceptable. The BJP and the RSS have been working in tandem in a desperate bid to win the Bengal Assembly elections. Recently, a coordination meeting of different Sangh parivar outfits and the BJP was held to discuss the strategy for Bengal. BJP and RSS leaders feel that after Assam and the other north-eastern states, winning Bengal was of tremendous ideological significance for them. Apart from his Bengali roots, the popular actor’s significance lies in the fact that he had been associated with the Trinamul Congress. Mithun had been elected to the Rajya Sabha on a Trinamul ticket in 2014. He, however, resigned and quit the party in 2016 citing health reasons. Mithun’s decision to step down had coincided with his name cropping up during the CBI probe into the Saradha scandal. Although he was not made an accused, he had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate since he had been one of the brand ambassadors of Saradha. Mithun, who had for long been associated with the Left before becoming a Trinamul MP, had paid a visit to the RSS headquarters in Nagpur last year. According to him, he had been moved by the “sacrifice and dedication” of the RSS towards the country and on Tuesday stressed his deep attachment with the Sangh. “I’m still attached to the Sangh,” Mithun said when asked about his visit to the RSS headquarters and his association with the saffron outfit. He said he had invited Bhagwat to his home and now planned to go along with his family to Nagpur. “Mohanji invited me to come with my family to Nagpur and I will go,” Mithun said. He also said that he would give his services to the RSS’s work for the country whenever he is asked for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
17-02-2021||India||8  tourists stranded near Tsomgo Lake rescued||Sikkim police with the help of the army rescued eight stranded tourists from near the Tsomgo (Changu) Lake in East Sikkim on Monday evening after heavy snowfall lashed the area, blocking the highway at several places and making travel risky. The eight were members of two families from Bengal comprising five men, two women and a child. They were rescued and put up at the army guest house at 17 Mile, which is between Tsomgo and Gangtok. “It started snowing from one’o clock yesterday (Monday), and they (the tourists) got slightly delayed and got stuck. Around 4pm, they were shifted to the army guest house at 17 Mile,” Siva Prasad Yellasiri told The Telegraph. All of them were doing well and brought down to Gangtok on Tuesday. The Sikkim tourism department did not issue permits to visit Tsomgo as well as North Sikkim on Tuesday because of the heavy snow in those areas. “It snowed today (Tuesday) as well. We will issue permits depending on the weather condition,” said Lukendra Rasaily, the chairman of the Sikkim Tourism Development Corporation (STDC). The weather forecast for the next few days, however, is not very encouraging. “This will continue for another 72 hours in North Sikkim and another 48 hours in East Sikkim. This (the snowfall) is because the passage of a trough in the westerlies in the upper level of the atmosphere over this region,” said Gopi Nath Raha, the head of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Gangtok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
