18-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Cong chief threatens to stop Amitabh, Akshay’s film shoots||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday said if actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar do not take a stand on the issue of fuel price hike, then screening of their films and shootings would not be allowed in the state. Talking to reporters here, Patole said Bachchan and Kumar had tweeted about fuel price rise during the previous UPA government, but are now silent on the issue. The prices of branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, have crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places, including Maharashtra. In Mumbai, petrol is now costing Rs 96.32 a litre and diesel Rs 87.32. Patole said the common man has been affected a lot by the increase in prices of petrol and diesel. Filmstars like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar, through their tweets, had earlier criticised the fuel price rise during the Manmohan Singh-led government, he said. Why are they silent now on the rising petrol and diesel prices? he asked. "If they do not take a stand now on the injustice meted out by the Modi government, we will not let any films (screening) or shootings of Amitabh Bachchan or Akshay Kumar in Maharashtra," the Congress leader said. They should now play the same role and protest against the central government's "anti-national policy", as they did during Manmohan Singh's tenure, Patole said. He also criticised the BJP-led central government on the FASTag system for vehicles. The Centre had made FASTags mandatory from February 15 midnight and said any vehicle not fitted with it will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways clarified that this has been done to further promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||UP DGP: Postmortem inconclusive on cause of death of Unnao girls||No injury marks were found on the bodies of the two teenage girls found dead in Unnao. The postmortem couldn’t ascertain the cause of their death said Uttar Pradesh Police chief, Hitesh Chandra Awasthi on Thursday. The third girl, who was found in a field along with the two, is undergoing treatment at a Kanpur hospital and her condition is “critical but stable”, he said. “Postmortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies. The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis. We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities,” Director General of Police (DGP) Awasthi said. A medical bulletin issued by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl has noted “it is a suspected case of poisoning”, the police chief said. The three girls, aged 15, 14 and 16, left their homes to collect fodder on Wednesday evening. When they did not return, their family members went out, searching for them only to find them tied in a field in Babuhara village in Asoha, around 36 km south of Lucknow. The villagers informed the police and rushed the girls to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead, while the third was rushed to the Unnao hospital and later referred to Kanpur. The DGP said six police teams have been constituted and senior officials are supervising the probe, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||Puducherry Lt Governor orders floor test for Congress government||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararjan on Thursday ordered a floor test for the Congress government in the union territory on February 22, to ascertain whether it has majority in the wake of a spate of resignations by the ruling party MLAs that has reduced its strength to 14. The strength of both the ruling and opposition camps stand at 14 in the 33-member house, including three nominated legislators of the BJP. The assembly has five vacancies. Congress' own strength is ten, including the Speaker, while its ally DMK has three members. An independent also supports the government. Soundararajan's direction to Chief Minister V Narayansamy came after the opposition, led by Leader of the Opposition in the assembly and AINRC chief N Rangasamy, "reiterated" its stand that the government has to prove its majority on the floor of the House, a release from the Lt. Governor's Secretariat here said. The Lt Governor has conveyed to Narayanasamy that the Assembly will meet on Monday and be confined to a "single agenda, namely whether the government of the incumbent Chief Minister continues to enjoy the confidence of the House," it said. Voting shall take place by show of hands and the entire proceedings be videographed, it said. "The floor test in pursuance of the above directions shall be concluded by 5 pm on 22.02.2021 and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost," it said. Soundararajan on Thursday assumed additional charge of the union territory of Puducherry and said she will function as a "people's Governor" and according to the Constitution. She said she had not come to Puducherry with any ulterior motive but to serve the people. The fifth woman to be appointed Lt Governor of the Union Territory, Soundararajan was sworn in at a simple function at the Raj Nivas where she took oath in Tamil. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to Soundararajan, who hails from nearby Tamil Nadu. Later, addressing reporters, she said "I know what are the powers of a Governor, powers of Lt Governor and Chief Minister, of elected members and officers." She would function as a "people's governor." "There would be no obstacles between me and the people. I will pursue every issue thoroughly and serve the people," Soundararajan said. The new Lt Governor said she was glad she had been given the opportunity to serve the people of Puducherry and would address their concerns. She succeeds Kiran Bedi, who was  removed as Lt Governor of Puducherry in a sudden move on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||To drum up support for stir, farmer leaders to hold meetings in West Bengal too||Farmer leaders on Tuesday said they will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well, with one of them indicating that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are "snatching our livelihood". Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at Garhi Sampla here, the peasant leaders said like many other states, they will tour West Bengal too shortly. Replying to a question, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, "We will tour the entire nation, we will also go to West Bengal. Farmers in West Bengal are also facing problems. They are not getting good rates for their crops." Addressing the "mahapanchayat", he said, "We will hold panchayats across the country. We will go to Gujarat, Maharashtra, other places.... We will go to West Bengal and hold a big meeting there too. The farmers of West Bengal are facing some issues with the state government as well as the Centre. We will hold a panchayat there as well." Asked if the visit would be connected to the upcoming Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tikait told reporters, "That is not the case, we will go there in connection with farmers' issues." However, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, during his address to the "mahapanchayat", appealed to people not to cast votes for anyone from panchayat to Parliament if they do not help the protesting farmers and support their agitation.
"Do not give your vote to them, you may give it to anyone else," he said. Later, talking to reporters along with Tikait and some other farmer leaders, Chaduni said, "As far as West Bengal is concerned, if those from the BJP are defeated, then only our stir will succeed. In West Bengal too, people are dependent on agriculture. We will go there and urge the farmers that those who are snatching our livelihood, do not vote for them." Asked if they are going to West Bengal because the state is going to polls, Chaduni quipped, "We are not going there to help anyone in the election, but we will hold rallies there to awaken the farmers.... We will tell the farmers, labourers and common people that these laws are pro-corporates." Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre's farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir. He told the gathering earlier that the "panch" (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) of the agitation will remain the same. Later, asked by reporters why he has been asserting in recent days that the Singhu border protest site will remain central to the ongoing farmers' stir and not the Ghazipur border, Tikait said this was to underline that the "panch" and the "manch" will not change. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border for over two months against the contentious agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September last year. Replying to another question, Tikait said, "We are thankful to those who are supporting the stir. But if anyone has done anything against the country, we do not support that." Chaduni said governments are not above people and they will have to accept the demands of the protesting farmers. "We have to fight till we get our rights, even if that means fighting till our last breath," he said. Earlier, Tikait and other farmer leaders, including BKU's Balbir Singh Rajewal from Punjab, paid floral tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram at Garhi Sampla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, toll rises to 61||Two more bodies were recovered on Thursday from a tunnel of the NTPC's flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and one from Raini as rescue operations continued for the 12th day to reach workers feared trapped inside after a flash flood in Uttarkhand's Chamoli district. The confirmed death toll in the Chamoli disaster that took place on February 7 has now mounted to 61 while 143 are still missing, police said. Thirteen workers have so far been pulled out of the sludge-choked tunnel at Tapovan where a large number of people were at work when the tragedy occurred following a flash flood in Rishiganga. One human limb was also recovered from the tunnel on Thursday, taking the total number of human body parts recovered from different parts of the affected areas to 27. The glacial burst had triggered a flash flood which had demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. Search operation at the tunnel was resumed on Wednesday after hours of interruption caused by water which had entered making it difficult to remove slush. The exercise was resumed on Wednesday afternoon after pumping water out of the tunnel by a combined team of rescuers comprising of Army, ITBP, NDRF and SDRF personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||No political party a match for BJP, asserts Nadda||Almost all political parties in the country are family-based with none of them matching the BJP's strength having over 18 crore countrymen, including the world's most accepted leader Narendra Modi, as its members, party's president J P Nadda said here on Thursday. It is not easy to create a membership of over 18 crore people. No other political party has the power to reach even near this number, said Nadda, addressing his party working committee meeting here. We are a mass, cadre-based organisation with the world's most accepted personality Narender Modi belonging to the BJP and this is our strength, said Nadda. So there is no exaggeration when we say there is no match to the BJP, he added. We are lucky that we are the members of a right party, pursuing cultural nationalism with collective efforts and undergoing scientific growth, he added. Nadda told the working committee members that the BJP's strength is our unity and we should regularly make self-assessment for our own growth in the party. Talking of the BJP's economic model antoday , Nadda said it is based on the party's philosophy of sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishvas (the company of all, growth of all and trust of all) and these three elements are ingrained in all schemes of the government. Talking of Himachal Pradesh's contribution to the organisational structure of the BJP, Nadda said the party owes its booth-based structural model of Panna Pramukh to the state and, accordingly, Himachal should go in for the Panna committees model by 2022. He said the BJP will soon have its own offices in every district of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
18-02-2021||India||Bhim Army Chief, four others named among TIME magazine’s top emerging  leaders||Five Indian-origin personalities, including Twitter's top lawyer Vijaya Gadde and UK's finance minister Rishi Sunak, and an Indian activist feature in TIME magazine's annual list of 100 "emerging leaders who are shaping the future". The 2021 TIME100 Next, released on Wednesday, is an expansion of TIME's flagship TIME100 franchise of the most influential people in the world and highlights 100 emerging leaders who are shaping the future. "Everyone on this list is poised to make history. And in fact, many already have," Dan Macsai, the editorial director of the TIME100, said. Other Indian-origin personalities on the list are Instacart founder and CEO Apoorva Mehta, doctor and Executive Director of nonprofit Get Us PPE Shikha Gupta and founder of nonprofit Upsolve Rohan Pavuluri. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Aazad is also on the list. Mr Sunak's profile in the TIME feature says that a little over a year ago, the 40-year old was an "unknown junior minister in the British government" but after he was named to lead Britain's Treasury last year, he "quickly became the benevolent face of the government's response to the Covid-19 pandemic, approving large handouts for many citizens whose jobs were disrupted by the virus." Mr Sunak has however also been criticised for advocating early relaxation of lockdown rules, the profile said. "Nonetheless, Sunak remains the country's most popular politician, according to the pollster YouGov. And he's the oddsmakers' favourite to be Britain's next Prime Minister," it added. On Ms Mehta, 34, the TIME profile said that in the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, Instacart "faced a tidal wave of orders, as people with means opted en masse to pay the service's workers to buy groceries for them." Ms Mehta describes that period as a "wartime moment," it said. However, later Instacart also "faced new criticism about the way it treated its workers, including labyrinthine sick-pay policies, frequent rule changes for shoppers and demanding performance metrics." Instacart continues its focus on expansion. "The smartphone is the supermarket of the future. We are going to help co-create that," Ms Mehta said in the TIME article. The TIME profile described Ms Gadde, 46, as "one of Twitter's most powerful executives" who was the one to convey the news to CEO Jack Dorsey that President Donald Trump's Twitter account had been suspended following the Capitol attack of January 6. Mr Dorsey "has delegated to her Twitter's content-moderation decisions; she was the architect of the 2019 decision to ban all political advertising, and is responsible for the warning labels that Twitter applied to Covid-19 and election-interference misinformation in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||‘Metroman’ E Sreedharan to join BJP ahead of assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday said ‘Metroman’ E Sreedharan will join the party ahead of the Kerala Assembly election. BJP state president K Surendran said Sreedharan, who is credited with changing the face of the public transport system in the country, will join the BJP during the party's ‘Vijay Yatra’ commencing on February 21 from Kasaragod. He has expressed his willingness to work with the BJP, Surendran told reporters in Kozhikode. “I have decided to join the BJP, just official formalities remain,” the 88-year-old told NDTV. On being asked why he joined the party, Sreedharan said, “I have been living in Kerala for the last 10 years, since my retirement. I have seen different governments and they are not doing what can be done for the people. I am joining the BJP to be able to do my part, using my experience.” Criticising other political parties for showing India in a bad light, he said to NDTV, “Political parties with vested interests are projecting India in a very bad light nationally and opposing just for the sake of opposing. Parties like the Congress are creating a bad image for India.” A 2001 Padma Shri and 2008 Padma Vibhushan awardee, Sreedharan is known for the excellent city metro project under his supervision. He is also credited with the restoration of the Pamban bridge in Tamil Nadu establishing link between Rameshwaram and the mainland, which was damaged after a cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Rail roko: Protesting farmers sit on tracks in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers on Thursday sat on railway tracks at many places in Punjab and Haryana as part of the 'rail roko' protest against the Centre's new agri laws, with officials stopping trains at stations as a precautionary measure. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the nationwide rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations and had said that the agitation will be from 12 pm to 4 pm. In Punjab, protesters sat on tracks at many places on the Delhi-Ludhiana-Amritsar railway route, officials said. Farmers blocked the Jalandhar Cantt-Jammu railway track in Jalandhar and in Mohali district also farmers blocked a rail track, they said. In Haryana, protesting farmers, including women, squatted on rail tracks at many places, including in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Panchkula districts, the officials said. On the Ambala-Delhi railway section, a group of farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from Ambala, Gulab Singh, squatted on a rail track at Shahpur village, about 2 kilometres from the Ambala Cantt station. "Our protest will continue in a peaceful manner till the farm laws are repealed," Singh said. Security has been tightened in both Haryana and Punjab with personnel of the government railway police and the state police forces being deployed, officials said. The Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways has decided to halt trains at stations so that passengers face less inconvenience during the 'rail roko' protest. The officials said that the movement of trains is likely to be delayed because of the farmers' rail blockade. Train services will be resumed after following due security protocols once the agitation is over, they said. In Haryana, besides railway police personnel, the Haryana Police has deployed its staff in large numbers near the protest sites and at various railway stations. Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, G M Singh said that no train has been cancelled in view of the 'rail roko' agitation. Four trains were scheduled to pass from Ambala between 12 to 4 pm, railway officials said. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) members will block railway tracks at 22 places, including at Nabha, Mansa, Barnala, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Jalandhar and Tarn Taran, in Punjab, the organisation's general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||SC closes suo motu proceedings to probe larger conspiracy to frame ex-CJI Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday closed the proceedings initiated to probe a larger conspiracy behind sexual harassment allegations against ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi and "fixing" of benches at the top court. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said that nearly two years have passed and the possibility of retrieving electronic records is very little. The top court, while closing the suo motu proceedings in the case, said the in-house probe has been completed and the three-member panel headed by Justice S A Bobde, the current CJI, has already given the report exonerating the former CJI. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said the Justice (retd) A K Patnaik panel was not able to get electronic records like WhatsApp messages to probe the conspiracy and hence no purpose would be served by continuing with the suo motu case. The top court referred to the letter of the Director of Intelligence Bureau that some conspiracy might have ensued due to certain tough decisions taken by former Chief Justice Gogoi like verdict on preparation of the National Register for Citizens (NRC) in Assam. There are strong reasons to believe that some kind of conspiracy might have been undertaken against the then CJI Gogoi, the bench said, while quoting the report of Justice Patnaik. It said that in view of the mandate of the order dated April 25, 2019 Justice Patnaik's report opines that it cannot really inquire whether the decisions of the then CJI on the judicial side had triggered the conspiracy against Gogoi. We are of the view that the suo motu proceedings in the present case is accordingly closed and the report be sealed again , it said, adding that the veracity of the allegations levelled by lawyer Utsav Singh Bains could not be verified completely due to the limited access of records and other collaborative material. The top court, while referring to the report of Justice Patnaik, further said that simultaneously the report on the existence of conspiracy cannot be completely ruled out. On April 25, 2019, the top court had appointed former apex court judge Justice Patnaik to hold an inquiry into the sensational allegations of a lawyer about "larger conspiracy" to frame Gogoi and fixing of benches in the top court. The apex court made it clear that inquiry by Justice Patnaik shall not be with respect to the "alleged misbehavior" involving the CJI, against whom allegations of sexual allegations have been levelled by a former top court employee. It had said that the outcome of inquiry by Justice Patnaik "shall not affect the in-house procedure/inquiry which is pending on the administrative side." The top court had asked the Directors of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Delhi Police Commissioner to "co-operate" with Justice (retd) Patnaik as and when required by him during the inquiry. It had directed the Secretary General of the apex court to "forthwith" hand over the photocopies of affidavits and documents filed by Bains in a sealed cover to Justice (retd) Patnaik along with the order. Bains had filed an affidavit following the unprecedented hearing in the court during which Justice Gogoi had said some "bigger force" was behind the sexual harassment allegations as they wanted to "deactivate" the CJI's office. The hearing on April 20 in the case, titled as a matter of "great public importance touching upon the independence of judiciary", was held after stories were published on some news portals about sexual harassment allegations levelled by a former employee of the apex court against the CJI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||'Rail Roko' protest: Delhi police beefs up security||The Delhi Police on Thursday tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near railway tracks, in view of the "rail roko" (rail blockade) called by the farmer groups protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, officials said. According to a senior police officer, additional staff has been deployed at several points near railway tracks and patrolling has also been increased. Though there is no information on whether rail blockades will take place inside the national capital, police have made adequate security arrangements, another officer said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations. The SKM had said that the blockade will be held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the "rail roko" call. Earlier, farmer unions had called a 'chakka jam' on February 6 and a 'tractor parade' in Delhi on January 26, during which a section of protesters clashed with police, overturned vehicles while some hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi's borders against the legislations since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed. Their agitation is against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi moves HC against leaked content, court issues notice to channel||Climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the farmers' protest, on Thursday moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. Delhi Police, in its reply, told the court that it has not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe. Disha, in her plea also sought action against News 18, India Today, and Times Now for carrying out news that showed her private chats with third parties. Since there were no counsels representing the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some of the media houses named in Ravi's petition, the court issued notice to them and said it will hear the matter on Friday. The submission was made before Justice Prathiba M Singh by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the police. The court asked the police to file an affidavit containing its submission that it has not leaked any material relating to the investigation to the media. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Ravi said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses". She claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". "In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition," the plea has said. Her petition has alleged that investigative matters have been leaked to the media and the press briefings by the police are "prejudicial" and "grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence". "The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents has irrevocably violated the petitioner's fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial," the petition has said. It has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" -- like alleged WhatsApp chats -- the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. Thereafter, the "private alleged WhatsApp chats" were publicised and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the petition has contended. Citing previous cases, the petition has said, “conversations on a phone are of an intimate and confidential nature, and are entitled to be protected under an individual's fundamental right to privacy under Article 21.” “The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents has irrevocably violated the petitioner''s fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial,” it said. It has also claimed that the "media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner". Ravi's plea has further contended that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the NBSA "have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association". Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi Police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||India's Covid tally closing in on the 1.1 crore mark||India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,09,50,201 with 12,881 new infections, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,56,845, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,56,014 with 101 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has dropped to 1.42 per cent, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,56,845 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,37,342 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,87,03,791 samples have been tested up to February 17 with 7,26,562 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 101 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,014 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,631 from Maharashtra followed by 12,438 from Tamil Nadu, 12,276 from Karnataka, 10,894 from Delhi, 10,237 from West Bengal, 8,707 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,165 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||How to Start Working From Office Again?||After the emergence of the pandemic last year, the majority of people started working from home. Now that the world has started adapting various precautions and safety measures, people are encouraged to start getting back to the grind. It has been almost one year now - earlier people were not used to working from home and now people are not used to working from the office! So many people have been adversely affected by this pandemic - both mentally as well as physically. Some people have suffered from irreparable losses while others have lived in constant fear since the beginning. Now that people are getting back on track, many offices have reopened or many employers have declared a date on which they’d start calling their employees back to the office. Of course, things will not reopen at the pace which they earlier used to be, but most organizations have prepared themselves to at least start taking baby steps. From opening their office for one day a week for only a certain number of employees to bringing some flexibility in the timings - organizations are also adapting and accepting some new elements of the ‘new normal’. In fact, many organizations are even contemplating - is hybrid working the new normal? This whole situation can be really chaotic and confusing so let us discuss a few ways to start working from your office in a smooth and seamless manner. 1. Take it slow - You cannot start working from your office at the same speed and with the same zest with which you left work before the pandemic. Thus, our advice to you is that you must take it slow otherwise you might feel too overwhelmed by this ‘new’ change again. Keep regular meetings with your manager and team members so you all can share your feelings and opinions. This will make you realize that you are not alone and it is okay to take things a little slow. The idea of most organizations is to get you started - not to force you into speeding up. Thus, it is important to take a break every once in a while. You can call your family members or friends or play money games or other interesting sports online in between work so you do not feel so overwhelmed. 2. Take care of your hygiene and maintain all the safety measures - Do not forget that the pandemic has not left the world and the risk is still very much there. So, clean and wash your hands at regular intervals. Keep sanitizing yourself, do not touch any surface without cleaning it, do not indulge in handshakes with employees, and maintain social distancing while interacting with others. This is for your own safety as well as the safety of others. 3. Ask for sick leave or work from home if you feel unwell - If you feel a little under the weather while working from your office, immediately go back home. You can take the permission of your manager to allow you to work from the office if you still can or you can apply for sick leave. Take ample rest at home, drink lots of fluids, keep checking your temperature every once in a while, and return to work only when you feel completely okay. This is for everyone’s good. Moreover, even after taking a sick leave or going back home and working from there, do visit or consult a doctor soon so you can have a timely checkup and there is no delay in your treatment. 4. Communicate but from a distance - No office is complete without regular meetings and when you have resumed working from your office, you are expected to meet in person, sit together, and collectively, accomplish all the goals of the meeting. However, while being a part of the meeting is very crucial, you must not forget that the pandemic is still very much here. It is very important to maintain social distancing with others while communicating and interacting with them. In addition to this, you must keep reminding yourself that times are different now -
things are not the same anymore! It is better if you do not share food with each other, get your own lunch, water bottle, pens, notepads, etc., and sit separately even when you are taking a break for a few minutes from work. If you want to pass your time or do something to distract yourself from work stress every once in a while, you can indulge in online chatting, online poker, or some other online game, or even online video conferencing. In this digital era, make the most of what you’ve got! 5. Empathize with others - Know that everyone is sailing in the same ship - everyone is dealing with the pandemic. Even though the effects are different for every individual, the generic impact is the same. The bottom line is that the pandemic has changed everyone’s lives. Thus, it is vital to empathize with others and listen to their problems. This is good for your own and your employees’ mental health. Final thoughts Now that it has almost been a year since the pandemic had emerged, people have started resuming their lives like earlier times, knowing that they cannot pause forever. This also includes work life. Thus, people have started working from the office again, offices have reopened, and virtual workplaces are slowly fading again, of course, with some new changes! This article is all about how to deal with going back to ‘normal’ again!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Rescued Kashmir kid shivers, cops won’t identify trio||A shadow crossed the labourer’s face as he turned to look at his nine-year-old daughter, standing near him as he worked at the construction site. “She is too scared to sit at home. She still shivers. That’s why I bring her along. I’m a poor man and cannot afford to sit at home,” the father from a village in Bandipora nearly broke down as he spoke to The Telegraph over a video call. The primary school pupil, traumatised since being allegedly rescued last week from the prying eyes of three men accused of trying to drag her into a car, feels insecure at home without her father despite the presence of her mother and relatives. Police sources said three suspects — one of them a local man and two from outside Jammu and Kashmir — had been arrested on the charge of trying to abduct the girl while she was returning from a tuition centre on February 10. Allegations have surfaced that the suspects are soldiers. Bandipora senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rahul Malik declined to reveal the identities of the accused or confirm whether they worked in the army, citing the “sensitivities” involved and accusing netizens of “overreacting” to what were “just allegations”. He denied the widespread allegation that the police were trying to shield the accused. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said: “Nothing is clarified that somebody has done anything. But it is still in process of investigation.” Talking about the girl’s trauma, the father, who said he had two other young children, urged this correspondent to make a video call to “see for yourself”. He called his daughter, standing nearby at the house-building site where bricks were being laid. “I’m happy my daughter was rescued in time. The men, who were in an Alto, tried to lure her with notes worth Rs 520. When she refused, one of them got off and tried to drag her towards the car,” the father said. “She cried out, and luckily an acquaintance saw them. He rushed to save her and seized the keys of the car. Dozens of people arrived and surrounded the accused. They called me and the three men said before everybody that they were from the army.” The father broke down and stopped speaking for a while. The girl was in tears too. “We lodged a police complaint the same day. Next day, they (the army) came to my home, perhaps to try and persuade me to withdraw the case. I told them that seeing them was scaring my daughter and asked them to go back,” he said. He added that he too felt afraid thinking about the consequences of lodging a complaint. “I fear for my family, my relatives.” SSP Malik said the three accused had been “booked for attempt to kidnap, not even kidnapping”. “There is no molestation charge, although some of the Twitter handlers are writing it,” Malik said. “Because of the sensitivities of the matter — you can yourself see that some people are overreacting to it — it is better not to disclose (the identities).” Besides, he said, “things are still not clear” and so far these are “just allegations”. He denied the police were shielding the accused: “Why should we have registered an FIR then?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Social media smear campaign against Disha Ravi||Joseph, one of the most familiar names in the world, has become a weapon of religious profiling and misinformation in India. Disha Ravi, the young climate activist arrested on the charge of sedition for editing and sharing a toolkit on the farmers’ protest, was the target of a vicious campaign on Wednesday on social media that sought to project her as a Syrian Christian from Kerala. A flood of tweets with the hashtag “DishaRaviJoseph” was top-trending on Twitter by noon. That it is a lie is secondary. The venom behind the campaign is a telling comment on how depraved a vocal section of India has become. Some of those who still have not lost their sanity asked: even if Disha is a Christian and her name is Joseph, why should it matter? Friends and supporters of Disha had to wage a spirited fight to debunk the lie that was meant to embellish the “proof” of an “international conspiracy” to defame India over the farmers’ movement. “Just a few days ago she was a Khalistani. Today they call her a Christian. But friends like me know that she is a Lingayat and her name is Disha Annappa Ravi,” a volunteer from the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future, the Greta Thunberg-founded outfit to which Disha is attached, told The Telegraph. Disha’s father Annappa Ravi and mother Manjula Nanjaiah belong to Tiptur town in Tumkur district, some 70km from Bangalore. Disha grew up in Bangalore. Karnataka chief minister and BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa and a host of ministers from the party belong to the Lingayat community. “It’s nauseating that in this day and age, when we are bragging about being an IT superpower, we are discussing someone’s religion,” said the Fridays for Future volunteer. An alumnus of Mount Carmel College, where Disha did her Bachelor of Business Administration, described the Twitter campaign to label her a Christian as “appalling”. “It’s a shame that we are even discussing it now. But to counter these people, we need to come out and debunk their appalling claims,” said the former student. National campaign-in-charge of the Indian Youth Congress, Srivatsa, tweeted: “She is Disha Annappa Ravi from a Lingayat household of Karnataka. She is NOT Disha Ravi Joseph from a Christian household of Kerala. Even if she was, does it matter? It justifies her targeting by Govt? Bhakts, what happened to Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam? All you do is divide India.” Disha, who was whisked away from her home in Bangalore by Delhi police over the weekend and arrested in the capital on Sunday, has been sent to five days’ police custody. A cursory glance at the Twitter campaign against her would reveal how well orchestrated it was. A now-deleted tweet from a person who gave the impression that he is a Supreme Court lawyer at 9.31am was perhaps one of the early ones describing Disha as a “Syrian Christian from Kerala”. The tweet said: “Disha Ravi Joseph is a Syrian Christian from Kerala. Members of this community always at the forefront of breaking India movements!” Nothing could be further from the truth. Some of the most accomplished professionals and public figures in the country trace their roots to the community. Another tweeter whose profile describes him as “Non Political, MBA, Businessman, Hindu Nationalist” tweeted at 9.41am the same text posted by the lawyer 10 minutes earlier. Several such tweets unleashed a barrage to label Disha a “Syrian Christian from Kerala”. Each hate message was more virulent than the other. “Disha Ravi Joseph is just one of the anti-national Mallus in Bangalore. There are thousands out there!” tweeted a man who claimed he took “life with a spoon of sugar, a pinch of salt and a shot of homemade tequila”. But many others vehemently opposed the campaign and said personal faith didn’t matter. “Now bhakts falsely claim that she’s Disha Ravi ‘Joseph’, implying that she’s a Christian who deserves this treatment. The last time when they claimed Tamil superstar Vijay — who questioned the government — is in fact ‘Joseph’ Vijay to give it a communal spin, this happened,” a user named Anton Kalashnikov tweeted with a picture of Vijay attending a massive gathering of his fans. Vijay was at the receiving end of a hate campaign in 2017 over his Deepavali release Mersal (Stunned), which contained a few dialogues critical of the GST and the Digital India programme. BJP leader H. Raja had then attempted to shock Vijay’s fans by drawing attention to his full name, C. Joseph Vijay, as listed in his voter ID. But the attempt to give a communal spin flopped badly as the actor — born Joseph Vijay Chandrashekar — had never concealed his full name while opting to go with the mononym Vijay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
18-02-2021||India||Princess Latifa recordings reveal shameful details of ‘Indian role’||Between 12 and 15 Indian commandos had kidnapped Princess Latifa as her small boat approached the Indian coast three years ago, wrecking her dash to freedom from her restricted life in her country, the Dubai royal has alleged in secret video recordings. She says the commandos dragged her to an Indian naval ship and then allowed a private jet to fly the drugged captive to her father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, ruler of Dubai and Vice-President and Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates. Latifa’s video messages, apparently sent from the bathroom of the villa in the UAE where she says she is a prisoner fearing for her life, were broadcast on Tuesday night on BBC TV’s flagship Panorama programme. She is heard describing how two commandos sat on her to hold her down, how she was injected twice with what seemed tranquilisers, how she bit an Emirati commando, and how “generals” on a purported Indian ship ignored her pleas to let her go. The revelations ended with a note from the BBC: “The Government of India has still never commented on its involvement in the events of March 2018.” What began as a domestic quarrel between possibly an over-strict father and a daughter seeking her freedom has now exploded into a full-scale international row. On Wednesday, the BBC announced: “The United Nations has said it will raise the detention of Princess Latifa.” “We will certainly raise these new developments with the UAE,” spokesperson Rupert Colville said. “Other parts of the UN human rights system with relevant mandates may also become involved once they have analysed the new material.” The timetable of events in the Panorama programme, The Missing Princess, is that Latifa, now 35, was snatched off her boat at midnight on March 4, 2018, by Indian forces. A year later, her long-time tutor and friend from Finland, Tiina Jauhiainen, managed to smuggle a phone to her, allowing her to send video messages from her bathroom. Latifa’s supporters in the West have now gone public with her video messages because they fear her phone has been discovered. Panorama’s voiceover is done by Sophie Black: “Latifa and Tiina managed to get out of Dubai and board a yacht. The plan was to cross the Indian Ocean, then fly to the United States, where she would try to claim political asylum. But as they neared India, the escape went horribly wrong.” Tiina takes up the sequence of events: “Myself and Latifa were tired. So around 10 o’clock in the evening, we decided to go down to our cabin to get some sleep. We started hearing noises from the upper deck, which sounded like gunshots. “Basically, the boat was taken over by Indian special forces. Lots of people. She was saying, ‘Oh my God, oh my God, they’re here.’ She continued screaming and kicking and trying to get away. That’s the last time I see my friend.” Narration by Black: “Now, for the first time, Latifa can reveal what happened to her that night on the boat.” Latifa reveals: “So when they kidnapped me on March 4, 2018, on the small boat.... I don’t know how many commandos, maybe 12-15, and the two Emirati-like lieutenants... sergeants.
“I was fighting. And this guy came with a small camouflage pouch. And he took out the needle and he injected me in my arm and I was fighting. I was saying, ‘Don’t do that. Don’t do that. Don’t do that.’ And I just assumed it was tranquilisers, but it didn’t take any effect on me. “But then I was like, ‘Okay, assess your situation. Your hands are tied. You have two guys sitting on you, you’re on the bottom, a small boat. So just calm down.’ There’s no fighting at this point. I just calmed down.” Voiceover: “Latifa says she was transferred to an Indian military ship.” Latifa continues: “The commandos carried me through this corridor and to a big room. And there was in front of me maybe four or five generals. So I’m repeating to them, ‘My name is Latifa…. I wanted to get asylum. I was in international waters. You should let me go.’ But they did not stop. “I see a private jet in front of me at that point. I said, ‘No. I’m not going to voluntarily go’.” Voiceover: “She says she was then manhandled by an Emirati commando.” Latifa: “He grabs me, and he lifts me up. And (I was) kicking and fighting, and he’s much bigger than me. So I see that his sleeves rolled up and his arm is exposed. So I said, ‘Okay, I have one shot.’ So I just bite him as hard as I can, and shake my head. And he screamed, the same guy tranquilised me again. “They put me on a stretcher. And as they were carrying me up the steps of the private jet is when I passed out, I lost consciousness. All I remember was the rocking and seeing the stairs and then I just passed out. “When I woke up, the private jet had already landed in Dubai. I just felt really sad at that point. Working for so many years to get my freedom was gone.” She describes her captivity in Dubai: “This video is from a bathroom because this is the only room with the door locked. So I’m in a villa. And I’m a hostage. And this villa has been converted into a jail — the windows are barred shut. I can’t open any window. There are five policemen outside and two inside the house. And I can’t even go outside to get any fresh air. I don’t know when I’ll be released. Every day I am worried about my safety in my life. I don’t really know if I’m going to survive the situation.” British foreign secretary Dominic Raab, who said he had watched the programme, said the UK would support the UN’s efforts to raise the issue with the UAE. “I think it’s deeply troubling. And you can see a young woman in deep distress,” Raab said. Mary Robinson, former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and erstwhile President of the Irish Republic, who had earlier given Sheikh Mohammed a clean chit, now says she was “tricked” into doing so. She has changed her stance and told the programme: “I continue to be very worried about Latifa. Things have moved on. I think it should be investigated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Message to BJP in Punjab civic poll disaster||The Congress on Wednesday swept the Punjab civic polls as voters sent an unambiguous message to the BJP that its political survival in the state would be difficult if it did not relent on the controversial farm laws. The Congress victory in a state that was the initial epicentre of the farmers’ movement was so resounding that even the main Opposition in the Assembly, the Aam Aadmi Party, got routed and the Shiromani Akali Dal barely managed to stay afloat. The extent of the people’s anger could be gauged by the fact that BJP candidates could not open their account in many wards. The number of Nota (none of the above) votes was higher than the votes polled by the BJP, AAP and Akali Dal candidates in many areas. Of the seven municipal corporations, the Congress gained big victories in six and emerged as the largest party in the seventh. The Congress snatched Bathinda from the Akali Dal for the first time in 53 years, signalling the turning political tide in Punjab amid the ongoing farmers’ movement. The Congress won 271 of the 351 wards in seven municipal corporations, a strike rate of over 77 per cent, completing a dream run for the party that had been expected to grapple with anti-incumbency ahead of the next Assembly elections in 2022. The Akali Dal won 33 wards, the BJP 20 and the AAP nine. Independents won 18. In 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, too, the Congress dominated by bagging 1,078 wards, while the Akali Dal got 251, the AAP 50 and the BJP 29. Independents won 375 wards. Making the most of the euphoria, the Punjab leadership of the Congress bypassed the party high command to announce a mission named “Captain for 2022” in favour of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Amarinder, 78, had announced before the Assembly polls in 2017 that he was contesting his last election. State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said at a media conference after the stunning victory: “All sections of Punjab voted for the Congress. The credit goes to the leadership of Amarinder Singh. People have demonstrated their faith in Captain’s leadership. Only he can steer the ship in these times of turbulence. We are today launching the campaign ‘Captain for 2022’.” Although it will be difficult for the Congress high command to ignore his claim if Amarinder wants to lead the party in the 2022 Assembly elections, with his leadership getting hugely bolstered by the overwhelming victory in the civic polls, it is unthinkable in the Congress to announce the face for an election without the formal approval of the high command. The Captain may have sealed the deal at his own level, anticipating that his detractors led by the mercurial Navjot Singh Sidhu would muddy the waters at a later stage. The chief minister’s role in capitalising on the dominant sentiment in Punjab over the farm laws has been remarkable and his continuance as the supreme leader despite his advanced age would not have been open to dispute. But the emphatic victory in the local elections, which left the challengers vanquished, has almost stamped out the possibility of a leadership change in Punjab. While the BJP paid the price for railroading the farm laws, getting wiped out in its stronghold urban centres, the Akalis bled for partnering the party and remaining silent when the farm ordinances were brought in. The Akalis subsequently severed ties with the BJP. Even the AAP suffered because it had failed to take the lead against the farm laws, with the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi initially sending out confusing signals. While the Congress described the outcome as the beginning of a change in the country, former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Does the Modi government still believe that the farm laws are popular and only a small ‘section’ of farmers of Punjab are protesting against them? The ministry of external affairs is fast losing credibility by becoming the ministry of extraordinary apologists for the government’s wrong domestic policies. “The farmers are voters. So are migrant workers, MSMEs, the unemployed and the very poor families. When it is their turn, they will vote against the BJP like the Punjab voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Delhi court dismisses MJ Akbar’s defamation suit||A Delhi court has dismissed a defamation case filed by former Union minister and editor M.J. Akbar against journalist Priya Ramani for levelling allegations of sexual misconduct against him, marking a milestone moment in the “Me Too” movement in India. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey acquitted Ramani of the charge of criminal defamation. The court also accepted her contention that the complainant — a former deputy external affairs minister in the first government headed by Narendra Modi — “is not a man of stellar reputation”. As the judge left the courtroom, journalist Natasha Badhwar, who was there to express solidarity with Ramani, cried out: “Thank you, Sir!” Akbar, the founder editor of The Telegraph who headed the newspaper till 1989, resigned from the Union government in 2018 after several women journalists accused him of sexual harassment. Akbar continues to be a BJP Rajya Sabha MP. The judgment said: “The court takes consideration of the systematic abuse at the workplace due to lack of the mechanism to redress the grievance of sexual harassment at the time of the incident of sexual harassment against the accused Priya Ramani and witness Ghazala Wahab….” Ramani had named Akbar as the person who had sexually harassed women colleagues and herself in 1993. Wahab, another journalist, had accused Akbar of molesting and hounding her in 1997. Ramani said on Wednesday: “I feel vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken up against sexual harassment in the workplace. Sexual harassment at the workplace has got the attention it deserves, despite the fact that it was me, the victim, who had to stand up in court as the accused.” She added: “I believe my victory will inspire more women to speak up about SH at the workplace. I also hope it will deter powerful men from attempting to intimidate victims by taking them to court in false cases.” Wahab tweeted: “A day to remember that #MeToo is not a movement. It’s a consciousness about demanding and expecting safe workplaces, whether at home or outside. Women, who can, must always stand up for themselves, and for those who are unable to stand for themselves #PriyaRamani.” Ramani’s counsel Rebecca John, who fought the case pro bono, received an ovation from those gathered outside the courtroom. John told reporters: “Truth in public interest and for public good has been accepted as a defence for defamation…. This was probably the most important case of my career.” The lawyer made no mention of it but the judgment has been delivered at a time defamation charges have been used as a weapon to intimidate journalists and media outlets. The court said: “The attack on the character of sex abuser or offender by sex abuse victim is the reaction of self-defence after the mental trauma suffered by the victim regarding the shame attached with the crime committed against her. “The woman cannot be punished for raising her voice against the sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation as the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of woman as guaranteed in Indian Constitution under Article 21 and right of equality before law and equal protection of law as guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. “The woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades.” Before the court proceedings began on Wednesday, Akbar and Ramani waited at two opposite ends of the corridor outside courtroom 203 at the Rouse Avenue District Courts in the capital. In the court, the former minister was flanked by his sister and several police personnel, and Ramani by her husband and journalist Samar Halarnkar as well as several women journalists. Halarnkar held Ramani’s arm as the judge read the conclusion, while Akbar looked down. Ramani and Halarnkar have taken more than two dozen flights between Delhi and Bangalore where they live since the case began, leaving their children in the care of her parents who would fly down from Mumbai. As soon as the verdict was delivered, Akbar left with his legal team. Akbar was represented by lawyer Geeta Luthra. A source in Akbar’s legal team said they would decide on whether to appeal after reading the judgment. A US-based former colleague had accused Akbar of raping her in 1994, a charge the former editor and his wife have denied, describing the relationship as consensual. The case, which started in October 2018 in the Patiala House Courts, was shifted to the Rouse Avenue District Courts, which were inaugurated in April 2019. The case was transferred from the special court for MPs and MLAs by Delhi High Court in November last year at the final stage of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||ISC Class XII practical exams to be conducted in April ||The ISC Class XII practical examinations will have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations said in a circular to heads of schools. The circular is meant for practical examinations in physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, computer science and home science. For physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani) and fashion designing, “the dates for the practical examination for a particular subject… would be finalised by the 
visiting examiner in consultation with the head of the examination centre (the school principal) and the supervising examiner of the centre”, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, Gerry Arathoon, has said in the circular. The visiting examiner will also set question papers for these exams based on documents provided by the council. After the dates are finalised, the head of the examination centre will have to forward the information to the council and the respective conveners. The heads of examination centres will inform the candidates of the date of the practical examination at least 10 days before the scheduled date of the first practical. Computer science and home science practicals have two components: planning and examination. The date for the planning session will be fixed by the council and that of the examination will be finalised by the visiting examiners in consultation with the head of the examination centre and the supervising examiner of the centre. The council will set questions for these two subjects. All the preparations for the conduct of practical examinations must be completed by March 19. The last date for uploading marks awarded to candidates for practical examinations and project work is May 31. For subjects where questions are set locally, the “head of the examination centre” will be provided with detailed instructions along with sample questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Congress flags electronic voting machine doubts||Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh has asked the Election Commission of India to clarify serious questions raised by former bureaucrat Kannan Gopinathan about the claim of electronic voting machines (EVMs) being standalone units not connected to external devices and exhorted political parties to take up the matter seriously. Digvijaya said on Wednesday in a series of tweets: “Kannan Gopinathan has made very pertinent points which question the Election Commission’s claim of EVM being a standalone machine, if it is connected to an external device? Also, the EC has always claimed that EVM has only OTP (one-time programmable) chip but there are reports that the chip used in VVPAT is MTP (multi-time programmable). If so, then the message to the control unit is what VVPAT gives and not what ballot unit gives.” Digvijaya appeared to be suggesting here that the VVPATs too can be manipulated. Gopinathan, an IAS officer who has offered his resignation from service, has been ceaselessly asking questions about EVMs, expressing grave concern about the fairness of the electoral process. He has written to the commission several times raising vital questions about the functioning of the EVMs without getting a satisfactory answer. Digvijaya lent his voice to the cause on Wednesday, saying: “The EC must respond to the issues raised by Kannan who has conducted elections on EVMs. Would they? Let’s see.” Digvijaya, who lost the last parliamentary election in Bhopal to the BJP’s controversial candidate Pragya Thakur, himself nurtures serious apprehensions about EVM manipulation. He has been working with technocrats to understand the possibilities of EVM manipulation and believes that it is incumbent upon political parties to take the issue seriously as it directly affects the soul of India’s democracy. He reflected this sentiment in response to a tweet by Pankaj Sharma, former AICC secretary. Sharma, who had been former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s media adviser, had tweeted: “Experts say hacking 5-10% of the EVMs in 100 constituencies is sufficient to change the entire political scenario. (Which means manipulating) 180 EVMs in each constituency, (out of) a total of about 18,000 EVMs. Unless Opposition takes this matter seriously, no change is ever possible.” Digvijaya replied: “Yes all political parties have to take it up seriously. I am very happy that the concerned citizens, retired bureaucrats, retired judges, professors of computer science and cryptography are raising logical doubts about the efficacy of EVM and the vulnerability to manipulation of EVM. “Can’t let the largest democracy and a nation which has the oldest democratic history in the world be allowed to be hijacked by unscrupulous entities whether from within or outside. The EC must come out of their ‘head in the sand’ attitude!! They must allow forensic test by any internationally reputed forensic science laboratory of VVPAT & EVMs under supervision and guidance of internationally well known and eminent computer scientists and cryptographers.” Digvijaya also agreed with Gopinathan’s view on the stance of professors who were members of a technical expert committee formed by the EC to examine EVMs before the 2019 parliamentary elections. The committee had held that there was no chance of tampering as EVMs were standalone machines. Gopinathan tweeted on Wednesday: “If you know any of these four professors of the Technical Expert Committee, ask them as to how is the name & symbol of candidates loaded on to the EVM if they are not connected to any external device. People trusted them. They shouldn’t have lied.” Gopinathan also dared the EC, saying: “If I am wrong in any of my statements, you have a solemn duty to counter me and prove me wrong so that I don’t spread falsehoods. And if there is truth to what I am saying, then acknowledge it & take steps to improve. No one wants to delegitimise elections.” Over the past few days, Gopinathan has intensely grilled the EC on EVMs being standalone machines. He said: “Is it true that EVM-VVPAT is connected to an external device, SLU, through a 9-pin serial cable? And SLU (symbol loading unit) is connected to a laptop through a serial cable? Then what about EVM-VVPAT are standalone machines not connected to external devices claim? Why a laptop computer/desktop PC is required for VVPAT commissioning? Also, there is an application software! If EVM-VVPAT is not connected to any external device what is this laptop for? Please care to explain.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Jamiat to be heard on ‘love jihad’ laws: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind to intervene in a batch of petitions challenging the anti-conversion laws in four BJP-ruled states after the organisation claimed that Muslims were being targeted through the legislation against “love jihad”. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobe and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian allowed the Jamiat, an organisation of Islamic scholars, to be heard in the case after initially questioning its locus standi. The four states whose “love jihad” laws have been challenged are Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Ejaz Maqbool, appearing for the Jamiat, said “a large number of Muslims are being harassed all across the country” and the organisation wanted to assist the court in the matter as the Jamiat espouses the cause of Muslims on various issues. Apart from allowing the Jamiat to intervene, the bench permitted the main petitioners — advocate Vishal Thakre and the NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace, founded by Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad — to implead Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In their separate appeals, the petitioners had questioned the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Subsequently, states such as Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have also come out with their own laws to curb “love jihad”, an alleged practice according to the Right-wing to forcibly convert and indoctrinate through marriage. Quoting media reports the Jamiat said that as on December 29, 2020, within one month of the promulgation of the ordinance, 51 people had been arrested in Uttar Pradesh alone, while 14 cases had been registered. Only two of the cases were based on complaints by the victims while the rest hinged on complaints by family members. “At the most, the practice of converting religion just for the sake of marriage might at worst be termed as ‘ethically objectionable’ or ‘immoral’, however, the same cannot be criminalised,” the Jamiat said. In its intervention application the Jamiat said through its legal cell secretary Gulzar Ahmed Noor Mohammed Azmi: “In such circumstances, the applicant organisation wishes to raise the issue of fundamental rights of the Muslim youth, who are being targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (life and liberty) and 25 (freedom of religion).” According to the organisation, the anti-conversion laws attempt to regulate a personal decision of a person by encroaching upon an individual’s choice to convert to a religion of his or her choice and as such is a grave assault on personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. The Jamiat said the laws made conversion through “allurement” a criminal offence. The term “allurement” has been defined in Section 2(a) of the Uttar Pradesh anti-conversion law as “…offer of any temptation in the form of: i. Any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind; ii. Employment, free education in reputed school run by any religious body; or iii. Better lifestyle, divine displeasure or otherwise.” The Jamiat said: “As can be seen from above, the term allurement has been defined very broadly, to include even providing a gift to the person who is sought to be converted. This means if a person belonging to one religion, say Islam, gifts a non-Muslim a book concerning the teachings of Islam and the said non-Muslim person who received the book after reading it decides to convert to Islam, the said conversion could be said to have taken place by ‘allurement’ since it occurred after a gift was given to the convert. “Further the use of the words ‘or otherwise’ makes the definition of allurement even more ambiguous and encroaches upon the right to propagate guaranteed by Article 25 of the Constitution. For instance, if a preacher simply gives a discourse about the positive tenets of his religion, which prompts anyone hearing it to convert, it would amount to illegal ‘allurement’ under the ordinance.” However, the anti-conversion laws provide that “reconversion” to a person’s previous religion is not illegal, even if it is vitiated by fraud, force, allurement, misrepresentation and so on. The laws put the burden on the person carrying out the conversion to prove that it is not illegal, the Jamiat pointed out. The offence of illegal conversion is also “cognisable” and “non-bailable”, which means that a police officer can arrest an accused without a warrant, and the accused may or may not be released on bail, which will be at the discretion of a court, the Jamiat said. The effect of the laws “will be to bring a shadow of criminality over inter-faith marriages… (and) empowers disgruntled family members to slap criminal cases on couples who got married defying their diktats”, the Jamiat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: BJP deploys Sanjeev Balyan to woo Jats ||The BJP is set to deploy junior minister and Muzaffarnagar riot accused Sanjeev Balyan to talk to the protesting farmers at a time the sizeable Jat and Muslim communities of western Uttar Pradesh are threatening to form a formidable anti-BJP axis. Balyan, an influential Jat leader from the region, met BJP politicians from western Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday to brief them on how to defend the contentious laws before the angry farmers from the politically powerful Jat community. So far, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal have been handling the farmer protests, but sources said Balyan could now be fore-grounded too. The junior minister for animal husbandry and fisheries belongs to the same Balyan khap or gotra (lineage) as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is leading the protests at the Ghazipur border. Rakesh and elder brother Naresh Tikait are said to have switched support to Balyan at the last moment before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, helping him defeat Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh by a thin margin. Muzaffarnagar has emerged as the epicentre of the farm protests in western Uttar Pradesh, with efforts being made to revive the decades-long Jat-Muslim “brotherhood” that had been shredded by the September 2013 violence. Balyan could prove a divisive figure in this context. Balyan is accused of being a key instigator of the 2013 riots, which not only helped turn the BJP into the dominant political player in the region but created the climate for its victory in the April-May 2014 general election. The BJP has been particularly concerned after the farmer protests intensified in western Uttar Pradesh since the state votes early next year. First, the farmers and now political parties like the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Congress are organising farmer mahapanchayats, which are drawing huge crowds. On Tuesday, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda asked party leaders from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to aggressively counter the Opposition’s “misleading campaign” on the farm laws. “We discussed the farm laws and the misconceptions being spread and decided to step up our awareness campaign,” Balyan said. “There are no APMCs (Agricultural Produce Market Committees) in western Uttar Pradesh. There’s only a gur (jaggery) market,” he added, saying farmers from the region were therefore forced to sell much of their produce in neighbouring states like Punjab. “The new laws help small farmers since they will no longer have to pay 2.5 per cent tax to sell their produce outside the state.” Party insiders said this was Balyan’s chance to prove his leadership qualities by placating the Jats from his region. Balyan has been eyeing a cabinet berth for a long time. At Tuesday’s meeting, Shah is learnt to have told party leaders to not be defensive but go out and convince the farmers that the protests were being masterminded by forces conspiring against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country. Party insiders said that one of the reasons for the anger among the sugarcane farmers of western Uttar Pradesh was sugar mills’ failure to pay their dues. “The government is taking steps and soon the dues will be cleared,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Transit bail for Disha Ravi co-accused Nikita Jacob||Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to advocate Nikita Jacob, a suspect in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the “toolkit” shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over the farmers’ protest. Justice P.D. Naik gave Jacob three weeks’ time to approach the court concerned in Delhi for relief. The high court noted that Jacob was a permanent resident of Mumbai while the FIR was lodged in Delhi, and that the relief sought by her was only temporary. “The applicant apprehends that she will be arrested at any point of time. She has to make arrangements to seek relief from a court in another state. Hence, this court is of the opinion that protection as sought by the applicant can be granted for a temporary period,” Justice Naik said. The high court said that since Jacob would be approaching the court concerned in Delhi to seek anticipatory bail, it would not be appropriate for the high court to make any observations on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Global chorus in support of farmers ||India’s official effort to silence condemnation from overseas of the farmers’ protests by telling critics to keep off the country’s “internal matters” does not seem to have drawn the desired result going by the continuing chorus of support for the peasants. On Tuesday, 75 organisations from the US and elsewhere brought out a full-page advertisement in The New York Times newspaper bearing a solidarity message for the farmers. Paid for by the Ohio-based Justice for Migrant Women, the advertisement is essentially a solidarity statement of activists, farmers and civil society that also urges “all people who champion human rights — in the United States and around the world — to join us and condemn the abuses against farmers, labourers, and protesters in India”. Providing details about the protests, the advertisement further urges readers to “use your voice to call on India to respect the core principles of democracy, including the rights of all people to protest peacefully, demand accountability, and envision a safer, healthier, and more just future for all people on the planet”. The advertisement seeks to draw attention to the Indian government response to the protests that have remained largely peaceful despite their prolonged nature. “Yet they have faced violence, persecution, and retaliation by the government. The protest sites, at times, have been cut off from water, aid, and electricity. Internet services have been strategically suspended to silence dissent. Media outlets have been censored and threatened. Protesters, activists, and journalists have been arrested, assaulted, and held in indefinite detention.” Earlier on February 3, after Barbadian singer Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg tweeted in support of the farmers, the external affairs ministry had issued a rather political statement asking people not to rush to comment on such matters without ascertaining the facts and a proper understanding of the issues at hand. This has not silenced voices overseas. If anything, the subsequent actions of the government, including the arrest of Bangalore-based climate activist Disha Ravi, have only served to keep the focus on India as is evident from the detailed article on her arrest in the international pages of The New York Times on Tuesday. A sustained critic of the government’s response to the farmers’ protests and its subsequent actions is Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris.  On Tuesday she tweeted about Disha’s arrest and said: “What is happening in India is terrifying. Please pay attention.” Explaining the rationale for initiating the letter of support for farmers, the founder-president of Justice for Migrant Women, Monica Ramirez, said in a statement: “India’s response to these peaceful demonstrations run counter to the fundamental values shared by all democracies — among them freedom of expression, protest, and the press, as well as the fundamental dignity of all people — and it is time that we all lend our voices to speak against this unjust treatment with those who are fighting for their lives and livelihoods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Land title proposal raises promoter alarm||The Centre has proposed a time-bound award of conclusive land titles that some critics fear might make it easier for promoters and corporate groups to buy disputed land claimed or presumptively owned by poor people. The move coincides with a farmers’ agitation against three farm laws that the protesters allege are a ploy to hand over control of the agriculture trade as well as their land to the corporate sector. An official said the department of land resources — part of the rural development ministry, which is supposed to pilot the “conclusive titling” proposal — was undecided on its next move because of the farmers’ agitation. An expert on land issues who supported the government move in principle questioned the feasibility of its implementation, saying it would bury land officials under paperwork apart from entangling the country’s crores of landowners in a complicated bureaucratic process to prove their entitlements. A critic, asking not to be identified, suggested the proposal was principally meant to “scare and intimidate” people in a country where many lack government documents — fears similar to those expressed about the National Register of Citizens that puts the onus on every Indian to prove their citizenship. T. Haque, head of the committee behind the proposal, told The Telegraph that land titles are not conclusive under the country’s existing system and can be challenged forever in the civil courts, which has led to numerous plots getting tied up in court cases. “The present system gives only presumptive title to a person on a piece of land. Anyone can challenge it and the case goes on,” said Haque, former head of the Commission for Agriculture Cost and Prices under whom the Niti Aayog had set up a committee in 2015 to suggest ways of conferring conclusive land titles. “A conclusive title will be the final title. It cannot be challenged normally. This will make the land record free of any encumbrances and facilitate economic activities or investment.” Once the conclusive title has been awarded by bureaucrats and any dispute settled by a tribunal within a stipulated three-year timetable, it cannot be challenged in the civil courts but only in the high courts and the Supreme Court — entailing long delays. A working group had studied the Haque committee’s report and submitted a draft “model conclusive land titling” proposal in November 2019. The Niti Aayog circulated it among the states and Union Territories last June, seeking their feedback with the rider that failure to send their views by September 2020 would be taken as consent. Most states have not sent their views. Haque, however, clarified that since land records and land registration are state subjects, any central law enacted on these domains would apply to a state only if ratified by its Assembly. ⦿ Under the proposal, each state is to set up a land authority that will have a title registration officer (TRO) who will prepare a title record based on document-based claims from the presumptive owners and any claimants. ⦿ The authority will then publish a draft list of the presumptive ownership of every plot (on which it has received applications) and invite claims within a given deadline from anyone else with an interest in the property. ⦿ The TRO will be free to mention any number of people as owners of a particular plot if satisfied with their documents. If the official cannot come to a decision, he or she might refer the case to the land dispute resolution officer (LDRO), appointed under the land authority. ⦿ A “record of titles” will then be notified. Over the next three years, “land titling appellate tribunals”, made up of retired or serving district judges, will hear disputes arising out of the orders passed by the TRO and the LDRO. ⦿ Once three years have passed since the notification, the title will be deemed conclusive, open to challenge only through writ petitions in the higher courts. The new farm laws have a similar, much-criticised provision that empowers officials but not the lower courts to rule on farmer-corporate disputes related to contract framing. However, the farm laws have no provision for judicial tribunals, either. Plots already enmeshed in court cases will remain outside the ambit of the conclusive titling process, which an official said would provide an incentive to a dubious claimant to quickly lodge a legal case before the proposal is enacted. Once conclusive ownership is granted, the title holders will be free to use the land for any purpose, including sale, gift or a “development agreement” — that is, sale or lease to a promoter or company. “I get the sense that the objective of the proposed law is to enable easy access to land for private developers,” a Ranchi-based civil lawyer, Rashmi Katyayan, said. “Poor people might lose their land if this proposal is enacted.” For instance, he said, a promoter or company may quietly lure a relative of a group of migrant labourers to apply to the land authority for ownership of a plot the entire family claims. The migrants may never learn about it before the three-year period has passed. “The poor migrate to other states for work and may not be able to claim their rights within the stipulated period, after which the title will become conclusive with little legal remedy for correction,” Katyayan said. He said land titles were now awarded, under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, and Civil Procedure Code, 1908, on the basis of documentation and possession of the property. Any dispute was fought in a civil court. Retired civil servant N.C. Saxena, an expert on land issues, said he supported conclusive titling since the real owners of a plot were often not the ones in possession of it. “But this proposal expects everyone to apply and file claims. India has 18 crore landowners. It’s not feasible,” Saxena said. He suggested the government adopt something similar to the British system under which “revenue officials went to villages, checked the land records, heard the claimants and settled the records”. An email sent on Tuesday to Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar for his comments on the concerns expressed about the proposal had evoked no response till Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
18-02-2021||India||Odisha budget session to commence from Thursday||The Budget session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly will commence from Thursday. According to the schedule, the House will sit for five hours every day and on special days, the session will be stretched up to seven hours. The state budget will be presented on February 22. The session will be held in two phases — from February 18 to 27 and from March 12 to April 9. Assembly Speaker Surya Narayan Patro told reporters: “There will be Question Hour and Zero Hour during the session. However, all those who attend the budget session will have to undergo Covid testing, be it MLAs, Assembly staff and journalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Temple panel nod for Puri heritage corridor plan||The Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee has given approval to theRs 800-crore heritage corridor project. The approval comes at a time when there is a controversy over the National Monuments Authority’s heritage bylaws for various shrines of Odisha. However, following a public outcry, the culture ministry withdrew the draft bylaws for the Jagannath temple in Puri. The plan for Shree Jagannath Heritage Corridor that will come up within a 75-metre radius of the temple will ensure basic amenities to the devotees who come for darshan of the deities. Besides, the plan will focus on providing required security to the shrine and the servitors, providing basic amenities to the servitors and creating facilities for lakhs of devotees who can smoothly participate in the Rath Yatra and see the various rituals of Lord Jagannath, including the Suna Vesha (when deities are decked in golden attire during Rath Yatra). Chief administrator of the temple, Dr Krishan Kumar, said: “The corridor has got the approval of the Odisha cabinet. It will be developed at a cost of Rs 800 crore. Those who have donated their land for the project will be given compensation. We had constituted three committees for this purpose — an advisory committee for giving suggestions on various aspects of culture, a technical committee and a design committee. More than 50 meetings were held to give a concrete shape to the corridor plan.” “We will take approval for the draft plan from the Archaeological Survey of India, National Monuments Authority and the Odisha government by the end of this month,” said a senior member of the temple committee. Besides providing basic amenities, a queue management facility for 6,000 devotees will be developed. All the devotees can enter and have a hassle-free darshan of the deities inside the shrine. The plan will be developed under these components — heritage corridor, Shree Jagannath Reception Centre, providing amenities and redevelopment of existing matha temples around the shrine. The heritage corridor component includes building a green buffer zone, a public convenience zone, shuttle-cum-emergency lane, pedestrian foot plan, service land and mixed traffic lane, among others. At the reception centre, around 4,000 people can deposit their belongings like camera and mobile phones before going to see the deities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Nitish plea to Centre for separate EBC quota||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday raked up the reservation issue by requesting the Centre to provide a separate quota for the Extremely Backward Castes (EBC) and also demanding the conduct of a caste-based census to arrive upon the numbers and needs of different sections of the society. “The reservation for the backward castes in our state is divided into two categories — Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and EBCs. This was done by Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur (former chief minister) and has continued since then. We want it to be replicated at the Centre also though there it is a single category. It will be a good thing if people coming within the category get the benefit in a different manner,” Nitish said. Nitish was talking to reporters after being asked about a debate that has cropped up in various forums after a leader from his Janata Dal United, Ajay Alok, tweeted that the next generation of a person who has benefited from reservation in studies and jobs should not get it. The JDU leader reasoned that it would spread the advantage of affirmative action to a wider section of the society and free reservation from the grip of a few affluent families. Alok’s comments have triggered a raging debate on the issue. Though Nitish asserted that he did not know about any such discussion or any proposal to deprive anybody of reservation, he added that it would be another matter if any assessment or study was being done to bring a change in the provisions of reservation. Speaking further, the chief minister raised the demand for caste-based census and said: “We have asked for it previously also and it should be done at least once. It used to be done earlier, but was stopped prior to Independence.” “The caste-based census will provide the correct information about the numerical strength of every caste and help decide what should be done for them. This is not just our demand. The members of the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council had unanimously passed a proposal for such a census and sent it to the Centre,” he added. Nitish’s comments on reservation come at a time when the BJP–led government at the Centre has its hands full with several controversial issues generated due to its own policies, laws and actions. The Bihar chief minister’s comments can further queer the pitch for the central government as reservation is a sensitive issue and various groups within the OBC are already demanding separate reservation in states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Nitish’s old friend-turned-foe, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, has also been continuously raising the demand for a caste-based census for the last several years. A section of Bihar politicians said Nitish’s comments indicate a growing closeness between the two leaders. The Bihar chief minister had said on Tuesday that the people would be happy if fuel prices did not rise, while reacting to questions about the rapid rise in the prices of petrol and cooking gas across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst not linked to Char Dham: Government ||The Centre on Wednesday pleaded in the Supreme Court that construction of the Char Dham Road project had no co-relation with the recent glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Appearing for the Centre, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal rebutted the claim of Ravi Chopra, chairman of a high-powered committee, that the recent calamity was a fallout of the ongoing construction of the Char Dham project. The court has adjourned the matter by two weeks to enable the government to file its comprehensive response. Char Dham road project is a 899km-long highway project connecting the four shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath in the Himalayas. The project is now under the scanner of the Supreme Court over environmental concerns as it required dismantling a large number of hills and felling of trees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
