19-02-2021||India||India sees record surge in coronavirus infections in 3 weeks||India on Friday reported 13,193 cases, its biggest jump in new coronavirus infections in three weeks. On the other hand in Mumbai, which is battling a recent spurt, several marshals went out to enforce mask wearing across the city. The tally of confirmed infections is 10.96 million, the second-highest after the United States, with more than 156,000 deaths. But according to a government serological survey showed the actual infections could range as high as 300 million. 75 per cent of new cases have been reported from Kerala and Maharashtra - the two states already had the highest number of reported infections. According to health experts, the key factors for the recent surge can be due to the re-opening of educational institutes in Kerala and resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai. Mumbai, after a gap of 11 months, resumed full suburban train services on February 1, which carried a daily average of 8 million people before the pandemic. The city has begun hiring marshals to enforce mask wearing. City authorities said out of nearly 5,000 marshals around 300 would be deployed on the rail network. The heath ministry tweeted: “Coronavirus ... has not yet left the country… We still need to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. No carelessness till there is a cure.” As reported by Reuters, despite the recent rise in infections, India’s daily tally of new cases remains well below a mid-September peak of nearly 100,000. Testing numbers have also fallen to about 800,000 a day from more than 1 million. Since starting its vaccine campaign in mid-January, India has administered nearly 10 million doses, aiming to cover 300 million people by August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
19-02-2021||India||EU calls for early legislative assembly elections in Jammu & Kashmir||The European Union on Friday said it has taken note of recent steps such as district council elections and the resumption of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, and was looking forward to a number of other important steps, including the early organisation of the legislative assembly polls. The comments by a spokesperson of the EU came a day after a number of top diplomats from the 27-member bloc returned from Jammu and Kashmir after a two-day visit as part of a trip by 24 foreign envoys. The visit presented the opportunity to see the situation on the ground and interact with local interlocutors as part of the EU's outreach to all stakeholders, the official said, adding the EU look forward to continuing its dialogue with India on it. "We have taken note of recent steps such as the election of district development councils and the resumption of 4G internet services. The right to freedom of expression online and offline is a key value for all democracies," the spokesperson added. "We look forward to a number of other important steps to be taken in the political and economic sphere, including the early organisation of the legislative assembly elections," the spokesperson said. The statement was released by the EU mission in Delhi in response to queries about the visit of EU envoys to the Union Territory of J&K. The EU spokesperson also said the EU ambassador to India and several envoys of EU member states, among other countries, participated in the visit to J&K Kashmir on February 17-18 on invitation of the Ministry for External Affairs (MEA), and the programme included meetings with civil and military authorities, some newly elected political representatives, and selected representatives of civil society. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said the visit by 24 foreign envoys to J&K was aimed at enabling them to witness the union territory's march on the path of inclusive development and the dynamism in the grass-root democratic institutions following the successful conduct of the recent local elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
19-02-2021||India||Be ready to sacrifice your standing crop: Rakesh Tikait to farmers||Asserting that they won't return home till the farm laws are repealed, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said farmers should be ready to sacrifice their standing crop for it. Tikait said the government should not be under the impression that the movement against the laws will end as farmers will go to their villages to harvest their crop. Even if you have to set your standing crop on fire, you should be prepared for it. The government should not harbour this impression that farmers will return home. We will harvest crops and continue our agitation at the same time, he said addressing a "mahapanchayat" at Kharak Poonia village of Hisar. "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till then," he said. Tikait also asked farmers to be ready for the next call of the unions spearheading the stir. Keep your tractors filled with fuel and facing towards Delhi's direction. You can get a call to move at any time, that will be decided by the committee (farmers unions), he said. Tikait said after Haryana, they will be holding panchayats in other parts of the country, including West Bengal, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. While earlier farmers had given a call for a tractor rally in Delhi, Tikait said the next time, they will go to the national capital with their agricultural implements. Addressing the gathering, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged, "If new agricultural laws are implemented, crops will be purchased at arbitrary prices and farmers will be forced to even sell their land." Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws will pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Delhi court sends Disha Ravi to judicial custody for three days||A Delhi court Friday sent climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, to three-day judicial custody. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Akash Jain sent Ravi, 22, to jail after Delhi Police produced her before the court on expiry of her five-day custodial interrogation. Police said that her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being and the agency may seek her further interrogation once her co-accused -- Shantanu Mukul and Nikita Jacob Jacob -- join the interrogation. Police said Ravi was evasive during her previous interrogation and tried to shift blame on the co-accused. The court had on February 14 sent Disha to five-day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The cyber cell had lodged an FIR against “pro-Khalistan” creators of the toolkit for waging a “social, cultural and economic war against the government of India”. The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Two policemen killed by militant in Srinagar||A terrorist gunned down two unarmed policemen in broad daylight in an upmarket Srinagar area, an incident witnessed by several people and captured on CCTV cameras, police said on Friday, two days after a similar shooting targeting the son of the owner of a city eatery. The two policemen were on duty at Baghat on the high-security airport road when they were attacked. The terrorist, identified as Saqib, can be seen pulling out an assault rifle hidden inside his pheran', a loose over-garment worn during winters, and pumping bullets at them at close range. The attacker can be seen fleeing from the spot as people scatter around in horror. "We have identified the terrorist and we will soon catch hold of him," Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbagh Singh told PTI here. The two policemen were rushed to SMHS hospital. Constable Suhail was the first one to succumb while his colleague, Constable Mohammed Yusuf, lost the battle of life as he was being wheeled into the operation theatre, police said. Immediately after the incident, police teams rushed to the area and took into their possession recordings from CCTVs installed by shops and houses. This led them to identify the terrorist as Saquib from Barzulla area in the city. His affiliations were not immediately known. This is the second attack in the city in three days. On Wednesday evening, terrorists shot at and injured the son of a popular eatery owner in the city's high security Durganag area. "We have identified some people and they are being questioned by the police. I am sure the case will be cracked soon," Singh said. The attack in the city came as a 24-member delegation of envoys from various countries visited Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the ground situation in the union territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Bodies of Unnao girls buried amid presence of large number of police personnel||The last rites of two teenage girls, found dead in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of Asoha police station area, were performed in Unnao on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements, officials said. Three girls -- aged 16, 15 and 14 -- were found in a field by the villagers on Wednesday night when they did not return after leaving their house to take fodder for cattle. The local residents had rushed the teenagers, who are all related to each other, to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital and later referred to a Kanpur healthcare facility where she is presently undergoing treatment, police said. On Friday morning, the bodies of Komal (15) and Kajal (14) were buried in their agriculture fields in the presence of senior officials and police personnel in large numbers. The bodies were brought to their village after a post-mortem was done on Thursday but the last rites could not be performed on the day, police said. With regard to performing the last rites, Unnao District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar said talks were held on Thursday with the deceased girls' family, who were not willing to take it up immediately as they were waiting for their son to arrive from another city and had also cited that the funeral can not be done as it was already sunset. The DM refuted reports of any pressure being exerted on the family and said that the last rites were performed on Friday as per the wishes of the family. When asked if the family has made any demand, the DM said no letter has been given by the family to the administration and state government. However, some outsiders present in the village on Thursday were making the family members write a letter stating their demands and the administration had come to know about it. Our officials, including the ADM, were present on the spot but the family has so far not given any "demand letter" to us, Kumar added. The DM claimed that despite the presence of some outsiders, there was peace in the village. The district unit president of BJP, Raj Kishore Rawat and local MLA Anil Singh were present during the funeral on Friday. The district officials had made elaborate arrangements with heavy deployment of security personnel and barricades being installed. The security covered about one kilometre on the four paths reaching the village with a magistrate-level official posted at every barricade to check people. Personnel from six police stations were also deployed for cover. Director General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi had said on Thursday, "The post-mortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies.The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis." "We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities," the DGP had said. A medical bulletin by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl had noted that it was a suspected case of poisoning. Apart from Section 302 (murder), the FIR also lists Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code, related to causing disappearance of evidence. The case mentioning the two sections was lodged on the basis of the family's complaint, the police had stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Efforts were made to forget Netaji, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday said efforts were made to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is forgotten but his legacy of courage, patriotism and selfless service to the nation will endure till eternity and continue to inspire future generations. Shah, while inaugurating the "Shauryanjali Programme" - a tribute to the Bengali revolutionaries, urged the youth of the nation to draw inspiration from the life and struggles of the freedom fighters. "Efforts were made to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is forgotten but failed. His legacy of courage, patriotism, sacrifice and selfless service to the nation will continue to inspire generations to come," he told a gathering at the National Library. Recalling how Bose, as a brilliant student, cracked the ICS, Shah said, the legendary freedom fighter left the job and plunged into the freedom struggle just to drive home the message that the nation was more important to him than a comfortable life under the British yoke. Shah said Bose's popularity was evident when he twice became president of the Congress, once after defeating the candidate of Mahatma Gandhi. "Netaji is still loved and respected by people like he was many, many years ago. His indomitable spirit still inspires people," he said. The home minister asked the youth of the country to read about the life of Bose and his struggles. "Only a young generation that knows history can build a strong nation," he said. He also inaugurated the 'Biplabi Bangla' exhibition on the life of freedom fighters from Bengal like Khudiram Bose and Rash Behari Bose, and flagged off a cycle rally. Divided into three teams named after Netaji, Khudiram Bose and Rash Behari Bose, the cyclists will collectively traverse 900 km to spread the message of the illustrious freedom fighters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||One more body recovered, toll rises to 62 in Uttarakhand disaster||One more body has been recovered from a flood-hit area in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, taking the toll in the glacial disaster to 62, even as search and rescue operations continued for the 13th day at the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site. One body was recovered late Thursday night from the banks of the Alaknanda at Helang between Joshimath and Pipalkoti, Chamoli district police said on Friday. The body was found at a coffer barrage of the THDC, it said. With this recovery, the toll in the February 7 disaster has risen to 62 while 142 people are still missing, they said. The number of bodies recovered from the intake Adit tunnel of Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project where a massive search operation has been under way ever since the tragedy struck still stands at 13. Besides, 28 human limbs have also been recovered from different places in the affected area out of which one has been identified. Thirty-three bodies out of the 62 recovered so far have also been identified, police said, adding the DNAs of unidentified bodies are being preserved. The glacial burst over Rishiganga had triggered an avalanche which had demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||India-China disengagement complete, military commanders to hold talks tomorrow||After completing the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of Pangong lake, India and China will hold a fresh round of high-level military talks on Saturday to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, official sources said on Friday. The tenth round of Corps Commander-level talks are scheduled to start at 10 am at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control, and will be the first engagement between the two sides at a senior level after conclusion of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas, they said. Sources said pulling back of troops, weapons and other military hardware as well as dismantling of bunkers, tents and temporary structures in north and south banks of Pangong lake were completed on Thursday and both sides have carried out a verification of the same. "Both sides will also carry out a comprehensive review of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas," said a source. Also on Friday, China for the first time officially acknowledged that four of its e soldiers were killed in the fierce clash with the Indian Army in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year. India had lost 20 soldiers in the fierce hand-to-hand combat. Sources indicated that during Saturday's talks, India will insist on a faster disengagement process in remaining areas to bring down tension in the region, which has witnessed a tense standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament about an agreement between India and China on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake that mandated both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the south bank of the lake, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions that were agreed to by both sides. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks will be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps while the Chinese side is expected to be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military district of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area. Both sides had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. On Tuesday, the Indian Army released short videos and photographs showing thinning down of troops and dismantling of bunkers, camps and other facilities by the Chinese military in the areas around the Pangong lake. The visuals also showed Chinese military using a bulldozer to flatten some structures, and vehicles with troops and equipment preparing to retreat to rear bases as part of the infantry disengagement. The photos and videos largely depicted fast-paced disengagement process in both north and south banks of Pangong lake that included withdrawal of troops, removal of machinery and dismantling of temporary structures like bunkers, posts and tents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Modi hails Visva Bharati, says it should help farmers, artisans find global markets||Extolling Visva Bharati for its inspiring legacy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked its students to help farmers and artisans in villages adopted by the institution find global markets for their products. He said Guru Rabindranath Tagore had not envisioned the university as a typical educational institution but one that will help Indian culture realise its full potential. Addressing the convocation of Visva Bharati, the country's oldest central university, Modi said knowledge was not a "still and static but a dynamic concept". "I urge the students and teachers of this inspirational institution to help farmers, artisans living in villages adopted by the institution to find global markets for their products. That will be a step towards building an 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) Bharat," he said. He told the gathering that with knowledge comes responsibility and the knowledge attained by them was not theirs alone but a legacy for future generations. "Your knowledge and skill can make society proud but it can also push it into the darkness of ruin. There are many examples in history and in the present. "You will find some highly educated, skilled people among those who are spreading terror and violence in the world. On the other hand, some people are toiling day and night to free the world from a global epidemic like corona. What matters most is the mindset," he said. The prime minister said the National Education Policy was a major step towards building a self-reliant India as it gave impetus to research and innovation. India, he said, cannot become 'Atmanirbhar' without the self-confidence of its daughters. New National Education Policy having a gender inclusion fund was a major step towards building a self- reliant India, he said. He encouraged the youth to take risks without the fear of failure. "If your intentions are clear and your loyalty is to 'Ma Bharati' every decision of yours will take you towards finding a solution. Success and failure do not determine our present and future. You may not get the results you thought after taking a decision, but you should not be afraid to take a decision," he said. Altogether 2,535 students received their degrees at the convocation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi HC asks media not to broadcast any leaked information||The Delhi High Court on Friday said certain media coverage of investigation in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing farmers' protest indicates "sensationalism and prejudicial reporting", but declined to order removal of any such content at this stage. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the interim plea for removal of such news content and tweets by Delhi Police would be considered at a later stage. The court, however, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. The court also said that police would be entitled to hold press briefings in the matter in accordance with the law and the agency's 2010 office memorandum with regard to media coverage of cases. To media houses, the court said they should ensure the information received from their sources is authentic and only verified content ought to be publicised as also that the investigation is not hampered. The court was hearing Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. The petition also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. The police, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S V Raju, placed an affidavit before the court categorically denying leaking of any information to the media. It also assured the court that it has no intention of leaking any information to the media. The ASG during the hearing said that the possibility of leakage by some officer of the agency cannot be ruled out entirely.
The court however directed that the police has to abide by its affidavit. The media houses, one of them represented by advocate Mrinal Bharti, told the court that the source of information in the present case was the Delhi Police and its tweets. ASG Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, appearing for the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, told the court that the petition was not maintainable as no complaint was first made to it for taking action against any TV channel or media house for any alleged incorrect reporting of the case. The News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) told the court that it can take any action only if a complaint is made to it regarding the media houses named in the plea. It further told the court that media houses named in the plea were members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA).
Ravi, in her plea, has said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses".
She has claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She has also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". "In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition," the plea has said. Her petition has alleged that investigative matters have been leaked to the media and the press briefings by the police are "prejudicial" and "grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence". It has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" -- like alleged WhatsApp chats -- the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. Thereafter, the "private alleged WhatsApp chats" were published and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the petition has contended. It has also claimed that the "media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner". Ravi's plea has further contended that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the NBSA "have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association". Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five- day police custody after it said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Modi pays tribute to Maratha empire founder Shivaji||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Maratha empire founder Shivaji on his birth anniversary, saying the stories of his indomitable courage, rare valour and extraordinary wisdom will inspire the countrymen for generations. Fondly called by admirers as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Maratha king was born in 1630 and carved out his kingdom and successfully expanded it in the face of hostile Muslim rulers, including Mughals. The Maratha empire went on to become the country's strongest empire before being finally subdued by the British. Tributes to the immortal son of "Maa Bharti" Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on his birth anniversary, Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
19-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 13,000 after 19 days||Daily new cases of Covid-19 in the country climbed to over 13,000 after 19 days taking India's tally of cases to 1,09,63,394, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,67,741, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 13,193 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,56,111 with 97 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,67,741 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.30 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,542 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,94,74,862 samples have been tested up to February 18 with 7,71,071 samples being tested on Thursday. The 97 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,669 from Maharashtra followed by 12,444 from Tamil Nadu, 12,282 from Karnataka, 10,896 from Delhi, 10,239 from West Bengal, 8,709 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,166 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Four military officers, soldiers killed in Galwan clash with India, admits China||Four Chinese soldiers were killed in the fierce clash with the Indian Army in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) officially acknowledged for the first time on Friday. Five Chinese frontier officers and soldiers stationed in the Karakoram Mountains have been recognised by the Central Military Commission of China (CMC) for their sacrifice in the border confrontation with India, which occurred in the Galwan Valley in June 2020, the PLA Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese military reported on Friday. The CMC, the overall high command of the PLA headed by President Xi Jinping, has awarded Qi Fabao, the regimental commander from the PLA Xinjiang Military Command, the title of "Hero regimental commander for defending the border," Chen Hongjun with "Hero to defend the border," and awarded first-class merit to Chen Xiangrong, Xiao Siyuan and Wang Zhuoran, state-run Global Times quoted the PLA Daily report as saying. According to the report, three PLA soldiers were killed in the combat while another soldier died while crossing the river when he went to support the others. Qi Fabao, the regimental commander of the Chinese military, sustained a serious head injury, the report said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in over four decades. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Galwan. The PLA Daily report claimed that the Indian soldiers attacked the Chinese military personnel with steel tubes and cudgels and threw stones. This is the first time China has acknowledged casualties and details of these officers and soldiers' sacrifice, four of whom died when dealing with the Indian military's "illegal trespassing" of the Galwan Valley Line of Actual Control (LAC), the report said. While India has announced the casualties immediately after the incident, China did not officially acknowledge the casualties until Friday. The Russian official news agency TASS reported on February 10 that 45 Chinese servicemen were killed in the Galwan Valley clash. According to an American intelligence report last year, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The Global Times, a tabloid, part of the ruling Communist Party of China-run People's Daily group of publications, said the PLA Daily while acknowledging the Galwan Valley casualties stated that the five were killed fighting the "foreign military". It is noticeable that the PLA Daily report used "foreign military" to refer to the Indian military, a move that showed China's kindness of not inciting sentiments of the people against the background of the current disengagement of troops from China and India along the border areas , the Global Times report said. Commenting on the Chinese casualties, Qian Feng, director of the research department at the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times that China unveiled the details of the incident to refute previous "disinformation" that stated China suffered greater casualties than India or China "incited" the incident. Both countries had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last. The admission of the casualties by the PLA coincides with the ongoing disengagement of troops by both sides at the North and South banks of the Pangong Lake, the most contentious part of the standoff which began in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Opposition members boycott Odisha governor's address ||The budget session of the Odisha Assembly began on a stormy note here on Thursday with the Opposition members boycotting the customary governor’s address alleging the speech failed to address concerns of the state, particularly those relating to safeguarding its borders and irregularities in paddy procurement. After staging the walkout from the House, the Opposition members sat on a dharna near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on the Assembly premises. While the political debate over the Odisha government’s alleged failure on various issues created a storm inside the House, a woman tried to immolate herself near the Assembly building alleging the police had failed to arrest those involved in the murder of her son. Though governor Ganeshi Lal painted a rosy picture of Odisha’s socio-economic situation in his speech on “Healthy Odisha, Happy Odisha”, the Opposition BJP and Congress members staged a walkout stating it had failed to address the various issues, particularly the state government’s failure to stop Andhra Pradesh from holding panchayat elections in disputed border villages under Kotia panchayat of Koraput district. The Supreme Court will hear the petition of the Odisha government on the issue on Friday. The court has already issued notice to the Andhra Pradesh government. The governor described how Odisha had been successful in managing the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also stressed on Odisha’s achievement in clearing investment proposals worth Rs 1.20 lakh crore. Besides, the governor highlighted the fiscal management of the government. As soon as the governor started his address, the BJP members trooped into the well of the House and said in one voice that the speech had failed to focus on what steps the state government had taken to check the Andhra Pradesh government from holding elections in Kotia panchayat and its failure to lift paddy from various mandis (regulated wholesale markets). Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Nayak said: “The state government has totally failed to safeguard the interests of Odisha in the bordering areas. The Odisha government needs to address the issue.  Similarly farmers are sitting on the streets with their paddy in front of various market yards. But the state  government has failed to procure paddy.” Boycotting the governor’s speech, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “The Odisha government remained a mute spectator and Andhra Pradesh went ahead with rural polls in Kotia panchayat in Koraput district.” While the government failed to protect the state’s border, it also failed to protect farmers’ interests. There is gross mismanagement in the mandis. However, the ruling BJD assured that the government was committed to protecting the state’s boundaries. While the House witnessed an uproar and marshals were on their toes to ensure that nothing went wrong, security personnel had to be alert to stop a woman who tried to immolate herself near the Assembly building. As soon as she poured kerosene on her body, the security personnel whisked her away to an undisclosed location. Sources said she was forced to take the extreme step to highlight the alleged failure of the police in her native Jagatsinghpur district to arrest the accused involved in the murder of her son. After the governor’s address, though the Opposition members returned to their seats, there was continuous uproar. As the stalemate continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro adjourned the House till Friday. The budget session will continue till April 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||UGC wants students to take online test on the cow’s miraculous abilities||If physics undergraduates studying electromagnetic waves take a break over the next few days to try and grasp how the gau mata radiates an “aura of mystical power”, none will be more pleased than the higher education regulator. Medical students can do their bit by devoting themselves to analysing the therapeutic properties of the “panchgavya, a mixture of cow’s milk, curd, ghee, urine and dung”. The University Grants Commission wants all university and college students to take an online test on the cow’s miraculous abilities, to be held by a government body on February 25. The exam is open to all citizens. The UGC has written to the country’s 900 universities asking them to encourage their students and those of their affiliated 40,000 colleges to appear in the Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Examination. The examination will be conducted by the  Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), an organisation under the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. All information on the exam is available on the RKA website, the UGC letter said. The RKA website has uploaded study material for the test and said that successful candidates will receive certificates and the “meritorious” will be given awards. Two science professors described the material as pseudoscience and questioned the UGC’s endorsement of the test. Some of the claims made in the study material: Indian cows have the “special power to absorb the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’ (a blood vessel) situated on their humps running through the spine”. “The Suryaketu Nadi, located in the cow’s back, absorbs many positive and medicinal energy (sic) from the sunlight and the atmosphere, leading to more nourishing milk, cow dung and urine.” On a similar vein (no pun intended), Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh had claimed a little over a year ago that the Indian cow’s milk is “slightly yellow” because it contains gold, produced by a blood vessel with the help of sunshine. If anyone was wondering about the objective of producing “more nourishing... cow dung and urine”, the study material has an explanation. It says the panchgavya, whose ingredients include cow urine and cow dung, is traditionally consumed during religious rites and is used as a medicine to cleanse body and mind as advised by Maharishi Charaka. The cow stands for fertility, prosperity and life “in world traditions”, and is often called the mother-ancestor, perhaps because it was the first mammal domesticated by humans, claims the reference material. According to britannica.com, the website of the Encylopedia Britannica, the dog was the first mammal domesticated by humans. “She (the cow) has an aura of holiness and of mystical power,” the RKA material says. “The cow is Aditi ‘the boundless’, the embodiment of a goddess who supports the universe.... It is, therefore, not surprising that the word aghanya — ‘not fit to be killed’ — is used 21 times for the cow in the Rigveda, the earliest scripture known to mankind.” The material cites religions other than Hinduism too to campaign against cow slaughter. It quotes 11th-century Muslim theologian Al Ghazali as saying: “The meat of a cow is disease, its milk healthy, and its ghee, medicine.” “Maharishi Swami Dayananda Saraswati, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Vinoba Bhave and others, who held the cow in great reverence, and professed non-killing, as in the Epistle to Romans (14.20): ‘For meat, destroy not the work of God’.” Sunil Mukhi, chair of the committee of scientific values at the Indian Academy of Sciences and a professor at IISER Pune, said the study material was a mix of basic factual information (for instance, on cow breeds), opinions and unfounded claims glorifying the cow. “The claim that the cow has an aura of holiness and mystical powers is unscientific. Nor is there any scientific basis to the claim about the cow’s hump absorbing the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’, or the one about the medicinal value of panchgavya,” Mukhi said. He said the material seemed more religious than scientific, and criticised the UGC’s endorsement of the exam and its syllabus. “According to academic ethics, the UGC should have provided evidence for these claims about cows, and explained what scientific methods and statistical analyses were used to arrive at these claims, which they have not done,” Mukhi said. Aniket Sule, a professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, said the objective behind the exam seemed to be to spread unscientific claims dressed as accepted knowledge. “It seems they are trying to ensure that students and the public memorise these materials unquestioningly and pass them on to others,” Sule said. “This is how the tradition of a minority section that believes in Sanskrit culture will be imposed on the whole nation.” Sule too questioned the UGC’s endorsement of the test. “The UGC’s job is to maintain the standard of higher education in the country. The standard of higher education cannot be maintained by endorsing an examination whose syllabus carries pseudoscientific claims,” he said. This newspaper sent emails to the RKA and UGC chairman D.P. Singh early on Thursday afternoon, seeking their comments on the concerns expressed about the test and the endorsement of pseudoscience. No responses had arrived till late night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||We will take our tractors to West Bengal: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday raised the spectre of the protesting farmers moving to poll-bound Bengal if the Centre did not accept their demands. “Crop prices have not been increased but fuel prices have gone up. If the Centre ruins the situation, we will take our tractors to West Bengal as well,” Tikait told a mahapanchayat in Hisar, Haryana. The warning came a day after the BJP and former ally Akali Dal were wiped out in the Punjab municipal elections, reflecting the impact of the farmers’ movement even among town and city dwellers. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah said there was no plan yet to move with tractors to Bengal and get involved in the Assembly poll narrative. However, he said, farmer leaders will visit Bengal like they are visiting other states to generate awareness about the harm that the new farm laws will cause the farmers. Such mobilisation is nearing completion in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. After similar exercises are wrapped up in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, the SKM leaders will move to other states. “Whether that benefits any political party or harms any other party is not our concern. This is a survival issue for farmers,” Hannan Mollah said. Tikait said the Narendra Modi government should not think that the farmers would abandon their protest and return to the fields during harvest time. He reaffirmed there would be no ghar-wapsi (return home) without law-wapsi (repeal of the three laws) and urged farmers to be prepared to set fire to their standing crop if necessary. He, however, added that the farmers would find a way to continue their protest and also harvest their crop. While Tikait again upped the mobilisation rhetoric, urging farmers to keep their tractors ready to proceed towards Delhi at short notice, he took care to say the final decision lay with the collective leadership. On Thursday, farmers blocked trains across the country in response to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s “rail roko” call, pressing their demands for repeal of the new farm laws and the enactment of a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for their crops. Farmers sat on railway tracks between noon and 4pm. True to their role of “annadatas” (food providers), they provided food to stranded travellers at many stations and apologised for the inconvenience caused by the blockade. They also tried to explain to the passengers why they were protesting and how the farm laws would affect food security in the country. Railway ministry sources said the blockade had had “negligible or minimal impact” on the running of trains, with no disruption in eight of the country’s 17 railway zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Shah's annual payout of Rs 6,000 for fishermen if BJP voted to power in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday promised an annual payout of Rs 6,000 for fishermen if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, hurting the pride of at least a section of fisherfolk who later said the rising diesel prices were undermining their toil to earn a living. “After forming the government in Bengal, we will launch a Machhuare Samman Nidhi Yojana from which four lakh fishermen of Bengal will get Rs 6,000 annually just like (farmers do from) the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana,” Shah told a rally at Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. Shah’s eagerness to reach out to the 2-lakh-plus fishing community members in the district was evident from his decision to lunch at the home of Subrata Biswas, a fish trader at Narayanpur village in Kakdwip. Later, some members of the fishing community told The Telegraph that they would be happy to earn their livelihood and not depend on government dole. Instead they wanted the Centre to contain the rise in diesel prices so that they could venture into the sea on their trawlers. Diesel, which cost Rs 66.79 a litre in February last year, is selling for Rs 83.84 a litre in Calcutta now. Kamal Das from Kultali in South 24-Parganas said he owned two trawlers but had to halt his trade because of the continuous hike in fuel prices. “I faced repeated losses and stopped sending out trawlers since last November because of the high price of diesel. To earn Rs 55,000 by selling fish, I need to burn fuel worth Rs 1.2 lakh. I cannot afford that. I had taken a loan of Rs 36 lakh from the market and around 40 people worked for me. They have either left for Kerala or are sitting idle with no income,” Kamal said. “What good will the government do by promising adequate prices for our produce if we can’t catch fish because of the high price of diesel?” asked Kamal, who has spent 38 years in the trade. Hiralal Das, 48, who used to work for Kamal, said if Shah took the initiative to reduce the price of diesel, it would have helped more than the promised dole. “I earned Rs 40,000 a month by catching fish. But I have been unemployed for the past four months. Will an annual dole of Rs 6,000 help?” asked Hiralal. Shah had said a BJP government would set up a dedicated department within the state fisheries department to ensure adequate prices for the catch. Subrata, who hosted a lunch for Shah on Thursday, later said that his business was not doing well but he could not tell the “big man” about it. The rising fuel prices have become a talking point across the country, prompting many citizens to dig out the barbs Narendra Modi and his supporters used to aim at the government when he was in the Opposition. The backlash has reached such a level that the Prime Minister was compelled on Wednesday to indirectly blame his predecessors for failing to reduce the dependency on imports. Joykrishna Haldar, general secretary of the West Bengal United Fishermen Association that represents 64 unions across Bengal, put matters in perspective. “We don’t need a dole. Fishermen work hard and are happy to earn a living. The rising price of diesel has become an impediment and the Centre should subsidise the fuel. Almost 90 per cent of trawlers have stopped venturing into the sea because of the high diesel price. Thousands of fishermen sit at home; they have no income,” Haldar said. Fishermen are planning a demonstration in Calcutta on February 22 against the rising fuel prices. The association said it had written thrice since the lockdown to Modi and Shah about fishermen’s problems and that its members felt let down as there was no mention of these issues on Thursday. Diesel prices apart, the association wants the Centre to lift the prohibition on the export of crabs and fish that had been imposed during the lockdown. Shah assured the fishing community that the BJP’s paribortan yatra would bring an end to the practice of fishermen being shaken down for bribes. “This yatra is to stop the practice of exacting bribes from fishermen brothers,” he said. Sources in the fisheries department said around 4.2 lakh people in the state were directly involved in fishing in rivers and seas, mainly from South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and Howrah. Around 6 lakh people depend indirectly on fishing in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||SC closes suo motu proceedings to probe conspiracy to frame ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday “closed” the suo motu proceedings to probe an alleged corporate-underworld conspiracy to frame then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in a sexual harassment case but cited a retired judge’s report that said a plot “cannot be completely ruled out”. The top court said “it is not possible to find corroborative evidence” of a conspiracy against Justice Gogoi, now a Rajya Sabha MP, as a long time had passed since the case emerged in 2019. The three-judge bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian arrived at the conclusion on the basis of a report submitted in a sealed cover by former Supreme Court judge A.K. Patnaik. Justice Patnaik had been tasked with probing the conspiracy alleged by advocate Utsav Singh Bains after Justice Gogoi was accused of sexual harassment by a female court employee. Justice Gogoi was subsequently cleared of the allegations by an in-house panel headed by the present Chief Justice of India, Justice S.A. Bobde, and including Justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. The accuser had withdrawn from the proceedings of the in-house panel on the ground that she was not being allowed legal representation. She had accused Justice Gogoi of using his influence as the senior-most judge in the country to terminate her employment at the Supreme Court. In January last year, it was reported that she had been reinstated. Justice Gogoi had retired in November 2019 and was nominated to the Rajya Sabha in March 2020. Justice Patnaik had submitted the report in October 2019. On Thursday, the Supreme Court bench said: “…The report also acknowledges that the existence of a conspiracy cannot be completely ruled out and this has been so opined as Justice A.K. Patnaik has not been able to obtain various records including electronic records of WhatsApp, Telegram, etc….” The bench noted that Justice Patnaik had recorded in the final paragraph of his sealed-cover report that the director of the Intelligence Bureau had in a letter dated July 5, 2019, stated “that on account of the then Chief Justice of India taking serious tough decisions like in the case relating to the National Register of Citizens (NRC), there was strong reason to believe that persons who were unhappy with those decisions hatched a conspiracy against the then Chief Justice of India”. Justice Kaul said a reference had also been made to “certain tough administrative decisions taken to streamline the process in the registry”. Bains, the lawyer, had claimed in a Facebook post on April 20, 2019, that he had been approached by a person for help to hold a media conference in exchange for money to accuse the then Chief Justice of sexual harassment. The media conference did not take place. Before Bains made the claim, the employee had already levelled the allegations against Justice Gogoi. After Bains made the allegations, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra (now retired) took suo motu cognisance and appointed Justice Patnaik to investigate the claims. Justice Kaul, heading the bench that passed the order on Thursday, said that after going through the Justice Patnaik report, “…we find that it is quite comprehensive” and had “dealt with the scope of the enquiry, the materials and the findings and the conclusions along with the list of annexures and articles”. “We have to keep in mind that the remit of the committee was not to enquire into the merits of the allegations made by the complainant against the then Chief Justice of India and this aspect has been noted in the report itself. The learned judge has thus recorded in the report that he has confined his examination to only one aspect i.e. the veracity of the version put forward by Mr Utsav Singh Bains,” the order said. “The report has also taken note of the limited investigative powers and access to records which it had and based on those materials and evidence before him, it has been opined that it is not possible to find corroborative material qua the allegations of Mr Utsav Singh Bains made in the affidavit. “We are also of the view that two years having passed and the possibility of recovery of electronic records at this distance of time is remote, especially since the scope of the enquiry and the power of the learned judge is limited, no useful purpose will be served by continuing these proceedings. “As a result of our observations aforesaid, the proceedings are accordingly closed and the suo motu petition is disposed of. The report which has been opened be placed back in a sealed cover.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Nana Patole threatens to stop Amitabh, Akshay’s film shoots ||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday threatened to stop the screening and shooting of movies of actors such as Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar if they didn’t clarify their stand on the savage increase in the prices of fuel. Patole said: “Actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar used to comment on every issue during the Manmohan Singh government. They had tweeted on petrol price hike during the previous government. But they are silent on the issue when petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre. If they do not take a stand now on the injustice meted out by the Narendra Modi government, we will not allow any films or shootings of Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar in Maharashtra.” While Bachchan had shared couplets and jokes about fuel price hike in 2012, Kumar had tweeted the same year: “Guys, I think it is time to clean up your bicycles and hit the road. Social media users had noticed in 2018 that Kumar may have deleted the tweet. Sample this nine-year-old tweet from Bachchan: “Petrol up Rs 7.50. Pump attendant: Kitne ka daloon? Mumbaikar: 2-4 rupye ka car ke upar spray kar de bhai, jalaana hai (Spray petrol worth Rs 2 or 4 on the car, I have to burn it).” While the Shiv Sena used to adopt strongarm tactics in the past and the Congress never supported such acts, Patole’s stand now has put the party high command in a fix. Most senior Congress leaders avoided discussing Patole’s threat on record. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “We are happy the media has developed interest in petrol-diesel-LPG prices because of one comment (by Patole) even as the common people and farmers suffered miserably for years as the Modi government blatantly resorted to profiteering by increasing the prices despite low crude oil rates in the international market.” Asked if the central leadership would support disruptive tactics by the Maharashtra unit, Khera said: “There is no tactic. We just want the voices of consumers to resonate in the media. The ordinary people had made up their minds against the UPA government because celebrities had been tweeting against us. People look up to their views. They are opinion-makers. “Now they are silent even as (the price of) petrol has crossed the 100 mark for the first time. While crude oil in the international market was around $115 (a barrel) when petrol reached Rs 70 (per litre) during Manmohan Singh’s time, it is Rs 100 when crude oil is barely $60 per barrel. It had gone down to $20. Are these celebrities silent now because of the government’s pressure? Their silence is deafening.” The Congress is avoiding dealing with Patole’s threat explicitly because nobody supports such tactics and they hope the state unit will not resort to any violent method despite being in power in Maharashtra. While one senior leader described the threat as “crazy”, another said: “He is new in the Congress and has just been appointed the (state) party chief. He may be desperate to draw the people’s attention.” Many Maharashtra leaders refused to comment but hoped shootings would not be disrupted. Khera said: “The Modi government indulges in all sorts of tricks to create distractions from real issues. The media too is playing along. Imagine what the BJP and the media would have done if petrol had crossed Rs 100 and diesel was sold at such a costly rate in the Congress regime. “We are grappling with an abnormal situation — the voices of the Opposition and the civil society do not reach the common people. These actors and other celebrities also have been blatantly partisan; they freely criticised the Congress governments but have shown no concern on any issue in the Modi regime. It is good if their real face gets exposed.” A section of younger leaders in the Congress believe there is a need to “expose” the celebrities who are either aligned to the BJP or are working under pressure. The Congress had last week demanded a probe into the tweets of certain celebrities echoing the Modi government’s sentiments on an alleged international conspiracy to defame India. A young Congress functionary told The Telegraph: “We don’t want these guys to criticise the government. If they think petrol-diesel-LPG price hikes are justified, let them support the government. Their honest positioning will help their fans understand them better. If they are RSS-BJP supporters, why are they shy of their association?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||SC notices to Centre and EC on plea to allow postal and e-voting by NRIs, internal migrants||A sceptical Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea to allow postal voting and e-voting by all non-resident Indians and internal migrants who live outside their constituencies. “What kind of plea is this? Sitting in England, you will vote here? If you can’t care enough to go to your constituency, why should the law help you?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, appearing for the Kerala-based petitioner Sathyan Naravoor. “When a voter chooses to stay out of his constituency and does not come for voting, there is no denial of right (if they can’t vote). He cannot sit in the US and say, ‘I want to vote in Kerala’.” Postal voting is now allowed to the armed forces, those engaged in essential services, people with physical disabilities, voters aged 80 or above, and Covid-19 patients. India has no provision for e-voting, where ballots are transmitted securely over the Internet. Raj argued that making physical presence mandatory at the voting booth violated a citizen’s fundament right under Article 19 to live and work in any part of the country. Citing the 2011 census, he said that NRIs and internal migrants now numbered an estimated 45 crore. He said people shouldn’t have restrictions imposed on their right to vote just because they have left home in connection with their occupation, studies or marriage. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, then issued notices seeking responses from the government and the poll panel. The petition cited several Supreme Court judgments, including PUCL vs Union of India (2013) and Jyoti Basu vs Debi Ghosal (1982), to argue the right to vote is fundamental and indispensable to democracy. It referred to Section 60 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which enables the government to allow voting through postal ballots. “The respondents are bound to exercise the power under Section 60(c) of the 1951 Act, and to extend the benefit of voting through postal ballots to the citizens who are unable to come back to their constituencies,” the petition said. Denying them the right is “arbitrary and violative of their fundamental rights under Articles 14, 19(1)(a), 19(1)(d), 19(1)(g) and 21 and the right to vote under Article 326”, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Unnao: Priyanka Gandhi accuses Yogi govt of suppressing dalits||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has described the deaths of two Dalit girls in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao as “heart-rending” and alleged that the Yogi Adityanath government had “detained” members of the victims’ families to “create hurdles in the legal process”. Priyanka accused the state government of not only suppressing the Dalit society but also crushing the honour and human rights of women. “The Unnao incident is heart-rending. It is necessary for the sake of the investigation and the process of justice to listen to the family members of the girls. The third child should get immediate good treatment,” the Congress general secretary wrote in Hindi on Facebook on Thursday. Two minor girls, their hands and feet allegedly tied, were found dead about 150 metres from their home in a bush near a mustard field in a village in Unnao around 9.30pm on Wednesday. The third girl, also a minor and belonging to the same family, was found unconscious. Her condition was stated to be critical on Thursday. “As per news, the victims’ family members have been detained. It is an effort to create hurdles in the legal process. What will the government achieve by detaining them?” Priyanka asked. According to some reports and accounts of neighbours of the victims, the police had taken the male members of the girls’ family for questioning on Wednesday night and they returned on Thursday afternoon. The police denied having detained any family member. “I request the UP government to listen to the families and shift the third girl to Delhi for treatment,” Priyanka said. “The UP government is not only crushing Dalit society, but also the honour and human rights of women. But they should remember that I and the entire Congress party will stand as the voice of victims and will endeavour to get them justice,” she tweeted. Priyanka used the hashtag “Save_Unnao_Ki_Beti” with her tweet. Chandrashekhar Azad, the Bhim Army president, demanded better treatment and security for the surviving girl, who is the only eyewitness. “The child should immediately be brought to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, by an air ambulance…. We will not allow a repetition of Hathras in Unnao.” The post-mortem report found no injury marks on the two teenage girls and the cause of their death could not be immediately ascertained, Uttar Pradesh police chief Hitesh Chandra Awasthi said on Thursday. The third girl, admitted in a critical condition to a Kanpur hospital, was being treated for suspected poisoning, sources in the healthcare facility said. A police officer rejected suggestions that the hands of the victims were tied, citing the absence of any injury marks. Viscera samples of the two victims have been preserved for further examination, Awasthi said. Paramjeet Arora, the public relations officer of a private hospital in Kanpur where the 17-year-old third girl is on ventilator support, said: “The condition of the girl is critical. It is a case of suspected poisoning.” Villagers who had accompanied the girls’ parents during the search said the hands and legs of the victims were tied with their dupattas and they were unconscious when found. While two of them, aged 13 and 16, were declared dead on arrival at Unnao district hospital, the 17-year-old third girl was first admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, Kanpur, by the police and later shifted to the private hospital. The police have registered a case against unknown persons based on the complaint lodged by the girls’ family. A villager said the police had taken the male members of the victims’ household to the police station at night and allowed them to return on Thursday afternoon. The villagers said the girls belonged to a joint family. S.A. Kulkarni, the superintendent of police of Unnao, said: “It is a suspected case of poisoning. But we are probing every possible angle on the basis of the information gathered from the villagers.” Kulkarni denied that the victims’ family members had been detained. Additional director-general of police S.N. Sabat said: “The doctors have said prima facie it is a case of poisoning. Their clothes were intact and there was no sign of any struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
19-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi High Court hears Disha Ravi's plea against media leaks ||Delhi police on Thursday told Delhi High Court that it had not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers’ protest. The court was hearing Disha’s plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. The submission was made before Justice Prathiba M. Singh by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the police. The court asked the police to file an affidavit containing its submission that it had not leaked any material relating to the investigation to the media. Since there were no counsel representing the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some of the media houses named in Disha’s petition, the court issued notice to them and said it would hear the matter on Friday. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Disha said she was “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses”. She claimed that her arrest from Bangalore on February 13 by a cyber cell team of Delhi police was “wholly unlawfully and without basis”. She also contended that in the present circumstances, it was “highly likely” that the general public would perceive the news items “as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Disha)”. “In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition,” the plea has said. Disha’s plea has further contended that the ministry of information and broadcasting and the NBSA “have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association”. Delhi police, probing the “toolkit Google doc” backing the farmers’ agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Disha while Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Disha to five-day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The cyber cell had lodged an FIR against “pro-Khalistan” creators of the toolkit for waging a “social, cultural and economic war against the government of India”. The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Scientists recover DNA from remains of mammoths more than million years old||Scientists have recovered DNA from the remains of mammoths more than a million years old and reconstructed the evolutionary history of the extinct creatures that shared ancestry with modern-day elephants. The researchers announced on Wednesday that they had extracted and analysed DNA, or genetic material, from the molars of three mammoth specimens from northeastern Siberia — about 1.6 million, 1.3 million and 800,000 years old. Their study, based on the world’s oldest DNA recovered so far, provides insights into the origins of two mammoth species — the Columbian mammoth that was widespread across North America, and the woolly mammoth, the last of the mammoths before they went extinct around 4,000 years ago. The genome analysis has shown that the oldest specimen belonged to a previously unknown lineage of mammoths that diverged from other Siberian mammoths over two million years ago. The scientists have called this the Krestovka mammoth. “This was a complete surprise to us — all previous studies had indicated there was only one species of mammoth, the steppe mammoth, in Siberia at that time,” Tom van der Valk, a scientist at the Centre for Paleogenetics, Stockholm, Sweden, and the study’s first author, said in a media release. The study, published on Wednesday in the journal Nature, has also suggested that the Columbian mammoth was a hybrid — around half of its genome came from the woolly mammoth, the other half from the previously unknown Krestovka mammoth. The analysis has shown that the genetic variants associated with extreme cold in the Arctic such as extra body hair, fat deposits and tolerance for cold were present in the 1.2 million-year-old mammoth long before the origin of woolly mammoths. The findings imply that the steppe mammoth evolved into the cold-adapted woolly mammoth through a slow process and not through a relatively quick burst of adaptive changes, said Love Dalen, the lead author of the study. Scientists say the study illustrates the potential of combining paleontology with modern genome science to recover DNA from species from the period of Homo erectus, a predecessor of modern humans. “One of the big questions is how far back in time can we go — we haven’t reached the limit yet,” said Anders Gotherstrom, professor of molecular archaeology at the Centre for Paleogenetics and co-author. The mammoth DNA was recovered from molars excavated by a Russian paleontologist in the 1970s and now kept in Moscow. Scientists say they could recover the DNA as the molar specimens were preserved in permafrost, or ground that remains frozen. Although the DNA was degraded and fragmented into tiny pieces, the scientists used software to compare the available genetic material with genomes of African and Asian elephants to reconstruct the mammoth DNA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||Janata Dal United inducts 208 senior leaders of the Lok Janshakti Party||Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United on Thursday inducted 208 senior leaders of the Lok Janshakti Party, executing what many said was revenge for the Chirag Paswan-led outfit’s move to queer the pitch for the JDU in the Assembly elections last year. Sources said this was just the beginning of Nitish’s “operation” against the LJP and that several of its MPs and the lone MLA of the party could follow suit. Those who joined the JDU included dozens of state general secretaries, 18 district presidents, district vice-presidents, heads of various cells of the party, spokespersons, leaders of frontal outfit Dalit Sena and many of those who contested the Assembly elections in October-November. The induction was done in the presence of JDU national president R.C.P. Singh and state president Umesh Kushwaha. “We assure that all the newcomers will be accorded appropriate honour and respect in the JDU. Our party rewards people on the basis of their merit. Ours is the only party with a socialist ideology where family and dynastic politics is not practiced,” Singh said while addressing the LJP leaders. The JDU national president pointed out that several other parties claiming to follow the socialist ideology had reserved the topmost posts for the family members of their key leaders or founders. The prominent LJP leaders who embraced the JDU included Keshav Singh, Dinanath Kranti, Ramnath Raman, Parasnath Gupta and Subhash Paswan. Keshav alleged that LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag owned eight companies and four trusts, was not paying the income tax that he should have and was giving prominent positions in the party to builders, scamsters and non-political persons. Keshav said his party would release documentary evidence. Another LJP leader who joined the JDU, Ramnath Raman, claimed that Chirag was cheating the party leaders and promoting people from Punjab. Chirag has relatives in Punjab. JDU founder and chief minister Nitish has held Chirag and his LJP responsible for the poor performance of his party in the Assembly elections. The JDU could win only 43 seats out of the 115 it contested in the 243-member House. In comparison, ally BJP won 74 of 110 seats, relegating the JDU to the second position in the NDA. Chirag and his LJP, which were also a part of the NDA till a couple of weeks prior to the Bihar polls, had criticised Nitish for several months before the elections. The LJP fielded candidates in all the seats that the JDU contested, cutting into the votes of Nitish’s party. Many had suspected that the effort had the BJP’s patronage. Nitish and other senior JDU leaders had vented their ire against the LJP several times after the election results, and there was speculation that they would focus on breaking Chirag’s party to avenge the poor performance. The LJP was founded by Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000 and came to be considered as the foremost party catering to the interests of the Dalits. The party has six Lok Sabha members and an MLA in Bihar. The LJP tried to play down Thursday’s developments. Spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said: “Nitish Kumar and his JDU have committed yet another scam. Only 10 or 12 persons who joined it were earlier members of the LJP and had been thrown out for indulging in anti-party activities. The rest of the 208 people who have been masqueraded as LJP leaders were never in our party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
19-02-2021||India||New protocols for international travellers||India’s health ministry has issued new protocols for incoming international travellers intended to ensure that anyone infected with either the UK, South African or Brazilian coronavirus variants — a source of concern among scientists worldwide — are detected and isolated. All incoming travellers who have been to the UK, South Africa or Brazil over the previous 14 days would need to be tested at airports on arrival, according to the protocols to come into effect from February 22. Passengers in transit would be able to leave airports after they are found negative. Incoming travellers from these countries found positive would be isolated and their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. Disembarking passengers who are found negative would need to home quarantine themselves for seven days after which they would be tested again. The protocols would also require airlines to segregate passengers with a travel history from the UK, South Africa or Brazil in flight and on disembarkation. They also require all passengers on flights from the UK, Europe or West Asia to take self-paid molecular tests at their airports of entry. Under existing protocols, passengers from the UK are already being tested on entry and — if detected positive — their samples sent for viral genome sequencing. All incoming passengers should carry an RT-PCR negative test result obtained within 72 hours before the flight. The new protocols come amid growing concerns that the coronavirus variants from the UK, South Africa and Brazil are driving epidemics in their country of origin. The UK variant has spread to 86 countries, the South African to 44 countries and the Brazilian to 15 countries. Health officials had announced earlier this week that they had detected the UK variant in 187 people who had tested positive, the South African variant in four travellers who had arrived from African countries and the Brazilian variant in one traveller. A senior scientist associated with the sequencing effort had told The Telegraph earlier this week that there was no evidence so far that either the UK or the South African variant have had any effect on the epidemic in India. There is no evidence of clustering or unusual trends or reinfections, he had said. Scientists believe that in addition to the special screening of travellers from the three countries, there is also a need to document coronavirus variants circulating within India and determine how, if at all, they might be influencing the epidemic’s patterns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
