20-02-2021||India||Air India Express plane hits electric pole while taxiing at Vijayawada airport||A Boeing aircraft of Air India Express suffered minor damage on its right-wing after it hit an electric pole while taxiing on the runway at the Vijayawada airport on Saturday evening, but all 64 passengers aboard were safe, airport officials said. The flight landed at the airport at Gannavaram from Doha, en route Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu, when the mishap occurred, according to airport director Madhusudana Rao. Of the 64, 19 passengers were to disembark at Vijayawada while the rest were bound for Tiruchirappalli. One of the passengers, Reshma of Nidadavole, said it was a happy landing finally though there was a bit of panic when there was a sudden jerk during taxiing. "By God's grace there was nothing untoward. The airlines staff said the mishap was only minor, which came as a big relief to us," another passenger Varalakshmi of Kakinada said. The aircraft had been grounded in Vijayawada even as the authorities were making alternative arrangements for flying the 45 passengers to Tiruchirappalli later tonight, airport sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
20-02-2021||India||Covid cases rise in 5 states, Centre issues statement||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been witnessing a rise in daily Covid cases, the Centre informed on Saturday. The upward spiral comes after an ebb which began in November-December and amid a race to push forward the vaccination process. The Centre has said that more than 1.07 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far to health workers and frontline workers for Covid. "In the past week, Maharashtra has exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for highest number of daily new cases in the country today. In last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new case has been reported in the state," the Centre said. "Similar to Maharashtra, Punjab has also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in last 7 days with 383 daily new cases in last 24 hours," read the statement from the government. The authorities in Maharashtra have attributed the rise to a laxity in implementing ]safety measures, especially since local trains started running. On Thursday, strict measures were announced in Mumbai and the two districts of Amravati and Yavatmal. Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said citizens flouting rules for home isolation, weddings and public gatherings will be prosecuted. Besides, 300 marshals will be appointed to take action against passengers travelling without mask in suburban railways, the city's civic body said. The aim will be to catch 25,000 offenders every day. Since, Feb 13, 2021, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in number of daily new cases. In last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state, the Centre said. Over the last seven days, Chhattisgarh has also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases have been reported, the Centre said. "Adherence of Covid appropriate behavior is strongly reiterated for breaking the chain of transmission of the virus and containment of spread of the disease," the statement read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
20-02-2021||India||This government is weak and will have to back down: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Likening Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the character of an arrogant king, ahankari raja, from stories of yore, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said he is unable to understand that the jawan' who has kept the country safe is also the son of a farmer. Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat attended by thousands of people in Muzaffarnagar, the Congress leader attacked the prime minister on a range of issues, including the price of diesel, and alleged that he did not listen to farmers demanding a rollback of the agri laws because his politics were aimed only at himself and his billionaire friends. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urged the protesting farmers to stay strong; "this government is weak... this government will have to back down," she said as reported by NDTV. She said the arrogant king from old stories would confine himself to his palace as his rule expanded. People started feeling afraid of telling the truth in front of him they would be grovelling. It seems our prime minister has also become an arrogant king of that type." "He is unable to understand that the jawan who has kept this country safe is a son of a farmer," she told the gathering. Launching a scathing attack against the prime minister, Priyanka Gandhi said government mandis' and the minimum support price (MSP) system would come to an end with the new farm laws. “Your rights will also end. The way in which he has sold the entire country to his two-three friends, in the same way he wants to sell you, your land, and earnings to his billionaire friends," she alleged. In 2018, Priyanka Gandhi said, the cost of diesel was Rs 60 and today it is Rs 80 somewhere and Rs 90 elsewhere. "The electricity bill has increased, the price of the gas cylinder keeps on increasing, but you are not getting the price for your sugarcane. It is at the same place," she said. "The BJP government earned Rs 3.5 lakh crore by imposing tax on diesel last year. I want to ask where the money has gone. Why has the person who works day and night for the country, and irrigates it with his blood and sweat not got this money?" she asked. The Congress leader said there was nobody to listen to the farmer who is being harassed. Referring to the ongoing farmer protests against the agri laws at various Delhi border points, she said "The Delhi border is five-six kilometres away from the residence of Narendra Modi-ji. And the prime minister, who can go to the United States, China and Pakistan, and tour the entire world he could not go to the lakhs of farmers, nor wipe their tears, nor listen to their views. Why? Because his politics are only for himself and his billionaire and capitalist friends." Priyanka Gandhi told the gathering they would be surprised to see how much one or two billionaire friends had earned at a time the entire country is groaning and payments have not been made. "Crores were earned, and you are sitting on roads, fighting for your rights and agitating, and no one is there to listen to you," she said. Elaborating on the farm laws, the Congress general secretary said the prime minister maintained the laws were made for the farmers. So can they say, which farmer has made it, which farmer was consulted. And if the farmers of the entire country are saying that Pradhan Mantriji, we do not need these laws, then why these laws are not withdrawn, why are they not scrapped?" Priyanka Gandhi asked. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. Modi has also assured farmers that the MSP would continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Unleash 'animal spirits' and increase investments to make India fastest growing economy: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday exhorted the private sector to take advantage of corporate tax rate cut and other initiatives of the government, and unleash 'animal spirits' by enhancing investments to make India one of the fastest-growing economies of the world. The government has been waiting for the expansion by the private sector, she said while reminding India Inc of various measures including corporate tax rate cut, policy consistency, ease of doing business, among others to facilitate investment. “We need capacities to be ramped up, we need expansion, we need more production of many such items which are required for the economy. I would invite business leaders...post the corporate tax rate reduction I've been waiting to see expansion happening,” she said. In the biggest reduction in 28 years, the government in September 2019 slashed corporate tax rates by up to 10 percentage points to attract private investment and reinvigorate the sagging economy. The tax break resulted in financial implication of Rs 1.45 lakh crore on the exchequer. Base corporate tax rate for existing companies was reduced to 22 per cent from 30 per cent, and to 15 per cent from 25 per cent for manufacturing firms incorporated after October 1, 2019, and starting operations before March 31, 2023. "So I would like to see now that the policy is clear, tax rates have been brought down, policy consistency has been underlined and ease of doing business is still going further. I would now like to see private investors and private industry...coming forward with the so called 'animal spirits' to show that it is possible to pull India up and keep it high as one of the fastest growing economies. It is now on your shoulder entirely," she said. Addressing industry leaders at an All India Management Association (AIMA) virtual event, the Finance Minister said the recent Budget has addressed several issues which were so critical for India to have a clearer path for the next decade or more. The Budget 2021-22 comes against the backdrop of the pandemic and contraction of the economy to give a sense of certainty to businesses that policies will remain predictable and therefore businesses can continue to concentrate on their core activities, she said. With regard to disinvestment, the Finance Minister said the government has identified the core sector where it will have bare minimum presence and the rest will be allowed for public-private partnership. The past strategy of disinvestment in trickles has not really been so successful in spreading the ownership pattern, she said, adding, it was not enthusiastically received. "So, I want to have an efficient, more meaningful, purpose serving way in which our taxpayers' money should be spent...the disinvestment of units or privatisation of units is not because we want them to be closed down," she said. The government wants these units to be running, to be kept up and running professionally as the economy has very high demand for many of these items of production such as steel, coal or copper, or many such things in which PSUs are there for decades now. She urged the industry to make best of the disinvestment policy announced in the Budget. Earlier this month, the Finance Minister presented a Rs 34.8 lakh crore-Budget for 2021-22. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. Sitharaman said spending is required this year as well as next year for sustaining growth. Therefore, the government has committed to spend on infrastructure and capital expenditure over the next several years which will give the multiplier effect, she added. About 7,000 projects have been identified under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) with projected investment of a whopping Rs 111 lakh crore during 2020-25. On the fiscal deficit management, she said, the government has given a glide path and asked the rating agencies to see the Budget numbers in the light of pandemic. Hit hard by the pandemic, fiscal deficit the excess of government expenditure over its revenues is estimated to hit a record high of 9.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2020-21. For 2021-22, the deficit has been pegged at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which will be further lowered to 4.5 per cent by the fiscal ending March 31, 2026. "We are very clearly telling even the credit rating agencies that every country is going through this pandemic, and every country has to spend to keep the stimulus going. "So every country's ratings will have to be in relative terms..However, because we've given the glide path, fiscal deficit is something which we'll watch, probably after the stimulus has shown clear impact on the ground," she said. Speaking at the event Kotak Mahindra Bank Managing Director Uday Kotak said the government in coordination with the RBI has played a role to ensure that the interest rates remain stable. He also expressed hope that rates would remain stable over the next 12-18 months. "We need to ensure that as the size of the borrowing goes up, we are able to keep the long-term interest rates stable, on the basis of which business and industry take the investment decisions," Kotak said. Exuding confidence that the future of India is bright, Kotak said: "We now really need to get our animal spirits back... and the time has come for us to walk the talk."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Delhi court reserves Disha Ravi’s bail plea order for Tuesday||There is no evidence to show that the toolkit on farmers' protest is responsible for the violence on January 26, activist Disha Ravi's counsel told a Delhi court which reserved for Tuesday its order on her bail plea. "If highlighting farmers' protest globally is sedition, I'm better in jail," Ravi said through her counsel on Saturday. Ravi's counsel was submitting arguments after the Delhi Police opposed her bail plea, alleging she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. "This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here," the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. Why did Disha Ravi cover her track and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong, the police said, alleging that this shows her guilty mind and sinister design. Ravi "was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of farmers' protest," it alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing toolkit with those advocating Khalistan "It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit," the police told the court. However, Ravi's lawyer rejected the allegations. "There is no evidence to link me with Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation. And even if I (Ravi) meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist," the defence counsel said. "The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers' march, which they're claiming that I (Ravi) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious," the lawyer said in court. There's nobody arrested in connection with violence at Red Fort who says he was inspired for the same because of the toolkit, Ravi's counsel claimed, adding there is no evidence to show that the toolkit is responsible for violence during farmers' march. The counsel also questioned the contents of the FIR and asserted that people can have a different point of view on a subject. "There is an allegation in FIR that Yoga and Chai are being targeted. Is it an offence? We are now reducing the bar that somebody can't have a different point of view," Ravi's lawyer said. "The talk about alleged genocide in Kashmir has been going on for years. How talking about it suddenly becomes sedition," the lawyer said. A trial court had on Friday sent Ravi to judicial custody for three days after her five-day police custody expired. The Delhi high court on Friday heard Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||PM Modi to launch several projects in Assam and Bengal on Monday ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the poll-bound states of Assam and West Bengal on Monday to launch and lay the foundation stones of several projects. The PMO said he will dedicate to the nation important projects of the oil and gas sector in an event organised at Silapathar in Assam, and also inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of engineering colleges during the event. Later in the day, he will inaugurate several railway projects at Hooghly in West Bengal. In Assam, the PMO said, Modi will inaugurate the INDMAX unit at Indian Oil's Bongaigaon refinery, Oil India Limited's secondary tank farm at Dibrugarh and a gas compressor station at Hebeda village in Tinsukia. He will also inaugurate the Dhemaji Engineering College and lay the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College. These projects will usher in an era of energy security and prosperity, and open bright avenues of opportunity for local youth, the PMO said, asserting that they are in line with Modi's vision of "Purvodaya" to drive eastern India's socio-economic growth. The INDMAX unit at Bongaigaon leverages the technology developed indigenously to produce a higher LPG and high-octane gasoline yield from heavy feedstocks. The unit will increase the refinery's crude processing capacity from 2.35 MMTPA (million metric tonnes per annum) to 2.7 MMTPA. Its commissioning will also significantly enhance LPG production from 50 TMT (thousand metric tonnes) to 257 TMT and motor spirit (Petrol) production from 210 TMT to 533 TMT. In Bengal, the prime minister will inaugurate the extension of the metro railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, and flag off the first service on this stretch. The PMO said this 4.1-km extension has been constructed at a cost of Rs 464 crore and is fully funded by the central government. This extension will ease up access to the two world famous Kali temples at Kalighat and Dakshineswar for lakhs of tourists and devotees, it noted. Modi will also inaugurate a third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram over a stretch of 30 km of the 132-km-long Kharagpur-Adityapur third line project of south eastern railway, which was sanctioned with an estimated cost of Rs 1,312 crore. The four stations between Kalaikunda and Jhargram have been redeveloped by constructing four new station buildings, six new foot-over-bridges and eleven new platforms, along with renovation of the existing infrastructure, the PMO said. This will help ensure seamless movement of passenger and freight trains on Howrah-Mumbai trunk route, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||MP’s Hoshangabad city to be renamed as Narmadapuram: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced that Hoshangabad city in the state would be renamed as Narmadapuram and a proposal to that effect would be sent to the Centre. He made the announcement during the Narmada Jayanti programme held in Hoshangabad on Friday evening. While addressing a gathering on the banks of Narmada, Chouhan asked whether the government should change the name of Hoshangabad, to which the people present there replied in the affirmative. "What should be the new name?" Chouhan asked, and the people replied, "Narmadapuram!" The chief minister then said, "We are now sending a proposal to the Centre to change the name of Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram." The state government will not allow "cement-concrete structures" to be built along the Narmada river, he said, adding that sewage treatment plants are also being constructed in the cities located on its banks. Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by protem Assembly Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, expressed happiness over Chouhan's announcement and burst firecrackers on Saturday morning. Sharma had earlier made the demand to change the name of Hoshangabad. "This is a historic moment. Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh. Hoshangabad was so far named after an attacker Hoshang Shah, but will be known after the lifeline Maa Narmada, which is a matter of happiness. I thank the CM for making this announcement by respecting the public sentiments," he said. State BJP president VD Sharma and several other leaders also thanked the chief minister for the decision. However, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta termed the announcement as the ruling BJP's ploy to divert the attention of people from important issues like inflation and rising prices of fuel. "BJP only changed the names related to the Mughals, but not of those linked to the British rulers. Why the name of Minto Hall (old Vidhan Sabha building) has not been changed? This is just to divert the attention. Instead, it should focus on development and give relief to people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Disha part of global conspiracy to defame India: Delhi Police to court||Opposing activist Disha Ravi's bail plea in the toolkit case, the Delhi Police on Saturday alleged in a court in the city that she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. "This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here," the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. Why did Disha Ravi cover her track and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong, the police said, alleging that this shows her guilty mind and sinister design. Ravi "was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of farmers' protest," it alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing toolkit with those advocating Khalistan. "It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit," the police told the court. A trial court had on Friday sent Ravi to judicial custody for three days after her five-day police custody expired. The Delhi high court on Friday heard Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||India, China hold 10th round of talks to bring down border tension||India and China on Saturday held another round of military talks with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh and bringing down the tensions in the region, official sources said. The 10th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place two days after the Chinese and Indian militaries completed the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas as part of an agreement. The meeting started at 10 am at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control and it was continuing, the sources said. They said India will insist on a faster disengagement process in remaining areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region that has witnessed a tense standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. "The focus of the talks is on carrying forward the disengagement process," said a source. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the south bank of the lake as well, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions that were agreed upon by both the sides. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks is being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The Chinese side was to be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military district of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the Defence Ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Covid upsurge in five states, Centre stresses need of sticking to safety protocols||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have recorded an "upsurge" in daily new cases of Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said in the last seven days, Chhattisgarh has also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In the last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases have been reported, it said. Kerala continues to report a high number of daily new cases and in the past week, Maharashtra has exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for the highest number of daily new cases in the country on Saturday, the ministry said in the statement. "In the last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new cases have been reported in the state," it said. Similar to Maharashtra, the ministry said Punjab has also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in the last seven days with 383 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours. "Since February 13, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases. In the last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state," the ministry said. The ministry stressed the importance of adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of spread of the disease. Only two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, account for 75.87 per cent of total number of active Covid-19 cases, the ministry added. The ministry said 18 states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Telangana, Haryana, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Assam, Chandigarh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu . The ministry said a total of 1,07,15,204 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,22,313 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am today. These include 63,28,479 healthcare workers (first dose), 8,47,161 healthcare workers (second dose) and 35,39,564 frontline workers (first dose), the ministry said. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of the frontline workers started on February 2. The ministry said nine states have administered more than five lakh doses each. These are Uttar Pradesh (11,52,042), Maharashtra (8,60,386), Gujarat (8,56,657), Rajasthan (7,99,719), Bengal (6,50,976), Karnataka (6,29,420), Madhya Pradesh (6,26,391), Bihar (5,50,433) and Odisha (5,01,713).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Will not compromise on issues affecting common man, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Opposing the government just for the sake of doing so was not his style of functioning, new leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, but made it clear there would be no compromise on issues affecting the common man. "We are not opposing the government just for the sake of opposition. We oppose the government's wrong policies affecting the common man," he told PTI to a query on how he would function as Leader of the Opposition. Kharge, who became LoP this week following the retirement of Ghulam Nabi Azad,flagged the ongoing farmers stir demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted by Parliament last year, "flouting all procedures" and demanding that they be withdrawn. He suggested that the government come up with fresh proposals after withdrawing these controversial laws and refer them to a parliamentary standing committee for scrutiny. The senior Congress leader visited Kerala on Friday to address a public meeting organised in Kollam as the Congress- led UDF's 'Aiswarya Kerala Yatra', led by senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala arrived in Kollam. The yatra is being organised to reach out to people ahead of the assembly polls likely to be held in April-May. Kharge, a hardcore Gandhi family loyalist, said his party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had asked him to "highlight the issues of the poor people" on the floor of the House. "We raise the issues (in Parliament) not to become famous. We take up the issues affecting the poor. Somebody should talk", the senior Congress leader said. The 78-year-old veteran leader, with over 50 years' experience in politics, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP to listen to the voices of agitating farmers and address their grievances. "The farmers have been agitating against the new farm laws for past few months and demanding that they be withdrawn as it abolishes the MSP and the Mandi system We are all supporting their demand. The government has failed to satisfy the farmers, the major stakeholders, while bringing in these laws and should withdraw them," he said. Kharge came down on the Centre on the issue, alleging that the government was using all its machinery to divide the farmers by terming them as 'Khalistanis' and 'Pakistanis.' The LoP alleged that the incidents at the Red Fort on January 26 was a planned conspiracy by the government was one such move to cause divisions among the farmers and was done to 'hide its failures.' He also flayed the government over the increasing fuel prices, saying they were doing "a great injustice" to the people. "Petrol prices are at an all time high, while international crude oil prices have touched a record low. By hiking prices day by day, the central government is doing a great injustice to the people of this country", he said. Kharge also urged Kerala's ruling CPI(M)-led LDF government to reduce state taxes on petrol and diesel to ease the burden on the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||Private sectors should be made part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat drive, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong case for repealing archaic laws and making it easier to do business in India, stating that the centre and states need to work closely to boost economic growth. Addressing the sixth Governing Council meeting of Niti Aayog, the Prime Minister said that the private sector should be given full opportunity to become a part of government's Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. The whole country succeeded when the state and the central government worked together during the coronavirus pandemic, he said, adding that "the basis of the country's progress is cooperative federalism and today's meeting is to brainstorm to make it more meaningful and move towards competitive cooperative federalism." Modi said there is a need to bring competitive cooperative federalism not only among states but districts too. The Prime Minister also underlined the need for reducing compliance burden and repealing obsolete laws. He asked the states to form committees to reduce regulations which are no longer relevant in the wake of technology growth. Observing that the positive response received on the Union Budget for 2021-22 expressed the mood of the nation, he said, "the country has made up its mind, wants to move fast and does not want to waste time." Modi further said that the private sector of the country is coming forward with more enthusiasm in this development journey of the country. "As a government, we also have to honour this enthusiasm, the energy of the private sector, and give it as much opportunity in the AatmaNirbhar Bharat campaign," he added. The campaign, he said, "is the way to develop an India that produces not only for its own needs but also for the world and this production also stands the test of the world." Modi said that the initiatives taken by the government would provide opportunity to everyone to participate in nation building to its full potential. Referring to the farm sector, the Prime Minister said that efforts should be made to produce agriculture items like edible oil and reduce their imports. "About Rs 65,000 crore is spent in the import of edible oils which should have gone to our farmers. This can be done by guiding farmers," he said. The Prime Minister said government policies will help farmers raise productivity and cut imports, adding that reforms needed to provide funds and technology for the farm sector. He said the central government introduced production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for various sectors providing an excellent opportunity to increase manufacturing in the country. The states, he added, should take full advantage of this scheme and attract maximum investment in themselves and also reap the benefits of reduced corporate tax. He said the government is spending on infrastructure to boost demand and create jobs. Further, the Prime Minister noted that bank accounts, free electricity and gas connection and proper vaccinations have brought changes in the lives of the poor. Stressing on need to strengthen start-ups and MSMEs, Modi said, "Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not just to make India self-reliant, but also to meet the world's needs." He also urged states to form committees to celebrate India's 75th Independence Day. The Prime Minister said the campaign to provide a pucca roof to every poor is also going on now and added that, since 2014, construction of more than 2.40 crore houses has been completed in both cities and villages put together. He said over 3.5 lakh rural houses are provided with piped drinking water within 18 months of the launch of Jal Jeevan mission and the Bharat Net Scheme for internet connectivity in villages is becoming a medium for a big change. "When the central and state governments work together in all such schemes the speed of work will also increase and the benefits would also reach the last person," the Prime Minister said. He further said that keeping in mind the aspirations of a young country like India, modern infrastructure has to be built. "Innovation has to be encouraged and more technology should be used to provide better opportunities for education and skills," he said, adding there is a need for strengthening businesses, MSMEs and startups. He said shortlisting the products of hundreds of districts of the country according to its speciality has led to a healthy competition among the states. These initiatives have to be taken to the block level, making full use of the resources of the states and increasing the exports from the states, he said, while underlining the need for a better coordination and policy framework between the centre and the states. He also announced that there would be a major increase in the economic resources of local bodies in the 15th Finance Commission. The council, the apex body of Niti Aayog, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories, several union ministers and senior government officials. In a first, Ladakh is also participating in the sixth edition of the Governing Council meeting, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join. The meeting is also being attended by the ex-officio members of the council, union ministers, vice chairperson Rajiv Kumar, members and CEO of Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant, and other senior officials from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
20-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload touches almost 14,000 after 22 days||Daily cases of Covid-19 in the country climbed to about 14,000 after nearly 22 days, taking India's tally to 1,09,77,387, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,78,048, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. A total of 13,993 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 101 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 daily cases were recorded. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,78,048 which translates to a national recovery rate of 97.27 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,43,127 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,02,61,480 samples have been tested up to February 19, with 7,86,618 samples being tested on Friday. According to health experts, the key factors for the recent surge can be due to the re-opening of educational institutes in Kerala and resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai. Mumbai, after a gap of 11 months, resumed full suburban train services on February 1, which carried a daily average of 8 million people before the pandemic. The city has begun hiring marshals to enforce mask wearing. City authorities said out of nearly 5,000 marshals around 300 would be deployed on the rail network. The heath ministry tweeted: “Coronavirus ... has not yet left the country… We still need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. No carelessness till there is a cure.” As reported by Reuters, despite the recent rise in infections, India’s daily tally of new cases remains well below a mid-September peak of nearly 100,000. Testing numbers have also fallen to about 800,000 a day from more than 1 million. Since starting its vaccine campaign in mid-January, India has administered nearly 10 million doses, aiming to cover 300 million people by August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Kashmir: army human rights record raises barrier before German arms exports||Concerns over the security forces’ human rights record in Jammu and Kashmir have raised a barrier before Germany’s small arms exports to India. German regulations and covenants restrict, and often prohibit, arms sales to nations or regions where their use might cause direct or collateral damage to civilian populations and institutions. Two Indian security officials familiar with the bar on German small arms producers said these companies had failed to obtain export licences from their government on account of the “poor human rights record” in Kashmir. Defence ministry spokesperson Bharat Bhushan Babu did not respond to messages sent by this reporter. An Intelligence Bureau official said a Belgian arms manufacturer too had recently walked out of a deal to supply arms to India’s army amid concerns in the Belgian government that the weapons would be used in Jammu and Kashmir. Belgium’s FN Herstal had signed the Rs 70-crore deal in 2020 to supply small arms and assault rifles to the army’s Special Frontier Force (SFF). Reports have said that German arms manufacturer Heckler and Koch, whose MP5 submachine guns have been part of the armoury of the National Security Guards (NSG) and Marine Commando (Marcos) units, has withdrawn from the Indian market saying it lacked approval from the German government. “After being rebuffed by Germany, the defence ministry has decided to procure US-made assault rifles,” a security official said. The SFF was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. It is part of the RAW (the external intelligence agency) set-up but, when deployed with the army, it comes under the military’s operational control. The army prefers to keep the relationship under wraps. In November 2019, three months after the Centre had revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and restricted movement and communication, Germany had expressed reservations about the clampdown and concern for the people of the region. Germany had earlier too restricted arms export to India citing poor human rights records in states such as Gujarat, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. A defence ministry official recalled that Germany had, during the Kargil conflict of 1999, halted technology transfer for India’s indigenously made Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv and withheld replacement parts and supplies for German equipment. Germany is India’s sixth-largest trading partner and its largest trading partner from the European Union. India was the world’s second-largest importer of major arms between 2014 and 2018 and accounted for 9.5 per cent of the global imports, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in 2019. According to the report, Russia accounted for 58 per cent of Indian arms imports between 2014 and 2018, while Israel, the US and France too increased their arms exports to India during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||4 soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley clash, says China||China’s military on Friday said four of its soldiers had died in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash, breaking eight months’ silence on the number of casualties it had suffered in the hand-to-hand fight that had killed 20 Indian soldiers. The statement comes a day before a tenth round of military talks during which the future course on the outstanding friction points, including Depsang Plains, is expected to be taken up for discussion. A troop disengagement is under way from the north and south banks of the Pangong Lake where India is widely perceived as having given away too much to the Chinese. China sought to explain the timing of the announcement by claiming it was “clarifying the truth” when India had “repeatedly hyped up the casualties”. The PLA Daily, mouthpiece of China’s People’s Liberation Army, said “five Chinese frontier officers and soldiers stationed in the Karakoram Mountains have been recognised by the Central Military Commission of China for defending national sovereignty and territorial integrity” and added that one of them was “injured”. The PLA Daily said battalion commander Chen Hongjun and three soldiers -- Chen Xiangrong, Wang Zhuoran and Xia Siyuan -- were killed in the “fierce struggle” and were given posthumous awards. An award was given to the regimental commander of the PLA Xinjiang Military Command, Qi Fabao, who was seriously injured in the clash, it added. The Chinese communist party-run People’s Daily tweeted: “Four Chinese soldiers, who were sacrificed in last June’s border conflict, were posthumously awarded honorary titles and first class merit citations, Central Military Commission announced on Friday. A colonel, who led them and (was) seriously injured, was conferred with honorary title.” The aftermath of the clash had witnessed a controversial statement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who told an all-party meeting on June 19 that no one had entered or was occupying Indian territory, prompting China to immediately imply the Indians were the transgressors. On Friday, too, the Chinese state media said the PLA soldiers had died during a “fierce struggle” against “foreign military” who had violated an agreement and crossed into the Chinese side. PLA Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang, spokesperson for the Chinese defence ministry, said: “It should be noted that since last June, Indian troops illegally crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for deliberate provocation, and even violently attacked the Chinese officers and soldiers who went there for negotiation, thus intentionally triggering the fierce physical conflict at the Galwan Valley and causing casualties on both sides,” he said. “The responsibility of the skirmish at the Galwan Valley lies entirely with the Indian side.” Col Ren added: “Public coverage of the heroic deeds of Chinese border troops by the Chinese media is the responsibility of the media to objectively tell the facts. It is conducive to clarifying the truth and letting the world see the rights and wrongs.” He alleged that India had “repeatedly hyped up the casualties, distorted the truth, misled international public opinion, and slandered the Chinese border troops”. While India had announced its 20 deaths shortly after the clash, the chief editor of a communist party-run newspaper in China had acknowledged PLA casualties but mentioned neither any deaths nor numbers. Beijing had till Friday never officially acknowledged Chinese casualties, preferring till now the ambiguous word “losses”. On Wednesday, India’s northern army commander had cited the figure of 45 Chinese casualties, as reported by Russian news agency TASS on February 10. Among the Indian casualties was the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar Regiment, Colonel Santosh Babu, who was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest war-time gallantry award. Several Indian soldiers were taken prisoners of war following the clash, which happened during a “de-escalation process”, but were later released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Social activist moves SC asking for sedition case to be filed against V.K. Singh||A social activist has moved the Supreme Court asking for a sedition case to be filed against junior minister V.K. Singh for suggesting India had crossed the Line of Actual Control more often than China. “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” Singh, a former army chief, has been quoted as saying. China had termed the statement “an unwitting confession” by India. Tamil Nadu-based Chandrasekaran Ramasamy said that if Singh did not resign or was not removed, the court should “initiate suitable action against him as per the anti-national law” and set the standard for those in power on what to  say and how to give statements “carefully and correctly”. Ramasamy’s petition pleaded that Section 124A, dealing with sedition, be invoked. Section 124A says: “Whoever, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India shall be punished with imprisonment….” According to the petition, Singh’s comments are at variance with India’s official position. After the Galwan clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed last June, the government had said “the Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Culture ministry tweets praises for Gowalkar oh his birthday||The worst-kept secret in India has been officially acknowledged: a source of inspiration and a guiding force now are the thoughts of M.S. Golwalkar, the second sarsanghachalak of the RSS. Make no mistake: Given a choice, it will be so for “generations” to come. “Remembering a great thinker, scholar, and remarkable leader #MSGolwalkar on his birth anniversary. His thoughts will remain a source of inspiration & continue to guide generations. @prahladspatel @secycultureGOI @PMOIndia @PIBCulture @pspoffice,” the Union culture ministry tweeted on Friday, the birth anniversary of the erstwhile Sangh boss. Former culture secretary Jawhar Sircar responded: “As former culture secretary, I hang my head in shame to see RSS chief Golwalkar being falsely praised by @MinOfCultureGoI. Golwalkar & RSS opposed Gandhi’s Freedom Struggle. In his Bunch of Thoughts, Golwalkar opposed India’s tricolour too. Sardar Patel jailed him, banned the RSS.” UK-based academic Priyamvada Gopal sought to draw the world’s attention to the official handle lauding Golwalkar, who essentially spelt out the ideology of the RSS, the ideological parent of the ruling BJP. “Dear world. India’s **government** wishes us to celebrate a ‘great thinker’ who said ‘To keep up the purity of the nation and its culture, Germany shocked the world by purging the country of Semitic races — the Jews. National pride at its highest has been manifested here’.” The Union ministry’s tweet did not elaborate on which of Golwalkar’s thoughts remained a source of inspiration. Parallels have been drawn between some of Golwalkar’s views and those of Hitler’s Nazis although a modern-day drive had been launched to airbrush such a past. Some of Golwalkar’s known “thoughts” follow: Internal threats Bunch of Thoughts — written in 1966 — has a section on “Internal Threats”, which lists them as Muslims, Christians and communists. In contrast, he maintains that Hindus have no divided loyalties. “…Hindus are a hundred per cent national society here. To call them ‘communal’ and to place them at par with those people whose loyalties are divided and at times questionable is unjust and unwise,” the book says. Women The book adds: “There is now a clamour for ‘equality for women’ and their ‘emancipation from man’s domination’! Reservation of seats in various positions of power is being claimed on the basis of their separate sex, thus adding one more ‘ism’— ‘sexism!’ — to the array of casteism, communalism, linguism, etc.” Caste The book says: “Castes there were in those ancient times too, continuing for thousands of years of our glorious national life. There is nowhere any instance of its having hampered the progress or disrupted the unity of society. It, in fact, served as a great bond of social cohesion.” Elsewhere, it says: “The other main feature that distinguished our society was the Varna-vyavastha (caste system). But today it is being dubbed ‘casteism’ and scoffed at. Our people have come to feel that the mere mention of Varna-vyavastha is something derogatory. They often mistake the social order implied in it for social discrimination. “The feeling of inequality, of high and low, which has crept into the Varna system, is comparatively of recent origin. The perversion was given a further fillip by the scheming Britisher in line with his ‘divide and rule’ policy. But in its original form, the distinctions in that social order did not imply any discrimination such as big and small, high and low, among its constituents. On the other hand, the Gita tells us that the individual who does his assigned duties in life in a spirit of selfless service only worships God through such performance.…” Asuras The book says: “If one were to dispassionately observe the characteristics of the present-day so-called civilised modern societies, they appear to tally, almost word to word, with the attributes of the asuras as detailed in Bhagawad Gita!” Unitary pitch The Narendra Modi dispensation’s preoccupation with having a unitary system is rooted in Golwalkar’s writings. Golwalkar was in favour of a unitary state as opposed to the quasi-federal structure adopted by the framers of the Constitution. The book says: “We are one country, one society, and one nation, with a community of life-values and secular aspirations and interests; and hence it is natural that the affairs of the nation are governed through a single state of the unitary type. The present federal system generates and feeds separatist feelings. In a way, it negates the truth of a single nationhood and is, therefore, divisive in nature. It must be remedied and the Constitution amended and cleaned so as to establish Unitary Form of Government.” On Friday, some social media users cited references from the We or Our Nationhood Defined, which Golwalkar penned in 1939 and which the RSS distanced itself from in 2006. We mentions Hitler. Bunch of Thoughts, written in the mid-1960s when few dared express open admiration for the routed Nazis, has no direct reference to Hitler. Putting out a series of tweets on Golwalkar’s quotes, CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan said: “RSS claims to disown Golwalkar’s pro-Nazi ‘We’. But his BoT (Bunch of Thoughts) isn’t different in content, just more carefully worded. ‘We’ asked minorities to ‘Merge in The Hindu race’. BoT asked them to ‘merge themselves in the common national stream’....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Activists demand release of Disha Ravi dropping all charges ||Environment and rights activists from across the country on Friday demanded the immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi and the dropping of all charges against her and co-accused. Addressing the media via the Zoom digital platform, the activists said the 22-year-old Bangalorean’s arrest was a warning to the youth to “shut up and stay at home” and to parents to rein their children in. They urged the Centre to hold an open dialogue with the youth and all those supporting the farmers’ agitation, and sought repeal of the sedition law and the anti-terror UAPA. A Delhi police team had taken Disha from her Bangalore home to Delhi on February 13 and booked her on sedition and other charges for allegedly editing and sharing a social media toolkit on how to express support for the protesting farmers. Disha is part of the Fridays For Future global initiative started by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. The National Alliance of People’s Movements, Coalition for Environmental Justice in India and the People’s Union of Civil Liberties also demanded the cancellation of the arrest warrants against Disha’s co-accused — Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Beed-based engineer Shantanu Muluk. Kavita Srivastava of the PUCL said Disha’s constitutional rights had been violated. “She was editing and sharing a document. She was on a Zoom call. Isn’t that enabling young people to know more about the farmers’ struggle?” she asked. Srivastava described the sedition law and the UAPA as “tools for the Modi government (to harass critics) whenever it is in trouble”. “Every time they face a challenge, the rest of us become anti-national,” she said. Carnatic singer T.M. Krishna said: “For long we have been told that fringe groups are the ones that target those who express (their views). Then it became very clear that the state itself is the aggressor and targets anyone who asks questions.” Krishna termed Disha’s arrest a “warning to parents” to keep their children at home. “There are two kinds of attacks. One is frontal, basically saying, ‘Shut up and stay at home’. The other is poisoning young minds.” Nagraj Adve of Teachers Against Climate Crisis said that youths were scared after Disha’s arrest. “I spoke to some young people yesterday. All of them talked about their fear and anxiety,” he said. “Those in the 10th and 11th standard are particularly terrified. I’m really worried about what these arrests will do for climate change in this country.” He added: “For years there was no real movement. But over the last two or three years we have seen hundreds of young people making clear demands in the context of the climate crisis in many towns.” In response to a question, Abhilasha Singh, former student of Mount Carmel College from where Disha graduated in business administration, said youths had their way of surmounting such challenges. “If you believe in something and have certain convictions you will push against whatever stands in your way,” Singh said. “That is the only thing we can do now. With the solidarity that we have built along the way, I see this as a fight that we can pull off.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi and Sachin Pilot lead farmer rallies ||The Congress’s central leadership has asked all state units to extend their fullest support to the farmers’ movement across the country to demolish the BJP propaganda that it is a Punjab-centric protest, but leaders in only Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have so far demonstrated the resolve to hold big rallies. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is leading the charge in Uttar Pradesh, will address a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday. Sachin Pilot has taken the lead in Rajasthan. Although the Rajasthan Congress unit has also organised four farmers’ conferences attended by Rahul Gandhi during his recent two-day tour of the state, Pilot’s initiative indicates the factional feud hasn’t yet been resolved despite the reconciliation last year that stabilised the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot has held two massive kisan mahapachayats in Dausa and Bharatpur and a rally in Jaipur’s Chaksu without the presence of chief minister Gehlot and state party chief Govind Singh Dotasara. The MLAs considered loyal to Pilot, who had been part of the rebellion last year, were present on stage, giving credence to the perception that the young leader might be showing his strength despite losing his ministerial berth after the unseemly episode. The farmers’ rallies have established Pilot’s popularity; he has also taken care not to attack the chief minister, rather concentrated his energies on creating awareness about the problems involved in the three controversial farm laws. The stages have had the photographs of party president Sonia Gandhi, general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken, Gehlot and Dotasara to make them look like Congress events. The official Twitter handle of the Rajasthan Congress, however, doesn’t refer to these rallies, bolstering the impression that these were Pilot’s personal shows. While the central leadership doesn’t nurse any grudge against Pilot for the effort to destabilise the government last year and has indicated that he will be accommodated soon in the high command structure, there is no denying the fact that the two factions haven’t buried the hatchet in Rajasthan. But the farmers’ movement has provided an opportunity to Pilot to showcase his strength and brought into focus the failure of other leaders to organise protests in other states. On Friday, general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal wrote to all the state units to organise protests at the block and district levels against the farm laws and the steep rise in petroleum prices. A senior Congress told The Telegraph: “While Rahul Gandhi has repeatedly expressed full support for and cooperation with the farmers, the organisational machinery has restricted itself to tokenism except in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Although farmers have been picketing Delhi’s borders, the party’s failure to organise any major programme in the capital to demonstrate the party’s solidarity with the peasants is pathetic. Even in states like neighbouring Haryana, and Maharashtra where the Congress is in government, the party hasn’t done anything spectacular.” The Congress has not been able to organise a big movement in Haryana because of factional feud. Top leaders like Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state chief Kumari Selja usually work at cross-purposes. Most other states units have also failed to rise to the occasion. The Congress has a strong rural base in Gujarat and many leaders believe a major farmers’ rally in the state would have sent out a message to the country, countering the BJP’s claim of a Punjab-centric movement. But the impending civic polls in Gujarat have been used as an excuse to restrict the protests to symbolism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||All India Kisan Sabha offers model farm law, rebuts govt on MSP||The All India Kisan Sabha on Friday released a model farm bill to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s contention that farmers are anti-reform. Drafted in keeping with the Constitution’s federal structure, the model bill seeks to ensure fair prices for farm produce through procurement, facilitate processing and conversion to value-added products, and ploughing back a share of the surplus value to farmers and farm workers. Briefing journalists, AIKS general secretary Hannan Mollah said the enactment of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) did not mean the entire financial burden would fall on the government. All it meant was that anyone buying from farmers — the government or a private player — would be mandated by law to pay the minimum price. “We are not saying the government should purchase everything that is grown by the farmers,” Hannan Mollah said, referring to home minister Amit Shah’s contention that the government lacked enough money to afford a legally guaranteed MSP. “By refusing to enact a law, the government is essentially trying to secure the profit margins of their corporate friends; they want to help a handful of big companies maximise their profits,” Hannan Mollah said. The AIKS leadership said the thrust of the draft bill was on creating farmers’ cooperatives on the lines of Amul, which had helped farmers fight off milk companies and turn their cooperatives into a force to reckon with. “The government can play the role of a facilitator.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has, in keeping with its efforts to build solidarities across segments of society, demanded an unbiased investigation into the mysterious deaths of two Dalit girls in Unnao and the grievous injuries suffered by a third. The protesting farmers have also demanded proper medical treatment for the surviving girl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||‘Metroman’ eyes Kerala CM chair if BJP voted to power||Technocrat E. Sreedharan, better known as “Metroman”, has said he is ready to be the chief minister of Kerala if the BJP is voted to power in the upcoming elections. Set to join the BJP in a few days after having accepted the party’s offer, Sreedharan, 88, told PTI on Friday: “If they want (me to become chief minister), certainly. To tell you very frankly, unless I am chief minister these (ideas) cannot be achieved.” He was referring to some development initiatives he wanted to implement in Kerala. The engineer was the brain behind landmark projects such as Metro train networks and the Konkan railway line that connects north Kerala to Goa. Sreedharan said the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front had failed to usher in any development. “They have taken turns to rule the state all these years, but failed to bring any major development.” He made it clear that he was not open to gubernatorial positions. “I have not discussed anything with them (the BJP). But I don’t want to become a governor,” said Sreedharan, who is leading a retired life at his native Ponnani in Malappuram district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||India remains vulnerable to localised coronavirus outbreaks||India is unlikely to experience a second nationwide wave of the novel coronavirus epidemic but remains vulnerable to localised outbreaks such as in Maharashtra where average daily counts of new cases have more than doubled over the past week, experts have said. Maharashtra’s seven-day average daily new cases increased from 2,395 on February 11 to 5,427 on February 18, contributing to the rise in India’s daily cases from 11,095 to 11,827 over the past week, according to Friday’s data from the Union health ministry. But public health experts say the epidemic’s growth in Maharashtra would have a limited impact on the nationwide epidemic curve. For a second nationwide wave to emerge, the experts say, multiple states with large populations would need to experience simultaneous surges as they did last year. Maharashtra is India’s second most populous state after Uttar Pradesh, but in seven of the top 10 populated states, the epidemic has continued to shrink over the past week. In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, daily new cases fell from 135 on February 11 to 80 on February 18. Bihar, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Karnataka have recorded declines in their daily cases over the past week. Among the top 10 populated states, the epidemic grew only in Maharashtra, Gujarat (255 to 263) and Madhya Pradesh (168 to 215). “I would consider a second nationwide wave extremely unlikely — a significant fraction of our population is already infected and therefore protected,” said Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. A nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research has indicated that around 25 per cent, or one in four people across the country, have already been infected by the coronavirus. Surveys within cities such as Delhi, Pune and Mumbai have pointed to pockets of over 50 per cent infection prevalence. “The vaccination campaign will increase the number of people protected,” Rai said. The health ministry said on Friday that over 7 million (70 per cent) of India’s around 10 million healthcare workers have already received the first doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Over 750,000 have received their second doses. Experts believe localised outbreaks — within cities, districts or states — of the type that Maharashtra is currently experiencing will continue to occur wherever people are susceptible and where the virus gets opportunities to spread person-to-person. “What we’re seeing in Maharashtra likely reflects the reality that Covid-19 is heading towards becoming an endemic disease,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. An endemic infection is one marked by a steady trickle of cases through the year, and occasional localised clusters, mainly driven by superspreader events where the virus gets opportunities to infect multiple people who spread it to others. Efforts to curb the growth of such clusters need to focus on early detection and containment. “If we don’t have optimal testing — for whatever reasons — we will not pick up the local outbreaks until they overwhelm the health delivery capacity,” John said. “We won’t really know what is happening on the ground unless we comprehensively test, document circulating coronavirus variants, and analyse how or whether variants might be influencing patterns of infection and disease.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
20-02-2021||India||Congress brands Narendra Modi ‘tax-jeevi’, says oil production falling||The Congress on Friday said domestic crude oil production had reduced under Narendra Modi’s rule, confronting the Prime Minister’s claim that consumers had been saddled with skyrocketing prices because previous governments had not remedied India’s dependence on imports. Congress spokespersons Randeep Surjewala and Gourav Vallabh said in a statement: “India’s crude oil production has fallen by 53.66 lakh metric tonnes in Modi’s regime. During the Congress-led UPA regime, domestic production of crude oil was 23.4 per cent of total consumption. Between 2014 and 2020, the domestic share of crude oil consumption is 15.3 per cent. In fact, domestic production in 2020 was the lowest in the last 18 years.” Although 2020’s production might have been affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the domestic production of crude oil has seen a downward trend in recent years, demolishing the basis of Modi’s argument that his government was more concerned about dependence on imports than previous dispensations. Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister speaks a lot but never speaks the truth. The Modi government has reduced the budget of ONGC, the company that produces crude oil, from Rs 32,501 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 29,800 crore in 2021-22.” The Congress spokespersons also accused the Modi government of destroying ONGC by compelling it to buy the sinking Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation, saddling ONGC with a debt of Rs 24,881 crore. Even the oil exploration budget, which was Rs 11,687 crore in 2014, was Rs 4,330 crore in 2020. On the day when petrol price crossed Rs 100 a litre for the first time in the history of independent India a few days ago, Prime Minister Modi had said: “India imported over 85 per cent of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year. Can a diverse and talented nation like ours be so energy import dependent? I do not want to criticise anyone but I want to say that had we focused on this subject much earlier, our middle class would not be burdened.” The price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar and Madhya Pradesh’s Anupur. While the Prime Minister seemed to be arguing that the price increased because of crude oil rates in the international market, Modi has been exceptionally lucky on this front with import prices being almost half or even less during his regime compared to what his predecessor Manmohan Singh had faced. The Congress put out a detailed comparative chart on Friday, saying that diesel was sold for Rs 57.28 a litre when crude oil was $108 per barrel in 2014 but it is Rs 80.60 a litre now when crude is $63 per barrel. While the import price has come down by 41 per cent, the domestic price has jumped by 40 per cent. Surjewala said: “The government is buying petrol at Rs 32.72 per litre and diesel at Rs 33.46 per litre. But the tax-jeevi Modi is looting the people. Its motto is: Hum do hamare do/diesel nabbe, petrol sau.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to withdraw CAA cases||Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswami announced here on Friday that cases filed in the state for participation in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act would be withdrawn. Around 1,500 cases were filed early last year for holding protests in violation of prohibitory orders, damaging public property and preventing policemen from doing their work, he said. Except cases related to violence, further legal action in all other cases was being dropped, the chief minister said. Cases filed for violation of lockdown norms and spreading Covid rumours last year will also be withdrawn. Around 10 lakh such cases were filed. Barring cases linked to violence, prevention of police personnel from discharging their duties, and use of fraudulent means to obtain e-pass during the lockdown, all other cases would be withdrawn, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||UP police bars journalists, Opposition politicians from entering Unnao village||Uttar Pradesh police on Friday barred journalists and Opposition politicians for six hours from entering the Unnao village where three minor Dalit girls were allegedly found poisoned on Wednesday night, prompting allegations the authorities were “hiding something”. By the time the visitors were let into Baburaha village around 3pm, the two dead girls — aged 12 and 16 — had been cremated. The third, aged 14, is on ventilator at a private hospital in Kanpur.  The police, who say the post-mortem report has revealed poisoning, arrested two young men from a neighbouring village on Friday. State police chief H.C. Awasthi has denied any injuries on the girls — not even stricture marks – although villagers say the victims, found in a mustard field, had had their hands and legs tied with their dupattas. The villagers also claim that a corner of the field had been destroyed, implying a struggle. Clampdown Police and paramilitary blocked the entry points to Baburaha from 9am till 3pm, holding journalists and Congress, Samjawadi and Bahujan Samaj Party workers at bay. Villagers said the two dead girls were cremated an hour apart and in the presence of about 200 cops who outnumbered residents at the funeral. Led by former MLA Udai Raj, Samajwadi workers held a dharna outside the village and alleged a cover-up. “The police didn’t protect the crime scene, allowing everyone to visit the spot,” Raj said. “They also detained the girls’ parents for about 12 hours and released them when we protested on Thursday. What are they hiding now by stopping us outside the village?” The victims’ parents and other villagers have alleged 12 hours’ detention since Wednesday night by the police, who deny the charge. Savitri Bai Phule, former Bahraich MP from the BJP who joined the Congress last year, met the families after 3pm. “There’s certainly something fishy. We need to know what the police want to hide,” she said. “The police haven’t explained why they did not take the family members to hospital along with the victims.” Additional SP Vinod Pandey said: “Outsiders were stopped because the forensic team was at work in the village. It was also necessary to maintain law and order.” DGP Awasthi said there were “no injury marks on the bodies of the girls and their clothes were intact”. The accused Vinay Kumar aka Lambu, 22, and a 17-year-old boy from neighbouring Keuna village have been arrested. Inspector-general Laxmi Singh said Vinay had confessed to offering the girls water poisoned with insecticide. Singh said Vinay had recently asked one of the girls for her mobile number but she had refused. Vinay then allegedly called the girl to the field. She arrived with the two other girls and the boys offered them all chips and the poisoned water, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan under fire over CAA cases ||Hundreds who protested or criticised the Citizenship Amendment Act have been booked in Kerala, RTI replies have revealed, triggering charges of a “double standard” against the Left Democratic Front government whose constituents too had demonstrated against the new citizenship regime. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had assured the state Assembly in early February last year that no cases had been registered against the anti-CAA protesters. His government had got a resolution passed in the Assembly saying Kerala would not implement the new citizenship act. Left parties had organised marches and human chains against the act. However, the Kerala chapter of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations, the NGO that filed the RTI pleas, says 519 cases were registered against anti-CAA protesters in Kerala between January 1 and March 23 last year. Several of those booked have alleged they did not participate in the demonstrations but only expressed moral support. For instance, many social activists, writers and scholars who had issued a joint statement supporting a state-wide strike against the CAA on December 17, 2019, but say they never hit the streets figure among the 46 accused in a case registered in Kozhikode city. “A huge majority of the 46 accused had only expressed solidarity in a joint statement.... They were not present at the protest,” Sajeed Khalid, state secretary of the Welfare Party of India (WPI), one of the organisers of the strike, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “This shows the double standard of the LDF government, which says one thing and does something else,” said N.P. Chekutty, veteran journalist and activist who figures among the 46 accused. “This government got the Assembly to pass a resolution against the CAA, and yet its police booked so many of us who had only extended support to the cause.” The December 17 shutdown was organised by four parties deemed to enjoy Muslim and Dalit support: the WPI, Social Democratic Party of India, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Dalit Human Rights Movement Party. Sunni Muslim leader Nasar Faizi Koodathayi, scholar J. Devika, writer T.T. Sreekumar, rights activist Gro Vasu, and writer and Dalit activist K.K. Baburaj are among those named in the Kozhikode case. They have been booked under penal sections 109 (abetment), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), and 283 (obstruction in public way or line of navigation), which can entail a maximum punishment of two years. Sajeed said no sedition or terror charges had been invoked. Reny Ayline, national secretary of the rights organisation that filed the RTI pleas, said the NGO had collated the data from answers sent by various police authorities, including individual police stations, from the middle of last year till January 2021. Ayline said a few among the 519 cases had been filed in connection with protests organised by Left groups such as the CPI as well as the CPM’s student and youth wings, the SFI and the DYFI. “I had no idea about the (Kozhikode) case until I got a call from the local police station about eight months ago,” Chekutty said. “Recently, the court of the judicial magistrate first class summoned me to appear on February 16. I didn’t go and have asked my lawyer to seek some time.” He added: “The government is trying to silence independent voices in public life.” A writer accused in the Kozhikode case accused the ruling CPM of “selective Islamophobia”.  “The CPM can organise strikes on anything. But they feel threatened when the Welfare Party or the SDPI do the same. They identify these two small parties with Muslim extremism,” the writer, who declined to be named, said. But he faulted the organisers too. “I had told them to secure police permission, but I understand that they waited till the last minute and went ahead without permission.” State WPI president Hameed Vaniyambalam said the Kozhikode administration had denied permission for the December 17 protest despite allowing anti-CAA demonstrations by other groups on other dates. “We had tried our best to obtain permission. I see this as the double standard of the LDF government, which supported the anti-CAA movement but slapped cases on us,” he said. Kozhikode North MLA Pradeep Kumar of the CPM said: “It could be because of the Kerala High Court order that no hartal (shutdown) can be held without seven days’ notice and police permission.” He added: “My understanding is that these are the penal sections usually invoked for participating in strikes without permission. Even pro-government strikes lead to such cases.” A lawyer, however, said the charge of abetment — which enables the police to implicate a large number of people — is not usually invoked in such instances. This section would have been used to charge those who had not physically participated in the protests. MLA Kumar said he would take up the concerns of those booked without having participated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
20-02-2021||India||National Human Rights Commission rap for delay in child death FIR||The National Human Rights Commission on Friday iterated its recommendation that the Rajasthan government initiate disciplinary action against police officials responsible for the delay in registration of an FIR on the complaint of parents of a fifth standard student that the child died after he was beaten up by a teacher in his school in Kota on December 3, 2017. It has also asked the state government to pay relief of Rs 2 lakh to the mother as the delay in the registration of an FIR on her complaint in a cognizable offence amounted to the violation of human rights, the NHRC said in a statement. The mother had complained that her son was brutally beaten with a bamboo stick by a teacher for not completing his homework. When her son came back home, he found it hard to recognize his mother and brother and was having hallucinations about the teacher coming to stab him with a knife. He also stopped eating. He was rushed to hospital and died later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
