21-02-2021||India||Maharashtra to go under lockdown if cases rise, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from Monday. Asking people to follow "Covid-appropriate" behaviour and safety norms, he said he would observe for a week to 15 days and then decide whether to impose another lockdown. "Wear masks, observe discipline and maintain social distancing to avoid another lockdown," Thackeray told the people of the state. In his televised address against the backdrop of the sudden surge in coronavirus cases, he said the number of daily infection cases has risen from 2,500 to 7,000 within 15 days. "The pandemic is raising its head in the state again, but whether this is a second wave will be known in eight to 15 days," he said. Till a few days ago, the daily spike of cases was between 2,000 and 2,500, he said. There are 53,000 active cases in the state. Even in cities like Amravati, the spike being witnessed now was not so high when the state saw a peak in Covid-19 cases earlier, he said, adding, "This is alarming." "We felt that the pandemic was under control and a lot of hard work had gone into bringing it under control," the chief minister said. "Religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from tomorrow. Political agitations with crowds will have to be stopped for some time...All of usneed to expand and spread our political base including myself, my allies and the opposition parties. But let us not spread coronavirus," he said. People should follow 'Mi zababdar' (I am responsible) campaign, he said. "In the war against the virus there is no sword as yet but face masks are the only shields. Vaccination has begun. Trials of two more vaccines are on. It is only after that common citizens will get doses," he said. So far, nine lakh frontline Covid-19 warriors have been vaccinated and no serious side effects have been noticed, he said, and urged all the frontline and health care workers to get themselves inoculated. People who have become negligent should not let the sacrifices of the coronavirus warriors go in waste. If you can't be a Covid warrior, don't become a Covid "doot" (carrier), he said. "The second wave is knocking at our doors. It is upto us to decide whether to allow it in our lives again. Wear a face mask, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing. I will observe for a week to 15 days to make a decision if it is the people who want a lockdown," he said. He asked the people to follow work from home practice and reschedule their work hours so that there is no crowding in public places. Thackeray praised state energy minister Nitin Raut for cancelling the wedding reception of his son in view of the surge in the cases. "This is called social responsibility. In the last few days, several of my colleagues have tested positive. I have given instructions that official meetings will now be conducted through video conferencing only," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Bengal FM: Amit Shah spreading misinformation on fund disbursement||Amit Mitra claimed that while centre collected Rs 5 lakh crore as direct and indirect taxes from state, it sent only Rs 1.13 lakh crore through central schemes West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra Union Home Minister Amit Shah of sharing misinformation about disbursement of funds by the Centre to the state during a political rally. He challenged him for a debate on Sunday. He said the state government had received Rs 1.13 lakh crore from the Centre in the last six years, which is “nothing more than one-third of what the Union minister claimed”. Shah, during his recent visit to poll-bound West Bengal, had reportedly said the Centre provided Rs 3.59 lakh crore to the state. “He has given wrong, misleading and politically-motivated information. The Centre, as a part of the federal structure, collects taxes from states and shares. We had received only Rs 1.13 lakh crore in the last 6 years (FY14 to FY20),” Mitra told reporters. Referring to his estimate, Mitra said the Centre might have collected around Rs 5 lakh crore in these years in the form of direct and indirect taxes from West Bengal and sent only Rs 1.13 lakh crore through central schemes. Mitra said the West Bengal government had spent Rs 3.1 lakh crore in these six years in different projects, which are fully sponsored by the state, apart from expenditures like salary, pension and other administrative expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||11 boys working as bonded labourers rescued from north Delhi||Eleven boys, including an eight-year-old, working as bonded labourers were rescued from several places in north Delhi’s Samaypur Badli area, a child rights body said on Sunday. Raids were conducted in seven places under the Samaypur Badli police station area on Friday following reports of children working as labourers in hazardous conditions, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said. Eleven children were rescued during the operation, it added. "These children were working in hazardous conditions as bonded labour in bakery units, kharat machine units and auto center units of Alipur area of North Delhi district. One child was rescued from a residential place where he was working as domestic help, the DCPCR said in a statement. The rescued children were exposed to all kinds of physical and mental trauma, especially in the times of a COVID pandemic," it added. The children were sent to child care institutions in the city and would be reunited with their families, the commission said. According to the child rights body, in another rescue operation conducted on January 28, 51 minors were rescued. Of these, 10 were boys and the rest 41 girls. The rescue mission was undertaken at sawmill, shoe and scrap units in the Nangloi area in West Delhi. “In both the rescue operations, the children were mostly found to be working for over 12 hours a day and were paid a bare minimum amount of Rs 100-150 per day. Furthermore, these children were found working in extremely unhygienic and unhealthy conditions with no face masks, posing a serious threat to their lives especially during these times of pandemic,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Mayawati asks Centre to find solution to reduce fuel prices||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday expressed concern over increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and urged the government to take cognisance of it and find a solution. In a Hindi tweet, Mayawati said, "The prices of essential items like petrol, diesel and cooking gas (LPG) are increasing in an uncontrolled manner after government control over the prices were removed. It has created problems everywhere, and the lives of the people are affected. The government should take cognizance of the seriousness of the situation and find a solution." "The increase in additional taxes, especially on petrol and diesel, by the Centre and states is resulting in sky-rocketing prices, and the burden is increasing almost everyday on crores of poor and unemployed people. Has the Constitution ensured such a welfare state principle," she said in another tweet. Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. This was the 12th straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Farmers announce series of events to further escalate protest||A series of events from February 23-27 has been announced by the protesting farmers on to further intensify their agitation against the three new agricultural laws. They accused the government of adopting “repressive” measures against them. They also said they will soon devise a strategy to keep the protest going for long. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the protests, told a press conference here that under their proposed escalation programme, February 23 will be observed as Pagadi Sambhal Diwas and February 24 as Daman Virodhi Diwas, essentially to underline that farmers must be respected and no “repressive measures” should be taken against them. The Morcha said February 26 will be observed as Yuva Kisan Diwas (youth farmers day) and February 27 as Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas (farmer-labourer unity day). “The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulations including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. The Singhu border has been fortified and appears to be an international border,” farmer leader Yogendra Yadav said. A long-term plan for movement will be discussed in view of the Parliament session from March 8, and the strategy will be shared in the next meeting of SKM, he said. Another Morcha leader, Darshan Pal, also alleged “repression” by the government. He said around 32 people have got bail out of 122 arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
21-02-2021||India||Farm laws are death warrant for farmers: Arvind Kejriwal||After meeting the farmer leaders on Sunday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, termed the three farm laws as a “death warrant” for farmers. The peasant leaders from Western Uttar Pradesh had been invited for lunch at the Delhi Assembly. “The three anti-farmer laws are death warrant to the farmers. If these laws are implemented then the agriculture of India will go into the hands of some industrialists and the farmers will be devastated,” said Kejriwal. He added that on the implementation of the three controversial laws would make Indian farmers labourers in their own land. He asked the central government to immediately withdraw all the three “black laws” and provide legal guarantee of MSP be granted to all the 23 crops following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The meeting was attended by over 40 farmer leaders. Talking to the media, farmer leader Rohit Jakhar of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh said that while the UP government cut electricity and water supply at the Ghazipur protest site, Kejriwal’s government supported farmers’ protest by providing them water and toilets. “Our support will go to those who will talk about our problems. The BJP government has hurt our self respect, we will give our reply through our votes,” Jakhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Government working on laws to control social media, says BJP leader||Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav said that social media has become so powerful that it can even topple governments, leading to anarchy and weakening democracy, and solutions to tackle this are needed to be found within the constitutional framework. Speaking at the launch of his new book 'Because India Comes First', Madhav said democracy is stressed and facing new challenges with the rise of "non-political" and "non-state" forces. "Social media is so powerful that it can even topple governments and regulating them is difficult as they are borderless. These forces can promote anarchy, which will weaken democracy but solutions should be within the constitutional framework," he said at the event hosted by the Prabha Khaitan Foundation on Saturday evening. The existing laws are not adequate for this, he said. "We require new rules and laws to tackle and manage. The government is already working in this direction," he added. Madhav's comments come amid a row between the government and Twitter over blocking of accounts with Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asking the micro-blogging site to follow the Indian law. Besides, the Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Centre and Twitter on a plea, seeking to regulate hate content and to make a law as per which action can be initiated against Twitter and their representatives in India for willfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalising them. Madhav said that in his new book he has penned his observations on several decisions of the Modi government. Answering a question on Gandhi, he said the RSS does not undermine any leader's contribution. Gandhi was a great leader and his mantra of Ahimsa has been adopted by many global leaders, he said. "There may be differences of opinion, which we even find between Nehru and Gandhi from the letters exchanged between them but that does not mean we disrespect a national leader. In the RSS morning prayer, we have Gandhi's name along with other leaders," Madhav said. On the Kashmir issue, he said that with the abrogation of Article 370, grassroot leaders are coming up against the hegemony of a few families. He also emphasised that it is the responsibility of the people of the country to make Kashmiris feel that they are part of the 1.3-billion-strong family. "Kashmiris are victims of propaganda for long. Things are changing but may take some time," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Follow ‘Raj Dharma’, reduce fuel prices: Sonia to PM||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a three-page letter has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concern over “spiraling” fuel price, on Sunday. In the letter she even accused the cente of “profiteering” off “people’s misery”. She urged him to follow ‘Raj Dharma’ and reduce the prices by partially rolling back excise duty. In the letter she said that the truth is that as GDP “nosedives”, the prices of gas, diesel and petrol continue to rise unchecked. She further wrote that the governments are elected to ease the burden of people and at the very least, not work directly contrary to their interests. “I write to you to convey every citizen’s anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel and gas prices. On one hand, India is witnessing systematic erosion of jobs, wages and household income. The middle class and those at the margins of our society are struggling. These challenges have been compounded by runaway inflation and an unprecedented rise in price of almost all household items and essential commodities,” she said. “Sadly, in these distressing times, the government has chosen to profiteer off people’s misery and suffering,” she added. Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. This was the 12th straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai. Stressing that fuel prices are at an “historic and unsustainable” high, Gandhi said petrol has breached the Rs 100 per litre mark in many parts of the country and the surging price of diesel has added to the escalating woes of millions of farmers. “What baffles most citizens, is that these prices have been increased despite moderate prices of international crude oil. To put it in context, the crude oil price is nearly half of what it was during the UPA government’s tenure. Therefore, your government’s act of raising prices (continuously for 12 days till February 20th) is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” she said. What is equally distressing is that despite being in power for almost seven years now, the government continues to blame previous regimes for its own economic mismanagement, she said in her letter to Modi. To set the record straight, domestic crude oil production had fallen to an 18-year low in 2020, Gandhi said. “I fail to understand how any government can justify such thoughtless and insensitive measures directly at the cost of our people. Your government has increased excise duty on diesel by 820 per cent and on petrol by 258 per cent over and collected upwards of Rs 21 lakh crore in the last six and a half years,” she said. Gandhi said it was cruel on the government’s part to refuse to reduce fuel prices even when global crude oil had crashed to USD 20 per barrel last year. “The fact that your government fails to do so implies a deliberate and conscious decision to deny the common man his legitimate due,” she said. Instead, ironically, the government has been “unreasonably overzealous” in levying excessive excise duty on petrol and diesel -- Rs 33 on every litre of petrol and Rs 32 on every litre of diesel, which is higher than the base price of these fuels, she said “This is nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement. As the principal party in opposition, I urge upon you to follow Raj Dharma' and reduce fuel prices by partially rolling back excise duty,” she said. Gandhi said the astronomical rise in domestic non-subsidised LPG gas cylinder to Rs 769 in Delhi (and over Rs 800 in many states like Uttar Pradesh) is even more cruel and has impacted every household. Can there be any justification for the government increasing the price of a cylinder by Rs 175 in two and a half months since December 2020, she asked. “I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit to our middle and salaried class, our farmers and poor and our fellow citizens. It is they who are battling an unprecedented economic slowdown, widespread unemployment, wage reductions and job losses, high prices and erosion of income,” she said. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday had said the Centre and state governments will together have to work out a mechanism to bring retail rates of petrol and diesel to reasonable levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Amravati district in Maharashtra to go under strict lockdown from Monday||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Maharashtra again, the Amravati district is set to be placed under a one-week lockdown from Monday evening, state cabinet minister Yashomati Thakur said on Sunday. Only essential services will be allowed to function during the strict lockdown period for seven days, the government said issuing guidelines. The notification of enforcing the lockdown came hours after Pune’s district administration decided to enforce certain curbs, including restriction on movement of people from 11 pm to 6 am for non-essential activities. Schools, colleges and private coaching classes will remain closed till February 28, while hotels and restaurants will have to shut their establishments by 11 pm every day, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told reporters. The decision to bring back some restrictions was taken in a meeting chaired by Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of Pune. The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in Maharashtra for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday, with 6281 new cases, the highest daily addition in 85 days, taking the state's caseload to 2093913. Maharashtra's death toll now stands at 51753, with the case fatality rate at 2.47 per cent, well above the national figure of 1.42 per cent. Earlier on Sunday, the Centre had advised Maharashtra and Kerala to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and regularly monitor mutant strains besides refocusing on strict surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts. "More than 74 per cent of the active cases of the country are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Of late it is seen that there has been a spike in the daily cases in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh also. Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir too are witnessing a surge in daily new cases," the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Puducherry: Two MLAs resign as government crisis deepens||Two more MLAs of the Congress- DMK alliance in Puducherry resigned on Sunday, delivering yet another jolt to Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, a day before he is scheduled to face a floor test in the assembly to prove his majority. The resignation by Congress MLA K Lakshminarayanan and DMK legislator Venkatesan further reduced the strength of the ruling alliance to 11, while the opposition has 14 MLAs in the 33-member assembly, which has seven vacancies. Lakshminarayanan and Venkatesan submitted their resignation letters separately to Assembly Speaker V P Sivakolundhu at his residence here, the both said. Speaking to reporters, Lakshminarayanan said, "This government led by Narayanasamy has lost its majority." He said he has also resigned from the party membership. Later, Venkatesan told the media that he had quit the post of MLA only and continued to be in the DMK. "... I was not able to meet the needs of the people in my constituency since there was no allocation of funds under the MLA Local Area Development fund," he said. Four Congress MLAs--including ex-ministers A Namassivayam (now in BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao had quit, while another party legislator was earlier disqualified. Narayanasamy's confidante A John Kumar had resigned this week. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, handed over additional charge of Puducherry, had on Thursday directed Narayanasamy to prove majority by ordering a floor test on February 22. The resignation of two MLAs' comes on a day when the ruling party members are slated to meet under the CM to discuss the future course of action, though similar discussions on February 18 yielded no results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||BJP not serious contender in Kerala, says Tharoor||With E Sreedharan throwing his hat in the political ring by deciding to join the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said the technocrat is likely to have a "minimal" impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls, and asserted that the BJP is not a serious contender except in a few seats in the state. Tharoor also said it will be very difficult for the BJP to improve upon its performance of winning one seat in the 2016 assembly polls and the high point of Sreedharan's impact on Kerala elections will turn out to be the announcement of joining the BJP itself. In an interview with PTI, Tharoor said he was surprised at the announcement that Sreedharan was going to enter the political fray and join the BJP. He said Sreedharan's entry came as a surprise to him because the technocrat had a long innings executing engineering projects, not making or implementing policies in a fractious democracy. "It's a very different world," he added. Asked what kind of impact Sreedharan could have on the Kerala Assembly polls, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said, "Since he has no political background or experience, I think his impact is likely to be minimal." "When I joined politics at 53, I thought I had left it too late to make the kind of impact I felt I was capable of. What can I say about someone who is 88?" Tharoor said. On whether Sreedharan's entry will make the Kerala polls a three-way contest and the BJP will emerge as a serious contender alongside the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF), he said the BJP is not a serious contender at all except in a handful of seats, and it will be very difficult for the party to improve upon the one seat it won last time. "The high point of the impact (of Sreedharan) will turn out to be this announcement itself," the 64-year-old former Union minister said. Sreedharan, who recently announced that he will enter the political fray by joining the BJP, had told PTI last week that he will contest the assembly elections if the BJP wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks. Known as the 'Metroman' and for completing big infrastructure projects, the 88-year-old technocrat has also said his main aim is to help the BJP come to power in Kerala. Sreedharan's entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being seen as a major boost for the party in election-bound Kerala. The state has been ruled by the LDF and the Congress-led UDF alternately for the past many years. Tharoor said the UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future of Kerala. "What I am working on is intended to be, above all, a 'people's manifesto' -- not just about what the Congress will do for the people of Kerala, but what the people of Kerala want and expect the Congress to do for them," said Tharoor, who has been entrusted by the Congress in bringing various pertinent issues into the UDF's election manifesto. "That is why it is so important to seek suggestions and inputs from the people, about what they judge to be lacking in their lives that a receptive and inclusive government would seek to provide," he said. The end product should reflect a vision for 21st century Kerala, and lay out some practical directions for the state to unleash its true potential and develop into a progressive and self-reliant place, offering abundant opportunities to its people, especially the youth, Tharoor said. "I see our 'Talk To Tharoor' campaign as an opportunity for the UDF to serve the people of Kerala through creative ideas, responsible governance and the courage and confidence to rise to the aspirations of our people," he said. It is sad but true that Keralites flourish everywhere in the world they go to, more easily than in Kerala, Tharoor argued. "We must remove the obstacles that prevent Keralites from thriving in Kerala. The UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future," he said. The polls for the 140-member Kerala Assembly are likely to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Govt urges states to speed up Covid vaccinations||The Union Health Ministry has written to all states and UTs highlighting the need to significantly enhance the pace of COVID-19 vaccinations, noting that a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered. In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the number of days of vaccination in a week should also be increased to a minimum of four days per week at the earliest to speed up the process of vaccination and gear up system to take up the vaccination of the 50+ population. While some states are carrying out vaccination twice a week some others are carrying out four or more than four times a week. Adequate provisions have been made in the Co-WIN software to support such expansion of services, he said. The letter dated February 19 stated a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered and the progress is variable across several states and UTs. "As highlighted during several review meetings that have been conducted with the states and UTs, the pace of vaccination drive and its coverage needs to be accelerated exponentially to cover all identified beneficiaries in a minimum possible time. "Further, the operational strategy for initiating the vaccination of next priority group of elderly population and persons with comorbidities to be taken up in March, 2021 is also being finalised," the letter said. "In view of the anticipated high number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated at a high speed in the forthcoming days", Bhushan advised states and UTs to ensure that all public health facilities from tertiary level medical colleges, hospitals and institutes to district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, community health centres, PHCs, health and wellness centres, health sub-centres etc. should be prepared for offering COVID-19 vaccination services on all designated vaccination days beginning March 1. "You are requested to kindly direct the concerned officials to immediately undertake measures for expansion of COVID-19 vaccination drive. Your continuous guidance to the state and UT teams has been instrumental in driving the ongoing vaccination process and the same is anticipated for upcoming phases as well. I look forward to your continued collaboration in this critical mission of national importance," the letter stated. Till February 21, a total of 1,10,85,173 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,30,888 sessions, as per the provisional report. These include 63,91,544 healthcare workers (1st dose), 9,60,642 healthcare workers (2nd dose) and 37,32,987 frontline workers (1st dose).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||India signs USD 50 million defence deal with Maldives||India on Sunday reiterated its commitment to the Maldives' security and signed a USD 50 million defence Line of Credit agreement with it to boost the maritime capabilities of the strategic island nation. The USD 50 million credit line agreement for defence projects was signed between the Finance Ministry of Maldives and the Export Import Bank of India. The signing of the agreement took place after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi, Minister of Finance Ibrahim Ameer, Minister of Economic Development Fayyaz Ismail and Minister of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure Mohamed Aslam. Jaishnakar, who is here on a two-day visit, held a "cordial meeting" with the Defence Minister. "Useful exchange on our defence cooperation. India will always be a reliable security partner for the Maldives," Jaishankar tweeted. "Glad to sign with Defence Minister @MariyaDidi the UTF Harbour Project agreement. Will strengthen Maldivian Coast Guard capability and facilitate regional HADR (Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief) efforts. Partners in development, partners in security," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Modi addresses BJP’s new national office-bearers ahead of polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the BJP's new set of national office-bearers at a meeting chaired by party chief J P Nadda. The meeting was inaugurated by Prime Minister Modi and started by paying tributes to those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus pandemic. A political resolution is also expected to be passed during the first physical meeting of the party's office-bearers in almost one year, sources said. Addressing a media briefing on the meeting, BJP general secretary Arun Singh said that during the course of the meet, discussions will be held on farm laws, Aatmanirbhar Bharat and upcoming state polls. The meeting, which is also being attended by BJP state unit presidents, assumes significance as it comes amid fierce protests by a section of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh against the three new farm laws. The farmer union leaders have been stepping up their attack on the Modi government over the issue. The BJP is also readying for the assembly polls in five states, including Bengal, which is being eyed by the saffron party as its next big prize in its bid to expand its footprint across the country. These national official-bearers were appointed last year after Nadda took over as party president, and no physical meeting could be held so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Amit Shah sings praises of new education policy||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages. In a message on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day, Shah said the mother tongue is a powerful medium of expression. "Our new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages," he tweeted in Hindi. The home minister said maximum efforts should be made for the use of mother tongue and foster the wisdom passed on by it to strengthen the foundation of the country's culture in children. "Greetings on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day. This day inspires us to stay connected with our cultural heritage," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
21-02-2021||India||Poonawalla urges other countries to be patient to acquire Covid vaccine||Adar Poonawalla, CEO of vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII), on Sunday urged other countries to be patient as they wait for the supplies of COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, as the company has been directed to prioritise the needs of India. Apart from making efforts to meet the requirements of India, the company is also trying its best to balance the needs of the rest of the world, he added. "Dear countries and governments, as you await #COVISHIELD supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, @SerumInstIndia has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best", Poonawalla said in a tweet. On February 15, the World Health Organisation (WHO) listed two versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use, giving the green light for these vaccines to be rolled out globally through COVAX. The vaccines are produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 90 casualties in a day||Daily Covid-19 cases in India registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day with the country recording 14,264 new cases, taking the total tally to 1,09,91,651, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,56,302 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country had registered 18,855 infections in a day on January 29. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,89,715 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.25 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent.The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,45,634 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,09,31,530 samples have been tested up to February 20 with 6,70,050 samples being tested on Saturday. The 90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 8 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,302 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,753 from Maharashtra followed by 12,457 from Tamil Nadu, 12,292 from Karnataka, 10,898 from Delhi, 10,246 from West Bengal, 8,714 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Two more bodies discovered, toll in Uttarakhand disaster rises to 67||Two more bodies were recovered from the flood ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site, taking the death toll in the calamity in Uttarakhand to 67 even as search operations continued there for the 15th day on Sunday. Three bodies had been recovered from the desilting tank near the Tapovan project barrage by Saturday evening while two more were extricated late at night, district administration officials said. Search operation at the project site has been underway on a war footing basis for a fortnight since it bore the brunt of an avalanche triggered by a glacier burst over Rishi Ganga in Chamoli district on February 7. The 13.2 mw Rishi Ganga hydel project was totally demolished in the avalanche while the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project suffered extensive damage. Recovery of five bodies on Saturday takes the toll in the tragedy to 67 while 137 are still missing. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria had asked the NTPC to press into service additional excavators and divert the course of Dhauli Ganga to the other side so that its water does not flow through the barrage into Tapovan tunnel hampering sludge clearing efforts. River water flowing into the tunnel from the barrage has been a major headache for rescuers at the tunnel making the muck clearing operations even more challenging, Bhadauria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers speak up against terrorist allegations ||Harinder Kaur Bindu, whose father Megh Raj Bhagtuana was killed by alleged Babbar Khalsa International militants in 1991, now leads protests against the new farm regime at Tikri as head of the women’s wing of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). The Jamhoori Kisan Sabha is one of the main groups at the Singhu protest. Its president Kulwant Singh Sandhu, who was part of the failed talks with the Centre, was shot in the leg and back in an ambush by suspected Khalistan Commando Force members in 1988. Sonia Mann, a film star in south India and Punjab, has been a regular visitor to the protests and to Tihar jail where several peasants have been imprisoned following the violence during the farmers’ January 26 march in Delhi. Mann’s father Baldev Singh Mann was assassinated by suspected separatists in 1990 while he was travelling to see her for the first time, just 15 days after her birth. At a Supreme Court hearing on the farmers’ movement last month, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had alleged a “Khalistani infiltration” into the agitation. The charge has grown louder since the Republic Day violence, during which the Sikh flag Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort — an act the protesters have condemned and blamed on Deep Sidhu, a former BJP campaigner who was seen among the group that had stormed the fort. “We are Sikh, not Khalistani. None of our farmers are Maoists or Khalistanis. We are people involved in mass movements who believe in peaceful struggle,” Kulwant Sandhu, the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president, told The Telegraph. “For nine months we have protested these laws without attacking anyone. We are people who organise langars and believe in the unity of India.” Sandhu is an accused in at least one of the FIRs on the January 26 violence. His car had come under fire on April 19, 1988, from suspected Khalistani militants. One person was killed while Sandhu and another were injured. A former sarpanch from the CPM in Jalandhar district, Sandhu was part of the faction that split from the party in 2001 and later formed the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI). Sandhu is one among scores of peasant leaders whom Khalistani separatists had targeted in the 1980s and 1990s. One of them was his fellow RMPI member Balwinder Singh Sandhu, killed in Tarn Taran by Khalistani insurgents as late as October last year. Balwinder Sandhu had been awarded the Shaurya Chakra with his family for successfully resisting armed attacks by separatists in 1993. Bhagtuana — father of Tikri women’s leader Bindu --- was a member of the Front Against Communalism and State Repression, a far Left group that campaigned through street theatre against Sikh extremism as well as police atrocities and ensured that Hindus were not compelled to flee their homes for fear of insurgents. When Bindu was 14, Bhagtuana was killed in an attack on a street theatre show in Faridkot district in which about 20 others, mostly Dalit peasants, also died. Bhagtuana is said to have chased the Kalashnikov-toting gunmen with his 0.12-bore single shooter until he was killed. “We are farmers. We feel hurt when we are called Khalistani. I have lost other family members too to terrorists. We are all here (in Delhi) to save our farms. Some may harbour pro-Khalistan sentiments but they are a minority,” Bindu told this newspaper. “This government gives every movement some name or the other. Some are called ‘urban Naxals’. BJP people called Muslims the ‘tukde tukde gang’ after they protested against the NRC and the CAA.” Mann’s father — a playwright and publisher of the Hirawal Dasta, a magazine that backed the political line of the CPIML New Democracy — was gunned down on the night of September 25, 1990, near Amritsar. During the 1975-77 Emergency, his scathing plays had landed him in detention. Sonia Mann said in a recent video documentary by The Caravan magazine that she had been inspired to join the farmers’ agitation by a letter her father had left for her before he was killed. It says: “The struggle is on for the emancipation of starving children, of women who are forced to sell their bodies in order to feed their bellies, of workers who trade their blood for bread, of peasants groaning under the crushing burden of debts. And in this battle for a new world, your father, too, is playing his humble role. “In the times in which you have been born, Punjab stands divided along communal lines. In some places people are being killed because they do not grow their hair long enough, while in others people are being burnt alive for precisely the opposite reason. “Humanity is being butchered in the name of religion. Having created divisions among people, having initiated a Holi that’s being played with blood, the Devil is having a good laugh from a distance. “My baby, in the moment of your birth your father is engaged in a battle against the forces of darkness. Such forces are conniving to banish every sun that could bring light into this world.” In the documentary, titled Revolution in their Blood, Sonia Mann says: “We feed even the policemen deployed against us. Is this the work of terrorists? Terrorism is what they do — using water cannons and tear gas on our elders and hurting them…. “They think only their ideology is correct and others are wrong, because corporate (groups) back them. They want to make money. They are business-minded people. Their governments are made with this money.” A debt-ridden farmer and his son allegedly died by suicide in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur village, saying in a note that they were upset over the Centre's new farm laws and the state government's failure to waive their loans. The farmer, Jagtar Singh, 70, and his son Kirpal Singh, 42, were found dead at their residence in Muhadipur village on Saturday morning, DSP Munish Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Court poses tough questions on Disha Ravi to cops||If highlighting the farmers’ protest globally is sedition, then “I am better (off) in jail”, climate activist Disha Ravi told a Delhi court which on Saturday reserved its decision on her bail plea till February 23. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana directed a few scathing questions at Delhi police at the hearing, asking if they were acting solely on “surmises, inferences, and conjectures”. He asked how the social media toolkit in connection with which the 22-year-old Bangalorean has been arrested was connected to the violence witnessed during the farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. “Is there any evidence or we are only acting on surmises, inferences, and conjectures.... How is the toolkit connected to the violence? What is the evidence?” the judge asked. He added: “Unless I satisfy my conscience, I don’t move ahead.” Disha, taken into custody on February 13, faces sedition and other charges for allegedly editing and sharing the toolkit, which advised people on the various ways of supporting the farmers’ protest. A trial court had on February 19 sent her to judicial custody for three days after the expiry of her five-day police remand. Additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju, appearing for the police who opposed her bail plea, said the hyperlinks in the toolkit connected people to Khalistani websites that propagate hatred towards India. “This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here,” he told the judge on Saturday. Disha’s counsel Sidharth Agarwal claimed there was no evidence linking the toolkit to the January 26 violence and questioned the contents of the FIR. “We all have different opinions. You may have a problem with the farmers’ protest, I may not. If highlighting a protest globally is sedition, I (Disha) am better (off) in jail,” Agarwal said. “I (Agarwal) also support farmers. But if that’s an offence, let’s all go to jail.” He went on: “There is an allegation in the FIR that yoga and chai are being targeted (by the farmers’ supporters as symbols of India). Is it an offence? We are now reducing the bar (so) that somebody can’t have a point of view different (from the government’s).” ‘Fears came true’ The police alleged that Disha had deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other alleged evidence, claiming this reflected a guilty mind and “a sinister design”. Agarwal said Disha had deleted the messages from fear of being wrongly prosecuted. “A person may run for two reasons — either he is guilty or to save himself from wrong prosecution. A person may have fears of wrong prosecution. Unfortunately, for this girl, her fears have come true,” he said. When the judge asked how the toolkit was linked to the violence, ASG Raju said posting certain matters on social media and disseminating the toolkit with an intention to instigate was sufficient. “But yes, no physical presence was there,” he acknowledged. He said the first evidence was the hyperlinks in the toolkit connecting people to Khalistani websites. Agarwal said the government had the power to block these websites but had not. On the point of conspiracy, the judge said: “If I approach a dacoit for temple donation, how do you say that I’m privy to dacoity? What is the material against her? What is the link? Unless I satisfy my conscience, I don’t move ahead.” Raju replied: “The court must look at the conduct. She is constantly in touch.... On plain look, it seems normal. But if you click on the hyperlink given on the cheat sheet, it takes you to another website that defames the Indian army, how the Indian army committed genocide in Kashmir. “Those articles make an impact on the mind of the reader. This is the purpose, which is why (the pro-Khalistan) Poetic Justice Foundation is brought. “It’s not just where a plan was made but also it was followed by violence. You asked the people to come to Delhi, you asked people to protest, you showed the people that India is a bad country that kills Muslims. (Co-accused) Shantanu (Muluk) was sent to Delhi to ensure the plan in the toolkit is carried out. “In a simple toolkit, you don’t prepare what’s to be in future as they’ve written which has to be circulated as soon as any violence took place.... There was an effort so that violence takes place.” Raju alleged the involvement of Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation that had announced $250,000 for anyone holding up the Khalistani flag at India Gate on Republic Day. Agarwal said: “There is no evidence to link me (Disha) with Sikhs For Justice. And even if I (Disha) meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist.” He added: “The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers’ march, which they’re claiming that I (Disha) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious?” The lawyer said that none among those arrested over the storming of the Red Fort on January 26 had claimed to have been inspired by the toolkit. “The talk about alleged genocide in Kashmir has been going on for years; how (does) suddenly talking about it become sedition? If this is sedition, we should shut down the Internet, go back to the era when there was only one Doordarshan TV,” he said. He added: “My part is that I sought support from (teenaged Swedish climate activist and global celebrity) Greta Thunberg, that too for the farmers’ protest and not for Khalistan.” Thunberg had tweeted the toolkit on February 3, drawing attention to it. Agarwal argued that people (co-accused) who had to be confronted with Disha had already been granted protection, and she too could join the probe “post-bail”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Congress cry against fuel price hike||The Congress on Saturday hit the streets across the country in protest against the savage increase in prices of petroleum products and the new farm laws and threatened to organise bigger protests if the Narendra Modi government didn’t stop profiteering on people’s miseries. While the Youth Congress held a demonstration in Delhi, many state units organised protests in a large number of cities amidst reports of disquiet among the people over the absence of an effective Opposition which allowed the Modi government to run amok. The price of petrol crossed Rs 100 per litre for the first time in some cities while it sold above Rs 90 almost everywhere. Diesel which used to be cheap, available at Rs 40-50 per litre till a few years ago, has now touched Rs 80. A cooking gas cylinder also costs around Rs 770. Youth Congress members cooked using traditional chulha (clay stove) on the road outside Shastri Bhawan which houses the ministry of petroleum and natural gas to stress the point that an LPG cylinder has become unaffordable. They also marched putting a scooter and motorcycle on rickshaws while shouting slogans against the government. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas who led the demonstrations threatened to stop the movement of ministers if the prices were not rolled back. While demonstrations were organised in Maharashtra, Jharkhand and other states, Madhya Pradesh Congress called for a half-day bandh and achieved considerable success as markets remained closed in most cities. Senior leaders themselves took part in demonstrations in many cities including Bhopal, where hundreds of party workers were arrested for forcibly shutting down markets. In Rajasthan also, a big protest march was organised in Jaipur where some leaders rode camels to make their point. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who addressed a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday, tweeted: “The Modi government should declare those days in a week achhe din (good days) when petrol-diesel prices are not raised. Other days are anyway proving very costly for the people.” Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “Mehngai ka vikas (Development of price rise).” Asked about the Opposition’s inability to corner the government, Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Jha said, “Forget the Opposition. People are saying. You talk of making people atmanirbhar (self-reliant) and you are forcing the people to do atmasamarpan (surrender) before petrol-diesel prices. I suggest Prime Minister Modi to take a day off and watch his old videos for 24 hours to know what he used to say about these issues. He should recall those lofty slogans like ‘bohut hui mehngai ki maar abki baar Modi sarkar (Enough of price rise, next time Modi government)’. Were those slogans meant only to grab power?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Covid-19: 35% health staff miss first vaccine deadline ||About 35 per cent of healthcare workers across India have either declined, failed to turn up or not received Covid-19 vaccines although the Union health ministry had set Saturday as a target for their first jabs. The nationwide vaccination campaign had until 6pm Saturday inoculated 6.35 million (66 per cent) of more than 9.6 million eligible healthcare workers with their first doses of Covid-19 vaccines, according to health ministry figures. Twelve states, including Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, have provided the first doses to more than 75 per cent of their healthcare workers. But seven states — Delhi, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab, among them — have inoculated less than half of their healthcare workers. The health ministry had earlier this month asked states to speed up the campaign and provide the first doses to all healthcare workers by February 20 and conduct “mop-up” rounds to complete those left out by February 24. Health officials have said healthcare workers who haven’t received the first dose by February 24 would become eligible to receive the vaccines under the government’s campaign under the age-appropriate category. The campaign earlier this month began vaccinating frontline workers — such as police personnel and municipal staff — and more than 3.6 million of an estimated 27 million frontline workers across the country have already received vaccines. The health ministry has indicated the campaign will start vaccinating all people aged above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders sometime in March but has not specified a date yet. The nationwide vaccination campaign, which began on January 16, has since its early days encountered hesitancy with sections of doctors expressing concern that both vaccines were approved on the basis of limited clinical trials. Some medical experts believe the health ministry itself has likely contributed to the vaccine hesitancy through opaque decisions and poor communication about the logic and necessity of the vaccination campaign. “The intentions may be good, but intentions must also be seen to be good — this is critical in public health,” said Thekekkara Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College in Vellore. “But we’ve seen a style of administration bound to vitiate good intentions,” he said. John and others say patchy information and poor defence of the decisions taken on the vaccines had mired the vaccine rollout in an avoidable muddle, causing many doctors to question elements of the campaign and decline the jabs. But other experts believe some level of hesitancy is unavoidable. “These are personal decisions taken by individuals — the vaccination process is voluntary. People need to realise on their own the need for the vaccines,” a senior health research official said. During the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009, India had imported 1.5 million vaccine doses and distributed it to various states. But the acceptance and utilisation of those vaccines were “disappointing”, two medical experts pointed out in a 2018 commentary in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
21-02-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple cash heat on BJP ||Congress leader P.C. Siddaramiah on Saturday slammed the BJP for leveraging the Ram temple in Ayodhya as a political tool and declared he would build a temple in his town but keep his faith as a personal matter. “We are also building a Ram Mandir in our village. Even we have faith in God. Our beliefs are our personal issues and should not be used as a political tool. It is unfortunate that @BJP4India leaders are using the Ram Mandir construction for their political benefits,” the former chief minister tweeted, apparently in response to the raging controversy after refusing to donate for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. He iterated his demand that the temple trust must disclose details of the funds collected for the construction by adding that the BJP “is playing with the emotions of people in the name of God. It is the duty of the trust to give accounts of the donations collected to construct Ram Mandir. What is wrong in asking the audit & accounts?” The Karnataka BJP, in its response, tweeted: “Ram temple is being built in Ayodhya as per the court order. It is not a political party that is constructing the Ram temple. It is a trust that is constructing the temple. Only those like you are taking political advantage, not others.” Siddaramiah recently refused to make any donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya due to the controversial nature of the structure coming up at the place where Babri Masjid stood. “I will not give any money for that Ram temple, but will donate if they build it in some other place,” he had told reporters angering BJP leaders. When reminded about the Supreme Court judgment that paved the way for the temple he had said: “Whether it is settled by the Supreme Court or not, there are controversies around it.” In keeping with his word that he supported all other temples and to silence critics from the BJP who often called him an atheist, Siddaramiah on Friday inaugurated the Sri Beeralingeshwara Temple in KR Nagar near here. He even tweeted pictures of the inauguration, presumably to prove his point. Former chief minister and leader of Janata Dal Secular, H.D. Kumaraswamy, had also spoken out against the BJP and the RSS forcibly collecting money for the temple in Ayodhya. Kumaraswamy had on Wednesday alleged the RSS was marking houses of people who refused to donate money for the temple and likened it to what Nazis did to identify Jews in Germany. He even urged the state government to act against such tactics. While he was not against donating money for the temple, Kumaraswamy wanted to know if those going door-to-door to collect funds for the temple had any authorisation to do so. He too had alleged that no accounts were provided for the funds collected for the Ram temple in 1990 before the Babri Masjid was brought down by Sangh parivar kar sevaks. Panchayat raj minister K.S. Eshwarappa slammed Siddaramiah and Kumaraswamy by saying they had no right to seek accounts of the funds collected. “Those who give even Rs 10 have every right to ask for accounts. But these people do not have any such right,” he told reporters in Raichur on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
