22-02-2021||India||Centre should take initiative, restart dialogue process and accept farmers’ demands: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the Centre should take initiative and restart the dialogue with farmers protesting against the farm laws to find a solution to the issue. The government has held 11 rounds of negotiation with protesting unions and these have remained inconclusive with regard to rollback of the laws. "The government should find a solution to this soon. The government should take the initiative and restart the process of dialogue and accept the demands of the farmers," Hooda told reporters here. Farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders since November 28 last year demanding rollback of the laws. The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. Meanwhile, Hooda was asked to comment on the Enforcement Directorate filing a charge sheet against him and some others, including four retired IAS officers, in a money-laundering case linked to alleged irregularities in the allocation of over a dozen industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore in the Panchkula area in 2013. When asked to comment on allegations that the plots were allocated to his "acquaintances", Hooda said he had earlier also stated that "all this is politically motivated". "I have full faith in the judiciary, everything will be crystal clear," he added. Lashing out at the BJP-JJP government, Hooda claimed that the dispensation gave preference to the youth of other states in the Sub Divisional Officers' recruitment in the electricity department. "On one hand, the government claims that it will give 75 per cent reservation to Haryana residents in private jobs as well, but the government is employing a vast majority of people from other states in other recruitments, instead of local youth. "In the SDO recruitment, the government has given preference to the youth of other states, bypassing the youth of Haryana. A total of the 99 people have been selected for 90 general category posts, including nine on the waiting list. But out of these 99, only 22 are from Haryana," Hooda claimed. He alleged that the policies of the state government have led to job losses. "The government is cancelling recruitments one after the other on various grounds. First the recruitment of Village Secretary, then PGT Sanskrit teacher and now TGT English has also been cancelled. Educated youths are suffering due to the irregularities of the government," he said. The leader of opposition also raised questions on the new sports policy of the government and said the coalition government has completely destroyed the "Padak Lao, Pad Pao (win medals, get posts)" policy of the previous Congress government, which was appreciated by all. "...The new policy discriminates against paralympic medal winners. The appointment of para-olympians has been restricted to Group-B posts," he said. He also lashed out at the coalition government in the state while alleging that unemployment was increasing and corruption was rampant in various spheres. He also said the state government was continuously increasing VAT rate on petrol-diesel to raise additional revenue and reminded that during Congress' tenure, diesel was the cheapest in Haryana as the VAT rate on it was just 9.2 percent. "Now, the VAT rate is almost double," he said. Referring to the Special Investigation Team constituted by the Haryana government to probe deaths due to spurious liquor, Hooda said the SIT had submitted its report, but it was not being made public. "More than 40 people died after drinking spurious liquor in November last year and a big liquor scam were exposed in the state. "The SIT has submitted its investigation report to the government, but the government is not ready to make it public as many big names will be exposed," he added. Replying to a question, Hooda reiterated that the Congress will bring a no confidence motion against this government in the forthcoming session of the state assembly. He claimed that voices of dissent are being heard among the MLAs supporting the government. "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||Varavara Rao’s bail conditions difficult to be met: family||Family of ailing poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, welcomed the Bombay High Court granting interim bail to him on Monday. However, they maintained that the conditions put forth by the court were difficult to be met. “We welcome this order. But it is only a small relief. The conditions put by the court are difficult to be met. In the light of revelation on the evidence, the case itself should be quashed,” Varavara Rao’s nephew N Venu Gopal told PTI. Venugopal said their lawyers are on the job of getting necessary documentation for Rao’s release on bail. The bench granted interim bail to Rao for six months on medical grounds, while directing him to stay within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city during this period. The court imposed a host of stringent conditions on his bail, including prohibiting him from establishing contact with co-accused in the case. It directed Rao to stay in Mumbai while on bail, make fortnightly WhatsApp video calls to the nearest Mumbai police station, and prohibited large gatherings or large group of visitors from meeting him while he is out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||IIT-Kharagpur researchers turn Odisha steel plant dumpsites into greenbelt||Using traditional Indian organic components and Japanese afforestation techniques researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur have transformed Odisha’s steel plants’ dumpsites into greenbelts. A drive through the Dhenkanal region of Odisha will give one the chance to witness the vast stretches of the green canopy and vegetation developed by research team, on the industrial dumpsites. The transformation to a greenbelt is not a natural reclamation but the “Midas touch” of the Post Mining Mine Site Restoration group of the Department of Mining Engineering of IIT Kharagpur through a project supported by Tata Steel BSL, according to the team that worked on the project. The researchers afforested over 32,000 square feet in the region following a rapid forest regeneration technique by using a unique mix of the traditional resource of Panchagavya with the Miyawaki plantation technique of ecologist Akira Miyawaki from Japan. “Dumping of blast furnace slag by steel plants has been a perennial challenge in India and even in some of the developed countries across the world,” said IIT Kharagpur professor Khanindra Pathak. “These steel slag dumps contribute to the generation of airborne particles causing air pollution and also contaminate groundwater and surface-water. The slag-covered land is unsuitable for vegetation and also causes health hazards to both humans and animals,” he said. “Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have devised a bioremediation method to reduce the concentration of the polluting slag to an innocuous state. They have made this slag suitable for plant growth by mixing it with topsoil, cow dung and other organic enhancers. Plants were carefully chosen for the Miyawaki technique and 22 native species were grown on the mix with a 30-cm layer of topsoil over it after administering them with Panchagavya," he added. According to the team, periodic administration of Panchagavya checked the problem of nutrient scarcity while mulching helped retention of water and nutrients. “In a span of one year, we witnessed the growth of a self-sustaining mini-forest, dominated by plants belonging to the Fabaceae and Sesbania grandiflora family. The plants with long root systems could utilize the steel slag with their roots penetrating up to a depth of 2 m from the ground surface, thus reducing its effect on groundwater contamination and surface runoff of water in the monsoons,” said Pathak. The process turned an unsupportive steel slag dump to a self-sustaining primary succession over it. “Vetiver grass was used as a boundary for the plantation to check migration of nutrients. This grass, if grown over the slopes of the slag dumps, will further check the fugitive emissions and thereby reducing air pollution and erosion of slag onto adjacent habitations,” he added. Pathak said that the process can be replicated for municipality waste dumps as well. “Development of a vetiver grass field could be beneficial for urban wastewater management as well as municipality solid waste dump sites. We had also demonstrated hydroponic vetiver for the containment of oil in refinery wastewater through an IIT Kharagpur and IOCL collaborative project at the Bongaigaon refinery,” the professor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||India's active Covid tally witnesses sharpest spike since November 2020||According to data released on Monday morning, the active coronavirus cases in India increased by 4,421 in 24 hours, a spike of three per cent, to go back over the 1.5 lakh mark for the first time in 17 days and register the steepest overall increase since end-November, reports NDTV. This is the fifth consecutive day in which active cases have increased; 13,506 new cases have been added in this period. As per the NDTV report, the three per cent increase in active cases is also double that recorded this time last week - 1.5 per cent - and a massive 2.9 per cent bigger than two weeks ago, when active cases decreased by 157. The total number of new cases reported per day has also increased - from a low of 9,121 on February 16 to 14,199 today, with the seven-day moving average increasing by 13.8 per cent. The spike in national numbers comes as five states report increased daily numbers. The five states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. The centre has warned all five states that continued "adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour" is critical to break the chain of transmission and contain the novel coronavirus. "Over 74 per cent of active cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra... there has also been a spike in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh... Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir are also witnessing a surge in daily new cases," the Health Ministry said on Sunday. In Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, the seven-day moving average of new cases was 5,230 this morning - the highest since 5,576 on December 2. This morning 6,971 new cases were reported in 24 hours - the most since October 24, when 7,347 were detected. In Kerala, the second worst-affected state, the seven-day moving average of new cases was 4,361 this morning and 4,070 new cases were reported in 24 hours. Delhi records 128 fresh cases of COVID-19; one fatality takes the death toll to 10,901, according to the data by health bulletin. Public buses and metro trains in the national capital will run at their current limited capacities for at least two more weeks with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority deciding to maintain the status quo on the number of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||Modi slams Mamata over 'cut money', accuses CM of insulting Bengali pride||Launching a frontal attack on the Mamata Banerjee government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleged on Monday it has perpetuated "syndicate raj" in all spheres of life in Bengal where no work gets done without common people having to pay "cut money". He accused the TMC government of pursuing "appeasement politics" to protect its vote bank while neglecting its cultural heritage and icons. "The state government's cut money culture has vitiated the atmosphere to such an extent that you cannot even take a house on rent without paying it....you cannot rent a house without the syndicate's permission," he said. He attacked the Banerjee government for not allowing central schemes like the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat, depriving farmers and the poor of its benefits. "I have been told the house where Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay conceived and wrote 'Vande Mataram' is in an abysmal condition. The man who injected new life into the freedom struggle amid pervasive gloom of slavery...his house is a victim of neglect. It's an insult to Bengali pride," Modi said addressing a public rally here in Hooghly district. He also accused the TMC government of neglecting industrial development, including the state's once thriving jute industry. "The people of West Bengal have made up their mind to usher in 'asol poribartan' (real change). The BJP will give Bengal a government that will ensure development of all but appeasement of none," he asserted. Repeatedly attacking the state government, Modi said, "Development of Bengal is not possible as long as cut money culture, tolabaji persists. "Development of Bengal is not possible as long as the state administration patronises goondas, development of Bengal is not possible as long as the rule of law is not established." Modi said once the BJP forms its government in Bengal, people will be able to preserve and protect their culture and nobody will be able to scare or suppress them. He said there was no dearth of potential investors but the threat of the syndicate and cut money dissuaded them from investing in the state.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the extension of Calcutta Metro Railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, revered for the over 160-year-old temple of Goddess Kali. He virtually flagged off the inaugural train from Noapara to Dakshineswar in the 4.1-km stretch of the north- south corridor of the metro railway from here. Modi also dedicated to the nation the third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram, doubling of Azimganj to Khagraghat Road section, fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara, and the third line between Rasulpur and Magra. He said the new lines will reduce congestion and ensure better connectivity. The prime minister added that the metro railway extension will ensure easier and faster connectivity between the city's Kalighat Temple and the Dakshineswar Kali Temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi sent to one day police custody in Toolkit case||The Delhi Police was on Monday granted a day's custody of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi by a court in the toolkit case after it said that she has to be confronted with the two other suspects -- Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk -- who were questioned by the cyber cell here.

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma sent Ravi for custodial interrogation even as a sessions court is likely to give its order on Tuesday on Ravi's bail plea.

Ravi, who was produced before the court on expiry of her three-day judicial remand, through her lawyer opposed the plea of the investigators, saying those she had to be confronted with are on bail, but the prosecution said that Jacob and Muluk can be arrested if needed.

Police sought five days of custodial interrogation contending that during her interrogation, Ravi shifted the entire blame on Jacob and Muluk who cannot be arrested because they are currently on transit bail".

They need to be confronted with Ravi. Nikita was served with a notice to join the probe but she did not join the interrogation.

It is a case which has transnational ramifications, with the involvement of those who have expressed their disaffection for this country, the prosecution told the court.

The probe agency said that they may arrest Jacob and Muluk as well in the future if there is a requirement.

There was the involvement of all three accused. We have to confront all three. We only have seven days more to seek custodial interrogation, the prosecution told the court referring to the provisions of the law in the FIR that mandate custodial interrogation only up to 15 days post-arrest.

Lawyer Nikita Jacob and Muluk, an engineer, were on Monday questioned at the Delhi Police's Cyber cell office in Dwarka, a senior police officer said.

The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation that was shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi on February 13 while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by the Bombay High Court.

Police had alleged that the toolkit was part of a global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in India in the garb of the farmers' protest against the agri laws.

Both Jacob and Muluk were served notice to join the probe, the officer said.

Police were, however, tight-lipped on other queries related to questioning, including the duration.

The Delhi High Court had on Friday directed the police not to leak any probe details and asked media houses not to broadcast any such material, following a plea by Ravi.

Ravi's counsel on Monday opposed the police plea for remand, saying why did the police wait till February 22 to call the other two suspects, when Ravi had been arrested on February 13.

The counsel also said that she can be confronted with the two even in judicial custody.

What was I (Ravi) doing for the last five days in custody? They did not take me to my hometown for the probe. They have a valid requirement to confront, but that may be met while I am in judicial custody. Two accused are already on bail, the lawyer said.

The defence counsel also informed the court that a sessions court, a superior court than that of a magistrate's, has reserved its order on Ravi's bail plea for Tuesday.

I have moved a bail application, an order on which is reserved for tomorrow. Right now seeking police custody means overreaching the sessions court, which has reserved order on bail, the defence said.

The public prosecutor opposed the submission, saying, It's wrong to say we are trying to influence sessions court. This is strange to say that just because the sessions court has reserved an order, this court should not hear the remand plea.

We have our right to seek (police custody), they have their right," the lawyer said.

We are not saying Disha was not a part of Zoom meeting, we are probing if she was. We did not seek police custody after five days because we did not need it then. We are seeking now because there is a requirement, police said.

The police further questioned as to why the accused is treating police custody as punishment and that it was just for the purpose of investigation,

The defence, however, said that even law disfavours police custody.

Regarding summoning the co-accused late, police said, We had sent the summons to Jacob on February 12, but she did not join and evaded.

On Friday, Ravi was sent to three days' judicial custody after police had said her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being.

The agency had said that it would seek her further interrogation once Jacob and Muluk join the interrogation on February 22.

The Delhi High Court, in its Friday order, had asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press.

Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha MP Mohan Delkar found dead in Mumbai hotel||Mohan Delkar, seven-term Lok Sabha member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a Mumbai hotel on Monday, police said. The body of Delkar (58), Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory, was found at the sea-facing hotel in south Mumbai's Marine Drive area, a police official said. The official said a suicide note in Gujarati was also found along with the body. The cause of death will be known after autopsy, he added. An accidental death report is being registered based on preliminary information, the official said. Delkar was in May 2019 elected to the 17th Lok Sabha, his seventh term in the House. He was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs of the Lower House. Delkar is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. An advocate for tribal rights, Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. He was first elected to the 9th Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli constituency in 1989 as a Congress nominee. He won six consecutive elections from the constituency during 1989-2009, failing to retain the seat in the Lok Sabha elections in 2009 and 2014. However, he successfully contested the 17th Lok Sabha as an Independent candidate. Delkar won the 1989, 1991 and 1996 elections as a Congress candidate and the 1998 election as a BJP candidate. He rejoined the Congress and unsuccessfully contested in 2009 and 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
22-02-2021||India||Modi opens coffers for poll-bound Assam||Opening the coffers of his government for election-bound Assam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday slammed the successive Congress dispensations that ruled the country since Independence gor the "neglect" of the state and the northeast for decades. On his third visit to Assam in a month, Modi, who dedicated to the nation three major projects in the petroleum sector worth over Rs 3,222 crore, enumerated steps taken by the state government led by Sarbananda Sonowal and the centre over the past few years for its balanced growth. He also inaugurated Dhemaji Engineering College and laid the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College with initial project cost of Rs 45 crore and Rs 55 crore respectively in this town on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra. He had unleashed a major development offensive in the run up to the state polls on February 7 when he laid the foundation of and dedicated to the nation infrastructure projects involving Rs 9,310 crore. Again, on February 18, he had gifted a bouquet of development projects worth about Rs 10,000 crore to the state. "Those who ruled for decades since Independence believed Dispur was too distant from Delhi. 'Dilli ab door nahi aapke darwaaze par hai' (Delhi is not far now, it stands at your doorstep," he told a massive gathering. The previous governments adopted "step-motherly" approach to the north bank region and neglected connectivity, health, education and industry, he alleged. "I had come earlier to Gogamuk in the state's north bank and said that Assam and the northeast will become the new growth engine of the country and now we see this belief bear fruit," he said. The prime minister said due to sustained efforts by the Assam government more than 20 engineering colleges have been set up. Referring to the new National Education Policy (NEP), he said its emphasis on teaching in local languages will help children from even poor families become doctors and engineers. Modi said hardly 40 per cent families in Assam had cooking gas connections till 2014 despite the state being rich in oil and natural gas and refineries. Almost entire population of the state has now been covered under the Ujjwala Yojana and one crore women have benefited, he said. "The gas pipelines, optical fibre networks and piped water supply initiatives are not mere iron pipes and fibre. These are the new fate lines of India," he asserted. He said improvement in energy and infrastructure development will make life easier for the people of Assam and the northeast and create fresh job opportunities for youth. Oil storage capacity has been strengthened for the purpose of refining and meeting emergency situations, he said. "Assam is known the world over for its tea, tourism, handloom and handicraft. The growth of these sectors will generate more employment and strengthen the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission," he said. Reaching out to tea garden workers, a solid support base of the BJP, Modi said improving their living condition was a priority of both the state and the central governments. "With the blessings of the Brahmaputra, the land in this region is fertile. We are working for improving farm income, providing agriculturists better seeds, soil health cards and introducing pension schemes," he said. Farm laws have been amended to ensure their produce reaches international markets, the prime minister said. He said his government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for strengthening the fisheries sector and Assam will hugely benefit from it. Modi said he will visit Assam and other poll bound states as many times as possible before elections are announced, likely in first weeek of March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Contempt plea against Kunal Kamra to be taken up after 4 weeks by SC||The Supreme Court on Monday adjourned for four weeks the hearing on the plea seeking contempt against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra over his alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy deferred the matter after an adjournment was sought by some petitioners who wanted time to file rejoinder to the reply filed by Kamra. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. Kamra in his reply had defended the alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary, saying India would be reduced to a "country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs" if powerful people and institutions show inability to "tolerate rebuke or criticism". The comedian, facing contempt proceedings, also said that there was a growing culture of intolerance where taking offence is seen as a fundamental right and has been elevated to the status of a "much loved national indoor sport". On December 18 last year, the top court issued show-cause notice to Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court and exempted him from personal appearances. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. The petitioners have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 last year when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||FIR lodged against eight Twitter handles for spreading fake news on Unnao case||An FIR has been lodged against eight Twitter handles for allegedly propagating fake news in connection with the death of two girls here last week, police said on Monday. The Twitter handles include news portal 'Mojo Story', led by senior journalist Barkha Dutt who termed the FIR a case of brazen "harassment and bullying". The case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station area in Unnao on Sunday against seven more Twitter accounts: Janjagran Live, Aazad Samaj Party spokesperson Suraj Kumar Boudh, Nilim Dutta, Vijay Ambedkar, Abhay Kumar Azad, Rahul Diwakar, Nawab Satpal Tanwar. The FIR has been lodged for propagating "fake and misleading news" regarding the incident, Assistant Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Pandey said on Monday. Reacting to the FIR, Dutt said, "We've followed journalistic principles by reporting all sides of an evolving story. To use IPC sections that are punishable with prison is pure intimidation. I am very ready to fight it and face it in court." The 'Mojo Story' editor alleged that the Unnao Police had refused to even give a copy of the FIR without which one cannot appeal for judicial intervention. "Brazen Harassment and bullying," she said. "Even more suspicious is how Unnao Police has clubbed us with a bunch of politicians." Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, had left home to bring fodder for cattle on Wednesday night. They were found lying in an agriculture field when they did not return home. Local residents had rushed them to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl is presently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kanpur, police said. The last rites of the deceased girls were performed on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements. The Unnao Police has held two people in this connection, accusing them of murder over one-sided love. On Saturday, Congress leader Udit Raj was booked for alleging propagating fake news in a tweet that the teenagers were raped and their bodies cremated against the will of their family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||India committed to enhancing capabilities in defence manufacturing, says PM||India had an age-old experience in making arms and military equipment but after Independence this capacity was not strengthened, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that now the country is committed to enhancing its capabilities in defence manufacturing at a fast pace. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the defence sector, the prime minister listed a series of measures taken by his government to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. "Before Independence we used to have hundreds of ordnance factories. In both the World Wars, arms were exported from India on a large scale, but after Independence due to a number of reasons, this system was not strengthened as much as it should have," he said. "The condition is such that even for small arms we have to look at other nations. India is amongst the biggest defence importers and this is not a matter of pride," Modi stressed. He said it was not that the people of India do not have the talent or capability and pointed out that India did not make ventilators before the coronavirus period but now manufactures thousands of ventilators. "An India that could reach Mars, could have made modern weapons also but it became an easy way to import weapons from abroad," he said. But now India is working hard to change the situation and India is committed to enhance its capacities and capabilities at a fast pace, the prime minister asserted. Modi said with initiatives like de-licensing, de-regulation, export promotion, foreign investment liberalisation, the government has taken several measures to give the defence manufacturing sector a boost. He said with establishment of the chief of defence staff post, bringing uniformity in the procurement process and induction of equipment has become easy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Congress government in Puducherry falls after CM resigns ahead of confidence vote||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues in the union territory resigned on Monday after the government lost the confidence vote sought by him in the face of its depleted strength of 11 against opposition's 14 in the House. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking confidence vote was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The chief minister said the ruling side walked out after the Speaker V Sivakolundhu did not accept its contention that only the elected members have voting rights during the confidence vote, apparently referring to the three nominated BJP members. "Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So we walked out of the assembly and met the Lt Governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet," he said. Apparently referring to former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi constantly being at loggerheads with him on administrative matters, he said that he had however, delivered for the union territory, including effectively handling the Covid-19 pandemic. He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was up to the Lt Governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. The Congress government in Puducherry fell on Monday after Chief Minister V Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote sought by him in the Assembly after his government was reduced to a minority due to a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator over the past few days. Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted the resignation of his cabinet, even as the ruling side's strength was reduced to 11 as against the 14 of the opposition. The opposition, led by NR Congress chief and Leader of Opposition N Rangasamy said it has no plans to stake claim to form the government as of now and that discussions would be held. Soundararajan had earlier summoned the one-day special session Monday, mandating that its agenda be confined only to the trust vote, after the opposition petitioned her last week saying the government had been reduced to a minority due to the resignations. A fresh bout of resignations on Sunday took the tally in the last few days to three and the cumulative since last month to six and further reduced the strength of the Congress-DMK combine in the assembly to 11 after Congress member K Lakshminarayanan and DMK's K Venkatesan quit on Sunday. Subsequently, the party position in the assembly was: Congress (nine, including Speaker), DMK two, All-India NR Congress seven, AIADMK four, BJP three (all nominated with voting rights) and one independent who has supported the government. There are seven vacancies. Those who had resigned included former ministers A Namassivayam (now in BJP) and Malladi Krishna Rao. On Monday, after mounting an attack on the Narendra Modi-led Centre and former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi with whom he had frequent run-ins on administrative matters, Narayanasamy led his colleagues out of the Assembly after a debate over the rights of nominated members to vote during the floor test. Subsequently, Speaker V P Sivakolundhu announced that the motion for confidence vote moved by the chief minister in the morning was defeated, even as it was not taken up for either voice vote or division. "Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So we walked out of the assembly and met the Lt Governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet," Narayanasamy later told reporters. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was now up to the Lt Governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. Earlier, after moving the confidence motion, Narayanasamy made a detailed speech blaming both the NDA government at the Centre and opposition parties including AINRC, AIADMK and BJP as "being responsible for stalling implementation of welfare schemes proposed by the elected government". He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. He alleged that the NDA "distinguished itself by toppling governments of the opposition parties as was seen in Arunachal Pradesh..." "Now they had played their role in toppling the Congress-led alliance government in Puducherry," he said and charged the Centre with committing "mayhem of democracy with the support of the opposition parties in Puducherry." People would teach a lesson to the Centre, he added. When he kept making critical remarks against Kiran Bedi, AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan intervened anbd sought to know how the "Chief Minister could speak about a person who was not present in the House" and charged Narayanasamy with speaking like addressing a public meeting. After the CM spoke, government whip R K R Anandaraman asked if the nominated legislators had the right to vote on motion of confidence. The opposition AIADMK and BJP rose to state that the Supreme Court had clearly stated in his judgment in December 2018 in an appeal that the "nominated legislators had the right to vote and there should be no doubt about it." Subsequently, Narayansamy and other ruling members trooped out of the House and headed to the Raj Nivas to meet Soundararajan where he submitted the resignation letter of his cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||SC allows Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who is facing criminal cases that are being probed by the ED and the CBI, to travel abroad. A bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Chidambaram to deposit Rs 2 crore with the registry and submit details on the places to be visited and the place where he would stay. Opposing the application, Additional Solicitor General S V Raju said earlier Chidambaram was earlier allowed to travel abroad, but with a deposit of Rs 10 crore. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for Chidambaram, said the condition was not justified for a member of Parliament and he would not run away anywhere. The apex court said the amount be deposited in a nationalised bank and allowed Chidambaram to travel for six months. Earlier, it had allowed him to travel to the UK, the US, France, Germany and Spain. The Congress leader is facing several criminal cases related to the Aircel-Maxis deal and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to the INX Media for receiving foreign funds of Rs 305 crore when his father, P Chidambaram, was the Union finance minister. The cases are being probed by the ED and the CBI. The ED had earlier claimed that Karti Chidambaram had been trying to protract the investigation by "blatantly misusing" the liberty granted by the court in allowing him to travel abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Elgar Parishad Case: Varavara Rao granted interim bail for six months||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds to ailing poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale took into account the advanced age of Rao (82), his "precarious" health condition, quality of medical aid provided to him in prison, and medical facilities available at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, while holding that his case was "fit and genuine for grant of relief". Rao is currently admitted in Nanavati Hospital, a private medical facility in Mumbai. He has been in custody since August 28, 2018, awaiting trial in the case, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The HC ordered that depending on his current health condition, Rao be discharged from the hospital, and released on bail immediately after that. It also refused NIA counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh's request for a stay on Rao's discharge from the hospital for three weeks. The bench said once it had granted bail and once the hospital had declared Rao fit for discharge, it could not grant any stay. "With all humility at our command and keeping in mind the applicant's precarious health condition...we are of the opinion that this is a genuine and fit case for grant of relief," the bench said. "Or else, we will be abdicating our constitutional duties as protector of human rights and right to health covered under the right to life of Article 21 of the Constitution," it said. The bench, however, imposed several stringent conditions on Rao's bail. The HC said it was mindful of the NIA's apprehension that once out on bail, Rao might do something to adversely impact the probe into the case. Hence, it directed Rao to stay in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city. The bench also said Rao must deposit a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of the like amount. It also prohibited Rao from establishing contact, or making national or international phone calls to his co-accused or even anyone else engaged in "similar activities". Rao will also have to attend all case hearings, respond to court summons, and make fortnightly WhatsApp video calls to the Mumbai police. The court also said a large number of visitors cannot be allowed to meet Rao, and directed him to submit his passport before the NIA court. The court also prohibited Rao from making any statements related to the case before the press, and indulging in any activity similar to what led to the FIR against him. It permitted Rao to seek exemption from personal appearance before the NIA court. The court also refused to grant the request of Rao's lawyer Anand Grover for permission to the activist's lawyers to meet him. Once the six-month period is over, Rao will have to surrender before the NIA, or apply to the HC for extension of the bail. Rao was admitted to the Nanavati Hospital by the state government in November last year following HC's intervention. On February 1, the HC closed all arguments in the case and reserved its verdict on Rao's medical bail plea and his wife Hemlatha's writ petition that alleged a breach of his fundamental rights due to inadequate medical care and his continued incarceration. The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have also claimed that the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||SC notice to Future Retail, others on Amazon's plea||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from Future Retail Ltd and others on Amazon's plea against the Delhi High Court direction to maintain status quo on the Future-Reliance deal. A bench comprising Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai issued notices to Future Retail Ltd, Chairperson Kishore Biyani and others and sought their replies. The apex court said the proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal will go on but will not culminate into any final order on amalgamation of FRL with Reliance. While issuing notice distinct to FRL and others, the bench says that reply to the appeal of Amazon be filed in three weeks and rejoinder after two weeks thereafter and the Amazon's appeal will be listed for hearing after five weeks. Last month, Amazon had approached the Delhi High Court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. In the interim order on February 8, the division bench said it was staying the single judge order as firstly, FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the US e-commerce giant was not a party to the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Puducherry CM loses confidence vote||The Congress-led government in Puducherry on Monday lost the confidence vote sought by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, in the face of its depleted strength of 11 against the opposition's 14 following resignation of ruling dispensation MLAs, including a DMK legislator. Narayanasamy earlier sought a confidence vote for his government, as the territorial Assembly met for a special session for a floor test of his five-year old government that has been reduced to a minority following resignations by ruling dispensation members. Moving the motion, the chief minister told the Assembly that his government had the majority. Apparently referring to former Lt Governor Kiran Bedi constantly being at loggerheads with him on administrative matters, he said that he had however, delivered for the union territory, including effectively handling the Covid-19 pandemic. He lashed out at Bedi, saying she had "conspired" against the government on matters including revenue generation. "Those rejected by people cospired to topple our government but we stayed firm due to our resilience," he said. Though Narayanasamy moved the motion seeking the confidence vote minutes after the Assembly met for a special one-day session, he and his ruling side MLAs later walked out before the motion was put for voting. Subsequently, Speaker VP Sivakolundhu declared that the motion stood defeated, even as it was said Narayanasamy was headed to the Raj Nivas, possibly to meet Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||Rahul attacks Modi govt over rising fuel prices||Hitting out at the Modi government over rising fuel prices, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused it of emptying the pockets of the common man and filling the pockets of its friends for free. The Congress has accused the Centre of looting people by imposing high taxes on petrol and diesel and has demanded its rollback to provide relief to the common man from the onslaught of rising prices. "When you see the fast moving meter while filling fuel in your car at the petrol pump, do remember that the crude oil rates have not risen but fallen," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Petrol is at Rs 100 a litre. The Modi government is doing the great work of emptying your pockets and filling the pockets of its friends," the Congress leader tweeted. Gandhi also used the hashtag "FuelLootByBJP" in his tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
22-02-2021||India||India's Covid tally goes past 1.10 crore mark||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed 1.10 crore with 14,199 new infections being reported in a day, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases have increased to 1,10,05,850, while the death toll increased to 1,56,385 with 83 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,99,410 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.22 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. Active coronavirus infections in the country increased to 1,50,055 which comprises 1.36 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,15,51,746 samples have been tested up to February 21 with 6,20,216 samples being tested on Sunday. The 83 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 6 from Punjab, 5 from Chhattisgarh and 4 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,56,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,788 from Maharashtra followed by 12,460 from Tamil Nadu, 12,294 from Karnataka, 10,900 from Delhi, 10,249 from West Bengal, 8,715 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Doctors question health minister’s ethics for being at Ramdev event||Sections of doctors have questioned the ethics and propriety of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s decision to present himself alongside Ramdev at an event associated with a herbal cocktail touted as an anti-Covid-19 medication. The Union minister later suggested that the government and the yoga evangelist had shared dreams regarding ayurveda. Some doctors said the minister’s presence at a programme on Friday to mark a scientific paper on the herbal product called Coronil and his tweets later were tantamount to endorsing the product that they say remains to be rigorously assessed. Harsh Vardhan had tweeted: “Pleased to have joined my colleague, minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkariji, and Yogishri Ramdevji at the event marking release of scientific research paper on the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 developed by Patanjali.” Ramdev is the public face of Patanjali Ayurved, the company that sells Coronil — a cocktail of three herbal products and a herbal-mineral formulation. “Regarding Ayurveda, whatever dream Baba Ramdev has, that is the government’s dream,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted after the event during which the minister said that if ayurveda proves itself during Covid-19, it would not need any “bigger certificate”. The Union health ministry did not respond to an email from this newspaper seeking Harsh Vardhan’s response to the criticism. Patanjali could not be contacted for comment, either. Both responses will be published if and when they are issued. While the reliability of the herbal cocktail remains a question for science, some doctors have raised the ethical issue of whether a minister — particularly the health minister — should have directly associated himself with such an event freighted with potential conflict of interest. Medical researchers within and outside India have also raised questions about the scientific paper that describes a clinical trial on 100 patients with mild Covid-19, half of whom received Coronil and the other half received a placebo or sham medication. Doctors at the private medical college in Jaipur who conducted the trial published the paper in a peer-reviewed journal named Phytomedicine. Edzard Ernst, emeritus professor of complementary medicine at the University of Exeter in the UK, posted a blog on Saturday flagging inconsistencies in the paper — at one point it claims the patients had no symptoms whereas at another point it says they were “mildly symptomatic”. “Some of the effect sizes reported are extraordinary and seem almost too good to be true,” Ernst wrote. The paper has reported that 100 per cent of the treatment group had recovered by day 7 compared with 60 per cent of the placebo group. Inflammatory markers were also 2.5 to 20 times lower in the treatment group than in the placebo group by day 7. “The rush to get the above out heavily endorsed by ministers sounds like drug company blurb and is science free promotional guff,” John Travis, a US-based complementary medicine specialist wrote, responding on Ernst’s blog page, also on Saturday. Several doctors in India have also questioned the paper’s content. Public health physician J.N. Rao, responding to Ernst’s blog, wrote the scientific paper was “replete with flaws”. Other doctors have also cautioned people about its content. “If we endorse a medicine based on seriously unsound research, we are harming both science and people,” said Shriprakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. Kalantri said the clinical trial conducted in Jaipur and the scientific paper were marked by “inappropriate design, unrepresentative sample, a flawed method of analysis, and a faulty interpretation”. Om Lakhani, an Ahmedabad-based endocrinologist, posted several tweets, asking Harsh Vardhan whether the minister was not “promoting pseudoscience”. Rao has underscored his concern about what he calls “lead time bias”. Since the patients enrolled in the trial were largely asymptomatic, Rao said, to count the time for viral clearance (negative test) from the day of testing is to ignore how long before the day of testing the patient might have become infected. “If this lead time (had) differed systematically between the treatment and placebo groups, the conclusion would be biased,” Rao said. He said the raw data on the inflammatory markers in the two groups of patients suggested they had acquired the infections at different times, which could explain the faster recovery of the treatment group compared with the placebo group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Rourkela idol maker bicycles 14000 km to make clay tableau at Ghazipur border||A traditional idol maker from Rourkela who has bicycled 1,400km to Delhi to join the farmers’ protest is making a clay tableau at the Ghazipur border to portray how the new farm laws would lead to the farmers’ exploitation. “The three clay models (that form the tableau) are being painted. They will be on public display at the Ghazipur border from Monday,” Muktikanta Biswal, 32, who is camping at the site, told The Telegraph over the phone. Biswal, who follows his family profession of making clay idols of deities such as Ganesh and Saraswati, said he was hurt by the government’s treatment of the farmers and decided he could best protest through his art. “The attempt to stifle the farmers’ voice hurts me as an artist. So I have taken to this novel way of protest,” he said. Biswal’s tableau will show two farmers yoked to a plough while a corporate leader stands near them, raising a whip. “The two farmers actually represent bullocks. The plough is symbolic of how the corporate boss controls farming, and his whip symbolises the exploitation of farmers,” the idol maker said. Biswal said he was “not a political person” and was not against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But I’m disgusted at the ugly politics being played over farmers’ issues. Although I studied only till Plus II, I keep track of what is happening in the country,” he said. So, he had set off from Rourkela on his bicycle on January 12, keen to meet and talk to farmers on the way to Delhi and “learn about the condition of farmers and the country itself”. “I reached Delhi on January 29. The entire journey has been video-graphed so that no one can challenge my integrity,” Biswal said. The government and its supporters have been trying to project the protesters as Khalistanis, Maoists or Opposition stooges. It was during the bicycle journey that the idea of protesting through clay idols struck Biswal. He began making the idols last week, using clay from the Ghazipur protest site, where he is staying in a tent with other farmers. “Although the quality of the soil was not good enough for idol-making, I somehow managed. But the work got delayed a bit because of this,” he said. Asked why he had chosen the bicycle over a bus or a train, Biswal said it was partly a “protest against the rising prices of petrol and diesel”. “A common man cannot afford to pay the increased (bus) fares resulting from the hiked fuel prices,” he said. Besides, he said, the bicycle journey allowed him to interact with farmers on the way. Biswal, a bachelor, spent Rs 6,000 on the journey from his savings. He said he didn’t face any problems during the trip except for being briefly stopped and questioned once by Uttar Pradesh police. This is not Biswal’s first brush with activism. In 2018 he had walked all the way to Delhi to remind the Prime Minister of his forgotten promises to build a second bridge over the Brahmani river on Rourkela’s outskirts and upgrade the Ispat General Hospital into a super-speciality facility. The journey took him 72 days, from April 16 to June 27. He had stayed in Delhi a few days, held a brief hunger strike at the Ramlila Maidan, spoken to the Delhi media and returned by train. “His foot journey made an impact: work on the bridge and hospital began sometime later and is continuing,” senior Rourkela journalist Aurobindo Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Sonia asks PM to stop oil price extortion||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing his “cruel” government of “profiteering” off people’s “miseries and sufferings” at a time when the poor and the middle class are grappling with unemployment and loss of income. As petrol prices crossed Rs 100 for the first time since Independence although the crude oil rate is unusually low in the international market, Sonia described the steep increase in the country as “extortion” to make up for the government’s gross economic mismanagement. In a letter to Modi, Sonia said: “I write to you to convey every citizen’s anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel & gas prices. India is witnessing systematic erosion of jobs, wages and household income. The middle class and those at the margins of our society are struggling. “These challenges have been compounded by runaway inflation and an unprecedented rise in price of almost all household items and essential commodities. Sadly, in these distressing times, the government has chosen to profiteer off people’s misery and suffering.” Questioning the government’s claim that it didn’t have control over the prices of petroleum products after deregulation, the Congress president said: “It was cruel on the government’s part to refuse to reduce fuel prices even when global crude oil had crashed to $20 per barrel last year. The whole principle of deregulation and dynamic pricing is predicated on the principle that reductions in crude oil prices will proportionately benefit the end consumers. The fact that your government fails to do so implies a deliberate and conscious decision to deny the common man his legitimate due.” Sonia pointed out that “ironically” the Modi government had been “unreasonably over-zealous” in levying excessive excise duty on petrol and diesel. She said the duty was Rs 33 on every litre of petrol and Rs 32 on a litre of diesel, “which is higher than the base price of these fuels”. “This is nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement. As the principal party in opposition, I urge you to follow ‘Raj Dharma’ and reduce fuel prices by partially rolling back excise duty,” she wrote. She said: “Governments are elected to ease the burden of our people and at the very least, not work directly contrary to their interests. I urge you to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit to our middle and salaried class, our farmers and poor and our fellow citizens. It is they who are battling an unprecedented economic slowdown, widespread unemployment, wage reductions and job losses, high prices and erosion of income.” Sonia urged the Prime Minister to focus on solutions instead of looking for excuses, saying: “India deserves better.”  “I fail to understand how any government can justify such thoughtless and insensitive measures directly at the cost of our people. Your government has increased excise duty on diesel by 820 per cent and on petrol by 258 per cent… and collected upwards of Rs 21 lakh crore in the last six and a half years. This unaccounted-for windfall is yet to be passed to the people for whose benefit it was ostensibly collected,” she said. “Therefore, your government’s act of raising prices (continuously for 12 days till February 20) is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||LAC: talks end, haze on Depsang pullout remains||The 10th round of military talks between India and China lasted 16 hours but ended without clarity on a disengagement process for the Depsang Plains, an operationally critical area for the Indian army where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Military veterans have been saying that India should have already got the Chinese to agree to pulling back from the Depsang Plains as a condition for the now-concluded Pangong Lake disengagement. However, a joint statement released by India’s defence ministry on Sunday did not name the Depsang Plains or the other remaining friction points, Gogra and Hot Springs, merely mentioning a future “push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues”. Nor did the statement say anything about restoring the status quo to what it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion, a continuing omission in recent statements that veterans see as a sign of Indian capitulation. The joint statement spoke about “maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border”, echoing what defence minister Rajnath Singh had told Parliament last week. Rajnath had not mentioned the restoration of status quo ante. “Disengagement from the Depsang Plains may take time as the Chinese look very rigid about retreating from there. Right now, disengagement from Depsang is a big challenge for us,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph. He said the Chinese had, however, agreed to work towards an understanding on the disengagement process to be initiated at Gogra and Hot Springs. He added, however, that the two sides had last July agreed on disengaging from Hot Springs and Gogra but the Chinese went back on their word. In an interview published in The Hindu on Sunday, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran said India’s acceptance of “phased” withdrawal instead of demanding complete disengagement (covering the Depsang Plains) suggested it was focusing on the “restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border” rather than the restoration of status quo ante. “It’s a matter of extreme concern that India does not seem to be pushing for the restoration of status quo,”  former lieutenant general told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Why have we suddenly changed our earlier stand on the restoration of status quo being crucial to maintaining peace and tranquillity at the border? Is this the price we are paying for a disengagement deal with China?” He implied New Delhi had developed cold feet, saying: “It seems the government has now taken a policy decision not to talk about the restoration of status quo ante, much like Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s no-intrusion claim.” Modi had in June last year said no one had intruded into Indian territory or was occupying Indian posts, a statement China milked to project India as the border transgressor. Sunday’s joint statement was released 17 hours after the talks (Saturday 10am to Sunday 2am) had ended, suggesting lengthy deliberation before it was framed. “On February 20, the 10th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo/ Chushul border meeting point. The two sides positively appraised the smooth completion of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area noting that it was a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC in Western Sector,” it said. “They had candid and in-depth exchange of views on other issues along the LAC in the Western Sector. The two sides agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilise and control the situation on the ground, push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border.” Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks, with the Indian withdrawal taking place entirely across India-claimed territory. This has prompted allegations that the government was ceding Indian territory to the Chinese. Saran told The Hindu that India’s agreement to a “phased” withdrawal could become a cause for concern in the future. “We had earlier been given the impression that the Indian side was holding out for this engagement not sector by sector, but along the entire LAC, which would include the Hot Spring area as well as Depsang,” Saran was quoted as saying. “I’m not very sure that this (phased withdrawal) represents going back to status quo ante, which has been, in fact, a constant demand made by us. It would appear that we are more focusing on the restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border, rather than saying that we should go back to what the situation was around April last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Once pandemic ends, Covid likely to stay on as endemic||We have just crossed a milestone: one crore of our citizens have been vaccinated for the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Our vaccination campaign started on January 16. This is awesome; one crore vaccinations in a month. The vaccine recipients are healthcare and frontline workers. They have provided extraordinary service to the infected and toiled to prevent infection. We salute them. Largely because of their tireless efforts, and a stunningly efficient infection-management system established with great rapidity, 973 of every 1,000 infected have recovered. (Over one crore of our citizens were infected.) The Union health ministry has said that India’s vaccine coverage now ranks third in the world, after the US and the UK. However, we have also learnt that there is considerable vaccine hesitancy in India. A major reason for the hesitancy is that the efficacy of one of the two vaccines being administered (Covaxin) is unknown. This vaccine has been proven safe and evokes a good immune response. But how well it actually protects against infection on exposure to the coronavirus, or how well it protects an infected individual against severe disease, is unknown. The government has ignored appeals to defer the administration of this vaccine until the efficacy results are obtained. The other vaccine (Covishield) being administered here has been shown to have adequate protective efficacy. With the expansion of the vaccine campaign, the question in every mind is: when will the pandemic end and life return to normal? To answer this question, we must figure out whether the vaccination campaign is reducing the prevalence of Covid-19 and the spread of infection. We do not have the relevant data from India to address this issue: the vaccine campaign here started barely a month ago. The best data available now is from Israel. The vaccines being provided in Israel are not the same as those in India. Further, Israel first vaccinated citizens who were 60 years or older. Notwithstanding these differences, the data from Israel shows the hospitalisation rate from Covid-19 has dropped from seven per day to one among the 60-plus who have received the required two doses. This is solid evidence that the jabs are reducing the impact of the pandemic. Similar observations have come from the US. But are the vaccines blocking the infection or preventing transmission? After you have taken your two doses, will you be able to participate in an adda (chat) sitting close to a group of people without wearing a mask and yet feel assured that you will not contract the infection? Or, if you were infected shortly before being vaccinated, will you be able to assure the others in the group that you will not transmit the infection to them? These assurances are hard to obtain even for the best of vaccines. A notable exception is the measles vaccine, which provides lifelong protection and has eliminated the measles virus from most global regions. For the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines, the data on infection-blockage and transmission-prevention has not yet been systematically collected. However, there are indications – though not definitive – that the current vaccines can both block infection and reduce transmission to an extent. Publicly available results of a recent study in Israel, not yet published in a peer-reviewed journal, show that the viral load among those infected even after being vaccinated was significantly lower than that in the unvaccinated. Thus, the benefits of vaccination are palpable. Are we in a position yet to answer when the pandemic will end and life return to normal? If the coronavirus stops spreading, would we consider that the pandemic has ended and we can lead a normal life? The virus will stop spreading if it cannot find a group of new persons to infect. This will happen when a large proportion of people in a community gain immunity, by either infection or vaccination, marking the attainment of the so-called herd immunity. For this coronavirus, the jury is still out on what this proportion should be — possibly no less than two-thirds. The closer a community gets to attaining herd immunity, the slower will be the spread of the virus. A vaccine, if it blocks infection or prevents transmission, will promote herd immunity. As far as we can tell, no country has yet attained herd immunity. But almost every country seems to be getting closer; life seems to be gaining normalcy. Will the virus ever be eradicated and the pandemic actually end? It is difficult to predict whether the pandemic — defined as an infection that spreads quickly worldwide or over a wide area and often causes severe disease — will end. It likely will. But it is unlikely that the virus will ever be eradicated. In the simplest of scenarios, a virus can be eradicated by vaccination if (a) the vaccine evokes such an immune response that the virus cannot escape, and (b) the virus cannot persist in an animal reservoir. For the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, neither of these holds good. Most likely, the coronavirus came to us from bats via pangolins. In addition, the coronavirus infects cats, hamsters, rabbits and minks. And minks can directly transmit it to humans. Thus, there are known animal reservoirs, and the coronavirus may be reintroduced after eradication. Besides, although the vaccines evoke a high immune response, it is unclear whether they can block infection. Even among people who have had Covid-19, the level of the antibody required to block re-infection — called neutralising antibody — wanes after six to eight months. The coronavirus infection and the available vaccines produce T cells that kill virus-infected cells and also produce cells that provide immune memory, called B cells. The B cells are capable of manufacturing antibodies if there is a new infection. But, for none of the available vaccines has it been established that re-infection can be blocked. The decline of immunity will likely make the coronavirus become endemic to human society. That means the coronavirus will continue to circulate in all human societies. The prevailing antibody levels will ensure that not too many people in any community will be infected during a year, but the number of infections will remain near-constant over many years. Of concern, however, are genetically altered forms of the coronavirus. These genetic alterations — called mutations — occur naturally and can help the coronavirus infect more efficiently or render it more virulent. As we are now witnessing with the mutant subtypes that have emerged in the UK and South Africa. These mutants may also escape the immune response produced by the available vaccines. In which case, the available vaccines may often need to be tweaked to control infection. Tweaking of vaccines is not unknown, the most familiar experience being with the influenza vaccine. The flu virus acquires mutations quite rapidly, and the mutant flu viruses do not respond adequately to the available vaccines. Each year, therefore, a new formulation of the flu vaccine that is effective against the newly arisen mutants has to be found and provided for use. It appears inevitable that the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic will become endemic. But even if the spread of the coronavirus cannot be completely stopped by vaccination, the decline of its spread and prevention of severe disease and death will be significant steps towards regaining normal life. For endemicity to be established rapidly, vaccination campaigns should be expanded using vaccines of known and high efficacy, and vaccine hesitancy must wane. ⚫ The author is a National Science Chair||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Kids orphaned in family, second time in 30 years ||When police constable Suhail Ahmad Ahangar fell to a militant’s bullets in Srinagar on Friday, it marked the second time in two generations that Kashmir’s insurgency had left his family scarred. Suhail was born an orphan five months after his father Mushtaq Ahmad Ahangar disappeared in end-1989, at the inception of militancy, never to be seen again. Mushtaq, then about 30, left behind the unborn Suhail and his elder sister, a couple of years his senior. On Friday Suhail, who was about 30 too, left behind sons Sahel and Suhaib, aged four years and 18 months. The story of the family, settled in the Ashmuqam locality of Anantnag, is testimony to how the conflict in Kashmir is consuming generation after generation. “The same tragedy has visited our family 30 years apart. We were devastated then; we are devastated now,” Mushtaq’s younger brother Javaid Ahmad told The Telegraph. A relative who refused to be identified said Mushtaq, who worked at a private flour mill, had crossed over to Pakistan to receive arms training and fight for Kashmiri independence. “We never learnt what happened to him. Some say he was killed on the border in 1990 but we never received his body,” he said. Javaid said: “For years, we searched for him. Sometimes we would hear he was languishing at some place or the other and would rush there.” He added: “There’s no jail (in the country) we did not visit — we even went to a jail in Tamil Nadu to find him. We could not offer a janaza (last rites) for him because we never got to know what had happened to him.” Javaid said the family gradually came to believe that Mushtaq had died a few months after his disappearance. “It’s tragic that father and son (appear to have) lost their lives at around the same age; and Suhail then was (virtually) orphaned at around the same age as his children now,” he said. Suhail’s mother lost her husband in her twenties — about the same age that the policeman’s widow is now. Suhail and his colleague, selection grade constable Mohammad Yousuf from Kupwara, were killed in a six-second attack at Barzulla, Srinagar. Images of the attack show a lone militant, hiding his assault rifle under his pheran, spraying bullets at the two policemen. Both died in hospital. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti visited Suhail’s home in Anantnag and said the deaths had underscored the need for India and Pakistan to talk and prevent violence. “The BJP government should start talks so that bloodshed stops. Our graveyards are full of (slain) men,” she said. “Whether it is here, or with Pakistan, there should be talks. They repeatedly say Pakistan is behind the violence. At least, to end the violence, they can initiate talks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
22-02-2021||India||Cloud over govt’s 2022 housing goal||The Narendra Modi government’s stated goal of ensuring housing for all by 2022 appears unlikely to be met given the slow pace of construction and delay in expanding the beneficiaries’ list, social activists have told The Telegraph. While launching the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) Gramin on April 1, 2016, Modi had gone by the findings of the Socio Economic Caste Census of 2012 and set a target of building 2.95 crore houses by 2022. However, by 2019, the state governments had identified another 3.67 crore households that lacked houses, raising the scheme’s possible target to 6.62 crore houses. While a panel formed by the rural development ministry has cleared the additional beneficiaries, the finance ministry has not yet committed funds for the extra houses, preventing the new beneficiaries from being officially added to the list. According to a report from the parliamentary standing committee on rural development, headed by Shiv Sena member Prataprao Jadhav, the government had built only 1.04 crore houses by the first week of June last year. The rural development ministry has told the standing committee it has taken up the matter of the additional beneficiaries with the finance ministry but no decision has been taken. Rural development ministry officials told this newspaper that any further delay in the matter — already hanging fire for nearly two years —would jeopardise the chances of achieving “housing for all” by 2022. Social activists Nikhil Dey from the Mazdoor Kishan Shakti Sangathan, which works on the implementation of rural development programmes in Rajasthan, and Anees from Ekta Parishad, which works on “housing for all” in Madhya Pradesh, said meeting the 2022 deadline would be impossible. “One key reason for the delay is the lack of funds provisioning. A substantial number of houses are yet to be constructed from the original target. I doubt they can even meet the original target (by 2022),” Dey said. Anees said that even if the original target of building 2.95 crore houses by 2022 was achieved, it would not be “housing for all”. He said the scheme’s “centralised and uniform standard” too needed to be revised. “For instance, in some (forest) areas, the people do not want pucca houses, but the scheme only allows pucca houses. Such problems too contribute to the slow progress of implementation,” Anees said. Under the scheme, the government provides Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 1.3 lakh per house in the plains and hills, respectively. The parliamentary committee has recommended the amounts be increased. An email sent on Monday to the rural development ministry seeking the reasons for the delays in construction and beneficiary expansion had evoked no response till Sunday night. The erstwhile UPA government used to run the Indira Awas Yojana, which had no set targets. The Modi government replaced the scheme with the PMAY Gramin, providing for pucca houses with basic amenities for rural families that had no houses or lived in kutcha or dilapidated houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
