23-02-2021||India||Toolkit sedition: judge rips into government case||The judge hearing the Disha Ravi bail application has ripped into the government’s case against the 22-year-old activist, saying the evidence against her is “scanty and sketchy” and that, “placing any further restraint upon her liberty… would be neither logical nor legal.” In a blistering judgement, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana systematically demolished the prosecution case on all the accusations made against the environmental activist, crucially pointing out that citizens, “cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies” and adding that, “citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation.” "An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy," the court said. Rana added that in view of the prosecution’s “sketchy” case, “I do not find any palpable reason to breach the general rule of bail” against a ‘blemish-free’ young lady with no criminal record and, “firm roots in society”. The headline-making case began nine days ago when Delhi Police arrested Ravi from her home in Bangalore and flew her to Delhi the very same evening, slapping charges of sedition and “promoting enmity between different groups,” against her. The police also accused the young environmental activist of collaborating with pro-Khalistan groups. Besides that, it accused her of creating a “toolkit’ which was a guide for an online campaign to support the four-month-old Punjab farmers’ protest. The police argued that the toolkit had helped to spread violence. Ravi has denied all of the charges. Rana also dismissed as baseless the allegations that Ravi conspired with the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), an obscure Canadian-based organization that is said to have pro-Khalistani leanings. Ravi had participated in a Zoom meeting with around 70 people in which two people named Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal, said by the police to belong to the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) had taken part. The judge said. “There is not an iota of evidence brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of violence on 26.01.2021 with the said PJF or the applicant.” The judge said, adding, “In the absence of any evidence... it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence on 26.01.2021, simply because she shared a platform with people who have gathered to oppose the legislation.” Driving home the point, the judge further remarked: “There is nothing on record to establish any direct link between the applicant/accused and Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal. Furthermore, there is nothing on record to suggest there was any call, incitement, incitement or exhortation… to foment violence on 26.01.2021.” In his 18-page judgement, the additional sessions judge also reproduced the text of the toolkit, said to have been uploaded by Ravi, which suggested farmers’ supporters should create a ‘Tweetstorm’ by sending tweets to the agriculture minister and various international organisations. Besides that, the supporters could organise protests “near Indian embassies, govt offices, media houses,” around the globe. The toolkit also suggested supporters could stage protests near the offices of the Adani and Ambani groups – farmers say these two giant conglomerates will be the main winners if the farm acts are allowed to stay on the statute books. The judge said, “The perusal of the said ‘Toolkit’ reveals that any calls for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent. In my considered opinion, Citizens are the conscience-keepers of government in any democratic nation… The offence of sedition cannot be involved to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.” He added: “Creation of a WhatsApp group of being editor of an innocuous Toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the Whatsapp chat... also becomes meaningless.” Quoting from earlier case law on sedition, he added: “Difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies.” He also quoted a couplet from the Rigveda which says: “Let noble thoughts come to me from all directions.” On Ravi having beenin touch with climate change activist Greta Thunberg, the judge added that the freedom of speech granted under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution includes, “the right to seek a global audience. There are no geographical barriers on communication… as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of the law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||SC takes objection to petitioner addressing judges 'Your Honour'||The Supreme Court Tuesday cautioned a law student not to address the judges as ‘Your honour’ as it was not the US Supreme Court. “When you call us Your Honour' it appears that you have the US Supreme Court in mind,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the law student. He immediately apologised to the bench and said that he would address the court as Your Lordship. To this, CJI Bobde said: Whatever, but don't use inappropriate terms. The bench told him that in the US Supreme Court and in magisterial court here, the court can be addressed as ‘Your honour’ but not in Indian Supreme Court. The bench then asked him what his case was, to which the student, who appeared in-person, said that his plea seeks that infrastructure of the judiciary on the criminal jurisdiction side be strengthened. The bench told him that does he know that there is already a matter pending in the Supreme Court in which directions have been passed to strengthen the infrastructure of judiciary right up to subordinate judiciary level in a phased wise manner. The law student feigned ignorance after which the bench said that it appears that he has not done his homework before approaching the court. It told the petitioner that there is a pending case titled as Malik Mazhar Sultan versus UPSC in which directions have been issued to the Centre, different state governments and High Courts for strengthening of infrastructure right up to subordinate judiciary level. The bench adjourned the matter for four weeks and asked the student to come prepared on the next date of hearing. Bar Council of India clarifies their stand Bar Council of India (BCI) took note of the objection raised on Tuesday by the Supreme Court to the term 'Your Honour' used to address the bench saying it had already passed a resolution in 2019 advising advocates not to use it in high courts and in the top court. The BCI, an apex body of lawyers, said 'Your Honour' is a form of address given to a circuit judge or a Mayor in the USA and in India, this is used in lower courts to address the judicial officers. BCI chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra, in a statement issued late evening, clarified the stand of the lawyers' top body on the issue. The BCI would like to clarify that as far as back on 28th September 2019 on the request made by Office-Bearers of Bar Association of some High Courts with regard to the Advocates addressing the court, it was resolved that as per mostly preferred and prevalent practice, lawyers of the country be requested to address the Hon'ble Judges of various High Courts and Supreme Court as 'My Lord' or 'Your Lordships' or 'Hon'ble Court' while Lawyers of Subordinate Courts, Tribunals and other Forums may address the Court as 'Your Honour' or 'Sir' or the equivalent word in respective regional languages, the statement said. It said the resolution was passed to maintain graciousness and to uphold the majesty of the courts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra calls PM Modi ‘arrogant’ and ‘coward’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a "kisan mahapanchayat" here, calling him "arrogant" and a "coward" who does not owns up the responsibility for his policies. She also accused the PM of insulting farmers by making a mockery of them in Parliament through his "andolanjeevi" (habitual agitators) remark. Promising that her party will repeal the new farm laws when it comes to power, Priyanka alleged that they have been enacted by those engaged in making money ("noton ki kheti") to benefit their "billionaire friends". "People have always taught a lesson to arrogant governments, and the time for it has arrived," she said, claiming that all election promises made by the ruling party have turned out to be false. "The truth is that the prime minister is not only arrogant ('ahankari') but also a coward ('kayar'). As soon as his policies are questioned, he backtracks," said the Congress leader, accusing the PM of wrongly blaming her party's policies for high fuel prices. Thank God the previous Congress governments had developed industries, otherwise, the present government would not have been able to sell anything, she said. The Congress general secretary also said the GST and demonetisation were introduced to benefit "billionaire friends" of the prime minister. She said the government is "intoxicated" by the idea of selling public sector assets and asked people at the gathering to save the sacred Govardhan hill "lest the BJP should sell it". She alleged that while the Centre collected over Rs 20 lakh crore through taxes on fuel and waived loans of its "billionaire friends", it did not spare a single penny for farmers. Speaking over the farm laws, she said they will continue to fight for the cause of farmers till the anti-farmer legislations are repealed. "The Congress will repeal the laws when it comes to power if the present government failed to do so," she said. She also said promises like doubling the income of farmers, waiving their loans and clearing sugarcane arrears have proved hollow. The government does not have Rs 15,000 crore to pay to farmers while two planes worth Rs 16,000 crore were purchased for the prime minister, she said. She said through the laws, the government has paved the way for the hoarding of produce and elimination of mandis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
23-02-2021||India||Aim of BJP govt is to destroy farmers’ market: Rahul||On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, lashed out at the Centre over the three contentious farm laws. He alleged that the aim of the BJP government is to destroy farmers’ market and not getting them the right price for their produce. According to Rahul, while the first two laws destroy the country’s agriculture sector, the third one denies justice to farmers. “The first one destroys the farmers market.The secondone is to allow the richest to procure as much as grain and unlimited hoarding. These two laws allow them to control the price of grains and vegetables,” he alleged, while addressing a mass rally, that marked the culmination of the 22-day-long Aishwarya Yatra, led by leader of opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala. “They (government) have only one aim: the farmer does not get the right price for their produce. That everybody, the middle class, farmers labourers have to pay more,” he said. “And that’s why lakhs and lakhs of farmers are protesting. What did the PM say? That they are terrorists,” Gandhi alleged. The Congress leader also attacked the central and state governments over the rising fuel prices despite a low oil price in the international market and claimed both the governments are giving the money to the richest in the country. “The price of oil in the international market is down. But in India, the price of petrol and diesel are going up.Thousands of crores of rupees are being taken from your pocket every day. Where is this money going? To whom is this money being given,” he said. “This is being given to the richest people in this country,” Gandhi said. “Everyday, when you travel in your vehicle, remember this, both the centre and the state are taking money from your pocket to the richest of this country. This is the politics we are trying to change. We want to work for the poor, and not for our organisation or the richest. That’s the difference between us and others,” the Congress MP from Wayanad told the gathering. He said the yatra was an opportunity to listen to what farmers, students, fishermen, elders and women of the state say. The state-wide yatra, led by Chennithala, began on January 31 from Manjeswaram in the northernmost Kasaragod district and ended at Parassala near here on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Two new Covid-19 strains detected in Maha, Kerala||On Tuesday, Centre confirmed that two new strains of SARS-CoV-2 ‑ N440K and E484K ‑ have been detected in Maharashtra and Kerala. However, it mentioned that there is no reason to believe presently on the that they are responsible for the surge in cases in some districts in these two states. One of the two variants has also been detected in Telangana. Addressing a press conference here, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said, “187 people have tested positive for the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 in the country so far, while six people have detected with the South Africa variant. Also, one person has tested positive for the Brazil variant strain.” Both the variants (N440K and E484K) of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in Maharashtra. In Kerala and Telangana these variants have been found. “Barring these two variants, three other mutated strains ‑ one each from UK, South Africa and Brazil are already present in the country. But there is no reason for us to believe, on the basis of scientific information, that they are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala,” Paul said. Reporting only detection does not lead to any attribution for a phenomenon on the ground because to relate the occurrence of a virus mutation to change in disease pattern, other epidemiological information and clinical information has to be linked to these mutants, Paul said, adding, because otherwise these (mutations) happen but they have no influence on the pandemic. He said that the behaviour of mutations is being constantly and closely watched in the country and 3,500 strains have been sequenced so far. “When we are doing sequencing, we are looking for any abnormal shift in the virus character. We have been watching the mutants. Today, based on the information and as analyzed and understood by a very eminent scientific advisory group of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), we would like to underline the fact that we do not see attribution of mutant strains to the upsurge of the infection being seen in some districts. But this is work in progress. We will continue to watch the situation with full responsibility,” Paul said. The SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) was established in December end for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country. Stating that a large proportion of the population is still vulnerable, Paul stressed that Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, hand washing and not getting into mass gatherings should be followed. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “A total of 1,17,54,788 Covid ‑19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country till Tuesday 1 pm, with 1,04,93,205 getting the first dose and 12,61,583 being given the second dose.” He added, “12 states and union territories, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Odisha, have administered first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to more than 75 per cent of the registered healthcare workers, while 11 states and UTs, including Karnataka, Telangana, Delhi, Punjab and Chandigarh, have administered the first dose to less than 60 per cent of healthcare workers.” Two states, Kerala and Maharashtra, account for 75 per cent of total active COVID-19 cases in country, and six people have been detected with South Africa strain of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu sent to 14-day judicial custody in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Samarjeet Kaur on expiry of his 7-day police custody. He was produced before the magistrate in Tihar Jail, where he is currently lodged. The court had first sent Sidhu to police custody on February 9 for seven days, after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. His custody was further extended by seven days on February 16. The police had said there are videos where Sidhu can be allegedly seen to be present at the site of the incident. "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators. Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details. "He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which the violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," police had alleged. Sidhu's counsel, however, had claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by public servant (188). He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||All missing persons in the Uttarakhand disaster presumed dead, says official||The Uttarakhand government has issued a notification authorising officials to declare "presumed dead" 136 people still missing after the flash flood in Chamoli district over two weeks ago. Sixty-eight bodies have so far been recovered after the February 7 disaster possibly triggered by an avalanche. A devastating flash flood demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. About 35 people were feared trapped inside a tunnel in Tapovan. The debris and sludge has only been removed from a portion of the tunnel. Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit Singh Negi said on Tuesday that the presumption of death can be made by officials in the affected district only in case of missing people who in all likelihood have died in the disaster but their bodies have not been found. Normally the missing are declared dead only when they are not traced for seven years after the incident responsible for their disappearance but in case of an extraordinary occurrence like the one witnessed in Uttarakhand special provisions can be made, he said. The move to declare those who continue to be missing in the flash flood as presumed dead has been initiated to expedite the process of distribution of compensation among the affected families, he said. The notification was issued on the basis of an SOP issued by the Centre in this regard on February 21, Negi said. A similar SOP was issued by the Centre after the Kedarnath deluge of June, 2013 in which thousands of people were killed and left missing. The SOP was formulated on the request of the state government by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner, India, he said. In normal circumstances, the death is registered only on the reports from persons mentioned in section 8 of the Registration of Births and Deaths (RBD) Act, 1969. However, in extraordinary cases like the one in Uttarakhand, reports from public servants after due enquiry can be made use of for registering the deaths, the notification said. As regards people whose body has been found, it is needless to state that the normal process of issuing death certificates should be followed, Negi said. In case of missing persons, who in all likelihood have died but the body is not traceable, all reasonable efforts should be made to determine that the person has in all likelihood died in the natural calamity, the official said. According to the notification, the missing have to be divided into three categories -- permanent residents present in the affected areas during the catastrophe, residents of other districts of Uttarakhand who happened to be in affected areas and tourists/persons from other states who were present there at the time of the catastrophe. The notification also gives details of the process of enquiry to be followed in case of those missing in the three categories. The designated officer should conduct a detailed enquiry regarding the missing person. Based on the enquiry, the officer should issue a speaking order regarding the provisional presumption of death. He should then ensure publication of the list of missing persons provisionally presumed dead in the newspaper, government gazette in Hindi and English and also host the same on the government website for the purpose of obtaining Claims and Objections. Claims and Objections should be received within 30 days failing which the designated officer should issue the death certificate and make it available for free to the next of kin of the missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Farm unions object to Delhi police posters at Tikri border||Agitating farmer union on Tuesday objected to Delhi Police putting posters that allegedly warned off protesters at the Tikri border site, even as the force claimed these were not new and only informed the protesters that they would not be allowed to enter the national capital. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the ongoing agitation against the three agri laws, said that it is opposed to the police's move as the protesters were exercising their constitutional right and appealed to the farmers to continue their sit-in peacefully. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for nearly 90 days, demanding a complete repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price for crops. "The Delhi Police has placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights.... "We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings," the SKM said in the statement. In the posters, the police have not given any deadline to the protesting farmers to vacate the area. On its part, the Delhi Police said it is a "routine" process. "The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. Police have conveyed to them through posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully," a senior police officer said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during a tractor parade called by the agitating farmer unions on January 26. After police permitted the rally, many protesters deviated from the agreed route and reached the Red Fort on tractors. They entered the monument and some of them even hoisted religious flags at the ramparts. The government has projected the three farm laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained that the MSP and mandi systems will continue and will also be strengthened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Nothing on record to establish direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists: Delhi court||In a blow to Delhi police, a court here Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers'' protest, terming evidence produced by police as scanty and sketchy .  The court said there is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists of 'Poetic Justice Foundation' (PJF) and also there is not even an iota of evidence brought connecting the perpetrators of the violence on Janury 26 with the PJF or her.  Further, it observed that there is nothing on record to suggest that the activist subscribed to any secessionist idea and there is absolutely no link established on record between her and banned outfit Sikhs for Justice.  Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted relief to Ravi on a personal bond of Rs one lakh and two sureties of like amount, noted that the accused had absolutely no criminal antecedents.  "Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of ' Bail' against a 22 years old young lady, with absolutely blemish free criminal antecedents and having firm roots in the society, and send her to jail," the judge said.  The judge said that perusal of the said 'Toolkit' reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent.  "In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic Nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments," the court said.  The court said the difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies.  "An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy," the court said.  "The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution. In my considered opinion the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience.  "There are no geographical barriers on communication. A citizen has the fundamental rights to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of law and as such have access to audience abroad," the court said.  It said that creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous Toolkit is not an offence.  "Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and PJF, also becomes meaningless," the court said.  While observing that there is nothing on record to suggest that the applicant accused subscribed to any secessionist idea, the court said "further, the prosecution has, except for pointing out that applicant/accused forwarded the toolkit to climate activist Greta Thunberg, failed to point out as to how the applicant/accused gave global audience to the 'secessionist elements'."  The court said that it was conscious of the fact that it is very difficult to collect evidence for the offence of conspiracy.  "I'm also conscious of the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and police is in the process of collecting more evidence, however, the investigating agency made a conscious choice to arrest the applicant accused upon the strength of material so far collected and now they cannot be permitted to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations," the court said.  It said conspiracy cannot be proved merely on the basis of inferences which have to be backed by evidence.  While holding that there is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Ravi and pro -Khalistan activists of PJF, the court said "Still further, there is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of the applicant/accused and the abovesaid organisations and its associates to foment violence on Janury 26, 2021."  As long as the engagement/interaction remains within the four corners of law, people interacting with such persons, ignorantly, innocently or for that matter even fully conscious of their dubious credentials, cannot be painted with the same hue, it said.  "In the absence of any evidence to the effect that the applicant/accused agreed or shared a common purpose to cause violence on Janury 26, 2021 with the founders of PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on Janury 26 simply because she shared a platform with people, who have gathered to oppose the legislation.  The court directed that Ravi shall continue to cooperate with the ongoing investigations and shall join the investigation as and when summoned by the Investigating officer and not leave the country without the permission of the court.  The court noted that more than hundreds of persons involved in the violence have been arrested and interrogated by the Delhi Police but no evidence connecting the accused with the actual perpetrators of the violence has been brought forth on record by the prosecution till date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur accuses police of severely beating her up in bail plea||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur in her bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that she was severely beaten up at a police station after her arrest by the Sonipat police last month. The 23-year-old activist, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, has also claimed that her medical examination was not conducted in violation of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Kaur is currently lodged in Karnal jail in Haryana. The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had adjourned the hearing on her bail plea and posted the matter for February 24. In the bail plea filed through her counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, Kaur stated that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. In her petition, the labour rights activist claimed that she was "targeted and falsely implicated" in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmer movement against the Centre's three new farm laws. Kaur, who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, said they mobilised people for a protest at Kundli in Sonipat district against Centre's new farm laws. The plea alleged that the mobilisation of local labourers in support of farmers annoyed the administration and a plan was devised to stifle the protest. The bail plea stated that on January 12, the petitioner and MAS members marched towards a factory demanding payment of pending wages of some workers. The high court was informed that they were manhandled by a group formed by the Kundli Industrial Area, an association of industrial owners. In the meantime, a team from Kundli police station led by the station house officer reached there and immediately on their arrival, they grabbed the petitioner by her hair and dragged to the side, according to the plea. This angered the protesters and the situation became worse when the police resorted to lathi charge on peaceful protesters. A scuffle ensued and the petitioner tried to pacify the situation but to no avail, it said. The petitioner alone was caught and arrested by police officials. She was beaten, tortured and suffered multiple injuries, it claimed. The petitioner was taken to the police station in the absence of any woman police official and was beaten up by police officials, the plea alleged. Kaur was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12, the Haryana police had earlier said. Sonepat police officials had also said that a police team was attacked with sticks when they reached the site and some policemen sustained injuries in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Shantanu Muluk seeks anticipatory bail in toolkit case||Shantanu Muluk, who is accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, Tuesday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail. The application moved by Muluk is likely to come up for hearing Wednesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. Muluk had got transit bail from Bombay High Court on February 16 for 10 days. He, along with Ravi and another accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. According to the Delhi police, Shantanu Muluk and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob along with Ravi, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Her police custody ends on Tuesday. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail. Meanwhile, Ravi reached the office of the Delhi Police Cyber Cell on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the "toolkit Google doc" backing the ongoing farmers' agitation, officials said. Jacob and Muluk joined the probe on Monday. They were questioned at the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office in Dwarka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||Modi warns against dangers of climate change||Warning against the dangers of climate change and natural disasters like the one in Uttarakhand recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday asked the IITs to develop disaster resilient infrastructure that can withstand their effects. Addressing the 66th convocation of IIT (Kharagpur), the oldest of Indian Institutes of Technology, he gave the students the mantra of "Self-3" "self-awarness, self- confidence and selflessness" in order to become startups for bringing about a change in the lives of people. He also spoke of the need for making available safe, affordable and environment friendly energy to people through initiatives like the International Solar Alliance. "Climate change is a major challenge as natural disasters destroy infrastructure. India drew the attention of the world to the issue of disaster management. "You can see what happened recently in Uttarakhand. We should focus on developing disaster resilient infrastructure that can withstand natural disasters," he said. The prime minister referred to the global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which he announced at the UN Climate Action Summit in 2019. The CDRI envisages partnership of national governments, UN agencies and programmes, multilateral development banks, financing mechanisms, private sector, and knowledge institutions to promote the resilience of new and existing infrastructure systems to climate and disaster risks to ensure sustainable development. He hailed the role played by the IITs in developing technology to battle COVID-19, and said the hallowed institutes should now work fast on finding futuristic solutions to other health care problems. "You represent the aspirations of 130 crore people of India," he said, while addressing the convocation virtually." Noting that the needs and aspirations of the 21st century India have changed, Modi said, "IITs also need to transform from being just Indian Institutes of Technology to Institutes of Indigenous Technologies." "You have to become startups to bring about a change in the lives of people. You have to work on Self 3-- self- awareness, self-confidence and selflessness. You should recognise your potential and move forward, move ahead with full confidence, move ahead with selflessness," he told the students. Underscoring the need for clean and affordable energy, the prime minister said India presented to the world the concept of International Solar Alliance. He said the cost per unit of solar power was very little in India. However, it was still a great challenge to reach it to people's homes. "Can you do something about reaching solar cookers to homes using 'chulha' (earthen ovens)," he asked. He said before the coronavirus struck people used to keep only medicines at their homes. "Things have changed. They now keep machines that measure blood pressure, machines that measure blood oxygen. A huge market has emerged for personal health care equipment," he said while speaking about research and innovation in the field. He said IIT students can make use of PM Research Fellow Scheme and the Startup India Mission for idea incubation. The prime minister spoke about the government liberalising regulations on geospatial data to allow private companies to conduct survey and mapping without prior government approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce. He said the decision will provide a huge impetus to Digital India and was a step forward in the direction of realising the vision 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||BJP set to sweep Gujarat civic polls||The BJP has so far won 300 out of the total 576 seats across six municipal corporations in Gujarat, the State Election Commission (SEC) said on Tuesday afternoon as counting of votes is underway. Congress, the main opposition party, had won only 36 seats, the SEC said about 4 pm. The Congress has not won a single seat in Surat where the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), a new entrant, made impressive inroads by winning eight seats. The Bahujan Samaj Party has won three seats in Jamnagar. A total of 192 seats in Ahmedabad, 72 in Rajkot, 64 in Jamnagar, 52 in Bhavnagar, 76 in Vadodara and 120 in Surat were up for grabs in the elections held on February 21. The BJP has won 62 seats in Ahmedabad corporation, 51 in Rajkot, 50 in Jamnagar, 31 in Bhavnagar, 61 in Vadodara and 45 in Surat. The Congress has won 10 seats in Ahmedabad, four in Rajkot, 11 in Jamnagar, five in Bhavnagar, seven in Vadodara and zero seats in Surat. The AAP, which had fielded 470 candidates across six corporations, won eight seats in Surat. Its workers celebrated by cutting cakes after the party won two panels (each having four candidates) in the city. In a major setback to Congress, it has not won a single seat in Surat, nor was it leading on any seat. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel expressed gratitude to the voters and BJP workers for the results. "The grand victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the elections of six municipal corporations is the victory of the people of Gujarat. "This is a grand victory of the politics of development started by Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi," tweeted Rupani in Gujarati. The people of Gujarat have provided "a subject" to political analysts who can study how the concept of anti-incumbency does not apply in the state, he said. "Many thanks and congratulations to all the winning candidates, BJP office-bearers, workers and the voters of Gujarat for the glorious victory of Bharatiya Janata Party in the elections," tweeted Nitin Patel. PTI KA PD KRK KRK||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
23-02-2021||India||SC stays hearing against discharge of Kerala CM in graft case||The Supreme Court Tuesday adjourned the hearing on CBI's plea against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in a graft case related to awarding of a contract to Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin when he was the power minister. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit deferred the matter to April 6 after Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the CBI, sought adjournment in the matter. "I am engaged in a part heard matter in another court. Please have it next week," the ASG said. The bench then posted the hearing to April 6. The case pertains to allegations of corruption and causing a loss of Rs 374.50 crore to the state Exchequer in awarding of a contract to SNC-Lavalin when Vijayan was the power minister in 1996. The top court had earlier asked the CBI to come up with very strong grounds against the discharge of Vijayan and two others in the SNC Lavalin graft case. The high court and the lower court have held that they should not be tried in the matter. The CBI said this was a cross-appeals matter filed in 2017 and it will file a comprehensive note giving the factual aspect of the matter. On August 23, 2017, the Kerala High Court had upheld the discharge of Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin graft case, saying the CBI had "wrongly picked" him as prima facie there was no case against him. The high court had also upheld the discharge of two others in the case while rejecting the CBI's plea that their full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy. The high court's verdict had come in a revision petition filed by the CBI in 2014 challenging the discharge of Vijayan and five others in the case by a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI special court, Thiruvananthapuram, had in November 2013 discharged Vijayan and others. The probe agency had filed the charge sheet in the case arguing that there was sufficient evidence to prove the charges against the accused. The discharge by the special court was 'illegal', CBI had stated in its revision petition. The special judge had ruled that the CBI had failed to prove the charges of conspiracy and corruption levelled against Vijayan and other accused. The CBI had argued before the high court that a trial was must to prove the conspiracy in giving the contract to revamp the power projects to the Canadian firm when Vijayan was power minister in 1996. Claiming that the conspiracy was hatched at different stages in awarding the contract, the CBI had assailed the lower court order discharging Vijayan and six others and said a full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi reaches Delhi Police Cyber Cell office||Climate activist Disha Ravi reached the office of the Delhi Police Cyber Cell on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the "toolkit Google doc" backing the ongoing farmers' agitation, officials said. A Delhi court on Monday sent Ravi to one-day police custody as it said she has to be confronted with other accused in the case -- Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. Jacob and Muluk joined the probe on Monday. They were questioned at the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office in Dwarka. The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi, while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by court. Police had alleged that the "toolkit" was part of a global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in India in the garb of the farmers' protest against the agri laws. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi demanding repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||NGT directs NTPC to pay Rs 58 lakh for damaging environment in Uttarakhand||The National Green Tribunal has junked a plea by NTPC seeking review of an order passed by Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board (PCB) imposing a penalty of Rs 57.96 lakh for damaging the environment. The state-owned power major was found to have violated muck disposal site maintenance norms, resulting in damage to the environment. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that slope of the muck dumped at its Tapovan Vishnugad hydro power project in Chamoli was hazardously double the standards with potential for erosion and dismissed the NTPC Ltd's plea against the state PCB order. "Erosion was already seen in terms of gully formation in down streams of the muck dumps. Thus, it is clear that the operative muck disposal sites were not being maintained as per the Ministry of Environment and Forests laid down norms," the bench said. "In view of the above, there is no merit in the appeal as 'Polluter Pays' principle has been rightly invoked for damage to the environment. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. The amount of compensation which may be recovered by the state pollution control board may be utilised for restoration of the environment," the tribunal said. The NGT noted that NTPC is operating Tapovan Vishnugad hydro power project and has set up 5 muck disposal dumping sites out of which three were completed 3-5 years back while two are still active and operational and the state PCB found deficiencies in respect of the same. The state PCB had passed order under Section 33 A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Water Act) requiring the appellant NTPC to pay compensation of Rs 57,96,000 on the polluter pays principle for the restoration of the environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Habitat loss resulting in inbreeding of Indian tigers: Study||While Indian tigers have the highest genetic variation compared to other subspecies of the feline across the world, their populations continue to be fragmented by loss of habitat, leading to inbreeding and potential loss of this diversity, says a new study that may inform conservation strategies. "As human population started expanding, so also their signatures on the land. We know that some of these signatures would result in disrupting the ability of tigers to move," Uma Ramakrishnan, co-author of the research, published in the journal Molecular Biology and Evolution, told PTI. According to Ramakrishnan, molecular ecologist and assistant professor at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, this habitat loss from human activities leads to tigers being "hemmed into their own protected area." "Now, they can only mate with the other tigers in their own population. Over time, this will result in inbreeding, they will end up mating with their relatives," she explained. "Whether this inbreeding compromises their fitness, their ability to survive, we do not yet know," the molecular ecologist added. While genetic diversity across a population improves their chances of survival in the future, the study said population fragmentation of tigers can decrease this variation, and endanger them further. Although tigers have received significant conservation attention, the scientists said very little is known about their evolutionary history and genomic variation, especially for Indian tigers. With 70 per cent of the world's tigers living in India, the researchers said understanding the genetic diversity of tigers in the country is critical to the feline's conservation worldwide. The results of their three-year long study offer insights into genomic variation in tigers and the processes that have sculpted it. Based on the results, the scientists believe there have been relatively recent divergences between subspecies, and intense population bottlenecks that may have contributed to inbred individuals. According to the NCBS scientist, maintaining structural connectivity, enabling tigers to move between protected areas can help overcome these bottlenecks. "This would require the right types of habitat between protected areas, for example having densely populated human settlements would not work. Further, there also needs to be functional connectivity, that tigers do actually move," Ramakrishnan added. In the study, the scientists sequenced whole genomes from 65 individual tigers from four subspecies of the feline, and conducted a variety of population genomic analyses that quantify genetic variability. They investigated the partitioning of genetic variation, possible impacts of inbreeding, and demographic history, and possible signatures of local adaptation. While the total genomic variation in Indian tigers was higher than in other subspecies, the study found that several individual tigers in the country had low variation, suggesting possible inbreeding. According to the research, tigers from northeast India were the most different from other populations in India. "Given our results, it is important to understand why some Bengal tigers appear inbred and what the consequences of this are," said Anubhab Khan, co-first author of the research. The study showed recent divergences between tiger subspecies, within the last 20,000 years, which the scientists believe is concordant with increasing human impacts across Asia and a transition from glacial to interglacial climate change in the continent. However, the scientists believe this finding needs to be investigated further with expanded data and analyses of more tiger genomes. "Most studies focusing on species of conservation concern use limited numbers of specimens to try to gain understanding into how genomic variation is partitioned," said Ellie Armstrong, co-first and co-corresponding author of the study from Stanford University in the US. "It is clear from our work here, and a growing number of other studies, that it is crucial to increase our sampling efforts and use caution when interpreting results from limited sample sizes," Armstrong added. According to Ramakrishnan, the genomic variation of Indian tigers continues to be shaped by the ongoing loss of connectivity. "Population management and conservation action must incorporate information on genetic variation. I hope doing so will help India maintain the gains in tiger conservation achieved so far," Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Govt working on four fronts to keep India healthy, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government is taking a holistic approach to healthcare in the country and is not just focused on treatment but also wellness. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the health sector, Modi said the budget allocated for the health sector now is phenomenal and shows the government's commitment towards this sector. The prime minister said it is time to take accessibility, affordability in healthcare to the next level for which use of modern technology is being increased. To keep India healthy, the government is working on four fronts simultaneously -- prevention of illness and promotion of wellness, healthcare access to all, increase in quality and quantity of healthcare infrastructure and professionals, to work on a mission mode to overcome problems, Modi said. The world has noted the strength shown by India's health sector during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, asserting that respect for India's healthcare had gone up during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the future, demand for Indian doctors and paramedical staff is going to go up around the world, he said. The prime minister also said that the country has to be prepared for an increasing demand for Made in India vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Dip in fresh Covid cases, over 10,000 infected in a day||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases surged to 1,10,16,434 with 10,584 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have crossed 1.07 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,463 with 78 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,12,665 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.24 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active coronavirus infections in the country have reduced to 1,47,306 which comprises 1.34 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,22,30,431 samples have been tested up to February 22 with 6,78,685 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 18 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 15 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,463 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,806 from Maharashtra followed by 12,466 from Tamil Nadu, 12,299 from Karnataka, 10,901 from Delhi, 10,251 from West Bengal, 8,716 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Court: Can’t be a mute spectator and allow Varavara's health to deteriorate in custody ||Varavara Rao, the 80-year-old Telugu poet held in judicial custody at a Mumbai hospital, has been granted medical bail for six months by Bombay High Court in the Elgaar Parishad case. The court dismissed the National Investigation Agency’s contention that Rao was not entitled to relief on humanitarian grounds, saying it could not be a “mute spectator” and allow his health to deteriorate in custody. “With all humility at our command, keeping in view human consideration, the well-recognised fundamental rights of the undertrial to have quality medical aid for serious ailments suffered by him, advanced age, inadequate facilities in the hospital attached to the Taloja Central Prison, we are of the opinion that this is a genuine and fit case to grant relief,” the high court bench said. The bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale added: “Or else, we will be abdicating our constitutional duty and (our) function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.” Rao’s lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted later: “The most important thing about the judgement is that it recognises the fundamental rights of all prisoners to health, life and liberty. But many less fortunate languish in jail with no medical or legal help, spare a thought for them.” Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, aged 83 and suffering from Parkinsonism, is among several undertrials still in prison in connection with the case. Rao has been directed to stay within the jurisdiction of the NIA court in the city during the bail period and prohibited from establishing contact with his co-accused in the case. Rao will be discharged from the hospital depending on his health. A relative told this newspaper that as other cases too were pending against Rao, they were trying to find out whether he would remain in custody or be released. If freed, a home will have to be rented and geriatric care facilities arranged. Rao has spent the past two years in Maharashtra’s prisons, accused in connection with an alleged Maoist plot to incite violence at an Ambedkarite event in 2018 as well as to eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In November last year, the high court had ordered Rao to be moved to the Nanavati Hospital for treatment of dementia and urinary tract infection. Both conditions had developed during Rao’s almost two-year-old stint in prison without trial. Jaising had cited a doctor’s observation that the poet’s urinary catheter had not been changed for three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||UP BJP faces farmers’ wrath: Union minister made to abandon plan to meet villagers||Union minister Sanjeev Balyan’s policy of gate-crashing farmers’ family events to thumb his nose at a Bharatiya Kisan Union call to boycott BJP members triggered a clash that left four villagers hospitalised on Monday and spawned the gherao of a police station. Residents of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar district, western Uttar Pradesh, said Balyan’s “goons” and policemen had used sticks to thrash villagers protesting his visit in the afternoon. After the Muzaffarnagar MP and 2013 riots accused left, policemen entered homes, dragged men and women out and threatened them, they alleged. The villagers held a panchayat and surrounded Shahpur police station, 4km away, demanding action against the minister of state for animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development. The three-hour gherao ended around 9.30pm after the police promised action on the basis of their complaint. “Balyan’s men had lathis in their cars and attacked those chanting slogans peacefully against their visit. They dragged me out of my home and damaged my doors,” a villager, Sarita Devi, said. “Instead of acting against the minister and his goons, the police have detained five farmers,” local farmer Madan Singh told reporters. Balyan accused the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) of engineering protests while he was attending the terahvin (a post-death ceremony) at a villager’s home, and said he had left as soon as “some people clashed with some others”. But villagers said residents of the neighbourhood had protested when Balyan arrived uninvited and thrust his company on an unwilling host — a tactic that is earning the minister scorn and anger in his stronghold. Balyan has been systematically storming homes, confident that his status and the farmers’ civility would avert any rebuff, since BKU leader Naresh Tikait announced on February 18 that peasants of the region would not invite any BJP member to their homes. This was a huge snub in a region where, as Tikait emphasised, “we tend to invite the entire area to family events like marriages and last rites”. “Those who (host BJP members) will be punished and made to offer food to 100 local people,” Tikait had said. Balyan took up the dare and began visiting homes with a vengeance — taking in villages like Kankra, Goela, and Jaitpur on Saturday and Sunday — either to express condolences for deaths or to attend engagement ceremonies. Sometimes he got outwitted. When Balyan headed for Bhainswal in adjoining Shamli district on Sunday, residents got wind of it and blocked the roads with their tractors. Tikait on Monday appealed for calm, saying a democracy gives everyone the right to state their case. He, however, asked people’s representatives to be mindful of people’s sentiments. The BJP is said to have tasked Balyan with placating his Jat constituency in western Uttar Pradesh, worried by the community’s anger at the new farm laws and recent efforts at reviving the formidable Jat-Muslim “brotherhood” that had been the party’s nemesis for decades. That brotherhood had been shredded by the September 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, which Balyan is accused of instigating, making him a divisive figure in this context. However, he so far seems to have attracted strong derision from Jat farmers. Sudheer Chaudhary, village panchayat chief of Soram, said Balyan had come to his home from the terahvin and touched his father’s feet. “This angered the villagers as we have been staying away from BJP leaders on the BKU’s call,” he said. Santresh Devi, a Soram resident, said: “Policemen barged into my home after Balyan and his goons left and pointed a pistol at my son. They dragged him out and threatened him.” She added: “Earlier during the clashes, Balyan’s goons attacked (neighbourhood youths) Situ, Yogesh, Omkar and Bablu.” Sarita Devi said: “We had created Sanjeev Balyan and now he is playing with our honour.” Balyan said: “There was a terahvin for Rajveer Singh in Soram. Some RLD workers arrived and started chanting slogans. The villagers drove them away. When the police arrived, I said I didn’t want any action against those people.” He said it was his “democratic right” to meet people and discuss certain issues. RLD leader Ajit Rathi, who was at the Shahpur police station, said: “The villagers have called a mahapanchayat in Soram on February 26 to discuss today’s incident and devise a strategy to keep the BJP at bay.” RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary tweeted in Hindi: “Many people have suffered injuries in a clash between the BJP and farmers. At least, you (BJP leaders) can behave properly even if you can’t talk in favour of the farmers.” ‘Ridiculous’ jab Another Muzaffarnagar village, Raipur Nangli, had held a panchayat on Monday morning and reaffirmed the pledge to not entertain BJP members until the three farm laws had been repealed. However, Balyan, BJP zonal president Mohit Beniwal, Budhana MLA Umesh Malik and a few other party leaders visited the home of an apparently unwilling Gajendra Singh Ahlawat, chief of the Ahlawat khap, in Raipur Nangli on Saturday. “The villagers chanted slogans against the Centre, BJP and Balyan. I told Balyan there was no reason to entertain them until the farm laws had been withdrawn. They soon left,” Ahlawat told reporters. “They are turning up at farmers’ family functions without invitations, which is ridiculous.” Rajveer Singh, a farmer in Khatauli, said: “Our houses are mostly open from the front, and we cannot stop anybody from sitting in our courtyards. But we will not invite BJP leaders.” He added: “Those who come without invitation should be ready to face opposition. We appeal to BJP leaders not to test our patience.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had insulted the farmers’ movement by saying “laws cannot be repealed by collecting a crowd”. It reminded him that this same crowd had voted for the BJP in previous elections. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Indian Medical Association accuses Union health minister of breaching ethics ||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday accused Union health minister Harsh Vardhan of breaching ethics by joining an event by an ayurvedic company to promote through misleading messages a herbal cocktail touted as an anti-Covid-19 medication. The IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, asked Vardhan to explain why he had associated himself with an event on Friday where Patanjali Ayurved claimed it had developed the “first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”. The IMA said Vardhan -- a medical doctor -- had breached a code of ethics doctors are bound to uphold. The event was attended by yoga evangelist Baba Ramdev -– the public face of Patanjali Ayurved -– and featured a banner that said in large red letters: “Announcement of First Evidence Based Medicine for COVID-19 (CoPP-WHO GMP certified)”. CoPP stands for “certificate of pharmaceutical product”, a reference to a certificate from India’s drug regulatory authority relating to good manufacturing practices (GMP) and issued in a format prescribed by WHO. Doctors underlined on Monday that GMP had nothing to do with the efficacy of a product. On Friday, as an impression gained ground after the event that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the ayush ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment in line with WHO’s certification scheme, Patanjali managing director Acharya Balkrishna issued a clarification. Balkrishna tweeted: “We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India. It is clear that WHO do not approve or disapprove any drugs. WHO works for building a better, healthier future for people all over the world.” Hours after the event on Friday, WHO’s South East Asia Regional Office had tweeted: “WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19.” However, the way the banner was emblazoned behind the ministers (road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari was the chief guest) and the claim was drafted gave the false impression that the medicine had been approved by WHO, IMA executives said. The IMA, which has a membership of over 350,000 doctors across India, has now questioned the minister’s decision to join the event. The “false and fabricated projection of an unscientific medicine by the health minister” and the denial by WHO is a “slap and insult” to the people of India, the IMA said in a statement released on Monday. “We are asking – why did he have to go there?” said Johnrose Austin Jayalal, the IMA’s national president. The IMA has asked minister Vardhan whether it was appropriate for him to participate in an event where a product was being promoted in “unethical, wrong and false ways to the country”. “We’re in the middle of the Covid-19 epidemic – what if people see the minister and this event on TV channels and then buy the medicine,” said Jayesh Lele, the IMA’s general secretary. The Union health ministry has not responded to an email query from this newspaper seeking Vardhan’s response to the criticism from sections of the medical community. An email sent to the media division of Patanjali Ayurved had not elicited a response until Monday night. Lele and Jayalal said the banner screaming “WHO” and “GMP” was probably intended to create the false impression that the product had WHO certification. “GMP is completely different – it has nothing to do with the efficacy of a product,” Lele said. “Efficacy has to be evaluated through randomised double-blinded placebo controlled trials. Why don’t they do such a trial?” The IMA has underscored that doctors are bound by a code of ethics that prohibits them from approving, recommending, endorsing, certifying or issuing statements on drugs or medicines “in any form or manner of advertising”. Vardhan had tweeted that he was pleased to have joined the event to mark the release of a “scientific research paper on the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 developed by Patanjali”. Several doctors had over the weekend expressed concern that the minister’s presence at the programme and his tweets were tantamount to endorsing the product, which they say remains to be rigorously assessed. Doctors at a private medical college in Jaipur who had conducted a clinical trial on Coronil have published a scientific paper in the peer-reviewed medical journal Phytomedicine. But several medical researchers within and outside India have questioned the content of the paper, highlighting what they believe are “flaws” and “inconsistencies”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Revival of brotherhood between Jats and Muslims in western Uttar Pradesh||At 85, farmer leader Ghulam Mohammad Jaula has found a new and invigorating reason to live and die for. The revival of the “bhaichara” or brotherhood between Jats and Muslims in western Uttar Pradesh, abutting Delhi. For decades, the unity between Jats and Muslims had dictated electoral politics in the region, where either community made up about 30 per cent of the population. But the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots had shredded that bond, fuelling the BJP’s rise to dominance in an area where it never had a foothold, and contributing to the emergence of a nationwide political climate that led the party to victory in the 2014 general election. But the Narendra Modi government’s imposition of the three farm laws and crackdown on the farmer protests, particularly the one led by Rakesh Tikait at the Ghazipur border, has tentatively brought the two communities together again, promising to heal the wounds of 2013. “Ab hum unke liye ladenge aur woh hamare liye (Now they will fight for us and we for them),” the six-foot-plus Jaula said, fingers firmly clasped around his stick as he settled in a chair in his outhouse at Jaula village, 40km from district headquarters Muzaffarnagar. “They” meant Jats and “us”, Muslims. Jaula, who derives his surname from the name of his village, wields considerable authority in the region as former right-hand man of the legendary farmer leader Mahendra Singh “Baba” Tikait, and one-time Muslim face of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. “Hamara rishta sagey bhaiyon se bhi gehra tha (Our relationship was deeper than that between blood brothers),” is how Jaula describes his bond with the elder Tikait, whose death in 2011 left the BKU in the hands of his sons Naresh and Rakesh. Jaula had dissociated himself from the BKU in 2013 after Jats and Muslims found themselves pitted against each other as communal violence engulfed Muzaffarnagar. More than 60 were killed and thousands of Muslim families forced to flee. With the Tikait brothers accused of involvement in the riots, Jaula snapped ties and floated his own outfit. Today, the octogenarian doesn’t want to recall the past: the present is too exciting for him. He set off the efforts to bury the hatchet at a January 29 mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, where he told Naresh Tikait to his face to acknowledge the “two mistakes” he and his Jat brethren had committed. Naresh did. “I told them (Naresh and the Jats) that their first mistake had been to defeat their chaudhary (leader) Ajit Singh (in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls),” Jaula said. Ajit, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader and son of revered farmer leader and former Prime Minister Charan Singh, had been fielded by a combined Opposition that included the Samajawadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. He lost to the BJP’s Sanjeev Balyan, who stands accused of instigating the 2013 riots. It was Charan who had in the 1970s united the Jats and Muslims, who stood firmly behind him and Ajit through four decades, with the Samajwadis too benefiting courtesy their off-and-on alliance with Ajit. The January 29 mahapanchayat had been called after videos from the previous night showed Rakesh Tikait sobbing at the Ghazipur border, accusing the Uttar Pradesh administration and “BJP goons” of conspiring to beat up and kill or evict the protesting farmers. By the break of dawn, thousands — mainly from western Uttar Pradesh — had arrived at the Ghazipur border in solidarity with the farmers, turning the tide against the government. However, with their pride and dignity hurt like seldom before, Jat farmer leaders Naresh and Rakesh began looking for political muscle to counter the government and hit on the idea of exhibiting Jat-Muslim unity. Jaula was invited to the afternoon mahapanchayat and he readily agreed. At the gathering, Jaula reminded the Jats also about their “second mistake”, which actually came six years before the “first mistake”. “The Muslims had always been with you (the Jats) but you got them killed in 2013,” Jaula told Naresh. A silent crowd, made up mostly of Jat farmers, listened intently. “These are the two big mistakes you must accept before we move forward,” Jaula said. Sitting on the stage at the mahapanchayat, Naresh acknowledged the two mistakes and vowed they won’t be repeated again. The crowd cheered. “When he (Naresh) acknowledged the mistakes, I too brushed aside the past and decided to join the fight,” Jaula said. The following day, Jaula despatched his supporters to the Ghazipur border in more than 200 vehicles in a show of support for Rakesh. “I’m confident the bond has become stronger and will hold,” Jaula said. “We need each other.” Since the mahapanchayat, a series of similar farmer gatherings have taken place across western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, reinforcing the message to the government that the protest wouldn’t be called off until the new farm laws had been repealed. But the implications of a renewed Jat-Muslim unity in western Uttar Pradesh could go beyond the farmer agitation and have electoral repercussions, with Assembly elections just about a year away. Jaula is certain that the farmers’ protest itself would influence the outcome of the state polls, particularly if the government fails to repeal the contentious farm laws. “The Jats and the Muslims will vote together in all future elections,” he said. Jaula’s son Sajid Ali aka Munna Pradhan, a former gram panchayat pradhan, sounded less confident than his father about a complete revival of the old Jat-Muslim ties. “Yes, a change is visible. Not only the older Jats but their youth too are disappointed in the BJP,” Munna said. But he added after a pause: “Waise toh sab thik lag raha hai, lekin kaun janta hai unke dil me kya hai (On the face of it everything looks fine but who knows what’s in their heart).” Recalling the events leading to the Jats’ “first mistake”, Munna said that Ajit, for whom Jaula had campaigned intensely, had looked set to drub Balyan in the 2019 general election. “However, in a sudden change on polling eve, Jat youths and many of their elders shifted loyalties to the BJP,” Munna said. Jaula obliquely pointed a finger at the Tikait brothers. “They (the Tikait brothers) called a panchayat and invited Ajit Singh to assure him support,” he said. “I don’t know what happened (behind the scenes) and the next day, the brothers organised a second panchayat and invited Balyan and promised to support him.” Balyan belongs to the same “khap” -- the Balyan khap --- as the Tikait brothers. The khap panchayats are traditional village councils that lack official sanctity but wield enormous influence. It’s widely believed in Muzaffarnagar that the second panchayat called by the Tikait brothers tilted the scales in Balyan’s favour. Ajit lost by just over 3,700 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
23-02-2021||India||Covid-19: How vaccine anxiety was fuelled||A jumble of opaque decisions, misleading claims and implicit coercion by India’s health and regulatory authorities is likely to have amplified vaccine hesitancy among potential recipients and compounded the challenges before India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, multiple medical experts have said. The experts say it is unclear whether those actions by officials largely during early January were unintentional blunders or planned moves in an unfamiliar pandemic landscape. But health ministry bulletins show that the vaccination drive has inoculated less than 50 per cent of the target — which is 100 vaccinations per session. Over 10.83 million healthcare and frontline workers had received vaccinations up to Sunday February 20 which is about 47 per cent of the ideal target of 22.94 million recipients through the 229,462 sessions since the campaign's start on January 16. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had last month accused “vested political interests” of spreading rumours and “encouraging vaccine hesitancy”, and asserted that prominent doctors and many other healthcare workers have taken Covid-19 vaccines without any side-effects. While releasing posters to address vaccine hesitancy, the minister had said it was a “paradox” that other countries had sought Covid-19 vaccines from India but “a section of our own is fomenting misinformation for narrow political ends”. Many experts, however, believe that the officials driving the campaign too have fuelled vaccine anxiety. “Their intentions may be good, but intentions must also be seen to be good — this is critical in public health,” said Thekekkara Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “But we’re seeing a style of administration bound to vitiate even good intentions,” John told The Telegraph. John and others say that patchy information and conflicting messages from health officials, coupled with their poor defence of the decisions taken, had mired the vaccine rollout in an avoidable muddle, causing many doctors to question elements of the campaign and decline the jabs. The campaign had up to Monday February 22 inoculated about 6.4 million — or 67 per cent of 9.6 million healthcare workers due to receive their first doses by the second deadline of February 24. Only eight states have vaccinated more than 75 per cent of their healthcare workers. The campaign is using two vaccines: Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford product made by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Both were granted accelerated approvals for restricted emergency use with limited data. “Both approvals should have been explained through much stronger scientific defence of those decisions. There are public health reasons to justify the rollout of both vaccines,” said a medical expert who requested not to be named. “But our officials failed to communicate this clearly.” Some researchers have questioned the approval granted to Covaxin on the basis of its safety and immune responses while its efficacy is still under evaluation. They have asked whether the approval was driven by a political desire to introduce an Indian vaccine alongside the UK product. Senior health officials and members of the national Covid-19 task force have repeatedly asserted that Indian drug regulations allow accelerated approvals under extraordinary threats like the one posed by the pandemic. “Approval to Covaxin deviated from standard practice, but no one is playing by the rules. All Covid-19 vaccines elsewhere too have received emergency authorisation,” said a member of the national task force. “There are strong arguments in favour of Covaxin, but no one articulated them the way they should have.” Some scientists have underlined that Covaxin uses a vaccine platform familiar for decades — an inactivated (killed) virus — which makes it potentially safer than alternative platforms that involve live viruses or genetic material. Covaxin, they have asserted, was administered to over 25,000 volunteers during studies on safety and immune responses while around 1,600 volunteers in India received Covishield. Some believe the chest-thumping about Covaxin’s approval and the size of the vaccination campaign didn’t help. John said: “Boastful messages about an Indian vaccine and the world’s largest campaign would likely make medical professionals wonder, ‘Does the vaccination have a public health or a political goal?’” Opaque, misleading The opacity and misleading signals, experts say, were evident on the day of the vaccine approvals. While announcing the approvals on January 3, Venugopal Somani, the head of India’s drug regulatory authority, had outlined the safety, immunological and efficacy studies on Covishield and the safety and immunological studies on Covaxin that led to the accelerated approvals. But, a senior clinical pharmacologist said, Somani’s “eight-minute monologue” provided “scanty” information that contrasted sharply with the volume of information provided by the regulatory authorities in the UK or the US when they released Covid-19 vaccines. The UK’s regulatory authority released a 57-page document detailing its decision to approve the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. Likewise, the US Food and Drug Administration released a 61-page memorandum on its decision on the Moderna vaccine and a 57-page memorandum on thePfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Alongside the lack of regulatory transparency in India, some health officials pitched arguments that experts believe were intended to douse criticism of the accelerated approvals but were misleading. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and a senior physician guiding India’s Covid-19 response, had on January 3 said Covaxin would be a backup ifCovishield didn’t work against mutant variants of the coronavirus. But health officials made it clear within days that Covaxin was not a backup. Guleria himself received Covaxin. In a video released to the media by the Union health ministry, Guleria also claimed that the vaccines approved in India would have the same efficacy as those released in other countries. “There’s never been a head-to-head comparison of efficacy across the vaccines – we don’t even know the final efficacy of the vaccines yet. A claim that all vaccines in India are equally effective won’t work, especially among doctors,” one expert said. Neither Guleria nor the health ministry has responded to queries from this newspaper about these claims. The campaign’s protocols too have evoked criticism, with some doctors and researchers highlighting what they believe are contradictions and elements of coercion. Senior health officials have asserted that the beneficiaries would not be able to choose between the two vaccines. Also, the health ministry has remained silent about criteria adopted to determine how the two vaccines would be distributed across the states and within the states. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the decision on distribution has been left to the states. But health officials in two states have told this newspaper that the choice is not easy given the differences between the development status of the two vaccines and the knowledge among doctors that Covaxin has yet to prove its efficacy. Groups of doctors in several states, including Bengal, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, have signalled their preference for Covishield. “The government is pretending that there is only one vaccine, but there are two vaccines being treated differently,” said Satyajit Rath, a medical immunologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “This pretence has probably added to vaccine anxiety and compounded the challenges.” The drug controller-general of India has approved the use of Covaxin under a so-called clinical trial mode, which will require the recipients to sign an informed-consent form. But, as Rath and others have underscored, the absence of choice between the two vaccines for the recipients and the informed-consent process represent both a contradiction and an implicit coercion. “We’re told the vaccination campaign is voluntary, but we’re also told to take the vaccine offered to us as a duty,” said a senior medical professional in Bengal. “What happens to those who exercise the right to refuse Covaxin as allowed under the informed-consent process? Would they get left out? Is that ethical?” Rath says the confusion could have been avoided through an open call for a much larger Covaxin trial. “They’ve pushed themselves into a mess,” Rath said. “Many doctors and healthcare workers, if offered adequate information about the safety and the promising immune responses of Covaxin, would have happily participated in such a trial.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy resigns ahead of trust vote||Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues resigned on Monday after the government lost majority, with 11 members in the House against the Opposition’s 14. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking a vote of confidence was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The chief minister said the ruling side walked out after Speaker V. Sivakolundhu did not accept its contention that only elected members have voting rights during the confidence vote, apparently referring to the three nominated BJP members. “Our view that only the elected members can vote in the House was not accepted by the Speaker. So, we walked out of the Assembly and met the lieutenant governor and gave resignation letter of my cabinet,” the Congress veteran said. Legal experts would be consulted on the matter, he said, while dubbing the turn of events surrounding the issue of voting rights of nominated members, the BJP in this case, as a “murder of democracy”. Narayanasamy said he was accompanied by his ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs besides the independent legislator who had earlier supported the government. It was up to the lieutenant governor to decide on their resignation, he added. He, however, did not respond to queries on his next course of action. The Congress governemnt in Puducherry fell after Narayanasamy’s resignation. With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||12 assistant professors axed for dancing to Bollywood tunes with students and kin||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan has suspended 12 assistant professors of Rajendra College, Chapra, for dancing to Bollywood tunes and pop music with their family members and students at the institution’s annual day function, triggering charges of “moral policing”. The governor — chancellor of all state universities — has also suspended principal Premendra Ranjan Singh, indicted by a probe for “cake-cutting” and “inserting item songs and dance” into an event held on the birth anniversary of India’s first President, Rajendra Prasad, after whom the college is named. Chauhan, a former Uttar Pradesh BJP leader with roots in the RSS, has further suspended three professors of Jai Prakash University, to which Rajendra College is affiliated, on the charge of failing to carry out an “impartial” inquiry into the dance controversy and “giving benefits” to the dancing teachers. The trio were part of a probe committee formed by JPU vice-chancellor Faruque Ali. A letter issued to Ali by joint secretary Raj Kumar Sinha from the governor’s secretariat says the 12 teachers were punished for “gross misconduct and dereliction of duties” and mentions the dancing. Several academics have castigated the February 13 action against the teachers as “unwarranted moral policing” by self-appointed “guardians of our culture”. The presumption is that the real charge, unsaid but left hanging in the air, is that the dancing constituted obscene behaviour. “We danced for just about five minutes. We were dancing with our students, colleagues and family members — wives, daughters and sons. How can anyone dare think there was any obscenity? It was a normal, happy function,” one of the suspended assistant professors said. Another said: “We had participated in such events as students at reputable universities across the country. This is unwarranted moral policing by people who consider themselves the guardians of our culture.” A few purported video clips of the event that The Telegraph has seen do not show anything that would have been out of place at a family wedding. The suspended assistant professors are from the college’s psychology, chemistry, commerce, economics, English and Hindi departments. The action was taken on the basis of social media videos because a few days after the event, purported burglars made off with the college’s digital video recorder which contained recordings of the event. Teachers at the college said the social media clips show some of the 12 teachers dancing. The songs played include the Haryanvi number Teri Aakhya ka yo Kajal by Sapna Chaudhary and London Thumakda from the Bollywood movie Queen. A suspended teacher said the dancing had begun after the chief guests had left, with some teachers joining in at the students’ request. After the video clips went viral, Ali formed a three-member probe committee with professors Ashok Kumar Jha (dean, faculty of science), Uday Shankar Ojha (dean, student welfare) and proctor Kapil Dev Singh on December 5. The committee visited the college and asked teachers to write about the event. Twelve did but many others refused. On the basis of the committee’s report, Ali handed the 12 assistant professors increment and dearness allowance deductions. Raj Bhavan too constituted a two-member probe committee on December 7 with Patna University vice-chancellor G.K. Choudhary and Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) vice-chancellor S.P. Singh. The panel visited Rajendra College on December 10. On February 13, the increment and DA deductions were withdrawn and the suspensions imposed on the governor’s orders. All the 16 academics suspended were given 15 days to explain their conduct. Sinha’s letter to Ali says the chancellor (governor) had acted after reviewing the two-member panel’s report. “He (the principal) showed least respect for the university laws and without having a proper approval, organised the birth anniversary and by inserting item songs and dance in the programme on the stage under the banner of Dr Rajendra Prasad Jayanti Samaroh, as well as, cake-cutting ceremony in his office chamber, deserves to be proceeded against for such an unethical and non-moral practices,” the panel report, a copy of which this newspaper has seen, says. The teachers’ association of the college, which has a faculty strength of 48, said in a statement: “Can a dance performed with family members and children be obscene?... If so, who has the moral authority to decide?” A professor at the college said the suspended assistant professors had all joined the institution within the past three years and helped clean up many malpractices. “They stopped outside interference in admission, classes and examinations, ensured discipline and regular classes and attendance, banned outsiders from loitering on the campus, stopped copying at exams,” the professor said. “Just when the college was looking like a proper place of education after decades, they have been suspended. There’s the hand of the local mafia and politicians in this.” Asked what made the songs and dances obscene and who should be the judge, the governor’s PRO, S.K. Pathak, said on Sunday evening: “I will put the questions before the governor and get back to you if he responds.” There was no response till Monday night. The vice-chancellors who were part of the two-member probe committee refused to be quoted. But one of them said on the condition of anonymity: “The governor took an interest in the case and sent us. We were just a fact-finding committee and we reported the facts. The governor is monitoring everything.” MLC Kedar Pandey, who won from the Saran teachers’ constituency that covers Rajendra College and JPU, questioned the “harsh punishment”. “Several departments in the college have virtually shut down. I have requested Raj Bhavan to be sympathetic towards the teachers. A warning should have been enough if the higher-ups thought they had committed anything wrong,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi sent to one-day police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for editing and sharing a social media “toolkit” on the farmers’ protest, to one-day police custody. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma issued the order after police said she was required to be confronted with the co-accused in the case. Disha, who was produced in court on the expiry of her three-day judicial remand, through her lawyer opposed the plea, asking: “Why should I (Disha) be in police custody while those I have to be confronted with are on bail?” The two co-accused, lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, “are currently on transit bail”. “It is a case that has transnational ramifications, with the involvement of those who have expressed their disaffection for this country,” the prosecution told the court, seeking five days’ police custody. “There was involvement of all the three accused persons. We have to confront all three. We only have seven days more to seek custodial interrogation,” the prosecution told the court, referring to the law under which the case has been lodged that mandates custodial interrogation only up to 15 days after arrest. Disha has already spent eight days in custody, five of which were in police custody. The defence counsel asked why the police did not summon the co-accused earlier. “I (Disha) was already in their custody for five days. The prosecution is talking in a manner as if they got to know all the information about the case today itself. What is new there to seek fresh police custody? If the investigating officer wants to meet Disha beyond 15 days, what will he do? Two people are already on transit bail, why should I (Disha) be in police custody?” the counsel asked. “Those two people are not in police custody. Why my (Disha) police custody is required for the same purpose is a million-dollar question.” “I (Disha) can be in judicial custody and still be confronted with them. After filing the FIR, you were in a hurry to arrest me. Did you ask me to join probe and I did not join? Even when I was arrested on February 13, you called them for February 22. Were you taking this court for granted that you will get police custody till then? “What was I doing in the last five days in custody? They did not take me to my hometown for probe. They have a valid requirement to confront, but that may be met while I am in judicial custody,” the defence counsel said. The defence counsel also informed the court that a sessions court, a superior court than that of a magistrate’s, had reserved the order on Disha’s bail plea for Tuesday. “I have moved a bail application, order on which is reserved for tomorrow. Right now, seeking police custody means overreaching the sessions court, that has reserved order on bail,” the defence said. The public prosecutor opposed the defence’s submission, saying: “It’s wrong to say we are trying to influence the sessions court….” The prosecution further asked why the accused was treating police custody as punishment and that it was “just for the purpose of investigation”. The defence, however, said even law “disfavours” police custody. On Friday, Disha was sent to three-day judicial custody after police had said her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being. The Delhi High Court on Friday heard Disha’s plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it had not leaked nor intended to leak any probe details to the press. Disha was arrested by a cyber cell team of Delhi police from Bangalore on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh: Half of defence shopping cash for local purchases||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said nearly Rs 70,000 crore from the capital allocation of Rs 1.35 lakh crore in the defence budget would be reserved for domestic procurement and a second negative list of items for imports would be issued soon. “The defence ministry has planned to invest about 63 per cent of the outlay for 2021-22, i.e. about Rs 70,221 crore, for domestic defence procurement during the period,” Singh said during a webinar on defence budget organised by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM). Overall, this year’s defence outlay is Rs 4.78 lakh crore, a nominal increase from Rs 4.71 lakh crore last year. The allocation for capital expenditure is Rs 1.35 lakh crore, up 19 per cent from last year’s Rs 1.13 lakh crore. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar said the second negative list of imports was expected to be issued next month and around 10 mid-sized projects would be given to the industry in April. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also addressed the seminar and said the 21stcentury defence sector could not stand without private-sector partnership. In August last year, the Centre had announced the first negative list and said it would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to try and strengthen the country’s fledging defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Singh had said contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore would be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6-7 years, prompting several military veterans to question the move because they felt India did not have enough indigenous capability. They had pointed out that the embargoed items such as artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars were still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The domestic defence players in India now include Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Centre for not filing reply on Jairam Ramesh’s plea against amended RTI Act||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed surprise at the Centre’s failure to file its reply even after being served with a notice on Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s petition challenging amendments to the Right to Information Act that, he alleges, have diluted the powers of the Information Commission. “The notice was issued in January 2020. It has been a year since then. How is it that you have not filed a reply yet?” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, asked the Centre’s counsel Kanu Agarwal during a hearing. Justice M.R. Shah, the other judge on the bench, asked: “What is wrong with you? It’s a very important matter.” The counsel pleaded for a two-week adjournment as solicitor-general Tushar Mehta was not available. The court then adjourned the matter by two weeks. On January 31 last year, the court had sought a response within four weeks on Ramesh’s petition challenging amendments to the Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019, that allegedly vested the Centre with absolute powers to prescribe the tenure and salaries of central information commissioners/state information commissioners. “Such an amendment seriously curtails the independence of the institutions created under the transparency law,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandez said. Ramesh’s petition has assailed the following amended sections; ⚫ Sections 2(a) and 2(b) of the Amendment Act alter the erstwhile fixed tenure of five years of the central information commissioners to a tenure to be prescribed by the central government. ⚫ Similarly, Sections 3(a) and 3(b) of the Amendment Act alter the erstwhile fixed tenure of five years of the state information commissioners to a tenure to be prescribed by the central government. ⚫ Section 2(c) of the Amendment Act grants absolute power to the central government to prescribe the salaries, allowances, and terms and conditions of service of the central information commissioners that in the pre-amended act was fixed to be on a par with election commissioners under Section 13(5) of the RTI Act. ⚫ Similarly, the central government under Section 3(c) of the Amendment Act is also granted with absolute powers to prescribe the salaries, allowances and terms and conditions of the state information commissioners that were previously fixed to be on a par with an election commissioner for chief state information commissioners and on a par with the chief secretary of a state for state information commissioners under Section 16(5) of the RTI Act. ⚫ Further, Section 4 of the Amendment Act explicitly grants rule-making power to the government over fixing the tenure, salaries and service conditions of information commissioners under Section 27 of the pre-amended act. “Further, the decision of the central government is binding upon the information commissioners. This allows unbridled and uncanalised discretionary power to the central government that jeopardises the independence of information commissioners,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Bihar budget: NDA government lays special emphasis on education, rural development||This year’s Bihar budget has a different angle compared to other budgets as this is the first budget after series of happenings. Firstly, Bihar Budget 2021-22 is the first budget after devastating impact that the pandemic and the following lockdown have had on the economy. Secondly, it is the first budget after Bihar elections. Thirdly, it is also first budget of the state after Fifteenth Finance Commission recommendations. Finally, among 28 states, Bihar is second to produce its budget after Union Budget 2021-22. West Bengal was the first state to produce its budget for 2021-22. The NDA government on Monday presented a Rs 2.18 lakh crore budget for 2021-22 with special emphasis on education and rural development. The size of the state’s budget has increased nine-fold to touch Rs 218302.70 crore in 2021-22, from Rs 23,885 crore in 2004-05. The pain which the migrants faced throughout the lockdown, translates the reason of allocation of a major chunk of Rs. 24155.75 crore (11.07 per cent) on rural development. Ever since 2004-05, Bihar has consistently been a revenue surplus state. The revenue surplus increased continuously till 2014-15 and then jumped by 153 per cent to reach a record high level of Rs 14,823 crore in 2017-18. However, it declined by 52.5 per cent to reach the figure of Rs 6,897 crore in 2018-19 and is projected to increase by 33 per cent to Rs 9,195 crore in the budget estimate of 2021-22. Budget maths The budget maths of Bihar is quite interesting. The total expenditure in Bihar is expected to be Rs 2.18 lakh crore, indicating an increase of 3.09 per cent over the last year’s estimate of Rs 2.11 lakh crore. While doing budgetary exercise, Bihar always focuses on actual trend. In that case, if we calculate the increase of 2021-22 BE from the actuals of 2019-20 which was Rs 1.44 lakh crore, it shows an increase of 52 per cent over the period of 2 years. The proposed receipt of the government is Rs 218502.70 crore in 2021-22 as against Rs 211961.49 crore in 2020-21, of which revenue receipt is Rs 186267.3 crore (85.3 per cent) and capital receipt is Rs 32235.4 crore (14.8 per cent). Total government expenditure is segregated in to two heads: Revenue and Capital Expenditure. The anticipated revenue expenditure for 2021-22 is Rs 177071.4 crore, which is 7.5 per cent (Rs 164751.2 crore) higher than the revenue expenditure of 2020-21. Contrary to this, the capital expenditure decreased by 12.3 per cent to Rs 41231.3 crore in 2021-22. The increase in revenue expenditure shows government’s commitment towards social services which needs more public spending. But decrease in capital expenditure will also have an adverse effect on the economy as capital expenditure means asset creation. One must note here that Union budget is enhancing its budgetary support for capital expenditure. Receipt and sector-wise expenditure The revenue receipts include state’s share in central taxes, grants-in-aid from central government, state's own tax and non-tax revenue. The share of central taxes has always contributed more than half of Bihar’s total revenues. As per estimates of 2021-22, 67 per cent of the state’s revenue will come from share in central taxes and grants-in-aid which is 1.2 percentage points lower than the estimate of 2020-21, when this share was 68 per cent. As per recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission, the share of states in central tax pool is reduced from 42 to 41 per cent. But in terms of share, Bihar had a benefit of 0.4 percentage points as share of the state was increased from 9.66 per cent (14th Finance Commission) to 10.06 per cent (15th Finance Commission). But this would have profited the state, had the share been 42 per cent. Due to reduction in share from 42 to 41 per cent, ultimately Bihar’s share has decreased. This is also visible from the budget estimate of 2021-22. Although Bihar managed to have surplus budget even after maintaining fiscal discipline as per FRBM norm, the state couldn’t get the benefit of revenue deficit grant. Generally, expenditure in budget is divided into three heads: General, Economic and Social along with loans and advances. A sectorwise glance on allocations shows that giving prime importance to education and rural development the state has earmarked Rs 39467.3 crore (18.1 per cent)for ensuring quality education and Rs 24155 crore (11.1 per cent) to rural development for raising basic infrastructure. Second comes the subjects of water supply, urban development where government allocates Rs 20917.95 crore (9.6 per cent) followed by social security Rs 17508.54 crore (8.0 per cent). Next comes irrigation with Rs 13520.16 crore (6.2 per cent) and after that comes health with Rs 13011.91crore which is around 6.0 per cent of the total budget. But as health has become a prime subject after pandemic and being a state subject needs more attention of the state, there was an expectation that lump sum will go for health. The fiscal deficit is the borrowing requirement of the state and managing fiscal deficit reflects the prudent fiscal management. The state’s fiscal deficit has been estimated at Rs 22510.78 crore in 2021-22 in the budget, which is 2.97 per cent of the GSDP estimated at Rs 757026.0 crore. As per the provisions of the FRBM Act 2003, no state can cross the threshold limit of 3 per cent of GSDP and Bihar throughout has maintained this limit. However, due to pandemic, this threshold has been relaxed to 5 per cent in 2020-21and 4.5 per cent for 2021-22. Finally, this is a balanced budget which has maintained the spirit of welfare by estimating an increase in revenue expenditure which will add on the development expenditure of the state. Yet, it was expected that there will be a higher allocation for health as unprecedented times call for unparallel commitments, but this was missing. However, increase in allocation in education and rural development will boost up these sectors to deliver quality and enhance job opportunities. The government’s focus on rural development is a good indicator as it will lead to jobs opportunities and asset creation in the rural sector which supports 89 per cent of Bihar’s population. New announcement The budget of pandemic times is an inclusive budget as it has allocated Rs 476 crore on Saat Nishchay part-2, which includes youth, women, agriculture and irrigation, rural and urban development, connectivity and health which has become a major issue for all states. To promote higher education among girls, an incentive amount of Rs 25000 will be given to intermediate pass students and Rs 50,000 to female graduates. For this, an allocation of Rs 600 crore has been made. Also, to promote women entrepreneurship, Rs 200 crore has been allocated to industry department. So overall, this is a budget with new ray of hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Anjana Mishra gangrape case: Accused held after 22 years||Odisha police have arrested Bibekananda Biswal alias Biban, the prime accused in the Anjana Mishra gangrape case, twin city police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi said on Monday. Biban, who was on the run for the last 22 years, was nabbed from Aamby Valley at Lonavala on the outskirts of Mumbai by a team of commissionerate police assisted by their Navi Mumbai counterparts. Sarangi said Biban, who was working as a plumber and staying at Aamby valley, had changed his name to Jalandar Swain. “He had mentioned Naranpur (Cuttack) in his permanent address. When we initiated an inquiry, we found out that no such person belongs to Naranpur. He had a permanent job, Aadhaar card and bank account there. But he was in touch with his family members and had asked them to get a death certificate in his name to avoid arrest,” said Sarangi. The Cuttack-Bhubaneswar commissionerate police had launched “Operation Silent Viper” to nab the prime accused in the 1999 case which had triggered a political storm in the state and is said to contributed to the fall of the then Congress government led by JB Patnaik. The operation launched three months ago was being led by Badambadi police station inspector in charge (IIC) Rashmi Ranjan Mohapatra who left for Mumbai with his team to arrest Biban on February 19. Along with Maharashtra police, the Odisha police began the operation to arrest Biswal. “Swain, who worked in Aamby Valley as a plumber stayed in staff quarters two-and-a-half km away. Seeing the police, he tried to flee, but was nabbed and brought here,” Sarangi said. He added that witnesses have recognised him and he will be handed over to the CBI, which is investigating the case. Biban was nabbed 22 years after the incident which took place near Barang. Anjana, the estranged wife of an Indian Forest Officer (IFS), currently living with her mother, has demanded death penalty for Biban Biswal. “The CBI sat over the case. Biban should be hanged till death. I feel relieved and happy that he is arrested,” Anjana told reporters. She was allegedly waylaid by three persons near Barang on the intervening night of January 9-10, 1999 while on way to Cuttack with a journalist friend in a car. The miscreants took turns to assault her sexually. The issue took a political turn when Anjana accused former advocate general Indrajit Ray, who was considered close to J.B. Patnaik, of molesting her and then orchestrating the gang rape. Notably, Pradip Sahu alias Padia, a convict in the 1999 case, had died while undergoing treatment at Capital Hospital here in February 2020. The CBI, which was entrusted by the Orissa High Court with the investigation of the case, had maintained that the accused trio had raped her. Padia was the first to be arrested in the case and identified by Anjana. In 2002, the Khurda District Sessions judge convicted him and Tuna Mohanty and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The high court in 2010 had upheld the verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||Coronavirus: Karnataka test-must order hits Kerala ||The Karnataka government’s order that makes negative Covid reports mandatory for all those who enter the state from neighbouring Kerala has affected a large number of people who travel between the two states. With daily Covid numbers still in the range of over 4,000 in Kerala, Karnataka has recently made it mandatory for all incoming passengers to possess negative RT-PCR reports not older than 72 hours. While a similar order was issued to restrict the movement of people from its northern neighbour Maharashtra, the impact was more on Kerala as it depends on Karnataka for vegetables and other essential goods. On Sunday, Kerala reported 4,070 new Covid cases against 413 in Karnataka, triggering concern that travelers from Kerala could be carriers of the virus. Incoming passengers from Kasaragod, Kannur and Wayanad were stopped at makeshift checkpoints at all bordering areas to ensure only those with negative RT-PCR reports were granted entry. This led to a massive friction, with people from Kerala blocking incoming traffic from Karnataka via the Bavali border checkpoint in Wayanad district. The Wayanad district panchayat has written to Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa to lift the restrictions that have also impacted the movement of goods between the two states. While northern Kerala depends on Karnataka for vegetables, farm labourers from bordering areas of Karnataka travel regularly to Kerala’s plantations in Wayanad. “This is a precarious situation that reminds us of the total blockade by Karnataka last year (when Kerala reported a large number of Covid cases),” Wayanad district panchayat president Shamsad Marakkar told The Telegraph on Monday. Karnataka officials had dumped mud across inter-state roads to stop traffic from Kerala. Even ambulances carrying non-Covid patients from Kasaragod, which borders Dakshina Kannada, were denied entry. In a tit-for-tat move, the Kasaragod district administration had blocked more than 20 roads leading to Karnataka when Covid numbers rocketed in Dakshina Kannada in July 2020. “Truckers who go to Karnataka to fetch vegetables are also badly affected by this order as the drivers and cleaners must carry RT-PCR reports. The other issue for residents of Wayanad is that the swab samples for the RT-PCR tests have to be sent to neighbouring Kozhikode as we don’t have any testing facilities here,” Marakkar said. Similar incidents were witnessed in Thalapady, which connects Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada, where people raised slogans against Yediyurappa and the Karnataka administration on Sunday. Kerala state BJP president K. Surendran defended his party’s government in Karnataka and refuted the allegations. “There were such propaganda even earlier. No roads are blocked. This is part of a regular campaign in Kasaragod,” he said before contradicting his own statement. “But then, each state will be considering its own safety. As far we are concerned, we need travel facilities and there will be interventions,” Surendran told reporters amid his pre-poll roadshow on Monday. Confusion reigned in Karnataka over the foolproof implementation of the order that doesn’t cover other neighbouring states such as Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. “It will be difficult for us to check if someone from Kerala had traveled to some place in Tamil Nadu and was then headed to Karnataka. The same logic applies to those who come from Maharashtra. They can travel to Goa and then enter our state,” a health department official from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the implementing agency in the state capital, told this newspaper. “We have health desks at the airport where people will be checked for RT-PCR reports. Bus passengers are checked at the borders. But the main issue is trains that arrive via Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,” said the official who declined to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
23-02-2021||India||BJP government misleading nation for political benefits: Kashmiri Pandit leaders||Several Kashmiri Pandit leaders have rebutted Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that the community’s migration from the Valley took place during Congress rule, stressing that it happened in 1990 when the BJP-supported V.P. Singh government was in power. They have accused Shah of having misled Parliament on this and on the subject of government assistance to displaced Pandit families, asking him not to claim credit for UPA initiatives. Shah had claimed in the Lok Sabha last week, during a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021, that the Pandits were displaced during Congress rule. “They were not displaced during our time. There was Congress rule; they (the government) could not provide them (with) security and they (Pandits) became displaced in their own country,” Shah had said. Satish Mahaldar, chairman of the Reconciliation, Return and Rehabilitation of Kashmir Migrants, said the Pandit exodus took place during the tenure of V.P. Singh’s National Front government, which the BJP supported. “Unfortunately, the BJP didn’t have the courage to pull down the then government on such a national tragedy,” Mahaldar said in a statement. The BJP and the Left had provided outside support to the V.P. Singh government, which was in power between December 2, 1989, and November 10, 1990. The Pandits’ migration began in January 1990. The BJP pulled the V.P. Singh government down after L.K. Advani was arrested in Bihar while leading a countrywide rathyatra demanding a Ram temple on the disputed plot in Ayodhya. Reacting to Shah’s claim that 44,000 Pandit families were being provided with a monthly assistance of Rs 13,000, Mahaldar said Jammu and Kashmir’s relief and rehabilitation department had put that number at 20,889 families. Mahaldar said Shah was claiming credit for former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s scheme, launched in 2008-09, that announced 15,000 job opportunities for migrant Pandits and accommodated 6,000 Pandit youths in the government in the Valley. Agnishekhar, who heads the hard-line Panun Kashmir that supported the BJP in the past, too said it was the UPA government that had provided 6,000 Pandit youths with jobs in the Valley and asked the BJP not to claim credit for it. He too said the Pandits had been “forced to leave” during the rule of the BJP-supported V.P. Singh government. “The party (BJP) did not muster the guts to withdraw support to his government,” he said in a video statement. Agnishekhar said the factual inaccuracies in Shah’s speech were “shameful” and “opportunistic”, and alleged the BJP government was misleading the nation for “political benefits”. He said the Pandits had hoped the BJP would do something for the community. “We had supported the abrogation (of key provisions of Article 370) on August 5. But what did that yield for the Pandits? We are stuck in August 4,” he said. “I want to warn Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and Amit Shah that if such conduct persists, we will condemn your party worldwide.” The Jagati Tenement Committee Soan Kashmir Front, a group that represents the thousands of displaced Pandits living in Jagti, Jammu, accused the BJP of drawing “political mileage” from their misery. Shadi Lal Pandita, its leader, termed Shah’s claim of providing cash assistance to 44,000 migrant families a “blatant lie”. Mahaldar said the UPA government had built 5,242 two-room tenements for the Pandits in Jammu and provided a one-time assistance of Rs 5 lakh to each family in addition to student scholarships, assistance to farmers and other schemes. “The Modi-led BJP government has been raising our plight at the international level to corner Pakistan. In the country, (it) raises our plight to pin down the Opposition,” he said. “But in practice, what has it done for the community? It has even failed to constitute an inquiry commission or probe panel to investigate the crimes committed against KPs (Kashmiri Pandits).” The Pandits have asked Shah to spell out when the BJP would fulfil its promise of resettling them in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
