24-02-2021||India||Srinagar-Leh national highway to reopen for regulated traffic from Feb 28||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday announced that the Srinagar-Leh national highway will be reopened for vehicular traffic on February 28, officials said. Kashmir Divisional Commissioner P K Pole convened a meeting to review the status of the Srinagar-Sonamarg-Gumri (SSG) road scheduled to be thrown open for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. On that day, the road will be officially opened by the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh for traffic movement, they said. Ladakh Divisional Commissioner Saugat Biswas joined the meeting through video conferencing. During the meeting, it was given out that the road stands cleared for one-way traffic but based on a weather advisory, the road shall be opened for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. It was informed during the meeting that several advisories need to be issued in view of the slippery road condition and avalanche warnings, including allowing the plying of vehicles with chains for both HMVs and LMVs and one-way traffic at Zojila pass to avoid accidents. The Kashmir divisional commissioner said both advisories shall be put in place to prevent any exigency while there shall be proper timing to allow movement of vehicles from Sonamarg and Minamarg. The cut-off time for vehicles from Sonamarg side shall be 10 am and from Minamarg the cut-off time for vehicles has been proposed as 11 am, he added. To ensure mobile connectivity for travellers along the highway in case of any emergency, the divisional commissioner directed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to provide logistic support to BSNL and Reliance Jio networks to resume cellular connectivity. He also directed the Chief Engineer, BRO to provide different kinds of assistance including accommodation, food, petrol, etc to the travellers during emergency along the highway. The divisional commissioner directed for close coordination among the Deputy SPs and Collectors on both sides of the pass to ensure hassle-free movement of vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Delhi government rules out offline examinations for students up to Class 8||The Delhi government issued guidelines to its schools on Wednesday for the assessment of students up to Class 8, ruling out offline examinations and instead, asking them to grade the students on the basis of projects and assignments. The guidelines of the Directorate of Education (DoE) have been issued to the government-run and aided schools for assessment for the 2020-21 academic session, during which schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and all teaching and learning activities were conducted online. According to government officials, private schools will prepare their own schedule and decide on the modalities on their own. "Since no classroom teaching and learning has taken place at the primary and middle level, the formal mode of pen-and-paper assessment will be replaced by a subjectwise assessment of projects and assignments for Classes 3 to 8," the DoE said in an official order. According to the guidelines, for Classes 3 to 5, 30 marks will be for assessment based on worksheets, 30 for the assignments given in winter breaks and 40 for the assignments and projects provided from March 1 to 15. Similarly, for Classes 6 to 8, 20 marks will be for assessment based on worksheets, 30 for the assignments given in winter breaks and 50 for the assignments and projects provided from March 1 to 15. "In case a student does not have access to a digital device or internet, the assignments and projects will be given in hard copies by calling his parents to the school while following the Covid-19 guidelines. "While allotting the assignments and projects, the subject teachers will explain the nature and method of attempting the worksheets. They will also keep in mind that words hurting religious sentiments related to caste, contradictory statements having double meaning etc. will not be part of the assignments and projects," the order said. The DoE also said the students should not be called to school for the results, which should be intimated to them through digital means, text messages or phone calls. "Private schools will take their own decision about assessment and act accordingly," another senior government official said. The DoE has also issued guidelines for assessment of students from the KG level to Class 2. "The students of Classes KG to 2 will be given grades on the basis of the winter break assignments and responses to the worksheets shared during the pandemic through WhatsApp or any offline means. "All the currently enrolled students of Classes nursery to 2 shall be promoted to the next class. However, the purpose of the assessment is to understand the impact of the alternative-learning approach that needed to be adopted under the prevailing circumstances this year. The teachers will not ask the students or parents to submit or resubmit any worksheet issued previously," the DoE said. Schools were closed in March last year, ahead of a nationwide lockdown, to curb the spread of the coronavirus. While several states reopened schools from October onwards, the Delhi government has allowed reopening of Classes 9 to 12 from January 18. The board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4. The students of Classes 9 and 11 will have offline exams in accordance with the schedule decided by the schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Ahmedabad to be known as India's sports city, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said that Ahmedabad in Gujarat would emerge as the country's "sports city" as world-class facilities for all kinds of games are being put in place here. Shah made the statement after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated in Ahmedabad the world's largest cricket stadium, which is now known as Narendra Modi stadium - renamed after the country's Prime Minister. The president also performed the ground-breaking ceremony of a sports complex in the stadium, to be named Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabaddi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others. Shah said that a complex spread over an area of 17 acres of area with world-class facilities for different sports will also come up in Naranpura area of Ahmedabad. "The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, the Narendra Modi stadium and the sports complex at Naranpura will offer complete facilities within the same city at the same place for any sports played internationally. With all these facilities, Ahmedabad will be in a position to get ready within six months to host any international sports event," Shah said. The minister said that the sports enclave will be available to play all the games that are played in Olympics, and it will have stadiums for football and hockey as well as an indoor stadium. "Such sports facilities are not available in any other city in India at present. Ahmedabad, which Modiji transformed into India's heritage city, is now ready to become the country's sports city...Ahmedabad will be considered as India's sports city. "With such sports infrastructure, Ahmedabad will be known as India's sports city, which is the dream that Prime Minister Narendra Modiji saw when he was the chief minister of Gujarat," Shah said. Stating that infrastructure was also being put in place to connect the sports enclave to other parts of the city, he expressed happiness that all the facilities have either come up or are being developed within the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, which he represents. "All the facilities have been visualised together in such a way that there is no repetition, and they are of international quality. When Ahmedabad city and India have to bid for international games, all the facilities remain within 50 km radius," he said. Shah said that with such facilities being developed, the day is not far when the names of Indian players figure in the list of medal winners of Asiad and Olympic games. He said that Modi's call for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' should also apply to sports, and urged the youth to work hard towards bringing India on top in the field of sports. Praising the PM for his vision and farsightedness as Gujarat's chief minister for creating sports infrastructure and launching schemes like 'Khelo Gujarat'. He said, Modi took over as the president of Gujarat Cricket Association then and worked with the vision that the money coming in from cricket does not stay in cricket alone but goes into the development of other forms of sports as well. Shah said that Modi wanted Gujarat to go ahead in both sports and Army recruitment, in which the state lagged behind. "When it came to constructing the (cricket) stadium, he (Modi) had told us that whatever happens in Gujarat should be the world's largest. And the stadium, with a capacity of 1.32 lakh spectators which was today inaugurated by the president, is not just the world's largest cricket stadium, but also the world's largest sports stadium...," he said. Shah accused the Congress party of trying to make people forget the contributions made by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and added that history has done injustice to him. But Modi ensured that he remains etched into our memory- through the world's tallest Statue of Unity, and now with the sports enclave, he said. On the same cricket ground, Indian cricketers Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Srinath and Cheteshwar Pujara have broken records, he said. Shah also praised Kovind for his "simplicity, hard work and dedication", and said he has worked towards enhancing the pride of the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Government has ‘no business to be in business’, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the government has no business to be in business and his administration is committed to privatising all PSUs barring the bare minimum in four strategic sectors. "It is the government's duty to support enterprises and businesses. But it is not essential that it should own and run enterprises," he said. Modi also said the Centre's policy is to either monetise or modernise public sector enterprises, with the intent that the government has "no business to be in business". Speaking at a webinar on privatisation by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), Modi said the Budget has given a clear roadmap to take India to a high growth trajectory. Fiscal support to sick PSUs puts burden on the economy and public sector units should not be run just because of legacy, the Prime Minister said, adding many PSUs are loss-making and supported by taxpayers' money. The government has many underutilised and unutilised assets and 100 assets would be monetised to garner Rs 2.5 lakh crore, Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacial disaster toll rises to 70, 205 still missing||Rescuers have recovered 70 bodies and 29 body parts so far in search operations following the February 7 glacial disaster in Chamoli, the district police said on Wednesday. Missing reports of 205 people have been registered at the Joshimath police station, it said in a media bulletin. "So far, 70 bodies and 29 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas, out of which 40 bodies and one human body part have been identified," the police said. DNA samples of bodies and 28 body parts have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory, Dehradun for matching, it said. The Uttarakhand government has issued a notification authorising officials to declare "presumed dead" 136 people who are missing after the flash flood. The devastating flash flood demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project along the river besides causing extensive damage to the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project along Dhauliganga. About 35 people were feared trapped inside a tunnel in Tapovan. Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit Singh Negi said on Tuesday that the presumption of death can be made by officials in the affected district only in case of missing people who in all likelihood have died in the disaster but their bodies have not been found. Normally the missing are declared dead only when they are not traced for seven years after the incident responsible for their disappearance but in case of an extraordinary occurrence like the one witnessed in Uttarakhand special provisions can be made, he said. The move to declare those who continue to be missing in the flash flood as presumed dead has been initiated to expedite the process of distribution of compensation among the affected families, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Centre approves imposition of President’s rule in Puducherry||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to impose President's Rule in Puducherry, days after a Congress-led government in the union territory lost power during a vote of confidence. Announcing the Cabinet decision, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that the decision was taken as no party claimed to form a government in Puducherry following the resignation of the chief minister there. Subsequently, the Lieutenant General had recommended President's Rule in Puducherry and the Union Cabinet has approved the same, the minister said. After the President's assent, the assembly will get resolved, Javadekar said, while adding that further necessary steps for administrative work in Puducherry would be taken soon. He also noted that the model code of conduct was expected to come into effect soon after the Election Commission announces the dates for elections there, along with four states. Puducherry chief minister V. Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues resigned on Monday after the government lost majority, with 11 members in the House against the Opposition’s 14. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking a vote of confidence was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
24-02-2021||India||Covid jabs for those above 60, 45 years with comorbidities from March 1||Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals, the government said on Wednesday.
The Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took the decision on the next phase of the vaccination, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a media briefing here.
"The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and 45 years plus with co-morbidities will be given vaccines in 10,000 government medical facilities and also over 20,000 private hospitals," he said.
"Whoever goes to the government centre will be administered vaccine free of cost. Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and will send them to all the states," Javadekar said.
Those who want to get vaccination from private hospitals will have to pay, but the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as they are in discussions with manufacturers as well as hospitals, he said.
Asked if people will have a choice on which vaccine -- Covishield or COVAXIN -- they want to take, Javadekar said India is proud to have two vaccines which are both effective with proven efficacy.
While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.
Javadekar said the world's largest vaccination started on January 16 with 1,07,67,000 people vaccinated and 14 lakh also having received a second dose.
"This section was primarily for health workers and frontline workers and the whole expenditure was borne by the government, they were vaccinated free," he said.
Javadekar asserted that the vaccination in India has been successful, "faultless with hardly any complaints".
Asked whether ministers and the prime minister, who would be now be in the category of those who can take the vaccination, will get inoculated, Javadekar said those who want to take the vaccination will take it at the place of their choosing from March 1.
Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who also briefed the media on the Cabinet decisions, said most of the ministers are of the thinking that they will pay to get vaccinated.
On another question about leaders and other countries taking the vaccination shots first, Prasad said it is about point of view. "In many places, prime ministers and ministers are getting it done, here we thought that first we will get our health sector fighters vaccinated," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera renamed after PM||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday inaugurated the world's largest cricket arena in Motera, the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium, which will now be known as Narendra Modi stadium -- renamed after the country's Prime Minister. The state-of-the-art facility can accommodate an awe-inspiring 1.32 lakh spectators. "This stadium was conceptualised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. He was president of the Gujarat Cricket Association at that time," Kovind said in his address after the inauguration. "This stadium is an example of eco-friendly development," he added. The President inaugurated the stadium in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju among a host of other dignitaries. "We have decided to name it after the country's Prime Minister. It was Modi ji's dream project," said Shah after the inauguration. The President also performed the ground-breaking ceremony for a sports complex in the stadium, to be named Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel sports enclave, for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabbadi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others. "I am confident that this enclave will give a new global identity to Ahmedabad in terms of world-class sports infrastructure," Kovind said. The cricket stadium opens with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series from March 4. "I am confident that the facilities here will help players to perform better," the President said. "Lot of our players come from small towns and face hardships. Players encouraged by GCA include popular names of today like Jasprit bumrah and Axar Patel," he added. Spread over 63 acres, the stadium has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore and with a seating capacity for 1,32,000 spectators, it has surpassed the hallowed Melbourne Cricket Ground which can accommodate 90,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||President Kovind inaugurates world's largest cricket stadium in Motera||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday inaugurated the world's largest cricket arena -- the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera -- a state-of-the-art facility which can accommodate an awe-inspiring 1.32 lakh spectators. The President inaugurated the stadium in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju among a host of other dignitaries. It opens with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series from March 4. Spread over 63 acres, the stadium has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore and with a seating capacity for 1,32,000 spectators, it has surpassed the hallowed Melbourne Cricket Ground which can accommodate 90,000. "The total area is equivalent to 32 Olympic size soccer fields put together," stated a note from the Press Information Bureau giving specifics of the enormous structure. The facility, which was closed for renovation in 2015, was witness to some major milestones in Indian cricket in its previous avatar. These included Sunil Gavaskar reaching the 10,000 runs mark in Test cricket against Pakistan in 1987 and Kapil Dev claiming his 432nd Test wicket to become the highest wicket-taker in the world in 1994, surpassing Sir Richard Hadlee. Australian architect firm Populous, which designed the Melbourne Cricket Stadium among others, is the architect of the new stadium. It has 11 pitches made of both red and black soil and is the only stadium in the world to have same soil surfaces for the main and practice pitches. "As children, we used to dream about the world's largest stadium in India. And now as sports minister, my happiness knows no bounds that this has finally happened," said Rijiju at the inaguration. "It is one of the most modern sports facilities in the world," he added. Players from both the India and England teams, who have been training here for the past few days, have expressed their admiration for what they have experienced at the arena. The ground claims to have a drainage system which will take just 30 minutes from the time it stops raining to drain out the water. Instead of high mast floodlights, the field of play has LED lights fixed along the perimeter of the roof providing shadow-less light -- a first of its kind arrangement in India. This is the only cricket stadium in the world to have four dressing rooms for the players so that back-to-back games can be played on the same day. It also has a cricket academy, indoor practice pitches, and two separate practice grounds with small pavilion area. The President performed the ground-breaking ceremony for a sports complex in the stadium for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabbadi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Maharashtra reports over 8,000 new coronavirus cases, Kerala reports 4,106||The rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued unabated on Wednesday with the state reporting 8,807 new infections, taking its total count to 21,21,119, the health department said. With 80 new fatalities being reported during the day, the state's death toll rose to 51,937, it added. The increase in cases was steep considering that on Tuesday, the state had reported 6,218 new Covid-19 cases. Of 80 deaths, 27 took place in the past 48 hours, while 22 were from the last week. The remaining 31 deaths were from the period before that, officials said. As many as 2,772 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the total of recoveries to 20,08,623. On the other hand, Kerala logged 4,106 new cases of Covid-19 and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 10,45,358 and toll to 4,136. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the state tested 70,568 samples in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 5.82 per cent. She said 5,885 people recuperated from the disease, taking the total recoveries in the state to 9,87,720. There are now 52,869 people under treatment in the state, the minister said in a release. According to the release, 2,28,416 people are under observation out of which 8,006 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. The state has tested 1,12,08,411 samples so far. She said out of the total number of people testing positive for the virus today, 107 had reached the state from outside while 3,174 contracted the disease through their contact. Three people, who returned from the UK, tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of virus-affected UK returnees to 91. "The sources of infection of 262 are yet to be traced while 23 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said. Among the districts, Pathanamthittareported the highest number of cases--469, followed by Kozhikode with 465 and Enakulam 446. No new hotspot was added today and five regions were removed from the list, taking its total number to 369. Jammu and Kashmir records new cases Jammu and Kashmir recorded 74 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 1,26,093, even as no fresh death due to the virus was reported in the past 24 hours, officials said. Out of the fresh cases, 20 were from the Jammu division and 54 from the Kashmir division of the Union Territory, they said. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 19 cases followed by 14 in Baramulla district and 11 in Udhampur district. While eight districts did not report any fresh case, nine districts had cases in single digits. The number of active has risen to 771 in the Union Territory, while 1,23,367 patients have recovered so far, the officials said. The death toll in the UT due to the disease is 1,955 as no fresh death was reported from Jammu and Kashmir in the past 24 hours, they added. Teams in states with rising cases The Centre has deputed multi-disciplinary teams to states witnessing a surge in Covid -19 cases, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir, to support them in effectively tackling the pandemic. The three-member multidisciplinary teams are headed by joint secretary-level officers in the health ministry, the Union Health Ministry said. "These teams will work closely with the states and UT administration and ascertain reasons for the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. "They will also coordinate with health authorities of the states and UT for requisite Covid-19 control measures to break the chain of transmission," the ministry said. The central teams have been deputed to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir. The states and UT have been advised for regular critical review of the emerging situation with district officials concerned to ensure that gains made so far in Covid-19 management are not lost, the ministry stated. The Centre has also written to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir which have been witnessing a rise in daily Covid cases, along with decreasing proportion of RT-PCR tests and rise in positivity in some districts. In the letter, the Union Health Secretary has exhorted Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir to focus on undertaking aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and to ensure that RT-PCR testing is amplified to flush out hitherto undetected cases from the population. These states and UTs have been advised to increase testing in a focussed manner in the affected districts with the appropriate split of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and to also ensure that all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests are compulsorily tested via RT-PCR tests, the ministry said. The positive persons must be promptly isolated/hospitalised, all their close contacts be traced and also tested without delay. The Centre has reminded the states and UTs that any laxity in implementing stringent measures to curb the spread, especially in view of new strain of virus observed in certain countries, could compound the situation. The Union Health Secretary has separately requested the chief secretaries of these 10 states and UTs to provide time to these high-level Central teams to debrief the respective chief secretaries at the conclusion of their state visits. These measures are in line with the Government of India's graded and proactive approach to contain Covid across the country. The health ministry has been regularly engaging with states and UTs that have been exhibiting either a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, high caseload or reporting higher mortality in some districts, the ministry said. The teams interact with field authorities to get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Govt ushered historic increase in MSP, says PM||On the completion of two years of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his government ushered a historic increase in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops and was doing everything possible to double the income of farmers. He also said that over the last seven years, the government has taken many initiatives for transforming agriculture. From better irrigation to more technology, more credit and markets to proper crop insurance, focus on soil health to eliminating middlemen, the efforts are all-encompassing, he asserted. "On this day, 2 years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed. The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring," Modi said. "Our government had the honour of ushering a historic increase in MSP. We are doing everything possible to double the income of farmers," he said in a series of tweets using the hashtag "KisanKaSammanPMKisan'. He also said insightful content could be found on the NaMo App, offering a glimpse of the work done for farmers. The prime minister's remarks come on the second anniversary of the launch of the PM-Kisan scheme under which a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The remarks also assume significance as they come amid a protest by farmers at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Court seeks police response on Shantanu Muluk's anticipatory bail plea||A court here on Wednesday sought response from the Delhi Police on the anticipatory bail application of Shantanu Muluk, who along with Disha Ravi is accused of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted bail to Ravi on Wednesday, posted Muluk's bail application for arguments on Friday. Muluk had got transit bail from the Bombay High Court on February 16 for a period of 10 days. During the brief hearing held through video-conferencing on Wednesday, the court also noted that Muluk has been granted protection from arrest till February 26. The matter was adjourned after the public prosecutor said that the investigating officer of the case was not present today and it would be better if the matter is heard in physical presence. Muluk, along with Ravi and another co accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail, while Ravi was granted bail on Tuesday after nine-day custody. If convicted for sedition, the accused may get a maximum jail term for life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Covid negative report likely to be mandatory for people arriving to Delhi from 5 states||Amid a spike in coronavirus infections in some states, the Delhi government is likely to ask travellers from five states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, to show negative COVID-19 test report before entering the national capital, officials said on Wednesday. They said an official order will be issued later in the day and it will be effective till March 15. People travelling in flights, trains and buses from these states will have to produce negative test report before entering Delhi, they said. The requirement of the negative COVID-19 test report is likely to be implemented from Friday night, officials said. The issue had also been discussed in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday. Maharashtra is showing a daily surge in COVID-19 cases, according to an official of the Union Health Ministry. Kerala is showing an incremental decline, but the daily cases in absolute numbers is still high over there. Punjab, with its daily increase in cases, is also a cause of worry. Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are also showing an increase in daily cases, the central official had said on Tuesday. Delhi recorded 145 fresh COVID-19 cases and two new fatalities on Tuesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.25 per cent, authorities said. With this, the toll from the coronavirus infection has gone up to 10,903 and the case tally rose to 6,38,173.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||India logs 13,742 new Covid cases, 104 fatalities in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases surged to 1,10,30,176 with 13,742 new infections, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,26,702, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,567 with 104 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,26,702 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.25 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. There are 1,46,907 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.33 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,30,36,275 samples have been tested up to February 23 with 8,05,844 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 104 new fatalities include 51 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,567 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,857 from Maharashtra followed by 12,472 from Tamil Nadu, 12,303 from Karnataka, 10,903 from Delhi, 10,253 from West Bengal, 8,718 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Day after, Ajit Singh versus Sanjeev Balyan in Soram||Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh on Tuesday visited Muzaffarnagar’s Soram, where Union minister Sanjeev Kumar Balyan’s men had allegedly attacked villagers a day earlier, and demanded action against those behind the assault. Balyan, the Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, struck back hours later, accusing the RLD of “vitiating the atmosphere”, linking those behind the Red Fort chaos on Republic Day with those who “resorted to violence” in Soram and alleging a conspiracy against him. Balyan’s ploy of inviting himself to farmers’ family events to counter a Bharatiya Kisan Union call to boycott BJP members over the farmers’ struggle had sparked a clash on Monday, leaving four villagers hospitalised and triggering the gherao of a police station. Residents of Soram in western Uttar Pradesh had said Balyan’s “goons” and policemen had used sticks to thrash villagers protesting his visit. Prominent Jat leader Ajit Singh, who addressed over 2,000 villagers at the chaupal (community centre) in Soram on Tuesday, said: “The police must register a case on the basis of the complaint of the villagers and take action against those who attacked the residents. I agree with the farmers’ decision to boycott BJP leaders till their demand to repeal the three farm laws is met.” Other than residents of Soram, those from adjoining Goela, Shahjudi, Kakra, Rasulpur Jatan and Garhi Bahadurpur village attended the meeting. Ajit Singh, who lost to Balyan from Muzaffarnagar in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by 6,526 votes apparently due to a rupture in the traditional friendship between Jats and Muslims after 2013 communal riots, claimed that the BJP leader was angry also because people in Soram had questioned him over the farm laws and the rising prices of essential commodities. “The villagers had raised slogans against the minister. His men then started beating them,” Ajit Singh said. Yogesh Kumar, a Soram resident who was among the four youths who suffered injuries in the attack allegedly by Balyan’s “goons”, has stated in his police complaint that the BJP leader was accompanied by “20-25 friends” who assaulted him, Pradeep, Pinkar, Rajendra and Satpal “with the intention to kill us”. The villagers had been chanting “Kisan ekta zindabad” and “Sanjeev Balyan murdabad”. Soram residents also alleged that the police had entered their houses and thrashed them. A few hours after Ajit Singh’s visit, Balyan, a 2013 riot accused, said at a news conference in Muzaffarnagar: “RLD members tried to vitiate the atmosphere in Soram when I had gone there to say something to the khap leaders. I demand that the administration conduct an inquiry into it and study the call details of RLD leaders…. A conspiracy is afoot to divide my community (Jats).” The Union minister didn’t elaborate on the allegation but added: “Where were these leaders during the communal riots of 2013? I had stood with the people at that time.” “Those who were doing live chat at Red Fort recently were also present in Soram on Monday to create violence,” Balyan added. Some of those accused in the Red Fort violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day had made social media videos from the spot. Balyan’s desperation was clear a day after he faced protests at Soram, his former stronghold. After Tuesday’s news conference he proceeded to a brick kiln near the village and addressed a gathering. “I have been visiting villages for the past many years. But those who do politics from Delhi are conspiring against me,” he said. Naresh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) president, visited Soram a few hours before Ajit Singh and tore into Balyan. “Balyan wanted to address a panchayat for which the villagers were not ready. He shouldn’t have come here when he knew that the farmers had resolved to boycott BJP leaders,” Tikait said. “Balyan has said those who chanted slogans against him in the village on Monday were RLD workers. It is a false claim. All of them were farmers and his goons attacked them brutally,” the BKU leader added. Asked about the image of Balyan, a Muslim leader in Muzaffarnagar told The Telegraph: “Balyan is not a leader; he is an anti-social element, a non-serious person and a coward. He had won only because Muslims and Jats were divided in 2014 and 2019 in the aftermath of the bad memories of the 2013 riots.” The leader alleged that Balyan had in 2013 instigated the communal violence in Muzaffarnagar in which 60 lives were lost. “Qureshis, Jokhas and Maula Jats are rich and powerful. The rioters in August-September 2013 had targeted those villages where poor Muslims of the Shaikh, Ansari, Lohar and Dhobi castes live. This was the reason they attacked Kutbi-Kutba, the village in Balyan where poor Muslims live. The victims of Kutbi-Kutba had taken shelter in adjoining Bashikalan because they knew that the rioters wouldn’t dare to enter the village where Qureshis, Jokhas and Maulan Jats live,” the Muslim leader said. A large number of Muslims in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts call themselves Maula Jats, claiming that they were converted from Hinduism to Islam during Mughal rule. Abhishek Yadav, senor superintendent of police of Muzaffarnagar, said: “We have received an application from the villagers of Soram and probing it before a case is registered against those involved in Monday’s violence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||Activist Lakha Sidhana cocks a snook at Delhi cops||Gangster turned activist Lakha Sidhana, wanted in the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, surfaced at Mehraj, the ancestral village of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in Bhatinda district, on Tuesday for a rally he had called through social media platforms. Accompanied by private bodyguards, Sidhana — also a native of Bhatinda — addressed the rally before leaving on a motorcycle within an hour with supporters and locals throwing a human wall around him to prevent any attempt by police to arrest him. While it is the Delhi police which has put out a lookout notice for him, Sidhana warned that the chief minister would have a lot of explaining to do if Punjab police assisted the capital’s cops in arresting anyone booked for the incidents of January 26. Delhi police, which had announced a Rs 1 lakh award for information on his whereabouts, did not comment on Sidhana’s appearance or respond to queries on whether they had requested Punjab police to nab him when he visited Mehraj. Tuesday’s rally had been announced by Sidhana himself in a video released on Saturday, giving the police advance notice. Addressing the rally, Sidhana urged people to gherao Delhi police if they came to arrest anyone for the Republic Day chaos. Given that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ movement — did not allow him to use their stage even prior to the incidents of Republic Day, Sidhana said he and his followers would not allow any of the farmers at Tikri, Singhu or Ghazipur to be arrested even if the SKM did not support him. The SKM did not officially comment on Sidhana, not even on his announcement of support for the movement. Union leaders privately pointed out that they could not stop anyone from supporting the movement but maintained that the SKM had always kept the likes of Deep Sidhu, the actor-activist who was sent to 14 days’ judicial custody on Tuesday, and Sidhana at an arm’s length. The SKM leaders said they suspected that Sidhu and Sidhana were agents of the State. That suspicion has intensified after what happened on Republic Day, which the SKM had publicly acknowledged had damaged the movement momentarily. Sidhana’s surfacing in Punjab, that too in the chief minister’s ancestral village, was used by the Right-wing ecosystem to allege Congress connivance in the events of Republic Day. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh tweeted: “Punjab CM @capt_amarinder connivance with those who insulted national flag at #RedFort exposed with #LakhaSidhana presence at Mehraj rally in CM native place in Bathinda under Punjab police patronage. Lakha Sidhana, facing charges of sedition, carries Rs1 lakh reward by Delhi police.” The protesting farmers at the three protest sites around Delhi, at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, observed the day as Pagdi Sambhal Divas to mark the 140th birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s uncle Sardar Ajit Singh. Sardar Ajit Singh had led the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement for the rights of peasants over 100 years ago. Bhagat Singh’s family members joined the protesting farmers at the Singhu border where his nephew Abhay Sandhu announced that he would go on a fast unto death if the farmers’ demands for repeal of the three farm laws and enactment of a legal guarantee for minimum support price were not met by March 23, the martyrdom day of his uncle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
24-02-2021||India||S. Jaishankar stresses on sovereignty at meet on human rights violations||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Tuesday stressed the need to respect the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty while addressing human rights violations, speaking at a time India’s record is coming under the scanner in various world capitals. “We believe that violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty,” Jaishankar said. The minister was addressing the high-level segment of the 46th session of the Human Rights Council. He fell back on India’s past record in the global promotion and protection of human rights essentially iterated a stated position of the external affairs ministry. But the statement assumes significance given the frequency with which New Delhi has had to push back on comments from world capitals on human rights issues over the past couple of years. “India has always played an active role in global promotion and protection of human rights. Our strong commitment to the welfare of entire humanity, inspired by our civilisational ethos of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ or ‘the world is one family’, has provided the very foundation on which our constitutional and legal framework of human rights has been built. “Our approach is based on our own experience as an inclusive and pluralistic society and a vibrant democracy. Our Constitution has enshrined basic human rights as fundamental rights, guaranteeing civil and political rights, stipulating provisions for progressive realisation of economic, social and cultural rights. These continue to evolve through legislation by Parliament, progressive interpretation of laws by the judiciary and active participation of civil society and citizens.” Without referring to any of the criticism that has been coming the Narendra Modi government’s way on human rights, Jaishankar sought to assure the world that India “remains steadfast in our commitment to take all the possible steps to ensure fullest enjoyment of basic human rights of our people, including inclusive and sustainable development”. India is building a better and fairer society at home; it is also contributing to a better and fairer world, he added for good measure, drawing attention to some of the Modi government’s flagship policies and also the Vaccine Maitri diplomacy through which Covid jabs are being sent to several countries. This apart, Jaishankar pitched terrorism as one of the gravest threats to humankind. “It is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right — namely ‘the right to life’. As a long-standing victim, India has been in the forefront of the global action against terrorism. This is possible only when there is a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims.” Just last week, special rapporteurs (SRs) of the Human Rights Council had voiced concern that the constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir could undermine minorities’ rights. It had drawn a sharp response from the government, which billed their conclusions as “inaccurate assumptions” and “deliberately timed” to coincide with the visit of foreign envoys to the Union Territory. India took the position that the rapporteurs’ statement calls into question the larger principles of objectivity and neutrality that the SRs are mandated by the Human Rights Council to adhere to. “We expect the SRs to develop a better understanding of the issues under their consideration before jumping to hasty conclusions.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Delhi riots: M. Mumtaj recalls the day when his restaurant was burnt down  ||M. Mumtaj recalled the day exactly a year ago when his restaurant was burnt down and he was robbed at gunpoint at Sherpur Chowk in northeast Delhi where 53 people were killed in riots in 2020. “At Dayalpur police station, I was told that if I want compensation, my FIR should not name anyone. Even though I could identify the rioters as we had bought property from them, I gave a complaint without names,” Mumtaj told a news conference organised by the CPM on Tuesday in the capital. Mumtaj had moved court to register a first information report naming BJP legislator Mohan Singh Bisht and 21 others for rioting. He said his family was under threat as the case proceeded in the court. He was called again to the police station that day. When he returned home at night, Mumtaj said, Bisht was present on the road in front of his home near the torched eatery. “We have worked for him for years. He was telling those gathered there ‘abhi toh in ***** ke dukaan jalaye hain, ab ek ek karke in kutton ko maaro (Only the shops of these ****** have been burned, now kill these dogs one by one)’. I was a BJP activist (since 2010) and their (election) office ran from one of the properties of my family. We have not had the heart to speak to vidhayakji (the MLA) after I heard him speak that day,” Mumtaj added. Mumtaj said he saw Bisht throw a countrymade grenade at his home on the morning of February 25. The court asked the police to submit a report on the complaint in November, which had not been submitted when the case was last heard on January 27. “I am yet to receive compensation or find a job. The landlord has opened a restaurant in the place of mine. My family has received several threats to withdraw the case,” he added. Contacted on Tuesday, Bisht told The Telegraph: “I am not involved in any case.… You are under the wrong impression. Neither am I involved nor are any of my people involved.… I have no knowledge of this.” At the news conference, several riot victims spoke out against administrative apathy that has denied them justice so far. The victims narrated how they continue to face threats and are unable to get on with their lives as compensation has been absent or inadequate. Mallika, a 30-year-old mother of three, said she witnessed her husband Musharraf, a driver, being pulled out of their home in Bhagvati Vihar and beaten with steel rods on the evening of February 25. The riots had started on February 23, 2020. “Most of our neighbours had fled, and we had locked the door and turned the lights off. A mob shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and wearing motorcycle helmets barged in. I had hidden my husband in our box bed under clothes, but they opened it and prodded with the rods and found him. They dragged him down the stairs and the last I saw of him was them hitting him with rods.… The police have not yet recorded my statement.” Mallika ran after applying vermilion on her head to appear as a Hindu. While fleeing, she was stopped by a mob that stripped her three-year-old son to check if he was circumcised. As the boy’s circumcision ceremony had not taken place, they were assumed to be Hindu and let off. Days later, Musharraf’s body was fished out from the Brijpuri drain. Mallika is now a street vendor in Uttar Pradesh. The police have made 1,753 arrests on the basis of 755 FIRs and so far named 1,553 accused in 342 chargesheets. Of those arrested, 544 are out on bail. Out of the 53 killed, 40 were Muslim. The policemen seen kicking injured men — 23-year-old Faizan died later — and making them sing the national anthem are yet to be identified. In response to a Delhi High Court directive to probe BJP member Kapil Mishra for making a provocative speech that preceded the riots, the police told the court last year that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet”. On Tuesday, CPM politburo member Brinda Karat said: “There is a deliberate subversion of justice as truth has been hijacked to conceal the role of BJP leaders.… To hide police complicity, even statements of victims have not been taken.” She added: “The Delhi government’s compensation package should have included livelihood and not just cash. Many like Mumtaj have not even got the cash yet.” M. Wakeel, a grocer, has been blinded in both eyes by acid thrown at him when he was found hiding on his terrace. He could get medical help only several hours later after fleeing with his family. Although the prescribed compensation for permanent incapacitation is Rs 5 lakh, he only got Rs 2 lakh for “serious injury”. Ram Suharg said his 15-year-old son Nitin Paswan — the youngest casualty of the riots — was killed after being hit on his head by a tear smoke shell on February 26 when he had stepped out to buy chow mein. “His medical report says it is death by falling down.… Why the police killed my son, they have not told me. I only received Rs 5 lakh as compensation for a son who was my future,” he said. Relatives of adult casualties are given Rs 10 lakh and those of minors Rs 5 lakh. So far, only Rs 26.09 crore has been paid to 2,221 victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi bail order demolishes almost every charge levelled against her||Let noble thoughts come to me from all directions. Quoting the Rig Veda and reminding the nation that “this 5,000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters”, a Delhi sessions court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi. The bail order demolishes almost every charge levelled against the young Bangalorean, in judicial or police custody since February 14. She had been arrested from her home a day earlier on the charge of editing and sharing an online “toolkit” on the farmers’ protest and booked for sedition. Disha was released late on Tuesday night. “Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of ‘bail’ against a 22-year-old young lady, with absolutely blemish-free criminal antecedents and having firm roots in the society, and send her to jail,” additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said. Recalling the pre-independence Niharendu Dutt Mazumdar v. Emperor AIR case, Judge Rana said: “The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of governments.” The 1942 verdict was among several that had implied that sedition cannot come into play without incitement to violence. The bail order answered several questions that will affect the young and the restless, including the status of protest toolkits in a democratic society, the urge to engage with people around the world and respond to issues of public interest regardless of borders and the use of social media to build public opinion. In one of the most prudent observations, the judge said: “Creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit… has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat destroys the evidence linking her with the toolkit… also becomes meaningless.” The police — and a section of pro-government media — have been making a mountain out of the contention that Disha had deleted a group chat. Judge Rana said the nub of the issue was whether Disha (bail applicant/accused) was merely involved in peaceful protest and dissent against the farm laws or actually involved in seditious activities under the guise of protesting against the legislation. The following are some of the key charges levelled by Delhi police and the paraphrased response of the judge whose order adds that “nothing observed herein shall have any bearing upon the merits of the case”. Charge: The accused engaged with secessionist forces. A pro­Khalistani secessionist group, the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), and people associated with it are directly linked with creation of the toolkit document. Disha’s associates Nikita and Shantanu attended a Zoom meeting with 60­70 people from across the world, including Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal. Judge: The additional solicitor-general fairly admitted that the PJF is not a banned organisation and no criminal action is pending against Dhaliwal and Lal. There is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Disha and Dhaliwal and Lal. There is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of Disha and the organisations mentioned and associates to foment violence on January 26. In my considered opinion, it is not mere engagement with persons of dubious credentials which is indictable. Rather, it is the purpose of engagement which is relevant for the purpose of deciding culpability. Any person with dubious credentials may interact with a number of persons during the course of his social intercourse. As long as the engagement/interaction remains within the four corners of law, people interacting with such persons, ignorantly, innocently or for that matter even fully conscious of their dubious credentials, cannot be painted with the same hue. In the absence of any evidence that Disha agreed or shared a common purpose to cause violence on January 26 with the founders of the PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on January 26, simply because she shared a platform with people who have gathered to oppose the legislation. Not even an iota of evidence is brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26 with the PJF or the applicant/accused. More than hundreds of persons involved in the violence have been arrested and interrogated by Delhi police but no evidence connecting Disha with the actual perpetrators of the violence has been brought forth on record by the prosecution till date. Charge: On January 11, 2021, a banned terrorist organisation, the Sikhs for Justice, issued an open communication declaring a reward of $250,000 for anyone who will hoist the flag of Khalistan at India Gate on Republic Day. Judge: There is absolutely no link established on record between Disha and the banned organisation. Charge: There is link between Indian conspirators, including Disha and Kisaan Ekta.co (Vancouver) through an organisation, Extinction Rebellion. The WhatsApp group Intl Farmers Strike was used in furtherance of a request that came from Kisaan Ekta.co. Judge: It has neither been averred nor proved that Kisaan Ekta.co is an organisation with seditious agenda. Charge: In the toolkit document, there was a segment titled “Prior Action” which included Digital Strike through hashtags on January 26 and earlier, Tweet Storm from January 23, physical action on January 26 and joining the farmers’ march into Delhi and then back to the border. Another part of the same document mentioned tasks such as disruption of India’s cultural heritage such as yoga and tea and targeting Indian embassies abroad. Judge: The perusal of the said toolkit reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent. In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of the government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments. Difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies. An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy…. Except for a bare assertion, no evidence has been brought to my notice to support the contention that any violence took place at any of the Indian embassies pursuant to the sinister designs of Disha and her co­conspirators. Charge: The toolkit has embedded hyperlinks with an intent to malign India abroad. Two such hyperlinks were brought to my (judge’s) notice. The first one led to the website askindiawhy.com and the second one led to Genocide.org. Judge: I find absolutely nothing objectionable in the said page. Upon perusal of the material available on Genocide.org, it is revealed that it carries certain facts about the status of human right violations in somewhere about 40 countries, including India. I concur with the additional solicitor-general, without commenting upon the sanctity of the information, that the imputations are really objectionable in the said website. However, even if the said imputations are found to be objectionable in nature, I cannot but disagree with the additional solicitor-general that the material is seditious in nature. The imputations may be false, exaggerated or even with a mischievous intent but the same cannot be stigmatised as being seditious unless they have tendency to foment violence. Charge: Disha created the WhatsApp group, “Intl farmers strike”, and added certain persons in the group. She deleted the group chat from her phone in an attempt to destroy the crucial evidence linking her with the toolkit and the PJF. She is one of the editors of the toolkit. She tried her best to conceal her identity so that legal action could not be taken against her. She gave a global audience to the secessionist elements by manipulating support of international youth icon Greta Thunberg. Disha’s co­accused Shantanu came to Delhi to ensure the execution of the plan. Judge: In my considered opinion, creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit or the PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and the PJF also becomes meaningless. Further, it is rightly pointed out by the defence counsel that the protest march was duly permitted by Delhi police. Therefore, there is nothing wrong in co­accused Shantanu reaching Delhi to attend the protest march. The attempt to conceal her identity seems to be nothing more than an anxious effort to stay away from unnecessary controversies. Charge: Disha sought the support of international personalities using her previous acquaintance. She shared the toolkit with Thunberg. Judge: There is nothing on record to suggest that the applicant accused subscribed to any secessionist idea. The prosecution has, except for pointing out that Disha forwarded the toolkit to Thunberg, failed to point out as to how Disha gave global audience to the “secessionist elements”. Other questions The judge also touched upon other issues, such as the difficulty in proving the conspiracy charges and the view from the other side. Judge: I am conscious of the fact that it is very difficult to collect evidence for the offence of conspiracy but I’m equally conscious of the fact that what is difficult to prove for the prosecution in the affirmative is virtually impossible for the defence to prove in the negative. I’m also conscious of the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and police are in the process of collecting more evidence. However, the investigating agency made a conscious choice to arrest the applicant accused upon the strength of material so far collected and now they cannot be permitted to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations. Judge: Prosecution has also opposed the release of the applicant accused on bail on the ground that she is required to be confronted with the co-accused. There is no rule of law or prudence, at least that I am aware of, that a person is mandatorily required to be detained in custody to be confronted with the co­accused persons. The applicant accused is already reported to have been interrogated in police custody for almost about five days and placing any further restraint upon her liberty on the basis of general and omnibus accusation would be neither logical nor legal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Sena: Why shouldn't people get benefits of low crude oil price in international market?||The Shiv Sena has said citizens have lost the freedom to criticise the government’s wrong policies and those who still muster the courage face retributive action like the sedition charge and imprisonment. A scathing editorial in Saamana, the Sena’s mouthpiece, said: “Why should the Indian people not receive the benefits of low crude oil price in the international market? Will the citizens get a satisfactory reply to this question? Whoever speaks about this is branded anti-national. Before 2014, actors like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar had raised questions about petroleum prices. Why are these celebrities silent when petrol price has crossed Rs 100?” The Sena’s attack came after the new Maharashtra Congress chief, Nana Patole, withdrew his threat to disrupt the screening and shooting of films by actors such as Bachchan and Kumar if they didn’t speak up against rising petroleum prices. The Congress has been extremely critical of the Centre but doesn’t support violent tactics. Rahul Gandhi, who is the leading voice in the Opposition against Modi’s policies, tweeted on Tuesday: “Covid — calamity for you, opportunity for the government. After petrol-diesel-gas prices, plan to increase train fares. The middle class under assault of jumlas (fake promises).” Rahul was referring to Modi’s call for “aapda mein awsar (opportunity in calamity)”. The Congress has often accused the Modi government of profiteering off people’s miseries and pursuing policies that helped some crony capitalists to multiply their wealth during the coronavirus-induced crisis. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday posted a video in which Modi as Gujarat chief minister is sermonising on the ill-effects of high petroleum prices, describing it as a failure of the central government. Questioning the silence of certain actors who had not questioned the latest rounds of price rise, the Saamana editorial said: “They are silent or have been silenced? The other credible interpretation is that the citizens had the freedom to express their opinions before 2014. Nobody was dumped in jail on the sedition charge for raising questions about government policies before 2014. We have now lost the freedom to express our grief over petrol-diesel prices.” It added: “Why blame the celebrities? When people don’t have the freedom to support the farmers standing against the bulldozer of new farm laws, how do we expect actors to speak against petrol-diesel prices? …. All the people can do is silently face the heat of the fire ignited by petrol-diesel prices. Narendra Modi as Gujarat chief minister used to call the Congress robbers when petrol-diesel prices were hiked then. If somebody repeats the charge today, he will rot in jail. Those who happily suffer the high prices are patriots today and those who oppose are traitors.” The Sena asked the BJP to deploy its energies on bringing down the prices, which would provide relief to “Ram bhakts”, instead of running a drive to collect donations for the upcoming Ram temple. It also made fun of the Prime Minister’s promise to create a “Sonar Bangla” while forcing the country to grapple with a savage increase in petrol-diesel prices. Ridiculing Modi for blaming the Congress for the burden on the people, the editorial said: “Previous governments established Indian Oil, ONGC, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum and Mumbai High. They explored oil wells in the sea. Modi is selling these public sector units. It is exposing its mental bankruptcy by blaming the previous governments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Supreme court may modify school fee order||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that it might “modify” a Calcutta High Court order that directed private unaided schools in Bengal to waive off 20 per cent of the tuition fees to mitigate the hardships faced by parents because of the pandemic. “You give all those details of the schools that have opened etc. File an affidavit. We will go through everything and modify the high court’s order accordingly,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy told a battery of senior lawyers appearing for private schools in Bengal. “We will hear everything and decide it finally. We will take it up in the first week of April,” the bench said. During the hearing, senior advocate Rana Mukherjee, who appeared for some schools, pleaded that the high court order be set aside as the pandemic situation was easing and normality was returning to most economic activities in the state. The schools, he submitted, are clueless on how to proceed with the collection of fees in the evolving situation. Another senior advocate, Jaideep Gupta, submitted that the order of the high court should be modified as it pertained to the last academic year. “Schools are opening now. The order had said the directions would apply till the time the schools reopened. We need to move forward now, otherwise next year’s fees will get affected,” he said. The apex court had on October 28 declined to interfere with the high court order to all private schools in Bengal to waive off 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the resumption of in-person classes. The Supreme Court had, however, issued notices to the State and Vineet Ruia, the PIL petitioner in the case, on a batch of petitions assailing the high court’s directions. The top court had stayed directions 8 to 16 in paragraph 61 of the impugned judgment that was related to the setting up of a committee to vet the fee structure of the private schools. “....In the meantime, directions 8 to 16 contained in para 61... be not implemented,” the apex court had said in the earlier order. The private schools had objected to the high court judgment on the ground that it was contrary to a number of Supreme Court rulings that upheld the right of private unaided schools to manage their affairs without any interference from the State. The high court order on fee waiver followed a PIL by Vineet Ruia, who had complained that most private schools in Bengal had stopped students from attending online classes or writing exams on the ground that they had not paid their fees. Many parents could not pay fees because of loss of livelihood amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Journalist Siddique Kappan returns to Mathura jail after visiting home  ||Journalist Siddique Kappan, who was released on a five-day interim bail to see his ailing mother, has returned to Mathura jail following the completion of the conditional relief that allowed only his near ones to be with him. The visit, which was kept under wraps because of the gag order against speaking to reporters, began when Kappan was flown down to Kozhikode on February 17 evening and taken to his elder brother’s home in Vengara, Malappuram, the following morning, his wife Raihanath told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “As per the order, we were not supposed to know about his arrival. But since we were yearning to see him after more than three months in jail, it was such a relief and excitement at the same time,” said Raihanath. The Supreme Court had on February 15 allowed the interim bail application filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists that cited failing health of Kappan’s 90-year-old mother Khadija Kutty who has been bed-ridden. The interim bail was sought after a video call allowed by the court for Kappan to communicate with his hospitalised mother did not yield any result as she was in a semi-conscious state. “It was such an emotional moment for all of us. I can’t really explain how happy we all were to see him. But at the same time we had painfully reconciled to the fact that he would have to return to jail on completion of the interim bail,” the wife said. “Umma (Kappan’s mother) started responding to Siddique (Kappan). She even started smiling and uttered a few words,” Raihanath said, alluding to his mother who had to be hospitalised after her health condition deteriorated in January. “When he left (on Sunday) umma asked him where he was going. He told her he was heading to Kozhikode for work. She then went silent. So I feel she is aware of what’s happening and she may have overhead us talking about the case and jail,” said Raihanath, who led a couple of protests seeking justice for her jailed husband. The court had ordered Kappan not to meet journalists or even post anything on social media during the bail period allowed entirely on humanitarian grounds. The court had directed Uttar Pradesh police to take care of his transport to and fro from his native village and ordered Kerala police to ensure adequate security is provided. Six policemen from Uttar Pradesh had accompanied him to Vengara where 25 cops from Kerala stood guard until he was taken back on Sunday evening. Although, he was technically at home for four days as almost a day was consumed in travel, Raihanath thanked the apex court and police department of Uttar Pradesh and Kerala for ensuring everything went well. “The policemen who accompanied Siddique from Uttar Pradesh were well behaved and made us comfortable,” she said. “He called me at around 10am yesterday (Monday) and said he reached the prison at 2am,” she said pinning her hope on the plea for regular bail coming up in the Supreme Court on March 2. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020, along with three others while on his way to Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered. Kappan, a father of three, is the secretary of the New Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists. He is a retainer of Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. Kappan is accused of planning to foment trouble and being a member of the extremist Popular Front of India (PFI), which he denies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Tension grips Jammu after Delhi police arrests prominent farm leader and protester||Tensions flared up in Jammu on Tuesday after Delhi police arrested a prominent farm leader and a protester against the farm laws in the Union Territory. Hundreds took to the streets in protest against the arrests. They blocked the Jammu-Pathankot national highway for hours, resulting in massive traffic snarls, and raised anti-government slogans. Police sources said Jammu and Kashmir United Kisan Front chairman Mohinder Singh Khalsa was summoned on Monday evening by local police, who later handed him over to Delhi police in connection with the Republic Day chaos in the national capital. Another alleged protester, Mandeep Singh, also a resident of Jammu, was picked up separately. A relative of Mohinder said a police officer had summoned him around 8 on Monday evening. “He went to the police station on his own after he received a call from the SSP Gandhinagar. After half an hour we also went there and were told that he had been arrested by Delhi police,” a woman who said she was the daughter of Mohinder told reporters in Jammu. The family has denied he was involved in violence, while confirming they were part of the Republic Day protests. A large number of people from Jammu had gone to Delhi on January 26 to take part in the farmers’ protest. Delhi police claimed that Mohinder, 45, was a “key conspirator” in the January 26 violence at Red Fort. Jammu has witnessed a series of protests in recent months against the farm laws. The region has a substantial Sikh population, which has supported the farmers’ movement. A large contingent of policemen was deployed in and around the protest site in Jammu on Tuesday to prevent any violence. The protests remained peaceful. The protesters said they would continue the protests until the two men were released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Farmers object as Delhi police put up posters at Tikri border||Farmer unions on Tuesday objected to Delhi police putting up posters at Tikri border allegedly asking them to vacate the protest site. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions under which the protesting farmers are gathered at Delhi’s borders to seek repeal of three laws, said: “Delhi police have placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights.... We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings.” Delhi police described the posters as “routine”. “The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. The police have conveyed to them through the posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully,” a senior police officer said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — for nearly 90 days, demanding the repeal of the three agriculture laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Gujarat municipal elections: BJP wins 483 out of 576 seats||The BJP on Tuesday swept elections to the six municipal corporations in Gujarat by winning 483 out of 576 seats. The ruling party retained power in all the six municipal corporations in the state — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar. The main Opposition Congress got a drubbing, as it won only 55 seats and failed to open its account in Surat. The Aam Aadmi Party put up an impressive show by winning 27 seats, all in Surat, and emerged as the main Opposition in the municipal corporation. The AAP had for the first time fielded 470 candidates across all the six corporations. The BJP won 159 out of 192 seats in Ahmedabad, 93 out of 120 seats in Surat, 69 out of 76 seats in Vadodara, 68 out of 72 seats in Rajkot, 50 out of 64 seats in Jamnagar and 44 out of 52 seats in Bhavnagar. The Congress won seats in single digits in three corporations and drew a blank in Surat. The party won 25 seats in Ahmedabad, 11 in Jamnagar, eight in Bhavnagar, seven in Vadodara and four in Rajkot. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which also contested the local body polls in Gujarat for the first time, won seven seats in Ahmedabad’s Muslim-dominated Jamalpur and Maktampura wards. Three candidates of the Bahujan Samaj Party won in Jamnagar, while an Independent won in Ahmedabad. The BJP had won 389 seats and the Congress 176 across these six municipal corporations in the 2016 elections. The BJP gained 94 seats while the Congress lost 121 seats this time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the victory. “Today’s win across Gujarat is very special. For a party that is serving in a state for over two decades to record such a phenomenal win is noteworthy. It is heartening to see widespread support from all sections of society, particularly the youth of Gujarat towards BJP,” he tweeted. Chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel expressed gratitude to the voters and BJP workers for the results. “The grand victory of the BJP in these elections is the victory of the people of Gujarat. This is a grand victory of the politics of development of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Rupani said. “The people of Gujarat have provided a subject to political analysts who can now study how the concept of anti-incumbency does not apply in the state,” he added. Patel tweeted: “Many th­anks and congratulations to all the winning candidates, BJP office-bearers, workers and the voters of Gujarat for the glorious victory of Bhar­atiya Janata Party in the elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
24-02-2021||India||Three Odisha Congress legislators spring pedal power on petrol hike  ||Three Congress legislators in Odisha on Tuesday came to the state Assembly on bicycles to protest against the steep rise in the prices of petrol and diesel. MLAs, Suresh Kumar Routray, who is 76, has been in the forefront of protests the other two, Tara Prasad Bahinipati, 65, and Adhiraj Mohan Panigrahi, 45, pedalled their way to the Assembly from the Congress Bhavan, the party headquarters, which is about 1km away. Their protest marked a day when petrol prices were up by 35 paise and diesel prices were up by 38 paise. Routray, who represents Jatni constituency, accused the Narendra Modi government of betraying the common man by hiking the fuel prices. “The price rise has robbed people of their sleep,” he said. “Where is the achhe din. Now it’s all bure din. Even at this age I have to ride the bicycle to protest price rise. The Centre should immediately reduce the tax on petroleum products. I don’t remember how many times petrol and diesel prices have gone up this year,” said Rourtray. Panigrahi told The Telegraph, “Today morning we decided to come to the Assembly on bicycles. We could not immediately contact all the MLAs.  Our legislature party leader Narasingh Mishra did not join us because of health issues.  Both the state and the Centre should reduce their taxes from the petroleum products.” Bahinipati said: “Both the Centre and the state lack concern for the common man. Both the governments are equally responsible for the plight of the people. It’s because of the rise in fuel prices that the prices of other essential commodities have also gone up.” The Odisha Assembly took up the issue of petrol and diesel price hike for discussion through an adjournment motion. Replying to the motion, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari said:  “The state is collecting less amount of tax as compared to the Centre. Oil companies fix the price of petrol and diesel on the basis of basic price, central excise duty and value added tax. While the Centre is collecting Rs 32.90 from fuel, the state government is levying Rs 21.40 towards 32 per cent VAT on it. All the taxes collected are being utilised for various developmental works.” In a related incident, youth wing of the Congress has threatened to remove all the posters from petrol pumps speaking about the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana from Wednesday. Odisha Youth Congress president Smruti Ranjan Lenka quoted The Telegraph’s report saying, “In May 2014, the Brent Current Price stood at 108 dollar per barrel. The crude excise was Rs 10 per litre for petrol. The retail pump price was Rs 71. Now the crude price has dropped significantly to around 65 dollar but the retail pump price has risen to Rs 100, while the central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre.  The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 while the central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre. The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 in about two months’ time to Rs 796 per cylinder.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
