25-02-2021||India||Mumbai reports 1,145 new infections in 24 hours; total 8702  new discoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra continued to report over 8,000 coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Thursday, which pushed its overall infection count to 21,29,821, a health official said. The state reported 8,702 cases on Thursday, while this number was 8,807 on Wednesday. With 56 deaths reported during the day, the state's fatality count went up to 51,993. A total of 3,744 patients were discharged during the day after recovery, which took the count of such persons to 20,12,367. The number of active cases is now 64,260, the official said. Since Wednesday, Mumbai, Akola, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik divisions have been witnessing a spike in single-day infection count, he added. Mumbai city reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, which took its cumulative figure to 3,22,844. Five persons died due to the infection in the metropolis, which pushed the toll to 11,463. With this, Mumbai division, which comprises the city and its satellite towns, reported 1,976 coronavirus cases, increasing the tally to 7,20,293. Its fatality figure now stands at 19,802, he said. With 864 new cases, Nagpur city ranked second in the state in terms of daily cases. Nagpur division has so far reported 2,23,178 cases, while the fatality count has increased to 4,805, he said. With several school children testing positive for the infection in Satara district, the daily count of cases jumped to 112. Other areas in Pune division, including Pune city, neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad and other parts of the district have reported a rise in the number of cases. Pune division recorded 1,734 new cases during the day, taking the tally to 5,21,305, while the fatality count stood at 11,727. Nashik division has so far reported 2,88,821 cases and 5,230 deaths, Kolhapur division 1,19,512 cases and 4,062 deaths, Aurangabad division 79,298 cases and 2,042 deaths, Latur division 85,433 cases and 2,515 deaths and Akola division 91,835 cases and 1,724 deaths. With 84,814 tests conducted during the day, the overall test count in the state reached 1,60,26,587. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 21,29,821, new cases: 8,702, death toll: 51,993, discharged: 20,12,367, active cases: 64,260, people tested so far: 1,60,26,587.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
25-02-2021||India||Covid: Beneficiaries can register themselves for vaccine from Monday||As the country gears up to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities against Covid-19 from March 1, official sources on Thursday said these beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from Monday itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the session sites. Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at a number of private hospitals, the Centre said on Wednesday. "The eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at a nearby session site to get vaccinated," R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration, said. He said the new version of the Co-WIN platform will be GPS-enabled and the beneficiaries will have the option to choose the inoculation session site both at the government and private facilities. There will be volunteers to help those opting for walk-in registration with the process if they are not tech-savvy. Co-WIN, a digital platform, was created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery. One will also have the option to get inoculated in a state different from his or her home state. People aged above 45 years will have to upload a medical certificate mentioning their comorbid conditions. The government is yet to specify the conditions that would be included in the over-45 age group with comorbidities. "Co-WIN will be able to take registrations and appointments from multiple applications, including Aarogya Setu or any other application such as a common service app," Sharma said. A beneficiary will just have to register with his mobile number and in turn, will receive an OTP with which his account will be created. One can also get their family members registered on the account. The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday, in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and above 45 years with co-morbidities will be administered the vaccine at 10,000 government medical facilities and over 20,000 private hospitals, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday. "Whoever goes to a government centre will be administered the vaccine free of cost. The Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and send them to all the states," he said. Those who want to get vaccinated at private hospitals will have to pay and the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as it is in discussions with the vaccine manufacturers as well as the hospitals, Javadekar said. Asked if people would have a choice as regards which vaccine -- Covishield or Covaxin -- they want to take, the minister said the country is proud to have two vaccines, both of which are effective with proven efficacy. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
25-02-2021||India||Explosive-laden vehicle found near Mukesh Ambani's house||A vehicle with gelatin sticks, an explosive material, was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on Thursday evening, police said.

The vehicle, a Scorpio van, was found on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, the chairman of Reliance Industries, an official said.

As it aroused suspicion, police were alerted and teams of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) reached the spot immediately.

They found there was gelatin inside, but it was not an assembled explosive device, the police official said.

"Twenty gelatin explosives sticks were found in a Scorpio van in the vicinity of industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai. The Mumbai Crime Branch police is investigating the matter and the findings will be out soon," Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted.

As the area is under CCTV surveillance, the vehicle was spotted by some security personnel and the police were alerted, he had said earlier.

The vehicle was towed away by the police to a safe place, he said, adding that investigators were trying to ascertain the identity of its owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
25-02-2021||India||Zomato hikes delivery partner remuneration amid rising fuel prices||Online food ordering platform Zomato on Thursday said it restructured its delivery partner remuneration to factor in the fuel price hike, a move that will increase their earnings by 7-8 per cent. The company said the dramatic increase in fuel prices has led to a direct impact on the net earnings of Zomato delivery partners. This also impacts the earnings of the partner in case of a long-distance order, given that the delivery partner is required to return back to the base-working localities to get another order assigned. In a series of tweets, Zomato founder and Chief Executive Officer Deepinder Goyal said the company has increased the pay structure for its delivery partners by 7-8 per cent. He added that the company is "not yet passing on this cost to our customers". Over this past month, Zomato has taken multiple steps to ensure that this increase in the running costs for delivery partners does not impact their net take-home earnings, a statement said. The company explained that its delivery partner travels between 100-120 km in a day, consuming 60-80 litres of fuel in a typical month. The recent increase in prices amounts to an additional monthly spend of Rs 600-800 (about 3 per cent of monthly income) from their take-home income. Zomato has now introduced a revised pay structure for its delivery partners which will include an additional component of distance pay. This component will be applicable over and above the existing remuneration, and will automatically be pegged to adapt to any changes in fuel prices in the future. Besides, Zomato has also introduced long-distance return pay where for every long-distance order completed, its delivery partner would either receive another order within 15 minutes that would bring them back closer to their base areas of working or they will receive an additional payout for travelling the extra distance. "We understand how fuel price hikes can impact their earnings and have decided to factor in such developments in their pay structure. Both of these inclusions combined will increase their earnings by 7-8 per cent," Zomato COO- Food Delivery Mohit Sardana said. He added that the Zomato has already implemented the new structure in about 40 cities and will be rolling it out in other cities in the coming week.Zomato - which has recently raised USD 250 million (over Rs 1,800 crore) in funding from Tiger Global, Kora and others - has 1.5 lakh delivery partners in its fleet, and has been strengthening it further to meet the growing demand for food delivery in India. The online food delivery segment has seen significant growth in the last few years with Zomato and Swiggy competing head-on to grab market share. Zomato -- which competes aggressively with Prosus-backed Swiggy in the Indian market -- has previously stated that it plans to go for an initial public offering (IPO) in the first half of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
25-02-2021||India||President's rule in Puducherry, Assembly under suspended animation||President's Rule was imposed in Puducherry following a recommendation by the Union Cabinet after a Congress-led government lost power in the Union Territory in a vote of confidence. The notification, signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, said the decision was taken after the president received a report from the administrator of the Union Territory of Puducherry on February 22. It said after considering the report and other information received by him, the president was satisfied that a situation had arisen in which the administration of the Union Territory of Puducherry could not carry on in accordance with the provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963). "Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 51 of the Act and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, I (a) suspend, until the constitution of the 15th Legislative Assembly of Puducherry, in relation to the said Union Territory of Puducherry...," the notification said. The president also suspended the operation of various provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963), thus imposing central rule in Puducherry. The notification also said the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory is placed under suspended animation. V Narayanasamy, who led the Congress government in Puducherry resigned on Monday ahead of the confidence vote after his government was reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations by his party MLAs and a DMK legislator in recent days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Rahul: Fishermen need independent ministry, not just a department||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said fisherfolk need an independent fisheries ministry and not just a department within a ministry, responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's swipe at him. At a public meeting in Puducherry, the prime minister expressed shock over Gandhi's statement last week that there was no "dedicated" fisheries ministry. At the time, BJP leaders, including Union ministers, had also taken a swipe at Gandhi. Responding to the prime minister's swipe, Gandhi tweeted, "Dear PM, Fisherfolk need an independent and dedicated ministry of fisheries, not just a department within a ministry." "PS- 'Hum do Humare do' obviously hurt bad," he said referring to the jibe he had used against the government recently to allege that it is being run by Modi and his "corporate friends". Modi, in his remarks in Puducherry, said, "Congress leaders say we will make a fisheries ministry. I was shocked. The truth is, it is the current NDA government that has made a ministry for fisheries in 2019." In 2019, the Modi government had formed a Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. In a separate tweet, Gandhi also attacked the government over a media report claiming that the government has started clearing foreign direct investment proposals from China on a case-by-case basis. Gandhi said, "China has understood that Mr Modi buckles under their pressure. They now know they can get whatever they want from him." In another tweet, Gandhi also attacked the government over the issue of employment and asked the government to create jobs for the youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Indian Newspaper Society writes to Google, seeks higher percentage of ad revenue||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) on Thursday asked Google to compensate Indian newspapers for using their content and insisted that the global search giant increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 per cent. In a letter to Google, INS president L Adimoolam said publishers are also facing a very opaque advertising system, as they are unable to get details of Google's advertising value chain. "The Society insisted that Google should increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 percent, and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google," the INS said in a statement. It noted that, over the past year publishers across the world have been raising the issue of fair payment for content and of proper sharing of advertising revenue with Google. It is also noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, the European Union and notably in Australia. In a letter addressed to Google India's country manager Sanjay Gupta, the INS president demanded that Google should pay for news generated by the newspapers which employ thousands of journalists on the ground, at considerable expense, for gathering and verifying information. "Since, the content which is generated and published by newspapers at considerable expense is proprietary, the Society pointed out that it is this credible content which has given Google the authenticity in India ever since its inception," the INS said. It pointed out that publishers have been providing complete access to "quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment", and "there is a huge distinction between the editorial content from quality publications and fake news that is spreading on other information platforms". Further, it was also pointed out that advertising has been the financial backbone of the news industry. However, newspaper publishers are seeing their share of the advertising pie shrinking in the digital space, even as Google is taking a "giant share of advertising spends", leaving publishers with a small share, it said. The INS also raised the issue of giving greater prominence to editorial content from Registered News Publishers to tackle fake news, as Google picks up content from several sites that are not credible, thus "amplifying misinformation and propagation of fake news". Pointing out that the Society is engaged in discussions with Google on these vital issues, the letter also reiterated that "Indian print media is the most credible source of news and information in the country, and newspapers play a vital role in nation building. However, the pandemic and the current digital business model have been unfair to publishers, making it unviable for the print media industry. We invest heavily on journalism, the core of our news operations, because newspapers play a vital role in society."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Nirav Modi allowed to be extradited by UK court||Nirav Modi, the diamond merchant wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, on Thursday lost his legal battle against extradition as a UK judge ruled that he does have a case to answer before the Indian courts. The 49-year-old appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London and showed no emotion as District Judge Samuel Goozee handed down his judgment at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London. "I am satisfied on the evidence that a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering is established, said Judge Goozee, as he read out parts of his judgment in court and concluded that he will send his ruling to the UK's Secretary of State," Priti Patel. It is the Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The Home Secretary's order rarely goes against the court's conclusions, as she has to consider only some very narrow bars to extradition which are unlikely to apply in this case, including the possible imposition of a death penalty. Whatever the ministerial decision, the losing side Nirav Modi has up to 14 days within which to approach the High Court and seek leave to appeal after the Home Secretary's decision. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||‘Soft touch’ regulation crack down on fake news, ‘unlawful’ content||The government has announced tough new rules to crack down on fake news, “unlawful” content and sexually explicit material as it seeks to rein in media giants like Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp and booming streaming services like Netflix. The controls also target online news services. Among the most contentious changes, is the requirement that social media companies allow identification of the “first originator” of any “mischievous” material judged to be offensive by authorities. This could oblige WhatsApp and other messaging services to break their end-to-end encryption and rights activists fear it could lead to greater state surveillance. The new Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules will oblige social media companies like Facebook and Twitter to remove content deemed to break the laws of the land after being served an order by a court or a government agency. The government called the changes “soft touch” regulation. “Social media is welcome to do business in India but users must also be given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner against abuse and misuse of social media,” IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told a press conference. The rules would also force digital news media to register with the government and impose additional rules not applicable to traditional news media. These digital news sites would also come under a three-tier regulation system. However, the online sites of newspapers and magazines would not be subject to these regulations. The regulatory overhaul would force OTT streaming platforms to self-regulate content and divide it into five categories according to the levels of violence and sex. The changes come against the backdrop of government displeasure over social media support for the farmers’ protest and a growing move worldwide to rein in the power of the social media and digital news sites. Also, the government was unhappy when Twitter showed reluctance to take down content after being ordered to do so. The government said in a statement the requirement for the release of the originator of messages falling foul of authorities was required for, among other purposes, the “prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of an offence related to sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order or of incitement to an offence relating to the above”. The identification of the originator could also be used in connection with the “rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material” and would be “punishable with imprisonment for a term of not less than five years,” the government added in the release. The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is based in India, said in a website statement that the rules announced could “fundamentally change how the Internet is accessed and used by millions of users across India.” It also warned that any attempt to weaken encryption could “undermine the privacy and security” of people who use the Internet. Three-level structure The government envisages a three-level structure that would ensure the companies adhere to the government’s “Code of Ethics”. Grievance officers within the companies would have to tackle all complaints within a one-month timeframe. They would also be responsible for notifying people whose comments are removed from the site about the reason for this action. The government will also appoint a committee under a joint-secretary level officer, to hear people who are not satisfied with the action on their complaints. The government’s rules aim to prevent social media content that is defamatory, threatens the unity and integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India. Social media sites would have to remove such content within 36 hours of complaints of being received. Social media, “users must also be given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner against abuse and misuse of social media,” Prasad told reporters. A string of controversies The new rules come in the wake of a string of controversies about content on OTT and social media sites. A few months ago, Sudarshan TV argued that it could not be stopped from broadcasting a programme that painted the Muslim community in a poor light after a government order forbidding its airing. More recently, the cast of a programme, Tandav, were all threatened with arrest because a scene in the series was said to offend religious sentiments. Besides that, there have been continuous complaints about social media content that threaten violence particularly to women. Critics of the new rules point out that the IT Act, 2000 does not apply to the news media and therefore, the IT Intermediary Rules issued on Thursday, which are an offshoot of the act, cannot be extended to apply to news. Additionally, the critics note that digital publishers are already covered by the restrictions in Article 19 of the Indian Constitution and this would lead to an additional layer of regulation. OTT platforms will now have to perform a delicate balancing act and will also have to establish a multi-level self-classification system based primarily on age. Some shows would have to be designated as only suitable for children over the age of 13. Other shows would be for people over 16 and some only for adults. Broadcast Seva The new rules also envisage the setting up of a Broadcast Seva site under the I&B Ministry with which news sites would have to register. Online news sites till now have followed rules applicable to the print and electronic media. Facebook said in a statement it was “carefully” studying the new rules but added it was committed “to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platforms.” There was no immediate comment from other media outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||New rules to curb misuse of social media announced||The government on Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firm like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country. The rules about digital media and OTT focus more on in-house and self-regulation mechanism whereby a robust grievance redressal mechanism has been provided while upholding journalistic and creative freedom. This is the first time such rules have been framed for digital and online media operating within the country's jurisdiction. The norms on social media come weeks after a spat between the government and Twitter over certain messages around farmer protests that the government saw as inciting violence. The government sought removal of about 1,500 accounts and messages, a request that Twitter complied with, only after being warned of penal action. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said concerns have been raised over rampant abuse of social media platforms and spread of fake news. "Social media companies are welcome to do business in India, and empower Indians...We welcome criticism and dissent... but it is important that users of social media are given a proper forum for resolution of their grievances in a time-bound manner," Prasad said. India is a large market for digital and social media companies and is witnessing strong growth on the back of booming smartphone sales and availability of dirt cheap data. Prasad said intermediaries will fall into two categories -- social media intermediary and significant social media intermediary. This distinction is based on the number of users on the social media platform, and the government will soon notify the threshold of user base that will distinguish the two. The rules require the significant' social media intermediaries to follow additional due diligence including appointment of chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer. All the three officials will have to resident in India. Significant social media companies will also have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also details of contents removed proactively. In a move that could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp, government said that significant social media intermediaries providing services primarily in the nature of messaging will have to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. The intermediary, however, will not be required to disclose the contents of any message. The rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so, and be accorded a visible mark of verification. Users will have to be provided with a prior intimation and explanation when significant social media intermediary removes content on its own. In such cases, users have to be provided an adequate and reasonable opportunity to dispute the action taken by the intermediary. Rules related to social media will be administered by Ministry of Electronics and IT, while those related Code of Ethics and procedure and safeguards in relation to digital media will be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. On rules related to over-the-top (OTT) and digital media, the government said, guidelines have been framed keeping in mind the difference between viewership in a theatre and television, as compared to watching it on internet. A Code of Ethics and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, OTT platforms and digital media. OTT platforms would have to self-classify the content into five age-based categories - U (Universal), U/A 7+ (years), U/A 13+, U/A 16+, and A (Adult). Such platforms have drawn flak for content that contains obscenity, and has at times hurt religious sentiments. Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Prakash Javadekar said such platforms would be required to implement parental locks for content classified as U/A 13+ or higher, and reliable age-verification mechanisms for content classified as 'A'. The publishers of online curated content will also have to prominently display the classification rating specific to a programme together with a content descriptor, he added. Publishers of news on digital media would be required to observe Norms of Journalistic Conduct of the Press Council of India and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act, providing a level-playing field between the offline (print, TV) and digital media, an official statement said. "Digital media portals have no right to spread rumour. Media's freedom is absolute but with reasonable restrictions. Content matter, especially media, OTT and digital media will be administered by I&B ministry. Intermediary platforms monitoring will be done by the IT ministry in the manner they have been doing it," Javadekar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||India, Pakistan agree to follow all ceasefire pact to maintain peace along LoC||India and Pakistan have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and other sectors, according to a joint statement on Thursday. The decision on ceasefire, effective since Wednesday midnight, was taken at a meeting between the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan. The DGMOs held discussions over the established mechanism of hotline contact and reviewed the situation along the Line of Control and all other sectors in a "free, frank and cordial atmosphere". "In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other's core issues and concerns which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence. "Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight of February 24/25," the joint statement said. Both sides reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings will be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding, it added. The Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) and the PDP welcomed the move. "We welcome it and hope that the statement will be followed in letter & spirit. JKNC has always been a strong supporter of the ceasefire along the LoC," the party said in a statement. "This will allow people living along the LoC & IB (International Border) to go about their normal lives with minimal disruption & risk," the party said. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet welcomed the ceasefire announcement and said dialogue was the only way forward. "A big & welcome development that India & Pakistan have agreed to a ceasefire along the LoC. Dialogue is the only way forward if both countries want to stop the unending cycle of violence & bloodshed across the borders and J&K," Mehbooba said. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha earlier this month, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said a total of 10,752 cases of ceasefire violations have taken place along India's border with Pakistan in the last three years, in which 72 security personnel and 70 civilians were killed. He said 364 security personnel and 341 civilians were injured in cross-border firings along the International Border and the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, 2019 and 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Modi targets Rahul over his 'north-south' remarks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the Congress and its erstwhile government in Puducherry, saying the V Narayanasamy led dispensation had 'different priorities' than public welfare and flayed party leader Rahul Gandhi over his recent 'north-south' remarks. Hitting out at the "Congress culture," at a public meeting in the poll-bound union territory, he said people were witness to it in the last five years. "Our colonial rulers had the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. Sometimes their leaders put region against region... community against community," he said in an apparent reference to Gandhi's recent 'north-south' remarks which the BJP opposed strongly. During his Kerala visit on Tuesday, Gandhi had said he was used to a "different type of politics" in north India and coming to the southern state was "very refreshing" as people are interested in "issues". Modi also expressed 'shock' over Gandhi's statement that there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry at the Centre, adding the NDA government had set it up in 2019 and that its budgetary allocation has substantially gone up ever since. Averring that the people of Puducherry did not deserve a "high command" government that would serve a few Congress leaders, Modi assured that the NDA government, if voted in the coming elections, would treat people as its high command.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Nadda launches 'Lokkho Sonar Bangla' crowdsourcing campaign||BJP chief J P Nadda on Thursday launched 'Lokkho Sonar Bangla' (target to build golden Bengal) manifesto crowdsourcing campaign to seek suggestions from more than two crore people in West Bengal ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. He said the party's manifesto will stress the socio- economic empowerment of the Matua community, women and youth and put an end to the "cut money" and "syndicate" culture of the state. "The Lokkho Sonar Bangla campaign will begin on March 3 and continue till March 30. We aim to reach out to more than two crore people of the state spread across all the 294 constituencies. "There will be 30,000 suggestion boxes. We want to seek suggestions of the common people in our endeavour to build Sonar Bangla," Nadda said during the launch of the programme. Nadda said that the BJP aims to build a West Bengal where women can live without fear and students from the Matua community get education and jobs to lead a good life. "We will end Naxalism in West Bengal. We will end coal smuggling and syndicate and cut money culture," he said. Bengali actor Payal Sarkar joined the saffron party in the presence of Nadda. Assembly elections in the state are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Shantanu Muluk granted protection from arrest till March 9||A court here on Thursday granted protection from arrest till March 9 to Shantanu Muluk, who is accused along with Disha Ravi of allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief to the activist after the Delhi Police said it needed time to conduct further interrogation before filing a detailed reply to Muluk's anticipatory bail plea. The judge noted the submission and directed the police not to take any coercive action against Muluk till March 9, when court will further hear the matter. Muluk, along with Ravi and Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
25-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 15,000 after nearly a month||The daily rise in coronavirus infections in India was recorded above 15,000 after nearly a month taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,10,46,914, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 16,738 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,705 with 138 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise of cases stayed below 15,000. The daily deaths were registered above 130 after a gap of 26 days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,38,501 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.21 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active caseload increased to 1,51,708 which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,38,29,658 samples have been tested up to February 24 with 7,93,383 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Breast examination cuts cancer death toll||A clinical breast examination by trained health workers can detect breast cancer early and reduce mortality by 30 per cent, almost as much as possible through mammography screening, a 22-year-long study in India has suggested. The landmark study by oncologists at the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Mumbai, is the world’s first to validate clinical breast examination as an alternative mode of breast screening in women aged 50 years or older without any overdiagnosis. The findings, which come at a time breast cancer incidence is rising across the country, bolster arguments for introducing clinical breast examination as an effective alternative to mammography screening in India and other middle and low-income countries. While X-ray-based mammography screening is widely practiced in western countries and prescribed to women in cities across India, many doctors believe it is not an appropriate option for low and middle-income countries because of its cost, complexity and a risk of overdiagnosis. “The efficacy of clinical breast examination had not been put to rigorous test — until our study. We now have an answer — it is as effective in preventing deaths as mammography,” said Rajendra Badwe, a study team member and TMH director. Badwe and his colleagues, since the start of the study in 1999, have measured the incidence and outcomes of breast cancer in over 150,000 women, roughly half of whom received cancer awareness information and clinical breast examinations from trained health workers once every two years. The other half received cancer awareness information. The study, published on Wednesday in the British Medical Journal, found a significant 30 per cent reduction in breast cancer mortality in women aged 50 years or older. Among women below 50 years, the examinations helped earlier diagnosis of breast cancers, but there was no mortality reduction observed. Doctors say the reasons for the absence of mortality reduction in women below 50 remain unclear but the findings are similar to those from studies on mammography screening. The researchers speculate that the absence of mortality benefit in women below 50 may result from unknown “biological factors” linked to breast cancers in younger women. “Our findings point to a screening strategy that would be relatively easy to implement on a large scale in India and other low and middle-income countries where routine mammography is impractical,” said Sudeep Gupta, professor of medical oncology at the TMH. “Female health workers who are not even graduates may be quickly trained for clinical breast examination — such a screening strategy could be implemented across the country.” The National Cancer Registry maintained by the Indian Council of Medical Research has suggested that breast cancer incidence has overtaken cervical cancer, which was the most common cancer among women about three decades ago. The number of documented breast cancer patients in India has increased from 142,000 in 2016 to 150,000 in 2017 to about nearly 160,000 in 2018. Two years ago, the American College of Physicians (ACP) had cautioned that annual mammography screening may result in more harm than screening every other year and recommended mammography only once in every two years for women between 50 and 74 years. The ACP, echoing concerns expressed for years by oncologists at the TMC, had listed potential harms as overdiagnosis, overtreatment, false positive results, radiation exposure, radiation-associated breast cancer and worry and distress from tests and procedures including breast biopsies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Renovated Sardar Patel stadium in Motera inaugurated as Narendra Modi Stadium||The Sardar Patel Stadium, Motera, closed for renovation in 2015 and reopened on Wednesday as the largest cricket stadium in the world but under a new name — the Narendra Modi Stadium. The name change appeared to be a secret so well-guarded that a news alert issued by the news agency PTI at 1.18pm said: “President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurates the world’s largest cricket stadium — the revamped Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad.” Twelve minutes later, at 1.30pm, another alert followed: “Refurbished Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad renamed after PM as Narendra Modi stadium.” Nor was PTI alone in the dark. The news agency ANI had tweeted a couple of hours earlier: “President Ram Nath Kovind to formally inaugurate Sardar Patel Stadium, Motera, where pink-ball Test match between India and England will begin today.” Modi, who has often mocked the Congress for naming landmarks after members of the Nehru-Gandhi family and ignoring other tall leaders, especially Sardar Patel, becomes the first Prime Minister of India to have a stadium named after him while he is still in office. Like the monogrammed suit moment of 2015, several incongruous elements stood out on Wednesday. The end names of the stadium are the Adani Pavilion End and the Reliance End. Both Reliance and the Adanis are within their rights to have the ends named after them once they have met the cricket association’s norms. But when perceptions take precedence, the coincidence stood out and drew comment — especially with thousands of farmers staying put on roads and alleging a nexus between the two corporate groups and the Modi government in pushing the farm laws. In India is in the middle of an economic crisis and large sections of the population are yet to come to terms with the debilitating blows of the pandemic. Yet, those around the Prime Minister think nothing of emblazoning his name across the gate of a cricket stadium that is being touted the largest in the world. In Ignominious parallels were also drawn. Many on social media pointed out that there was another leader who had a stadium named after him while in power. The main football stadium of Stuttgart was named Adolf Hitler Kampfbahn in 1933. The name was changed to Century Stadium after the Second World War. Another name doing the rounds was Saddam Hussein’s. Foreign media also took note. The Times, London, had a report headlined: “Cricket stadium named after master of spin Modi.” If Modi was taking guard as the former president of the Gujarat Cricket Association (one of the many hats he has worn), there are indeed precedents. The Mumbai stadium was named after S.K. Wankhede when he headed the Bombay Cricket Association while the one in Bangalore took its name from M. Chinnaswamy who was then helming the Mysore Cricket Association. The Mohali stadium is named after I.S. Bindra. But Narendra Damodardas Modi is not playing as an erstwhile cricket administrator. He is the Prime Minister of India. Even Modi’s supporters could not believe the news from Motera at first. “Would have happened if the Gandhis were in power. But now, NO. Sorry dude, try this trick some other time,” said a Twitter user at 12.38pm, responding to a tweet that said the stadium was going to be renamed after Modi. The Twitter bio describes the user as the leader of a wing of the BJP and declares that she is “honoured to be followed by Prime Minister of India”. The Congress said Modi had taken revenge on Patel, one of the tallest leaders of India’s Independence movement and the country’s first home minister, for banning the RSS after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination. “Gujarat had two truly illustrious sons, Patel and Gandhi. Both rejected the RSS philosophy. Patel banned the RSS after the Mahatma’s assassination. Modi took revenge today by removing Patel’s name. In 2017, we saw Modi replaced Gandhi’s photographs from the Khadi calendar with his own even as his contribution to Khadi is nil,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera said. “We haven’t forgotten that a book viciously attacking Sardar Patel, Tragedy of Partition, authored by RSS leader H.V. Seshadri, used to be distributed free at the Nagpur headquarters. Now they charge Rs 100 for that book,” Khera added. Conscious of the negative publicity that the erasing of Sardar Patel’s name will trigger in Gujarat and elsewhere, home minister Amit Shah announced the construction of a Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave and the foundation stone was laid by President Kovind. The enclave will include the stadium. Speaking at the inauguration, Shah gave credit to Modi’s vision for bolstering sports in Gujarat and giving the vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Ahmedabad will be known as “sports city of the country” because the enclave can host any international game, he added. Shah’s cabinet colleague Ravi Shankar Prasad asked if Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi had ever visited the Statue of Unity in Gujarat, referring to the statue of Sardar Patel unveiled by Modi. The pro-government ecosystem also churned out statistics listing the number of public places named after the Nehru-Gandhis, without explaining why the BJP is aping the Congress.
Congress leaders were unstoppable. Hardik Patel, a young leader from Gujarat, asked: “Isn’t this an insult of Sardar Patel? People of Gujarat will not tolerate this. The RSS-BJP relation with Patel is based on hate and they want to wipe out his legacy. The respect shown is superficial.” Kerala MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a Home Minister who had banned their parent organisation!” The party’s communications chief, Randeep Surjewala, said: “The BJP has challenged Gujarat’s self-esteem. Modi cannot become bigger by erasing Patel’s legacy. And why didn’t the President of India object? Why did he become party to this misdeed? The country needs answers.” Rahul tweeted: “Beautiful how the truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium — Adani end, Reliance end. With Jay Shah presiding. Hum Do Hamare Do.” Jay Shah, BCCI secretary, is the son of Amit Shah. The Congress also mocked Modi, suggesting he had the stadium named after him because he knew no one else would. “Modi knows people will remember you only when you have made some historic contribution. He knows he has done nothing,” Khera said. While there are many stadiums in India named after Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, the decision was made only after their death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Option to pay and get vaccinated in private hospital ||Covid vaccines will be offered from March 1 to all people aged above 60 and those older than 45 years with chronic health disorders, the Centre has said. The vaccines will be free in government hospitals. Recipients who opt for vaccinations in private hospitals will need to pay, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said, announcing decisions taken by the cabinet on Wednesday. The Centre is procuring Covishield at Rs 200 a dose and Covaxin at Rs 295 a dose but analysts believe the cost in the private sector will be higher. Two doses of a vaccine are needed for protection. Adar Poonawala, the CEO of Serum Institute that makes Covishield in India, was quoted on January 12 as saying the company would sell the vaccine in the private market at Rs 1,000. Bharat Biotech, which makes the home-grown Covaxin, has so far not signalled a price for its vaccine in the private market. The vaccines will be available through 10,000 government hospitals and nearly 20,000 private hospitals, Javadekar said. “Those who want the vaccines from private hospitals will have to pay — what amount is to be paid will be announced by the health ministry within three or four days,” he said. This is the first time the Centre has announced an option for people to pay for Covid-19 vaccines although experts say Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on January 11 hinted at this possibility when he asserted that the Centre would bear expenses for the first phase of the campaign to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers. Some might view the pay-if-you-wish option as a departure — at least for the people of Bihar — from a promise made by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in October while she was campaigning ahead of the Bihar Assembly elections. Sitharaman had said that when scientists approve the vaccine and large-scale production in the country begins, “in Bihar, every person will get a free vaccine... this is our first manifesto promise”. If every person in Bihar goes to a government hospital, he or she will get the vaccine free but those who go to private hospitals can say better clarity should have been provided by the minister before the polls. Experts said the health ministry was yet to disclose the process through which potential beneficiaries could register themselves on the digital platform called Co-Win to receive the vaccines and the eligibility criteria for comorbidities or chronic health disorders. Since its start on January 16, the campaign’s first phase — focused only on high-risk priority populations — has inoculated more than 6.5 million healthcare workers and over 4.3 million frontline workers with first doses of vaccines. The second phase starting on March 1 will extend the campaign to vulnerable priority groups from the general population — the elderly and those with comorbidities — and is expected to rapidly expand the fraction of India’s population protected from the coronavirus. Experts expect the second phase of the vaccination campaign to significantly speed up coverage as the first phase had involved around 10,000 hospitals, including 2,000 private facilities. Although starting with people older than 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities, the second phase seeks to eventually immunise all people older than 50 and those below 50 with comorbidities, an estimated 270 million people. High blood pressure, diabetes and cardiovascular and kidney diseases are among the list of comorbidities, said a senior doctor who helped draft the list. Javadekar said the health ministry would announce the costs of vaccines in the private sector after discussions with the vaccine manufacturers and representatives of participating hospitals. Sections of doctors have hailed the cabinet decision saying it would allow the government to focus on providing vaccines to those who cannot afford them while allowing those who can pay to purchase them. The Centre has so far remained silent about the issue of choice of vaccines. During the campaign’s first phase, neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers had a choice of vaccines. A third Covid-19 vaccine — the Russian-made Sputnik V — could also become available in the coming weeks if India’s drug regulatory authority is satisfied with its trial data. Egypt on Wednesday became the 35th country to approve Sputnik V. India would need roughly 540 million doses to vaccinate the 270 million people in the vulnerable priority groups. Serum has indicated that it has a production capacity of 70 million doses a month while Bharat has said it would have 10 million doses ready by February 2021 and could supply 200 to 500 million doses during 2021. The Centre said on Wednesday it had sent public health teams to Bengal and nine other states to determine the reasons for the recent upsurge in some states and guide state health authorities for required control measures. The three-member teams will examine the status of the epidemics in Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. The Union health ministry said it had also written to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab to undertake aggressive public health measures to break the chain of transmission. The states have been asked to flush out undetected cases, increase the number of PCR tests, and ensure that all positive persons receive appropriate clinical management. The average daily cases have more than doubled in Maharashtra over the past two weeks — from 2,692 on February 10 to 6,110 on February 23 — and increased in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Govt ‘arrogance’ leaves a bitter aftertaste in sugarcane belt||Rambir Singh, a Jat farmer at Basi village in Baghpat district, is furious with the BJP and also Prime Minister Narendra Modi. More than the contentious farm laws, he is angry at the “arrogance” of the government. “Ye ahankari sarkar hai. Ghamand me chur hai (This is an arrogant government. Full of conceit),” he says, pointing to the Modi government’s refusal to repeal the three new farm laws. Omkar Singh, another Jat farmer of Shahdabbar village, slams both the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. “This BJP government only lies,” Omkar burst out. “Modiji had promised to double farmers’ income and here we haven’t yet received last year’s sugarcane dues,” he says, pledging not to press the “lotus” button, the BJP’s election symbol, anymore. Omkar is particularly angry with Adityanath because the state government hasn’t raised the state-advised price (SAP) for sugarcane in the past three years and also not taken any action against private sugar mills for not making timely payments. The SAP is the floor price at which private mills buy sugarcane from farmers. “Prices of everything — diesel, fertiliser, pesticides — are going up but for our sugarcane,” says Rajpat Rathi, another farmer in the same village. “We had trusted Modi and the BJP but this government seems to be totally anti-farmer,” Omkar fumes. The strong-arm attitude of the government while dealing with the farmers’ protest has generated a wave of anger in the districts of western Uttar Pradesh adjoining Delhi. In this region, known as Jat land, sugarcane is the principle crop. The anger has got aggravated because the farmers haven’t yet received their entire payment for sugarcane delivered to mills last year and also the stagnant prices of cane since 2018. It has been almost three months since the sugar season started but the state government hasn’t yet announced the SAP, probably because of a glut in the market. The last SAP three seasons ago was Rs 315 per quintal. With the new SAP still awaited, farmers delivering sugarcane to mills are receiving receipts that leave the price column blank. The anger, however, appears concentrated mostly among the dominant land-owning Jats and the Muslims. Farmers from other communities do not reflect the same level of rage at the BJP and the Modi government. “Ye kisan ka mamla nahi hai, ye rajniti hai (This isn’t about farmers, it’s about politics),” said Jora Singh, a Thakur farmer of Khangapur village. “Aap mujhse likhwalo, Rakesh Tikait phir Bhajpa ke hi saath aayenge (Take it from me, Rakesh Tikait will again come back to the BJP),” says Ankit Saini, a youth. Ankit claims that Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader who is among the driving forces behind the peasants’ movement, had supported the BJP in the last two Lok Sabha polls and also the 2017 Assembly elections and is upset now because he has not been handsomely rewarded. More than the farm laws, western Uttar Pradesh erupted after Rakesh Tikait, son of iconic farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, broke into tears on January 28 after the Adityanath government cracked the whip and served an eviction notice on the farmers massed at the Ghazipur border, taking advantage of the chaos during the tractor rally on Republic Day. His tears evoked anger among Jats who viewed it as an assault on their pride and dignity. Since then, several mahapanchayats, or congregations, of farmers have taken place across western Uttar Pradesh, aimed at firming up the resolve not to buckle under pressure and teach a lesson to the government. “Rakesh Tikait ke aankh se khoon ke aasoon tapke hain.… Ek ek bund ka badla lenge (Rakesh Tikait has wept tears of blood.… Each drop will be avenged),” says Atar Singh, a Jat farmer of Budhana who is associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union faction led by Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait. Although most Jats, who constitute around 14 per cent of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, exhibited anger against the government, many say that barring the farmers’ issue they don’t have any complaint against Modi. “Hamara to bas ek maang hai, MSP ka guarantee kardo. Baki kanoon se matlab nahi (I have only one demand, give guarantee for MSP. The rest of the laws, I’m not bothered),” says Omvir Singh of Basi village. Apart from the repeal of the three laws, the peasants’ unions are demanding a legally guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Omvir feels that many rumours and lies are being spread against the farm laws. “Ye afwah hai ki company zameen le legi (It’s a rumour that companies will take over farmers’ land),” he says. “How can somebody else take my land?” Asked whether he too will not vote for the BJP if his demand for legal guarantee on MSP is not fulfilled, Omvir refrains from a direct reply. “Woh toh dekhenge jab chunav aayega (I will take a call when election comes),” he says and goes on to hail Modi, saying that barring the farm laws he has no complaint against the government. “Modiji ne bahut bada bada kaam kiya hai. Kashmir se 370 hatana, Ram Mandir banana (Modi has done many big things such as the abrogating of Article 370 in Kashmir, the Ram temple construction),” he says, adding that the Prime Minister needs to take note of the farmers’ concerns. Although the wider sentiment is of anger against the Centre and the state government, there are also voices like Omvir’s in the Jat community who are with the farmers’ protest but haven’t yet turned against the government. In Loiya village near Meerut, Zeeshan Ahmed, a farmer and RTI activist, shows his Bharatiya Kisan Union identity card. He says that though he supports the farmers’ movement led by Rakesh Tikait, he hasn’t yet found time to go to Ghazipur. Zeeshan says his village is dominated by the Gujjars and they are not very keen about the protest despite being dependent on agriculture. “The Gujjars feel this is a Jat protest and so why should they join?” Zeeshan says. “Many Muslims too feel that Jats are seeking their help only because they want to show their strength,” he adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha writes letter to President to free farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Wednesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding “unconditional” release of arrested farmers and withdrawal of “false” cases in connection with the protest against the new agri laws. In its letter, the Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions agitating against the three central laws, also said that notices allegedly being sent by police and other investigating agencies to the protesting farmers should be stopped. “Under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers have been staging sit-ins around Delhi for the last three months, but hundreds of farmers and agitation supporters have been lodged in jails by the government of India and many state governments and false cases have been registered against them,” said the letter shared by the SKM. It said “innocent” farmers should be released from jails without any condition. The letter was sent to the President as the protesting farmer unions observed the day as “Daman Pratirodh Diwas”. The SKM welcomed the release of climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested by Delhi police and booked for sedition for editing and sharing a social media toolkit on the farmers’ movement. On Tuesday night Disha was released from Tihar jail hours after a city court granted her bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Kerala damage-control on CAA, temple cases||The Kerala government has decided to withdraw all non-serious cases against those booked for protesting against the citizenship matrix and women’s entry to the Sabarimala temple in a significant pre-poll move. The state cabinet on Wednesday took the call over the widespread demand from Opposition parties to withdraw the cases, provided the charges are not serious in nature. But it did not explain what kind of cases would be withdrawn since most of them were booked under criminal offences such as rioting and unlawful assembly. The Opposition welcomed the decision, but they expressed a larger concern on how the prosecution would decide what is a serious case and what is not. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala described the decision as “wisdom that dawned late.” “We have been demanding this for a long time. We are happy that the government has taken this decision at least now,” Chennithala told reporters. There is no clear idea about how many people have been booked for taking part in these protests. But Opposition parties have all along claimed thousands were booked under charges ranging from rioting to unlawful assembly for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act. A large number of people were also booked over protests against the Left Democratic Front government’s decision to implement a court order that lifted all age barriers for women’s entry to the hill shrine. Massive protests had rocked the state for several months after the government decided to implement a September 2019 Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple. The protesters argued that allowing women of childbearing age was traditionally disallowed since the deity, Swami Ayyappan, is a “perpetual celibate”. But the Left government had backed anti-CAA protests in the state that saw some of the biggest rallies against the law that discriminated against Muslims. Yet thousands more, including writers and scholars, were booked under similar charges for merely expressing solidarity with the anti-CAA movement. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had informed the Assembly in January that no cases have been booked against anti-CAA protesters had come under fire when details emerged about hundreds of cases. The Kerala chapter of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations had secured details of 519 cases filed between January 1 and March 23 last year against anti-CAA protests after filing a series of RTI applications in several districts in the state. While majority of the cases were booked against Muslim right wing parties such as Welfare Party of India (WPI) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), and Congress party, a handful of cases were slapped on Left parties and their student wings, as well. Sajeed Khalid, state secretary of the WPI welcomed the withdrawal of cases. “Taking it at face value, we welcome the decision. But we want clarity on what are serious and non-serious cases,” he told The Telegraph. A state-wide shutdown organised by the WPI, SDPI and some Dalit organisations on December 17, 2019, had ended up 46 people including its leaders and some well-known scholars and writers, who had only expressed solidarity, getting slapped with cases. “We hope this is not just a pre-poll gimmick and the cases will be withdrawn,” Khalid added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||No concession for civil services aspirants: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that no “extra attempt” or “age relaxation” could be granted to candidates for the 2021 civil services exams, rejecting a plea that adequate preparations could not be made for the 2020 exams because of the pandemic. The apex court said the plea could not be countenanced as around the same time in September-October 2020, several other competitive exams had been held despite the coronavirus outbreak. The Centre had earlier in February told the Supreme Court that it was agreeable to give an extra chance as a one-time relaxation to UPSC civil service aspirants who had appeared in their last attempt in the 2020 exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic and were otherwise not age-barred. Subsequently, the government had informed the court that it would not be possible to give a second chance because of procedural and legal issues, a stand upheld by the Supreme Court on Wednesday. “This court cannot lose sight of the fact that apart from the present Examination 2020, it has been brought to the notice of this court that remedial measures were adopted for the candidates who had participated in the various examinations/recruitment tests held for central services by the commission (UPSC) at the given point of time during the Covid-19 pandemic,” the court said. “…Apart from that, the state commissions/recruiting agencies must have conducted their examinations/recruitment tests for various services and merely because the present petitioners made a complaint to this court, cannot be taken into isolation for the purpose of seeking additional chance/attempt in the backdrop of the Covid­19 pandemic, which has been faced by not only the candidates appeared in Examination 2020 but by the candidates who appeared in the various examinations/recruitment tests held by the state commissions,” the court added. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi passed the judgment while dismissing a batch of petitions filed by civil services aspirants for granting them an extra attempt and age relaxation to appear for the 2021 exams as they could not fully prepare for the 2020 tests on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Writing the judgment, Justice Rastogi noted that the pandemic had left a trail of devastation across the country and the world, but that did not in any manner give the legitimate right to the petitioners to claim additional benefits or attempts, which are otherwise not permissible under the Civil Services Rules, 2020. The court reasoned that if an additional attempt was offered to only those who had used up their last chance during last year’s exams “for the reason that they had suffered during the Covid-19 pandemic, all attemptees irrespective of the nature of attempt (i.e. 1st, 2nd, etc.) who appeared in Examination 2020 must have faced the same consequences as being faced by the writ petitioners and each one of them has suffered in one way or the other during the Covid­19 pandemic”. “At the same time, this reasoning would equally apply to those who have crossed the upper age barrier,” Justice Rastogi noted. The court said it was within the realm of the executive to take a policy decision based on the prevailing circumstances for better administration and tackling of exigencies, but at the same time it was not within the domain of the courts to legislate on such issues. The civil services exams were initially scheduled in June 2020 but were eventually held on October 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Lingering effect of Disha Ravi arrest ||Friends and co-volunteers of climate activist Disha Ravi, who was granted bail by a Delhi court on Tuesday in the toolkit sedition case, are relieved but not ready to restart their activities immediately as they have yet to come to terms with her arrest and the subsequent allegations they faced as a community. “Of course, we are all really excited that she has got bail. But it’s going to take some time for us to figure out if we need to make any changes in the way we approach issues,” a volunteer and former college mate of Disha told The Telegraph on Wednesday. A business administration graduate from a city college, 22-year-old Disha was whisked away from her home in north Bangalore by a posse of Delhi police officers on February 13 without even following the basic legal requirements such as informing the local police and procuring a transit warrant from a local court. One of the founding members of the Karnataka chapter of Fridays For Future (FFF), a global group of young climate activists originally started in 2018 by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, Disha was slapped with charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy for a social media toolkit she edited and shared in support of the farmers’ movement. The Delhi sessions court on Tuesday granted bail to Disha after demolishing almost every charge levelled against her, terming the prosecution evidence “scanty and sketchy”. The volunteers didn’t have concrete information on whether Disha had returned to Bangalore on Wednesday but said she was unlikely to interact with the media since the investigation was on. “We haven’t really had the time and energy to sit down and talk to each other about our plans for the coming days since all of us had been hooked to the bail proceedings,” said the volunteer and former college mate who declined to be named. The arrest has had a chilling effect on the young volunteers of the FFF who have generally preferred to lie low. Many of them have lamented that their parents have now asked them to stay away from social media until the storm blows over. The volunteer pointed to how the whole movement was sullied by those who called it anti-national. “Another thing that hurt us was the way people called us anti-national although we did nothing illegal,” she said. Yuvan Aves, a Chennai-based volunteer of the FFF who kept a close track of the developments after Disha’s arrest, said: “We are very happy with the way the bail order articulated there is not a shred of evidence against Disha. It has set precedence and gives a ray of hope and courage to all young activists like Disha.” “We have been perturbed by the arrest but didn’t allow ourselves to be cowed down by the manner in which the government targeted young people, whether in Hathras or the farmers’ protest,” he said, referring to how young activists and journalists had been arrested in both cases. Another FFF volunteer, who too declined to be named, noted that Disha had only been granted bail. “Obviously the general mood is one of great relief. But we are not rejoicing too much because she has not been acquitted of the charges,” she said. But the volunteers are “careful enough to ensure that this incident will not change our course”. “We don’t want this incident to change the way we worked prior to the arrest. We will sit down to discuss and chart the way forward without hurrying into anything at the moment,” said the young climate activist.
Joel, an FFF activist based in Shillong, said: “The only thing that matters now is to see her acquitted in the case.” “It was disheartening at first, but we will not be dissuaded from our campaign for climate justice,” said the young volunteer who has pledged to continue to fight for the cause he believes in. Asked if the FFF planned any awareness programme to ensure others don’t land in trouble, Joel said chapters worked independently. “This is a decentralised movement in which individual chapters use their discretion on what to take up and what to share on social media. But we do recommend certain norms to be followed to be on the right side of the law,” said the volunteer who chose to be known only by his first name. “But as we go forward we will try and create a better understanding of how the system works (in India),” Joel added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s Kerala remark divides Congress||The Congress on Wednesday defended Rahul Gandhi’s remark that he was experiencing “intelligent” politics in Kerala, arguing that his emphasis on issues was being mischievously portrayed as criticism of politics in north India. Rahul had said on Tuesday while addressing a rally in Thiruvananthapuram: “I was used to a different kind of politics being an MP in north India. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues, and not just superficially but going into details of issues. Seeing intelligent politics in Kerala was a learning experience for me. I was talking to some students in the United States and I said that I really enjoy going to Kerala. It’s not just affection but the way you do your politics. If I might say so, the intelligence with which you do your politics.” While top BJP leaders pounced on Rahul for what they saw as condemnation of the politics of north India and an attempt to divide the country, even some Congress leaders expressed shock at what they described as “immature articulation” that would damage the party in the Hindi heartland. Former Union minister Anand Sharma, perceived to be a dissenter as he was part of a group of 23 leaders that had written to Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party, explicitly denounced Rahul’s formulation as his “personal experience” because north India had led the freedom struggle and given illustrious sons like Jawaharlal Nehru, Manmohan Singh and Bhagat Singh. While Sharma clearly demonstrated the unease in the party over Rahul’s statements, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Rahul Gandhi gave a constructive call to do issue-based politics. Issues should dominate politics, politics should not dominate issues. Politics shouldn’t be done for creating a religious divide, politics should be done for uniting India. Rahul meant that people’s real concerns should be the basis of politics, not hate and deception. Time has come to do introspection on this.” Surjewala added: “What are the real concerns? That petrol is selling at Rs 100 and diesel at Rs 90 per litre. That Chinese troops have occupied India’s territory. That the economy and businesses have been ruined and there are no jobs. The issue is that people of India have lost the right to dissent, right to speak, right to express, right to tweet… and they are being branded anti-national for expressing their views. The issue is that lakhs of farmers are sitting at Delhi’s border. But the BJP released a toolkit for a north-south divide.” Surjewala also recalled several intemperate statements made by the Prime Minister, without directly answering questions about the level of intelligence and seriousness that Rahul had hinted at. Many Congress leaders privately argued that Rahul should have refrained from making comparisons even if what he said had substance. Politics in north India indeed is dominated by issues like Ram temple, communal tension and caste divide while states like Kerala have offered a “different kind of experience”. That Sharma chose to publicly discuss the issue exposes the fault lines within the party. Instead of defending or clarifying what Rahul had said, Sharma argued: “He might have shared his personal experience. He was not disrespecting any part of the country. But he can explain in what context he spoke, there should be no scope for conjecture or misunderstanding. The Congress can never divide India on the basis of language, religion or region.” Sharma added: “North India contributed a lot to the freedom struggle. We had illustrious Prime Ministers like Nehru, (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh from the north. We are grateful to voters of Amethi for supporting our leaders, from Indira Gandhi to Rahul. We believe in a united India, in inclusive politics.” Congress loyalists admitted privately that this was an attempt to highlight the avoidable formulation in Rahul’s speech, indicating that the problems within the party were far from resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
25-02-2021||India||Modi hails PM-Kisan scheme on second anniversary ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday used the second anniversary of the farmer dole scheme to talk about his government’s commitment to farmers. “On this day two years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed,” Modi said. Under the scheme, a dole of Rs 6,000 a year — which works out to less than Rs 16.50 a day — is given to small and marginal farmers with cultivable land holding up to 2 hectares. “The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring,” the tweet added. Tens of thousands of farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders for three months now, demanding repeal of three laws the Modi government pushed through Parliament that they believe will be their death warrant. The farmers are also seeking a legal guarantee of a minimum support price for crops. Having braved the bone-chilling north Indian winter and the government’s many attempts to thwart their protests — from dug-up highways, lathis and water cannons to stop them from reaching the protest sites, snapped Internet connectivity to deny the protesters a means to communicate, and concertina and concrete barricades to cut them off — the protesting farmers have indeed shown “tenacity and passion”. More than 200 farmers have died. Modi, however, did not mention the protests. The protesting farmers have been dismissive of the PM-Kisan scheme, asserting that farmers’ dignity is ensured by assuring them of a fair price for their produce and not by giving them a measly dole. Modi, in his tweets, iterated that his government was doing everything to double farmers’ income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Rise in Covid cases linked to complacency: Survey||Public complacency over personal precautions against Covid-19 appears to be driving the troubling upsurge in daily new cases in Maharashtra and some other states, a preliminary scientific assessment and a nationwide survey have independently suggested. Health officials on Tuesday tentatively ruled out any link between the upsurge and mutations in coronavirus variants, even as the private survey found that compliance with mask-wearing has fallen to 30 per cent from 67 per cent in September 2020. Over half of the 8,321 people surveyed in 238 districts across India also said there was “no compliance” in their localities with physical distancing guidelines that require people to avoid crowds and maintain a distance of six feet from others. The survey’s findings come amid concerns among health experts that since the relaxation of restrictions imposed under the Covid-19 lockdown, people have started moving freely, meeting friends and relatives, visiting malls, attending weddings and social functions — while simultaneously abandoning precautions. The further away from large metros and cities, the less the compliance with mask-wearing, according to the study conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform that says it undertakes surveys to guide policy and interventions. Mask compliance was 35 per cent in large metros or tier-1 cities, but fell to 29 per cent in tier-2 cities, and to 19 per cent in tier-3 locations and rural districts. The survey sought to capture citizens’ experiences and observations of whether people in their areas or districts are complying with guidelines on masks and physical distancing. It has found that only 12 per cent of those surveyed believe physical distancing “is effective”. Central health teams are trying to decipher reasons for the upsurge in cases in Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The teams will convey to state authorities the steps they would need to take to curb the growing counts, a senior health official said. Although India’s Covid-19 epidemic has steadily shrunk since its peak with over a million patients in mid-September, health officials and experts have consistently cautioned that a large pools of people across the country remain susceptible to the infection and need to adopt all precautions. Medical experts believe the current rise in several states could be due to either poor compliance with personal precautions, gaps in the public health response, new coronavirus variants that spread quickly, or a combination of any of these three factors. But senior health officials said on Tuesday that preliminary assessments for now do not point to the role of any foreign-origin or domestic coronavirus variants in the observed upsurge. “There is no reason for us to believe on the basis of the scientific evidence today that they (coronavirus variants) are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak we see in some districts of Maharashtra or in Kerala,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force. “But, this is a work in progress — we will continue to watch the variants,” Paul said. A nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort has so far detected 187 samples positive for the UK variant and six samples positive for the South African strain. Both these variants have the capacity to spread faster than other circulating coronavirus strains. The sequencing effort has also revealed multiple domestic variants such as those with mutations designated as E484Q and N440K but, Paul said, there is no evidence so far to suggest that either of these variants has any public health relevance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Bihar liquor smugglers kill police sub-inspector||A Bihar police sub-inspector was killed and his colleague was seriously injured when alleged liquor smugglers opened fire at them in Sitamarhi district on Wednesday. Later, a person from among the people who allegedly fired at the police was killed in an encounter. The deceased have been identified as sub-inspector Dinesh Ram, 45, and alleged liquor smuggler Ranjan Singh, 35. The injured police personnel Lalbabu Paswan is battling for life in a hospital after sustaining bullet injuries in the shootout. According to police sources, the two personnel had gone to Kowari village under Majorgunj police station in the morning as part of a team formed to crack down on illicit liquor trade in the area. However, a few people allegedly fired indiscriminately at them when they reached the village. The two cops sustained bullet injuries and were rushed by the locals to the hospital where Dinesh was declared brought dead while Lalbabu was admitted into the emergency ward. “We had got information that Ranjan Singh, wanted in various crimes, including liquor smuggling, had come to his house in the village. Accordingly, Dinesh Ram and Lalbabu Paswan were sent there. They were fired upon while entering Ranjan’s residence,” Sitamarhi Sadar deputy superintendent of police Ramakant Upadhyaya told reporters. However, the DSP refused to divulge anything about the ensuing encounter in which Ranjan was killed. Sources said a large posse of cops led by senior police officials of the district raided the village in which the encounter happened and Ranjan was shot dead. In another incident in Begusarai district, people involved in illicit liquor trade attacked a police team in Pokharia locality while it had gone to conduct a raid. Members of the team were beaten up with bricks and sticks. Station house officer of Town police station, Abhay Shankar, and a policeman sustained injuries. Asked about the liquor mafia, prohibition, excise and registration minister Sunil Kumar said: “We are breaking their morale. Therefore, they are attacking the police out of frustration.” Bihar has implemented prohibition since April 5, 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
25-02-2021||India||Odisha incentive for special marriage enhanced from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.50 lakh||The Odisha government has enhanced the incentive for marrying divyang persons (persons with disabilities) from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.50 lakh. However, the couple have to meet some eligibility criteria to get the monetary benefits. According to the revised guidelines, the bridegroom and the bride must have completed 21 years and 18 years of age, respectively, at the time of marriage. It should be a dowry-free wedding and the couple should be residents of Odisha. Moreover, the spouses should not have availed of the incentive under this scheme earlier. The social security and empowerment of persons with disabilities department said the basic purpose of increasing the incentive was to bring the persons with disabilities to the mainstream and help them lead a dignified life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
