26-02-2021||India||Mumbai: Terminal 1 to reopen for domestic flights from March 10||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume domestic flight operations from Terminal-1 from the second week of March, the private airport operator said on Friday. The Mumbai Airport has two terminals T1 and T2. Terminal-1 caters to domestic passengers and Terminal-2 has international services besides domestic operations of some of the Indian airlines. Prior to the pandemic, some airlines were carrying out their domestic operations from T1. However, after the resumption of domestic commercial passenger services in late last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown in the wake of the pandemic, the flight services were being operated only from T2. The CSMIA is re-opening its Terminal 1 for domestic flight operations with effect from March 10, a release said. From midnight, March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will resume all its domestic operations from Terminal 1, the airport operator said. In case of IndiGo, while most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1, it added. Since the advent of the nationwide lockdown in March 2020, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and was consolidated through Terminal 2 for the convenience of the passengers and stakeholders, it said. Upholding the safety of the passengers, the resumption of services via T1 is a step further in ensuring that social distancing is strictly followed, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
26-02-2021||India||Explosive laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani’s house stolen last week, say police||The vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai had been stolen last week, and a letter found inside said this was only a "glimpse" of things to come, police said on Friday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also started a parallel probe and contacted the Mumbai police crime branch, a senior official said here. A Scorpio with around 2.5 kg of gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, the chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. There was no assembled explosive device with detonators and batteries inside, police said. CCTV footage showed that the SUV was parked there in the early hours of Thursday, and its driver left in an Innova which had accompanied it to the spot. "The owner of the vehicle (Scorpio), Hiren Mansukh, visited the police commissioner's office in south Mumbai this afternoon after he saw visuals of the SUV found near Ambani's house, which was similar to his vehicle," the police official said. Mansukh, a resident of neighbouring Thane, told reporters that he had parked the SUV near Airoli Mulund Bridge on February 17 after its steering got jammed while he was on his way to attend a family function. "The next day, when I went to get my car, it could not be found....following which I lodged a complaint at Vikhroli police station," he said. Besides gelatin sticks, a letter was also found in the SUV, in Hindi but written in English alphabet and purportedly threatening Ambani, his wife Nita and the family, police said. This was only a "Jhalak" (glimpse) but the next time the "saaman" (explosives) will be fully assembled, the letter said. The letter had several misspellings, which seemed to be an attempt to masquerade the writer's identity, the official said, adding that police were as yet clueless about the intention behind the act. The letter was in a blue bag next to the driver's seat, while the gelatin sticks were kept in a packet with the name of its manufacturer, "Solar Industries, Nagpur". Also, a bag with `Mumbai Indians' printed on it was found in the car. Satyanarayan Nuwal, the owner of Solar Industries, said in a statement on Friday that he received a phone call from Mumbai police about the discovery of the packet. As provided under the Explosives Rules 2008, all the data of production and sale of explosives by the company is submitted to the Explosives Department and police, it said. Mumbai police have formed at least 10 teams to probe the case. Police found that there were four number plates in the Scorpio, two of them matching the registration numbers of cars in the Ambani family's security detail. The number plate fixed on the Scorpio's exterior matched the registration number of the lead car in Nita Ambani's convoy, the senior police official said. The Innova spotted near the parked SUV on Carmichael Road was first seen entering the city from Thane around 1.20 am on Thursday in a CCTV footage. As it headed for south Mumbai, the Scorpio joined it near Priyadarshani Park, and both cars then traveled together towards Antilia, CCTV footage showed. Minutes after stopping on Carmichael Road around 2.15 am, the driver of the Scorpio stepped out and sat in the Innova. The Innova then left and was seen returning to Thane through Mulund check post around 3.05 am. After that its track was lost, the official said. On Thursday morning, traffic police even attached a clamp to the Scorpio parked near Ambani's house as it was in no-parking zone and generated an electronic fine receipt, but it did not arouse further suspicion then, the official said. The number plate of the Innova was also found to be fake, and it too seemed to have been stolen, the official said. The chassis number of the Scorpio car was found to have been scraped off. The police said an FIR was registered in connection with the seized SUV at Gamdevi police station against unidentified persons under IPC sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 506(2) (criminal intimidation; and section four of the Explosive Substances Act (punishment for attempt to cause explosion). Reliance Industries in a statement thanked Mumbai Police for "quick and immediate action". "We are confident that Mumbai Police will complete their thorough investigation quickly," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
26-02-2021||India||On-site registration for vaccine made available for senior citizens ||As India gears up to vaccinate people above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities against COVID-19 from March 1, the Union Health Ministry on Friday said the facility of on-site registrations will be available so that eligible beneficiaries can walk into identified vaccination centres, get themselves registered and get inoculated. The beneficiaries will be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu etc which will list the government and private hospitals serving as COVID-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) with the date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for immunization, the ministry said. Vaccination will be free of charge at the government vaccination centres. Those taking the COVID vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge, it said. The Centre shared this information with Health Secretaries and MDs (National Health Mission) of states and UTs during a high-level meeting which was chaired by Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary, along with Dr R. S Sharma, Chairperson of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration (Co-WIN) and member, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on the vaccination of age-appropriate groups through a video conference. The nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16. This is now to be exponentially expanded to the vulnerable age-groups -- all citizens above 60 years and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities --from March 1. The states and UTs were explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the digital platform CO-WIN, which is a population-scale software with capacity of processing several thousands of entries, the ministry said. "The new phase of vaccination of age-appropriate groups will expand the COVID vaccination in the country manifold. With a citizen centric approach, the fundamental shift in this phase is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare and frontline workers who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice," it said. Secondly, the private sector hospitals will be involved as COVID-19 vaccination centres to harness their potential to expand the vaccination capacities, it stated. It was pointed out that all CVCs must be government-run health facilities such as SHCs, PHCs, CHCs, Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres, Sub-Division Hospitals, District Hospitals and Medical College Hospitals or private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PM JAY) and similar State Health Insurance Schemes. States and UTs were asked to ensure that private health facilities mandatorily must have adequate space for the vaccination process, as detailed in the comprehensive SOPs issued by the Ministry, basic cold chain equipments, their own team of vaccinators and staff, and adequate facility for management of any AEFI cases for using them as CVCs. All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, will have to carry any one of the following photo ID document -- Aadhar Card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhar or EPIC), certificate of co-morbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner), employment certificate/ Official Identity Card (either but with photo and date of birth) for HCWs and FLWs. States and UTs were explained the simplified process of registration, which shall be through three routes -- Advance Self-Registration, On-site Registration, and Facilitated Cohort Registration. Under the first route, beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT Applications such as Arogya Setu etc. "This will show the government and private hospitals serving as CVCs with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. "The facility of on-site registration allows those who cannot self register in advance to walk into the identified CVCs and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated," the ministry said in a statement. Under the facilitated Cohort Registration mechanism, the state and UT government will take proactive lead, the ministry said in the statement. Specific date(s) for COVID vaccination will be decided where target groups of potential beneficiates will be vaccinated. State and health authorities will ensure that the target groups are actively mobilised and brought to the vaccination centres. ASHAs, ANMs, Panchayati Raj representatives and Women's Self Help Groups (SHGs) will be utilized for mobilizing the target groups. "Under all the above three routes, all beneficiaries would be captured on Co-WIN 2.0 platform and would be issued digital QR Code based provisional (on receiving the first does) and final (on receiving second dose) certificates. "These can be downloaded from the link shown in the SMS the beneficiary shall receive after the vaccination," the ministry informed. Print outs of these certificates can also be taken from the vaccination centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Eight-phase elections in Bengal, 3-phase in Assam   ||The Election Commission of India (ECI) announced dates for Assembly elections to four states and one Union territory on Friday with polling scheduled to be held in eight phases in Bengal and three phases in Assam between March 27 and April 29. Counting of votes will be held on Sunday, May 2. In Bengal, with 294 Assembly seats, voting will be held on March 27 (30 constituencies), April 1 (30), April 6 (31), April 10 (44), April 17 (45), April 22 (43), April 26 (36), April 29 (35). In Assam, with 126 assembly seats, voting will be held on March 27 (47 constituencies), April 1 (39) and April 6 (40). Kerala with 140 seats, Tamil Nadu with 234 seats and the Union territory of Puducherry with 30 seats will have single phase elections on April 6. The terms of the assemblies of the four states -- Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and West Bengal -- are coming to an end in May and June. This will be the first set of elections to be held in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic after the Bihar Assembly elections. Earlier in the week, a team of Election Commission officials. Headed by director-general Dharmendra Sharma, visited Assam and West Bengal to review preparedness. The team was reviewing follow-up action taken by the states in response to directives issued during a previous visit in January. Bengal will see a high-stakes battle with two-time chief minister Mamata Banerjee facing a tough challenge from the BJP amid an exodus from her party, the Trinamool Congress, to the BJP and corruption investigations against her party leaders. The BJP is also campaigning aggressively to retain power in Assam, where it won for the first time in 2016, beating the Congress. In the last round of elections in these states in 2016, the Congress could win only Puducherry. But earlier this week, the party lost power in the Union Territory adjoining Tamil Nadu after multiple resignations - a trend seen in other states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka where Congress governments crashed because of defections. In Puducherry, President's Rule has been imposed and the Assembly kept under suspended animation after the V. Narayanasamy-led Congress government resigned earlier this week ahead of a vote of confidence. In Kerala, it's an intense battle for the ruling Left-led front and the Congress-led Opposition coalition. Voters of the state have alternated between the two in past state elections. The CPM hopes to continue its gains in the only state it rules after a victory in the recent local body elections. The Congress, stunned by its Puducherry loss, seeks to repeat its 2019 national election success, when it won 19 of 20 Lok Sabha seats. The BJP has so far been a minor player but its recruitment drive this time shows the party is preparing to challenge the ruling Left-led coalition in a big way. The party has roped in "Metro Man" E Sreedharan and other high profile faces in the coastal state. Close to 100 Left workers joined the BJP on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||WHO chief lauds India for supplying Covid vaccines globally||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment for supporting vaccine equity and sharing Covid-19 vaccines with over 60 countries across the world, hoping that other nations will follow his example. In a tweet, Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organisation, said that India's support in supplying its vaccines is helping over 60 countries to begin the vaccination process. "Thanks India & Prime Minister @narendramodi for supporting #VaccinEquity. Your commitment to #COVAX and sharing #Covid19 vaccine doses is helping 60+ countries start vaccinating their #healthworkers and other priority groups. I hope other countries will follow your example," he said in the tweet on Thursday. India on Wednesday dispatched the first batch of six lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to the African country of Ghana under the COVAX facility in collaboration with UNICEF, which aims to cover 92 countries under the initiative. The doses are a part of the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine the country is acquiring through the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility (COVAX), which Ghana among nearly 92 countries have signed into. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on February 12 said that India has provided over 229 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines to various countries out of which 64 lakh doses have been supplied as grant assistance and 165 lakh on commercial basis. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India will continue to take forward the global vaccine supply initiative and cover more countries in a phased manner. Consignments of coronavirus vaccine doses were supplied as gifts to Bangladesh (20 lakh), Myanmar (17 lakh), Nepal (10 lakh), Bhutan (1.5 lakh), the Maldives (1 lakh), Mauritius (1 lakh), Seychelles (50,000), Sri Lanka (5 lakh), Bahrain (1 lakh), Oman (1 lakh), Afghanistan (5 Lakhs), Barbados (1 Lakh) and Dominica (70,000), he said. Srivastava said countries which received vaccines on commercial basis are Brazil (20 lakh), Morocco (60 lakh), Bangladesh (50 lakh), Myanmar (20 lakh), Egypt (50,000), Algeria (50,000), South Africa (10 lakh), Kuwait (2 lakh) and UAE (2 lakh). The vaccines are even being sent to Latin American countries. India, the largest drug producer in the world, is currently manufacturing two Covid-19 vaccines- Covishield and Covaxin. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||HC grants bail labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur ||The Punjab and Haryana High Court granted bail to labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Friday in a case filed under attempt to murder and some other charges, more than six weeks after she was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company. "The court accepted the bail application of Nodeep Kaur. She has been granted bail by the high court," her counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema said. In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested by the Sonipat police on January 12. The police have denied the charge as "baseless". Kaur had also claimed that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The activist claimed she was targeted and falsely implicated in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers' movement against the Centre's three contentious farm laws. Kaur is lodged in Haryana's Karnal jail. She is a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab's Muktsar district. On February 24, the high court had posted the hearing on her bail plea to Friday. Earlier, a court in Sonipat had granted bail to Kaur in two separate cases of extortion. Kaur's family expressed happiness at the activist being granted bail. Her sister Rajveer Kaur said that the family was happy that she would be released from jail. "She had to spend one-and-a-half months in jail..., Rajveer Kaur said. Nodeep Kaur will walk out of jail once necessary legal formalities are completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Election commission to announce poll dates for 5 states||The Election Commission will announce the schedule for assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday afternoon, the poll panel said. The poll panel has convened a press conference at 4.30 pm for the purpose. The terms of legislative assemblies of four states -- Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and West Bengal -- are coming to an end in May and June. In Puducherry, President's Rule has been imposed and the assembly kept under suspended animation after the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government resigned earlier this week ahead of a vote of confidence. Bengal will see the most high stakes battle with two-time Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee facing a tough challenge from the BJP amid an exodus from her Trinamool Congress to the BJP and corruption investigations against her party leaders. The BJP is also campaigning aggressively to retain power in Assam, where it won for the first time in 2016, beating the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||India-China: Jaishankar, his counterpart agree to set up hotline ||Asserting that peace and tranquillity on the border is essential for development of bilateral relations, India has told China that disengagement at all friction points is necessary to contemplate any de-escalation of troops even as the two sides agreed to establish a hotline contact for timely exchange of views. Last week, armies of the two countries which have been locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. Releasing details of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's 75-minute telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement on Friday that China was told that bilateral relations have been impacted severely over last year. "EAM said that Boundary Question may take time to resolve but disturbance of peace and tranquillity, including by violence, will inevitably have a damaging impact on the relationship," the ministry said. The two ministers agreed to remain in touch and establish a hotline, it added. The two leaders discussed the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and issues related to overall India-China relations. According to a late-night press release issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing, Wang said China and India should firmly follow the right path of mutual trust and cooperation between neighbouring major countries, and not go astray with suspicion and distrust nor fall back on a road of "negative retrogression". Wang, also a State Councilor, noted that the two countries need to properly handle the border issue so as to prevent the bilateral ties from trapping into a "vicious cycle" because of it. Jaishankar referred to their meeting in September 2020 in Moscow where the Indian side had expressed its concern on provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo, according to the MEA statement. Jaishankar said that during their meeting in Moscow last year they had agreed that the situation in the border areas was not in the interest of either side and decided that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage and ease tensions. The EAM noted that the two sides had maintained continuous communication since then through both diplomatic and military channels. This had led to progress as both sides had successfully disengaged in the Pangong lake area earlier this month. Noting the completion of disengagement in the Pangong lake area, the EAM emphasized that both sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. At the 10th round of the senior commanders' meeting least week, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to defuse tension in the region. Jaishankar told Wang that once disengagement is completed at all friction points, then the two sides could also look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity. Wang, on his part, expressed satisfaction at the progress made so far and said it was an important step forward for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas, according to the MEA statement. Wang also spoke about the need to improve management and control in the border areas, while Jaishankar highlighted that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas was essential basis for development of bilateral relations. "A prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side. It was, therefore, necessary that the two sides should work towards early resolution of remaining issues. It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship," it said. Wang also noted that the Indian side had proposed "three mutuals" -- mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests -- as the approach to the relationship. He also agreed on the importance of taking the long view of ties between the two neighbours. According to the Chinese Foreign Ministry release, Wang also said border disputes are an "objective reality" and need to be attached adequate attention and taken seriously. However, the border issue is not the whole story of China-India relations, and should be placed in a proper position in their relationship, he said. "Wang said that the rights and wrongs of last year's situation in China-India border areas are very clear, and profound lessons should be drawn from the past," according to the Chinese foreign ministry statement. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Subsequently, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in over four decades. Eight months after the confrontation, China admitted that its four soldiers were killed in the fight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Rajnath remembers Balakot air-strikes on it's anniversary||The success of Balakot air strikes displayed India's strong will to act against terrorism, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. "On the anniversary of Balakot Air Strikes, I salute the exceptional courage and diligence of the Indian Air Force. The success of Balakot strikes has shown India's strong will to act against terrorism. We are proud of our Armed Forces who keep India safe and secure," Singh tweeted. On February 26, 2019, Indian Air Force fighter jets crossed the Line of Control and destroyed terror launch pads in Balakot in Pakistan. The strikes were undertaken days after 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed in a terror attack in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||India logs over 16,000 fresh Covid cases, 120 casualties in a day||India recorded its single-day increase in coronavirus cases above 16,000 for the second consecutive day as the infection tally rose to 1,10,63,491, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,50,680, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. A total 16,577 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,825 with 120 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the data, the Union Territory of Lakshadweep has reported its first death. The 120 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Punjab. The number of active cases increased to 1,55,986, which accounts for 1.41 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,50,680 which translates into a national recovery rate of 97.17 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.42 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,46,61,465 samples have been tested up to February 25, of which 8,31,807 samples were tested on Thursday. A total of 1,56,825 deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 51,993 from Maharashtra, 12,483 from Tamil Nadu, 12,316 from Karnataka, 10,905 from Delhi, 10,260 from West Bengal, 8,723 from Uttar Pradesh, and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Violence at Congress Bhavan in Odisha||Violence broke out at the Congress Bhavan, the state Congress headquarters here on Thursday, as two groups of party workers clashed in the presence of senior leaders including Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Niranjan Patnaik. Trouble erupted ahead of the party’s general council meeting when one group accused party’s other backward caste (OBC) cell president Bishnu Charan Barik of indulging in anti-party activities and supporting the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD). Both the groups came to blows. They even tore down posters of Congress leaders, including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The Congress workers also ransacked furniture of the building. Accusing Barik and his family members of having worked for the BJD in th election to Jagatsinghpur Assembly constituency that led to the defeat of Congress candidate, Chiranjeev Biswal, Jena demanded that action must be taken against Barik. “We request the PCC president to remove Barik from the party immediately,” said a party worker. The opponents of Barik vehemently opposed his participation in the general council meeting. Barik, on the other hand, claimed that he was a loyal worker of the party and had never indulged in anti-party activities. He said that he was being opposed by a group at the behest of Chiranjeev Biswal. “I have been with the Congress since 1978. I tried to save me when a group of Congress workers opposed to me tried to attack me. The bigger question is who hatched the conspiracy to shun me. I am ready for any kind of probe,” said Barik. On the issue of alleged links with the BJD, Barik said, “I have no political connection with the BJD MLA. He used to come to our house as the friend of my younger brother.” Meanwhile, PCC president Niranjan Patnaik has assured action against indiscipline. “We will conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegation levelled against OBC cell president. If he is found to have been involved in any such activities that go against the party’s interest, action will definitely be taken against him. If anyone has any issues, they should bring their resentment to the AICC and PCC. Indiscipline in any form will be strictly dealt with,” Patnaik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Farm union calls for Rajnath talks to resolve stalemate||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) has suggested that defence minister Rajnath Singh hold talks with the farmers to resolve the stalemate over the peasants’ protest, at a time their demand that Narendra Modi intervene has not been met and the Prime Minister has continued to hail the contentious farm laws. Addressing a mahapanchayat in Munderwa of Basti district on Thursday, BKU president Naresh Tikait said: “The problem with the central government is that there is none with whom we can talk about the three controversial farm laws. We really don’t know with whom we should hold discussions.” “Rajnath Singh is a farmer and he understands our problems,” Naresh told the well-attended rally. Rajnath, a former agriculture minister, hails from Chandauli in east Uttar Pradesh and represents Lucknow in Parliament. There is a general feeling that he is readily available and flexible. “He has served as BJP national president and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. He is a farmer and a grassroots-level leader who is people-friendly on most issues,” said a senior BJP leader in Lucknow on the condition of anonymity. Gradually spreading the farmers’ movement from west Uttar Pradesh to the eastern part of the sprawling state, the BKU, Rashtriya Lok Dal and the khaps together have been holding three rallies on an average every day. The attendance at the rallies has been encouraging. Naresh, who heads the Balyan khap, said in Munderwa that the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders was a matter of life and death for them. “We will make the Modi government bow before us and repeal the new farms laws. If it does not happen, we will throw them out in 2022 in Uttar Pradesh and in 2024 at the Centre,” Naresh said. Earlier in the day, he had paid obeisance at the Ram Lalla and Hanumangarhi temples in Ayodhya, 60km from Basti. “The farmers had made a mistake by supporting the BJP in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly polls. This government is trying to snatch our land with the help of the three dark farm laws. A true farmer treats his land as his mother but this government wants to take it from them. It will never be allowed,” he said, adding that the BKU wouldn’t support any political party in the future. “But those who oppose the farm laws would obviously win the next elections,” Naresh said. “East Uttar Pradesh has always stood by the farmers of west Uttar Pradesh.” Jayant Chaudhary, the vice-president of the RLD, addressed a huge rally at Sampurnnagar in Lakhimpur Kheri district and a smaller public meeting in Pilibhit. On Wednesday, Naresh had organised a rally in Barabanki while his younger brother Rakesh Tikait had gone to Agra. Rakesh is the face of the farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border. Another rally was organised by khap leaders in Shamli, in west Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday. While the BKU, RLD and the khaps have their base in west Uttar Pradesh, they have gradually moved to the east to “make the farmers aware of the three farm laws and explain to them why they are draconian”. “There is a massive government-sponsored campaign in Uttar Pradesh to tarnish the image of the innocent farmers and claim that the government is pro-peasant. This is why the BKU has planned to hold mahapanchayats in every district of the state and tell the farmers the truth that the Narendra Modi government is a supporter of the privatisation of everything, including our farmland,” Naresh told reporters in Basti. “We are also holding rallies in other states to defeat the anti-farmer BJP in future elections,” the BKU chief added. A khap leader who is in touch with the BKU as well as the RLD told The Telegraph that the three groups had held about 30 rallies in the past 10 days in 30 districts and planned to cover the remaining 45 districts of central and eastern Uttar Pradesh in the next 15 days.“Thereafter, we will focus for a few weeks on Delhi’s borders. Later, we will restart bigger mahapanchayats across Uttar Pradesh,” the khap leader said. Dharmendra Malik, a BKU leader, resigned from the Krishi Samridhi Ayog, a panel of the Uttar Pradesh government, on Thursday. He alleged that the Ayog was not speaking for the farmers. “The BKU is organising mahapanchayats on its own. The RLD and other groups are doing it independently. But the target is the same. We have a strong base in east Uttar Pradesh,” Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
26-02-2021||India||Centre unveiles ethics code for digital media||The Centre on Thursday unveiled an ethics code for digital media, ranging from social media to over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime. Although the Centre billed the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, as a “soft-touch oversight mechanism”, it made it mandatory for these sites to develop regulatory and grievance-redress mechanisms and identify the first originator in case of certain kinds of posts or messages. Coming against the backdrop of growing concern internationally about “democratic backsliding” in India and mindful of the global footprint of these platforms, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad unveiled the guidelines with an assurance that social media is welcome to do business in the country and the government welcomes criticism. He, however, pointed out that it is also important that users have a proper forum for resolution of grievances, in a time-bound manner, related to abuse and misuse of social media. Facebook and the Internet and Mobile Association of India hailed the guidelines. According to Prasad and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, the government was essentially responding to a demand from the public, articulated through MPs in Parliament and also several cases in the Supreme Court, for some form of regulation of online content.  They contended that the government has opted for the self-regulation route, apparently because it is viewed as the path of least resistance. The OTT platforms will have to self-classify content into five age-based categories — U (Universal), U/A 7+, U/A 13+, U/A 16+, and A (Adult). The platforms would be required to implement parental locks for content classified as U/A 13+ or higher, and reliable age verification mechanisms for content classified as “A”. Further, they will have to prominently display the classification rating specific to each content or programme together with a descriptor informing the user about the nature of the content and advising on viewer description, if applicable, at the beginning of every programme. This will enable the user to make an informed decision prior to watching a programme. Although the OTTs came under no regulation till now, platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime have a content descriptor. News portals will now be required to follow the norms of journalistic conduct as prescribed by the Press Council of India for print content and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act for visual content. This will bring the portals on a par with the mainstream print and television channels, Javadekar said at the media conference, Prasad by his side, to unveil the code. On whether consultations had been held with digital news portals prior to finalising the guidelines, Javadekar said: “We don’t even know how many digital news portals there are. Who do we consult with?... Our doors are always open. If you have suggestions, you are always welcome.” In the case of social media platforms, the government has decided to draw a distinction between the smaller ones and the bigger ones, depending on their user base. While the smaller sites will be called social media intermediaries, the bigger entities will be described as significant social media intermediaries. The contours of such classification will be drawn up in due course. While all social media intermediaries will have to have a grievance redress mechanism for receiving complaints from users or victims — complete with a designated grievance officer to acknowledge complaints within 24 hours and resolve it in 15 days — the bigger platforms have additional due diligence to follow. The bigger platforms will have to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person, for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and a resident grievance officer to perform the functions specified under their grievance redress mechanism. All three have to be residents of India and a monthly compliance report of complaints received and action taken will have to be filed by these platforms. Significant social media intermediaries will also have to enable identification of the first originator of information in cases where messages affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign countries or public order. Asked about the concern among social media platforms that such a requirement would force them to break the end-to-end encryption in violation of privacy, Prasad said: “We are not asking them to disclose the content, we are only asking that they disclose the identity of the person. So, there is an in-built safeguard here.” According to the Internet Freedom Foundation, the guidelines and code released on Thursday have the potential to fundamentally change how the Internet is accessed and used by millions of users across India. “Many of the changes proposed continue with greater finesse, what we had first in 2018 termed as a ‘Chinese model of online surveillance and censorship’. We fear that despite material changes made to the draft rules, and some noticeable improvements in greater precision — the core and the substance of these concerns remain the same, further some new areas of regulation have been added without public deliberation,” the foundation said. Asked for a reaction to the new guidelines, a Facebook spokesperson said: “We have always been clear as a company that we welcome regulations that set guidelines for addressing today’s toughest challenges on the Internet. Facebook is committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platforms. “The details of rules like these matter and we will carefully study the new rules that were just published. We acknowledge and appreciate the recognition from the minister on the positive contributions of social media to the country. Facebook is an ally for India and the agenda of user safety and security is a critical one for our platforms. We will continue to work to ensure that our platforms play an enabling role in fuelling the exciting digital transformation of India.” According to data provided by the IT ministry, Facebook has 41 crore users in India and together with WhatsApp’s 53 crore, that number goes up to 94 crore. Twitter has 1.75 crore users, YouTube 44.8 crore and Instagram 21 crore, making India a crucial market for all these platforms. The Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) welcomed the “much awaited” intermediary guidelines. “The guidelines, focussed primarily on consumer complaints, will help consumers of online curated content, social media users and online news and current affairs resolve their complaints in a process oriented manner,” IAMAI president Subho Ray said. On Wednesday, the IAMAI had sought public consultations on the draft guidelines for OTT platforms. In a statement, OTT streaming platform members of the IAMAI had expressed dismay over reports of the government’s intent to notify guidelines for platforms providing online curated content shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||External affairs ministry withdraws widely criticised international webinar order||The external affairs ministry has withdrawn its widely criticised directive making permission mandatory for international online seminars but said such webinars would be governed by home ministry rules. The order created confusion as the home ministry guidelines restrict themselves to face-to-face conferences, not online events, and also deal with the visa requirements of international delegates, immaterial in case of webinars. The education ministry will circulate the latest office memorandum (OM) of the external affairs “as it is”. Neither ministry clarified if permission would be required henceforth for online international seminars. The external affairs ministry on Wednesday night issued the OM under the subject “Guidelines regarding MEA clearance for international conferences/seminars/training etc and Political Clearances for online participation in international events”. “In view of the easing of restrictions on travel and assembly of people by the government of India and state governments, guidelines… dated 25th November 2020 regarding political clearance for international conferences/seminars/training etc due to the Covid-19 pandemic are no longer applicable. All such events will, however, continue to be governed by the same rules and regulations that are applicable to political clearances prior to Covid-19 pandemic. Detailed instructions in this regard can be seen on the website of the ministry of home affairs (https://conference.mha.gov.in),” the OM, signed by Anil Kumar Rai, joint secretary (parliament and coordination), said. The Union home ministry has not issued any directives on webinars. “We will circulate the external affairs ministry order as it is to all institutions of higher education. We may have to seek clarification from the external affairs ministry about the requirement of approval for webinars,” a senior education ministry official said. The education ministry had on January 15 issued guidelines mandating educational institutions to take the prior approval of the secretary of the administrative ministry for holding webinars with international participants. Earlier on November 25, 2020, the external affairs ministry had circulated identical guidelines to all ministries. The home ministry has a long-standing policy on giving clearance to international conferences attended by foreign participants. However, an education ministry official pointed out, the home ministry guidelines are applicable to international conferences being held in India in the face-to-face mode and the issuance of visas to foreign delegates for such events. The educational institutions send their requests to the home ministry through the education ministry. In 2010, the home ministry had revised its guidelines according to which visas would not be granted by Indian missions if the subject of the workshop involves politically or socially sensitive subjects. “Missions shall carefully examine the subject of conferences/seminars/workshops and visa shall not be issued for events which involve politically and socially sensitive subjects,” the 2010 guidelines said. The guidelines also stated that missions would refer to the external affairs ministry visa applications from participants of Prior Reference Category countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan, stateless persons, foreigners of Pakistani origin and participants of conferences in areas affected by terrorism, militancy and extremism such as Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. A professor of Jawaharlal Nehru University said the home ministry guidelines did not deal with webinars because the conferences used to be held in the face-to-face mode before the pandemic struck. “But the main purpose of the home ministry guidelines is to protect the sovereignty of the country from (possible controversial comments by) international as well as Indian experts and safeguard India’s image globally. Webinars are also academic discussions. In all circumstances, the home ministry norms of approval will apply to webinars too. Whether the event is being held in person or online is immaterial,” said the professor who did not wish to be quoted. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Nirav Modi extradition decision to be made by British home secretary Priti Patel||A UK judge ruled on Thursday that fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi not only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. In accordance with English law, the case now goes to British home secretary Priti Patel, who will make the final decision on whether Nirav will be extradited. The Indian external affairs ministry said later that the government would liase with the UK for early extradition. Nirav, wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, lost his legal battle against extradition on all grounds as district judge Samuel Goozee concluded that there were no human rights concerns that his medical needs would not be addressed. The 49-year-old appeared via video link from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, dressed in a formal suit and sporting a thick beard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Torture-like wounds on held Dalit activist||A medical report of an arrested trade unionist whose organisation is part of the farmers’ movement mentions two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. The injuries are consistent with details in a harrowing account Shiv Kumar, 24, president of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghatan, has shared with doctors. The medical report conducted on February 20 has concluded that the injuries were more than two weeks old. This would suggest that Kumar would have suffered the injuries before February 6. Kumar is in a jail in Haryana since February 2. His testimony to the medical board alleges torture at the hands of police after he was picked up from near the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border near Delhi on January 16. Haryana police claim he was arrested on January 23 for a clash with the police at the Kundli Industrial Area on January 12. This is the same case for which Nodeep Kaur, 23, another trade unionist, has been picked up. She has also alleged torture. A BJP-led government is in power in Haryana. Kaur’s case had drawn wider attention after American activist Meenakshi “Meena” Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted earlier this month about the arrest. Kaur was agitating against erratic wage payment in the Kundli industrial cluster. Both Kumar, who hails from Haryana’s Sonipat, and Kaur, from Punjab’s Muktsar, are from landless Dalit families. They face charges of attempt to murder, extortion and other offences. The high court in Chandigarh had ordered a medical exam of Kumar after his father Rajbir moved the court for a probe into his son’s case by an “independent agency”. Rajbir said he suspected that his son had been tortured and this was not recorded properly by doctors in Sonipat. The medical examination was conducted by a five-member medical board at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh. The report notes that Kumar has eight injuries, including fractures on the left and right foot. “All the injuries on the person of the patient are more than 2 weeks old and were caused by blunt object/ weapon…. Psychiatric evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic disorder like symptoms,” says the report. “Right foot swelling present and tender to touch…. Swelling and tenderness on left foot. Nail beds of right 2nd and 3rd toe are broken and underlying skin is reddish in colour and showing healing changes. Left big toe shows blackish discolouration. Nails of left thumb and index finger show bluish black discoloration with tenderness,” the report said. Justice Avneesh Jhingan has sought Kumar’s previous medical report and scheduled the next hearing for March 16. Kaur’s bail plea, as well as a suo motu case on her “illegal detention”, would be heard by the high court on Friday. Harinder Bains, one of the lawyers assisting Kumar and Kaur, told The Telegraph on Thursday: “We learnt from one of his friends that he was taken to Sonipat’s civil hospital this morning where a plaster was put and first aid given, after which he was taken back to the jail. We are speaking to the client (Rajbir) about filing a bail plea for Shiv Kumar in the district court. Kaur has got bail in two cases, and tomorrow bail for the third case will be heard.” Sonipat SP J.S. Randhawa did not respond to questions texted and calls made by this newspaper to him. (Advisory for readers: the following paragraphs have graphic and disturbing details.) Kumar’s testimony recorded by the medical board says: “On 16th, Jan. 2021, the patient was at Kisan Andolan at KFC. Near Kundli, he was picked up by the C.I (criminal investigation) Staff between 2:30 and 3:00 pm. There were about seven people and he was taken to old kacheri, Sonepat, where the C.I staff assaulted him. They tied both his feet, lay him on the ground, and hit him on the soles. His 2nd, 3rd and 5th toe nails of the right foot were torn and the nail of big toe of left foot became blue. “They also hit him on the buttocks with flat sticks, then they tied his hands and stretched his legs. He was made to lie on the ground with both legs straight and a metal pipe was placed on his thigh and rolled over the thighs by two people. They also hit him on both hands and palms and also on the back of his head. He was not allowed to sleep for three days, the C.I staff took his statement and asked him to give names and when he could not do so, they tied him to a chair and poured water on his head.” Kumar’s testimony says: “They presented him to the court on 24th Jan and took 10 days’ remand…. “He was mentally and physically abused in the police remand and they also poured hot water on his feet and any blisters that formed were burst by them.” The psychiatric evaluation of Kumar says: “He appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feelings of loneliness, uncertainty about future and sleep disturbances.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Wild elephant kills 3 in Bihar||A wild elephant killed three persons in Nawada, Bihar, on Thursday. The elephant stoked panic among people and sent official into a tizzy as they launched an operation to either direct it towards the jungle or capture it. “Three persons have been so far killed by the elephant that has come from Koderma district in neighbouring Jharkhand. It is moving across the countryside and our senior administrative and forest department officials are engaged in efforts to control it,” Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena told The Telegraph. Meena, who himself was moving in the area where the wild pachyderm was on the loose, said a team from the Patna zoo was on its way to Nawada with tranquillising equipment to tame the elephant. The three people, including a retired teacher, who died, were lifted and flung to the ground by the elephant before being trampled. They all had gone for some work towards the agricultural fields in the Nardiganj, Hisua and Sitamadi areas. Nawada district forest officer Awadhesh Kumar Ojha said the elephant on rampage “seems to have been thrown out of its group over some mischief.” “We will try to tranquillise it, but our task is being made more difficult by the unruly people who are further disturbing the wild animal,” Ojha said. Officials said a large mob was pursuing the elephant all around, trying to make videos and click selfies. They were making so much noise that the animal was running in the wrong directions instead of picking up the route back to its habitat. A large police posse was unsuccessfully trying to keep the people away from the wild pachyderm, which was moving fast across farms, villages and rocky terrain of the district. “It is the people who are behaving wildly. Even the mild use of force is not proving effective on them. They are taking the arrival of the elephant as a big entertainment event and distracting it with their antics,” a senior official said. Sources said the tranquillising operation might be done on Friday as conducting it during the night could be risky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Tax raids on Haryana MLA backing farmers' protest||The income tax department on Thursday raided the offices and residences of Balraj Kundu, an Independent MLA from Meham in Haryana, in Rohtak. The CBDT claimed it had detected alleged tax evasion of around Rs 125 crore. Kundu is a vocal supporter of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against the new central farm laws. In February last year, he  had withdrawn support to the BJP-led M.L. Khattar dispensation in Haryana, saying he was “deeply hurt” with the government giving a “clean chit” to those involved in the alleged corruption in sugar which he had flagged. Haryana police, in October 2020, had booked the MLA and three others in a cheating case. The FIR was registered in Gurgaon based on a complaint from a resident of the city, the police had said. The MLA had said the FIR was because of “political considerations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Community service order for faulty MBBS admissions||The Supreme Court has directed 132 medical students in Uttar Pradesh to carry out community services for two years for securing admission in violation of rules. The court said the order would not be treated as a precedent. The bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said it was passing the order in the peculiar circumstances of the case as cancelling the admissions of the students, who had already completed their second year of the five-year MBBS course, would not serve any useful purpose. The college where the 132 students study had admitted them on September 5, 2017, without the mandatory approval of the directorate of medical education, which sends the list of eligible candidates for admission on the basis of NEET rankings. The court fined Saraswati Medical College, run by the Saraswati Educational Charitable Trust, Rs 5 crore. The amount is to be used by the National Medical Commission to extend financial assistance to needy students seeking admission to medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh by creating a separate trust. “The admission of 132 students in the college for the academic year 2017-2018 being completely contrary to the regulations, the writ petitions are liable to be dismissed. However, taking note of the fact that the students have completed the second-year MBBS course, cancelling their admissions at this stage would not serve any useful purpose,” the Supreme Court said in the order. “The students who joined the college knowing fully well that their admissions are contrary to the regulations are directed to do community service for a period of two years after completing their MBBS course,” the court added. “The National Medical Commission shall decide the details and work out the modalities of the community service to be rendered by the 132 students.” The court passed the directions while dismissing the appeals filed by the college and some students challenging the notice issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) on  September 29, 2017, directing the institution to discharge 132 of the 150 students admitted to the MBBS course for the 2017-2018 academic year. “Being aware of the fact that admissions cannot be made from students not allotted by the third respondent (directorate of medical education), the college admitted 132 students on its own. Thereafter, the college permitted the students to continue their studies in spite of the direction by the Medical Council of India to discharge the students not being stayed,” the court pointed out. “Intentional violation of the regulations by the petitioner-college while granting admission to 132 students in the first-year MBBS course for the academic year 2017-2018 cannot be condoned. The petitioner-college is directed to deposit an amount of Rs 5 crore in the registry of this court within a period of eight weeks from today. The petitioners are directed not to recover the amount from the students in any manner whatsoever,” the bench added. The court agreed with the MCI that under Regulation 5A of the Medical Council Regulations on Graduate Medical Education, 1997, all admissions to the MBBS course shall be on the basis of the merit list of the NEET. The top court rejected the argument of the college and the students that the admissions had to be expedited since the directorate of medical education had delayed the dispatch of the list, saying the records available did not bear out such a claim. It also rejected the plea that the students could not be penalised for the admissions as they were innocent. “The students who have secured admission cannot be said to be innocent as they knew fully well that their names were not recommended by the director-general of medical education. We also do not agree that the students and their parents were not aware that their admissions in the college are contrary to the regulations,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Journalists and filmgoers protest to free Siddique Kappan||An international film festival venue in Kerala on Thursday witnessed a protest seeking the immediate release of journalist Siddique Kappan who has been jailed in Uttar Pradesh for over three months. A group of around 40 youths, including independent journalists, journalism students and filmgoers, held up placards at the Liberty Theatre compound where the third leg of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) was on. Haroon Kavanoor, a Malappuram-based independent journalist who was among the organisers, told The Telegraph that the idea was to convey the message that journalism is not a crime. “Siddique Kappan went to Hathras only as a journalist trying to bring out the truth,” Kavanoor said, citing how Kappan was arrested on October 5 on his way to the village in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been gang-raped and murdered. Kappan was arrested along with three others and slapped with provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal sections for allegedly trying to foment law and order situation. But Kappan denies all the charges. “We even got the solidarity of (Malayalam filmmaker) Kamal who was present at the venue. He expressed his support for the cause,” Kavanoor said, adding the entire event lasted about 20 minutes. Kamal is the chairman of Kerala State Chalachitra Academy that organises the IFFK, the state-funded film festival. The festival was held in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi before it moved to Thalassery in Kannur district, where it would culminate on February 27, and Palakkad. Kappan had recently visited his ailing mother in Malappuram after being released on a five-day interim bail ordered by the Supreme Court. His regular bail application is expected to come up for hearing on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Congress declares the Narendra Modi regime 'morally dead'||The bitterness between the Opposition and the government has peaked a little too early this time even as the next parliamentary election is three years away with the Congress declaring that the Narendra Modi regime was “morally dead”. Arguing that any government would have tried to ease the burden on people when salary cuts and job losses had wreaked finances of the poor and middle class, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The Modi government has only shown arrogance and insensitivity. It is inflicting new wounds every day; LPG cylinder price was increased by Rs 25 today (Thursday) again. This government is morally dead.” The sparring wasn’t subject-specific; the ruling party fiercely battled with the entire Opposition on a whole gamut of issues and the rebuttal was equally ferocious. While Modi expressed shock at Rahul Gandhi’s understanding — wondering why he was demanding ministry of fisheries which came into being in 2019 — the Congress leader hit back by insinuating that the Prime Minister was rattled by his “hum-do-hamare-do” attack. The Prime Minister, who steadfastly ignores Rahul’s jibes on serious issues such as Chinese intrusions, unemployment, corruption and institutional decay, spoke about his demand for a ministry on fisheries at a rally in Puducherry, saying: “I was absolutely shocked to hear a Congress leader come and say they want to start a fisheries ministry because there is none. The truth is that it already exists. The current NDA government has already set up a fisheries ministry back in 2019 itself.” Rahul promptly responded, tweeting, “Dear PM, Fisherfolk need an independent and dedicated ministry of fisheries, not just a department within a ministry. PS- ‘Hum do Humare do’ obviously hurt bad.” Commenting on a report suggesting that the Modi government had started clearing foreign direct investment from China after intrusion, Rahul said in another tweet: “China has understood that Mr Modi buckles under their pressure. They now know they can get whatever they want from him.” Modi chose to ignore this substantial attack. Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with other Congress leaders, also joined the online campaign on jobs, which trended globally on Twitter. While Modi never enjoyed healthy relations with the Opposition, decisions like citizenship law, breaking of Jammu & Kashmir and Delhi riots demolished any chances of reconciliation at the start of his second tenure. The farmers’ movement triggered a full-fledged confrontation that would probably have come two years later. While Rahul has said Modi was working on a sinister project to enslave India, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly called the Prime Minister “dangabaaz (rioter)”. The Maharashtra government is on a warpath, embarrassing the Centre by revealing the WhatsApp chat of their favourite journalist and going so far as to order an investigation into the synchronised tweets of celebrities in support of the Modi government. Assembly elections in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala — to be followed next year by even bigger electoral battles in Uttar Pradesh Gujarat — are bound to intensify the fighting; probably leading the country into an unprecedented political turmoil. Shrinate used strong expressions like — government’s dacoity on the people, PM lying through his teeth and finance minister’s inability to understand economy — and said: “Where do the BJP leaders live from where they can’t see the ground reality? Instead of providing relief, they are daily raising the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even as crude oil is selling cheap in international market. They are raising train fares, milk prices are to be increased… there is a conspiracy to privatise everything.” The Congress also plans to gherao the Union agriculture minister on Friday to mark the completion of three months on farmers protest. Over 200 farmers mahapanchayats have already been held across the country and the farm unions are planning to intensify their stir over the next weeks. The Youth Congress is in touch with other youth organisations to launch a massive nationwide movement against unemployment. This is the scenario when the Opposition is supposed to be in disarray, with the Congress not even having a functional president. By May-June when the party sets its house in order, oppositional politics may be able to mount greater pressure on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Indian Newspaper Society asks Google to pay for content||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has urged Google to compensate for the use of content published by newspapers and share its advertising revenues properly. In a letter addressed to Google India country manager Sanjay Gupta, INS president L. Adimoolam demanded that Google pay for news generated by the newspapers, which employ thousands of journalists on the ground at considerable expense for gathering and verifying information. The letter comes at a time Australia’s parliament has passed a law to make Google and Facebook pay media companies for content on their platforms. Many other countries are planning similar measures. “Since, the content which is generated and published by newspapers at considerable expense is proprietary, the Society pointed out that it is this credible content which has given Google the authenticity in India ever since its inception,” the INS said in a statement. Pointing out that publishers have been providing complete access to “quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment”, the INS said there was a huge distinction between the editorial content from quality publications and fake news that is spreading on other information platforms. The Society said that over the past year publishers across the world have been raising the issue of fair payment for content and of proper sharing of advertising revenue with Google. “It is also noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, the European Union and notably in Australia,” the INS said. “Further, it was also pointed out that advertising has been the financial backbone of the news industry. However, newspaper publishers are seeing their share of the advertising pie shrinking in the digital space, even as Google is taking a ‘giant share of advertising spends’, leaving publishers with a small share,” the INS statement said. “Publishers are also facing a very opaque advertising system as they are unable to get details of Google’s advertising value chain. The Society insisted that Google should increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 per cent and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google,” the statement added. “The INS has raised the issue of giving greater prominence to editorial content from registered news publishers to tackle fake news, as Google picks up content from several sites that are not credible, thus ‘amplifying misinformation and propagation of fake news’.” Pointing out that the Society is engaged in discussions with Google on these vital issues, the letter iterated that “Indian print media is the most credible source of news and information in the country, and newspapers play a vital role in nation building”. “However, the pandemic and the current digital business model have been unfair to publishers, making it unviable for the print media industry. We invest heavily on journalism, the core of our news operations, because newspapers play a vital role in society,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
26-02-2021||India||Kashmir parties cheer ceasefire agreement||The cross-border consensus on the ceasefire agreement has raised the prospects of a thaw after years of troubled relations between India and Pakistan. Political parties in the Valley cheered the decision and expressed hope this would pave the way for a dialogue for resolving the issues between the two nations. For Valley politicians, particularly its pro-India camp, battling iron fist policies for the past two years, the decision to cease fire has come as a pleasant surprise. A People’s Democratic Party leader hoped the development might ease the “relentless crackdown” on dissent in Kashmir and give the “necessary breathing space” to them. “Just at a time when we thought things might worsen in the coming weeks and months, the decision indicates the two countries might be up something different. Let us pray it is just a beginning and more announcements might follow,” a leader said. “Otherwise, every day we encounter a hostile government and agencies putting curbs on us and doing all they can to drag us in fake cases. A number of our senior leaders are rotting in jails and (former chief minister) Mehbooba (Mufti) ji is repeatedly put under house arrest.” Mehbooba said it was a “big and welcome development” and dialogue was “the only way forward if both countries want to stop the unending cycle of violence & bloodshed across the borders and J&K.” Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah said the decision would go a long way in “ushering long lasting peace”. “National Conference has always been a strong votary of Indo-Pak peace. It is the people of Jammu and Kashmir that have been facing the brunt of escalating tensions alongside the borders. I hope the agreement is followed in letter and spirit,” he said. Moderate Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said it was a “move in the right direction” and hoped two sides will address the core concern of Jammu and Kashmir in keeping with the aspirations of its people, which he said, “is the cause of conflict and violence in the region”. The joint statement said the two sides reviewed the situation along the LoC and other sectors in a “free, frank and cordial atmosphere” and agreed to address each other core concerns. “In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGsMO agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence,” it said. “Both sides also reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings would be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding.” Official sources said the India-Pakistan joint statement could become possible because of back-channel discussions at the top level. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant on national security division and strategic policy planning Moeed Yousuf has also confirmed two sides have been making efforts to break ice. Imran on Wednesday appeared to be toning down his rhetoric. “Our only dispute is Kashmir and it can only be resolved through dialogue,” Imran said while addressing the Sri Lanka-Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference in Colombo. “Immediately when I came into power, I approached our neighbour India and explained to PM Modi that the way forward for the subcontinent is to resolve our differences through dialogue. I didn’t succeed but I am optimistic that eventually, sense will prevail. The only way the subcontinent can tackle poverty is by improving trade relations.” Earlier, Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa had said the two countries must resolve the Kashmir issue in a “dignified and peaceful manner”. Delhi this week allowed Imran to use its airspace to visit Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
26-02-2021||India||India-Pakistan consensus on ceasefire agreement||The Indian and Pakistani militaries on Thursday announced that they have agreed to strictly observe the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control and all other sectors from the midnight of February 24. The move is perceived to be significant considering the record number of violations along the LoC last year, making it one of the most violent since the two countries had agreed in November 2003 to a ceasefire. Sources in the Indian security establishment termed the agreement as a “very important” development amid heightened tension along the LoC and the ongoing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. “The latest agreement between the two armies (of India and Pakistan) comes after at least four months of back-channel talks at various levels,” said a security official. A rare joint statement issued by the armies said the move followed a discussion between India’s director-general of military operations (DGMO) and his Pakistani counterpart over their established mechanism of telephone hotline. The statement said that during their discussion the two sides reviewed the situation along the LoC and all other sectors in a “free, frank and cordial atmosphere”. “In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence. Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight 24/25 Feb 2021,” the joint statement said. “Both sides reiterated that existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings will be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding.” Earlier this month, India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh had informed Parliament that Pakistan had resorted to 5,133 incidents of ceasefire violations last year in which 46 security force personnel had been killed. Replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha, he had said “appropriate retaliation” to the ceasefire violations had been carried out by the security forces. The defence minister had said 299 incidents of ceasefire violations had been reported till January 28 this year. The November 2003 ceasefire was the biggest confidence-building measure between India and Pakistan but it has been frequently violated in recent years. The relations between the two countries also hit a low after the Pulwama terror attack in February 2019 and India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019. Sources in the army said there won’t be any let up in counter-infiltration and counter-terrorism operation in the wake of the latest agreement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
26-02-2021||India||Covid: Second wave fear, experts seek data||India’s Covid-19 epidemic appears poised to rise into a “second wave” with growing counts in several states, but experts say only ground investigations into infection patterns and virus-linked lab tests can illuminate reasons for the growth. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased over the past two weeks in nine of India’s top 20 populated states, the sharpest rise in Maharashtra where counts have more than doubled — from roughly 2,300 on February 11 to 8,702 on February 24. Bengal’s average daily counts over that period increased from 177 to 189. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir also show varying levels of rising counts. Those increases have pulled up India’s average daily counts from about 11,000 two weeks ago to 16,700 on Thursday and puzzled some experts who expected India’s epidemic to continue shrinking as it has since its mid-September peak with over 93,000 daily cases. “Something is obviously happening, but we still need to understand what’s going on,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former head community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert group on Covid-19 epidemiology and surveillance. The rise is puzzling because surveys have suggested that large fractions of India’s population — 25 per cent nationwide and up to 50 per cent in some large cities — have already been infected by Covid-19 and would be expected to be protected from the virus. Experts say the current growth could be due to either of two mechanisms — as people let down their guard, the virus is exploiting fresh opportunities to spread among pools of susceptible people, or new variants have emerged as they did in South Africa and the UK. “Is this a second wave? I would wait and watch,” said T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “I think a nationwide wave is too strong a word for now. We still see declines in many states.” The epidemic has over the past two weeks continued to shrink in Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, with average daily new cases declining from 135 on February 11 to 98 on February 24. Average daily new cases have also declined in Bihar (238 to 70), Tamil Nadu (477 to 450) and Karnataka (412 to 404). “Wherever the epidemic is growing, we need to know who exactly is getting infected,” Muliyil said. “This is easily done through doing antibody tests on newly infected people. If we find people with antibodies against Covid-19 testing positive again, we may have a new variant to worry about. If we don’t find antibodies, we’ll know the virus is spreading among still susceptible people.” Experts view the surge in Maharashtra as most puzzling because the state has consistently accounted for the largest number of Covid-19 infections in the country and should have thus had the largest pool of protected people. “We have no documented case yet of infections in people already infected by Covid-19 — we need more investigations and virological surveillance,” said Subhash Salunke, a community medicine specialist and adviser to the Maharashtra government. Preliminary assessments have suggested that public complacency with personal precautions against Covid-19 or poor public health responses have driven the recent upsurge in Maharashtra and not any unusual mutant coronavirus strains, a senior Indian Council of Medical Research official said. Health officials say whatever the reasons for the surge, the solutions remain proven public health measures such as aggressive testing, rapid isolation of positive cases, quarantining of contacts, and personal protection measures such as masks, hand-washing and avoiding crowds. Some scientists have pointed to the observations of point mutations — such as one designated as E484K — in coronavirus variants isolated in India and underlined the need for studies to understand whether they are influencing patterns of infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
