27-02-2021||India||Steps to block web content in place since 2009, says Centre||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Saturday clarified that the provision in the new digital media guidelines to block internet content in a case of emergency nature has been around as a rule since 2009 and was not recently introduced. Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the guidelines which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a ministry statement said. "It is hereby clarified that this is not a new provision. For the past eleven years, since 2009, this provision has been exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009," it said. Under the rules issued on February 25, this provision has only been replaced with Secretary, Ministry of I&B because Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the I&B Ministry, the statement said. "It is reiterated -- no change in provision has been made nor any new provision has been added on blocking of content under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021," the I&B ministry said. The government on Thursday had said a 'code of ethics' and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and digital media. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced at a joint press conference here by I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 for single dose of Covid vaccine||Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of Covid-19 vaccine, official sources said on Saturday as India prepares to vaccinate people aged above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities from March 1. The Covid-19 vaccine will be given free of cost at government hospitals, while people will need to pay for it at private facilities. "Rs 250 will be the ceiling -- Rs 150 cost of vaccine plus Rs 100 service charge. This arrangement will remain effective till further orders," a source said. According to sources, states and union territories have been informed about it. The Union Health Ministry on Friday had said beneficiaries would be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu, which will show the government and private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination, the ministry said. There will be a facility of on-site registration so that eligible beneficiaries can walk into identified vaccination centres, get themselves registered and inoculated. "Eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself," R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration had said. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16. This is now to be exponentially expanded to the age-groups -- all citizens above 60 years and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specific comorbidities -- from March 1. During a meeting held on Friday, representatives of states and UTs were explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the digital platform Co-WIN, which is a population-scale software with capacity of processing several thousands of entries. It was pointed out that all CVCs must be health facilities which are government health facilities such as sub health centres (SHCs), primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres, Sub-Division Hospitals, District Hospitals and Medical College Hospitals or private hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PM JAY) and similar State Health Insurance Schemes. States and UTs were asked to ensure that the private health facilities have adequate space for the vaccination process, as detailed in the comprehensive SOPs issued by the ministry, basic cold chain equipments, their own team of vaccinators and staff, and adequate facility for management of any adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) cases for using them as CVCs. All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access will have to carry any one of the following photo ID documents -- Aadhaar Card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhaar or EPIC), certificate of comorbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner), and employment certificate/Official Identity Card for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). States and UTs on Friday explained the simplified process of registration, which shall be through three routes -- advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration. Under the first route, beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. "This will show the government and private hospitals serving as CVCs with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. "The facility of on-site registration allows those who cannot self register in advance to walk into the identified CVCs and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated," the ministry said. Under the facilitated cohort registration mechanism, the state and UT government will take proactive lead, the ministry said in the statement. Specific date(s) for Covid-19 vaccination will be decided where target groups of potential beneficiaries will be vaccinated. State and health authorities will ensure that the target groups are actively mobilised and brought to the vaccination centres. ASHAs, ANMs, Panchayati Raj representatives and Women's Self Help Groups (SHGs) will be utilised for mobilising the target groups. Vaccination will be free of charge at the government vaccination centres. The beneficiary will have to show a photo ID document for proof of age (preferably Aadhaar card or EPIC card) and certificate of co-morbidity (if required). Those taking the Covid vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Real-life Rancho builds solar heated tents for Army personnel||Innovator and educationist Sonam Wangchuk, the real life Phunsukh Wangdu of Bollywood blockbuster 3 Idiots, has developed an eco-friendly solar heated tent that Army personnel can use in extremely cold places like Siachen and Galwan valley in the Ladakh region. Wangchuk, who has many environmentally friendly innovations to his name, said the solar heated military tent, besides saving on use of fossil fuel and its ill-effects on the environment, increases the safety of the military personnel. "This tent uses the solar energy trapped during day time to keep the soldiers' sleeping chamber warm during night. Since there is no use of fossil fuel, it saves on money and also is emission free," he said. The innovator said the temperature inside the sleeping chamber of the military tent can be increased or decreased by corresponding increase or decrease in insulation layers. "The sleeping chamber has four layers of insulation and it gave a temperature of 15 degrees Celsius at a time when outside temperature was minus 14 degrees Celsius. The number of layers can be reduced for warmer places," he added. Wangchuk said the temperature inside the tent should not be too cozy as the soldiers have to be ready to fight the enemy in the open where temperature can be as low as minus 30 degrees Celsius in places like Galwan valley. While Wangchuk extensively referred to last year's India-China standoff in Ladakh, he said he had made an earlier version of solar heated tent 15 years ago for shepherds who were engaged in rearing Pashmina goats which produce high quality Cashmere wool. Referring to the new prototype, Wangchuk said the tent is portable and can accommodate 10 soldiers. "No component of the tent weighs more than 30 kg which makes it easily portable. The tent is disassembled into 30 to 40 components," he said. Wangchuk said the weight of components can be brought down to 20 kg each by using superlight aluminium material. "That version will be more expensive than the current prototype," he said. He acknowledged the support provided by the Army in developing the solar heated tent, saying "it has been designed keeping in mind the requirements of the Army". The innovator said it took his team at Himalayan Institute of Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) one month to make the prototype of the solar heated tent. The tent has been designed keeping in mind the places like Siachen glacier and Black Top Hill, the 55-year-old innovator said. Wangchuk on Friday visited Zojila Top to test a "crazy idea" of making a low cost ice tunnel for keeping the approach road to the Zojila tunnel open. "It will save 500 tonnes of carbon dioxide and crores annually," he said while asking his one million subscribers on YouTube channel to "stay tuned for the video".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Don't lower your guard, Centre tells Covid spike states ||The Centre on Saturday advised states and UTs reporting an increase in coronavirus cases to enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour by dealing firmly with violations and ensure effective surveillance in case of potential super spreading events so as not to squander last year's gains. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a high-level review meeting with chief secretaries of states and UTs of Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir. These states and UTs have been reporting a high COVID-19 active caseload or an increasing trend in new cases in the last week. "They were advised not to lower their guard, enforce COVID appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. It was strongly underlined that they need to follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. The need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts were also strongly emphasised. During the review meeting, states were advised to undertake vaccination on priority in districts reporting higher cases and monitor mutant strain and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification and control, the statement. They have also been asked to improve the overall testing in districts reporting a reduction in testing, and increase RT- PCR tests in districts having high antigen testing. The states and UT were asked to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts reporting reduced tests/high positivity and increased cases. They have also been asked to focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and promote COVID-appropriate behaviour to ensure effective citizen communication to not let complacency set in, especially in light of vaccination drive entering the next phase, and enforcing stringent social distancing measures. Six states Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 622 new cases in the last 24 hours. In the last two weeks, Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently, the ministry said. A detailed presentation was made on the current status of COVID-19 in these states with a focus on districts reporting an increasing number of new cases or positivity. This was followed by a comprehensive review with all the states and UTs. The chief secretaries briefed about the current situation in the states and their preparedness to tackle the recent spike of COVID cases. They informed about the enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour by levying heavy fines and challans, reviewing the surveillance and containment activities closely with the district collectors, and other steps being taken in line with the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare(MoHFW) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Cabinet Secretary reiterated that states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hard work of the last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||LoC pact to have no impact on counter-terrorism operations, says Army||The Army's northern commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi on Saturday said the agreement between India and Pakistan to strictly adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control (LoC) would have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. He said the northern command, which looks after the security of the twin union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, remained on the highest alert and made possible what was believed impossible by the bravery, grit and determination of its personnel in the face of challenging situations along the border. "Recently, the Director General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan have announced an agreement to uphold a ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 and 25 midnight. I want to assure that this ceasefire will have no bearing on the counter-terrorist operations and we will maintain our alertness," Lt Gen Joshi said at the northern command investiture ceremony here. During the ceremony, the Army commander presented two Bar to Sena medals (gallantry) and 50 Sena medals (gallantry) to the brave soldiers. He also presented three Sena medals (distinguished) and six Vishisht Seva medals for selfless service to the nation. Lt Gen Joshi also awarded unit appreciation to 26 units for their overall outstanding performance in the command theatre. "The northern command has always stood like a shield against the attempts by our neighbouring countries to spread disturbance and it will continue to remain so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, Indian Army has replied strongly," Lt Gen Joshi said. Without naming China and Pakistan, he said Indian Army has maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and helped in maintaining peace in the hinterland. Referring to the eastern Ladakh standoff with the Chinese army, he said Indian Army stood up to the challenge on the snow-capped mountains of the Line of Actual Control during the challenging situation in 2020 and maintained the highest alert. "Our action is a glaring example of our training, bravery and pledge (to safeguard the borders) and it will be written in history with golden words. The northern command made possible what seemed impossible. The success of the operation (in Ladakh) is the glaring example of the bravery of Indian Army, he said. He said 2020 was historic in many ways for the Army which demonstrated its mettle in eastern Ladakh by its "grit, determination, self-confidence, bravery and steadfastness". He said there has been a tremendous improvement in the basic deployment and preparedness and the efforts in this direction will continue. The measures we have put in to strengthen our defences, the same efforts were made to maintain peace, he said. In Kashmir, he said, the overall security situation saw a great improvement in the previous year as there has been a considerable reduction in terrorist-initiated incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He said the Army also played a key role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. "Under 'Seva Paramo Dharma', Army doctors, nursing staff, ambulance and medical corps staff without caring for their lives worked round-the-clock and are continuously doing so," he said. He congratulated those who were decorated for their bravery and conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice on the borders, including at Galwan Valley, and in the battle against internal security challenges. Lt Col Joshi urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to rededicate themselves to the cause of the nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||BJP, AIADMK begin talks for seat sharing in Tamil Nadu||The ruling AIADMK and BJP commenced the talks for sharing seats for the April 6 assembly election in the state. Both the parties are likely to arrive at a consensus soon. A delegation from the BJP which included Union Ministers Kishan Reddy, Gen V K Singh, BJP national general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu C T Ravi, state party chief L Murugan, held discussions with Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami and AIADMK coordinator and Deputy CM O Panneerselvam, on Saturday. BJP state organising general secretary Kesava Vinayagan was also present during the talks. The parleys, according to a BJP senior, were cordial and the deal is likely to be clinched soon. "Our expectation is for 60 assembly constituencies, which we have identified as winnable seats. They (AIADMK) may have their plans. The numbers which will be agreeable to both the parties will be announced," BJP senior M Chakravarthy told PTI. The AIADMK will hold separate talks with a delegation from the PMK this evening. Actor-politician Vijaykanth-led Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and G K Vasan's Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) are the other allies of the AIADMK. Meanwhile, R Sarath Kumar, founder of All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) who had been in alliance with the AIADMK for a decade, called on Kamal Haasan, founder of Makkal Neethi Maiam party here on Saturday to discuss the possibility of forging electoral ties for the upcoming election. Speaking to reporters here, he said his party had a chunk of vote bank in Tamil Nadu. "AISMK was in the AIADMK alliance for 10 years. We waited for a call from the AIADMK, but there was no word. We have decided to move on," Sarath Kumar said and added that he would strive for a change in Tamil Nadu. He had called on Haasan as it was nice for like-minded people to meet, said Sarath Kumar who earlier this week, called on V K Sasikala, the ousted AIADMK general secretary at her residence hereafter she returned to Chennai from Karnataka. Announcing alliance with Indhiya Jananayaka Katchi (IJK), a political party floated by Lok Sabha MP Paarivendhar, who heads the SRM group of institutions, Sarath Kumar said he has joined hands with IJK to contest the elections "with good people."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Toll in Uttarakhand disaster rises to 72||One more body was recovered from the banks of the Alaknanda at Marwadi near Joshimath taking the toll in the recent avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district to 72. The 72nd body was recovered late on Friday evening, Chamoli's Disaster Management Officer N K Joshi said on Saturday. Meanwhile, rescue operations in the avalanche hit-areas continued for the 21st day on Saturday, he said. So far 72 bodies and 30 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas out of which 41 bodies have been identified, he said adding 132 persons are still missing. Meanwhile, the NTPC whose Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project was one of the worst-hit by the February 7 disaster, has deposited a sum of Rs 3.52 crore in the chief judicial magistrate's court to be paid as compensation to 25 affected families as per a list issued by the state government, a company spokesperson said. The rest of the families will also be paid compensation after the state government issues death certificates of their missing kin, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Rahul attacks Modi over Sino-India standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Sino-India border standoff, charging him with being 'scared' of the eastern neighbour. Before the stand-off at eastern Ladakh, where the disengagement process has been completed with the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas, the Chinese "tested the idea in Dokhlam (in 2017)," he said. "Essentially the Chinese occupied certain strategic areas in our country. They first tested the idea in Dokhlam. They tested the idea to see how would India react and they noticed India did not react. And then they carried out the idea again in Ladakh and also I believe in Arunachal Pradesh," he said. Launching his three-day tour of Tamil Nadu ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, the Congress leader, while interacting with advocates here, reiterated his "hum do hamare do" jibe at the ruling dispensation at the Centre. Speaking in detail over the border standoff, Gandhi said Modi's first reaction to the Chinese incursions was "that nobody has come into India." "That indicated to the Chinese that the Prime Minister of India is scared of them. That is the message he indicated to the Chinese, that he is scared of them and the Chinese understood it. And since then the Chinese have negotiated on that principle," he said. "They know that the Prime Minister of India cannot stand up to them. Mark my words, our land in Depsang, which is the most important land, is not going to come back to under this government. The Prime Minister will not get that land back. He will pretend everything is sorted out, but India is going to lose that territory," he charged. Giving such a message to the Chinese was "very dangerous to the future because the Chinese are not going to stop with Ladakh," he alleged. He said the government under the Congress "always dealt with the Chinese without any hesitation." "The Chinese understood very well that India cannot be pushed around. Even in 2013 when the Chinese entered into India, we took action that forced them, forced them to compromise...we went and occupied other spaces," he said. "They have now understood the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage...the Chinese know the Prime Minister is going to compromise," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Review meeting with 8 states and UTs witnessing spike in Covid cases on cards||The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with eight states and union territories exhibiting a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said. The states showing a surge are Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal. India's total COVID-19 active caseload is 1,59,590 which is 1.44 per cent of the total infections. Six states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat -- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry underlined. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It was followed by Kerala that reported 3,671 new cases and Punjab with 622 new cases. The ministry said 85.75 per cent of 16,488 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours are from six states and UTs. "Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases," the ministry said. "In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679 today, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the same period, from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently," the ministry added. The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, MP, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and WB which are exhibiting a surge in cases, it said. A total of 1,42,42,547 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 66,68,974 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were administered the first dose, 24,53,878 HCWs who were given the second dose and 51,19,695 frontline workers (FLWs) who took the first dose. The second dose of COVID-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. As on Day 42 of the vaccination drive (February 27), a total of 7,64,904 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 3,49,020 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 13,397 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,20,884 HCWs received the second dose of the vaccine. Eight states account for 62.75 per cent of the cumulative second dose vaccinations in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 12.64 per cent (3,10,058) of the total second dose vaccinations in India, the ministry said. Nine states and UTs have administered the first vaccine dose to less than 60 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Punjab and Puducherry. Twelve states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of more than 65 per cent frontline workers. These are Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Rajasthan, Kerala and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The ministry said 12 states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of less than 40 per cent of the frontline workers. These are Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Nagaland, Goa and Mizoram. A total of 1,07,63,451 people have recovered so far, with 12,771 patients having discharged in a span of 24 hours. "India's COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.17 per cent is among the highest in the world," the ministry underscored. It said 84.79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,936 newly recovered cases. As many as 4,142 people recovered in Kerala in a span of 24 hours followed by 642 in Karnataka. Besides, 113 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states and UTs account for 82.3 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 48. It was followed by Punjab with 15 daily deaths and Kerala reported 14 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. These are Gujarat, Odisha, Chandigarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Andman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||Modi urges toy manufacturers to use more eco-friendly material||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked the toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly material, in addition, to focus on innovation. Inaugurating the first India Toy Fair 2021, Modi said, "We have to become Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also cater to the global market". He regretted that India's share in the USD 100 billion global toy market is very less, and about 85 per cent of the toys sold in the country are imported. "We need to promote hand-made in India," he said. The Prime Minister also interacted with traditional toymakers from Chennapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and exhorted them to innovate and make traditional toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. He asked the toy manufacturers to make eco-friendly, attractive and innovative toys and use more recyclable material. The Prime Minister said the government has prepared a National Toy Action Plan by involving 15 ministries with a view to make the domestic toy industry competitive. The initiative, he added, is aimed at making India Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also increasing the presence of domestic toys in the global market. The Indian toy industry has tradition, technology, concepts and competence, Modi said, stressing that "we can give to the world eco-friendly toys".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
27-02-2021||India||PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 earth observation satellite set to take-off||Countdown for the launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission commenced on Saturday from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. PSLV-C51 rocket, which is the 53rd mission of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle), will launch Amazonia-1 of Brazil as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger satellites from Sriharikota, about 100 kms from Chennai, Bengaluru- headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said in a statement. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1024hours on February 28, subject to weather conditions. The countdown began at 0854 hours. PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm. NSIL is undertaking this mission under a commercial arrangement with Seattle, US-based satellite rideshare and mission management provider, Spaceflight Inc. Amazonia-1 is the optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE). "This satellite would further strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory", the statement said. The 18 co-passenger satellites are -- four from Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (three UNITYsats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and one Satish Dhawan Sat from Space Kidz India) and 14 from NSIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 15,000 for third consecutive day||India registered a single-day spike of over 16,000 COVID-19 cases for the third day in a row on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 1,10,79,979, while the recoveries surged to 1,07,63,451, according to Union Health Ministry data. A total of 16,488 novel coronavirus cases were reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,56,938 with 113 new fatalities, showed the data updated at 8 am on Saturday. The active case count has further increased to 1,59,590, which comprises 1.44 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of recoveries reached 1,07,63,451, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.14 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. A total of 16,577 new COVID-19 cases were reported in India on Friday, while 16,738 fresh infections were registered in the country on Thursday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. The 113 new fatalities include 48 from Maharashtra , 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 52,041 in Maharashtra, 12,488 in Tamil Nadu, 12,320 in Karnataka, 10,906 in Delhi, 10,263 in West Bengal, 8,725 in Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 in Andhra Pradesh. For the first time, a coronavirus-linked death has been reported in Lakshadweep. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's day out, fishing expedition in Kerala ||Sebin Cyriac is one of Kerala’s most popular fishing vloggers, is an expert swimmer and diver himself but would think twice before jumping into mid sea. Early morning on Wednesday, he met a certified divemaster and one-time scuba diving instructor who thought nothing about plunging into the sea in his khakis and T-shirt several kilometres from the shore and take to the water like a fish. Except that the man in question is Rahul Gandhi. “I am a swimmer and can dive up to about 10 metres. But even I am scared of diving in such deep waters. He made it appear routine and didn’t create any fuss. He just handed over his mobile phone to a fisherman who was seated next to him, removed his mask, got up and leapt into the cold waters around 6.30am,” Cyriac told The Telegraph on Friday. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the popular fishing vlogger when he got a call from Delhi to accompany the Congress leader on a fishing expedition off the Kerala coast. Many surprises were lurking in the blue waters of the Arabian Sea for Cyriac, his two colleagues and the 25 fishermen on board the mother ship and two assisting vessels. Cyriac, 29, said he did not expect the expedition to be so smooth in spite of the fact that his assignment was to guide a political VVIP. “He made all of us, including the fishermen, feel comfortable and allowed us to do our work. One of the most remarkable things was the way he listened to everyone and asked pertinent questions to know more about fishing and its challenges,” Cyriac said. His latest, and perhaps the most important vlog of his career, “Deep sea fishing with Rahul Gandhi”, was uploaded on YouTube on Thursday evening and had garnered over 1 million views by Friday afternoon. Cyriac said he believed Rahul’s office picked him due to the popularity of his vlog — Fishing Freaks — which has 1.6 million subscribers on YouTube. Cyriac, who took to professional vlogging more than two years ago, was accompanied by his two colleagues to handle five cameras including a drone that captured every moment of the three-hour expedition that started at the Thangassery fishing harbour in Kollam at 5am on Wednesday. “None of the fishermen or the boat owners had been told who was coming on board. And when they got to see Rahul Gandhi I could see the excitement on their faces,” recalled Cyriac, who also acted as the interpreter between the crew and the Congress MP from Wayanad. For those unflustered by the TV cacophony and smear campaign against Rahul, the video offered a peek into what made the politician with an unflinching resolve and steely calm that enables him to speak up without fear. Rahul first boarded one of the two assisting vessels and later switched to the mother boat carrying the giant fishing net all ready to be cast once the sonar picks a shoal. But what shocked and surprised even the seasoned fishermen was when Rahul dived into the sea several kilometres from the shore. “We had never expected him to dive into the sea. But after the net was cast, one fisherman had dived for a routine exercise to guide the shoal into the net,” Cyriac said. On learning why a fisherman had to dive after casting the net, Rahul asked if he could follow him. “It all happened in a jiffy and only a few of us sitting close to him could hear the conversation due to the loud noise of the outboard engines. So when he got up and jumped into the deep waters, the rest of the fisherman got shocked.” They had apparently not heard when Rahul told Cyriac that he was a certified divemaster who used to dive 38 metres deep and once taught scuba diving. “So I told them it was okay since he is an excellent swimmer,” Cyriac said. The 23-minute-42-second video shows a smiling Rahul holding the hand of a fisherman and jumping into the sea. Voices can be heard in the background saying “Oh my God”. Some from the boat called out to Rahul not to venture further as he swam gracefully away from the boat. The two armed bodyguards accompanying Rahul on the boat were unperturbed, perhaps because they knew he could swim well. After around 10 minutes, Rahul, floating with ease, returned to the mother boat with the other fishermen. “Since the diving part was unscheduled, he didn’t have a change of clothes. Only when a fisherman handed over his towel did he wipe his head,” Cyriac said. Once back on board it was time to haul up the net. “He (Rahul) stood up with the fishermen and hauled the whole net weighing 2.5 tonnes without even flinching. I could see a few fishermen feeling the fatigue, but not him,” Cyriac said. When he was not swimming or hauling the net, Rahul engaged in conversation with the fishermen and had breakfast comprising bread and fish curry cooked on board. This was the first time he was having fish for breakfast and he usually has only coffee in the morning, Rahul revealed. He spoke to the fishermen to understand how much they earned, whether insurance companies had any policies for them, who paid for damaged nets, how the catch was split, how a shoal is spotted before casting the nets, how much the fishermen earned, whether GST had affected them and the mechanics of fishing boats. Rahul said he had come for a first-hand experience as he had heard about the difficult life of fishermen. Cyriac rubbished trolls from the CPM and the BJP that called the expedition a paid publicity stunt. “Let me make it very clear. It was not a paid assignment. I accepted it since it was a great opportunity for me. I refused umpteen offers from advertisers who saw the video since this is more than just making some money by selling advertisement space,” he said. On allegations raised by a CPM organ about the crew carrying fish from the shore, Cyriac said there was nothing unusual about it. “I have been on fishing expeditions many times and I have seen fishermen carrying fish from the shore before they set out. They immediately start cooking fish curry and by the time the boat reaches the fishing spot (45 minutes to an hour away) the breakfast is ready,” he said. “Since they embark on the trip before dawn they would have had only tea. The breakfast is always cooked on board and had either before or soon after casting the net. That’s exactly what happened on that day as well.” “Very often fishermen return to the shore with hardly anything. So on that day they could get just one squid,” Cyriac said, alluding to the catch. Addressing fishermen later that day, Rahul had recounted the experience and said they could catch only one squid after all the hard work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||US union rallies behind Indian farmers ||The Washington-based National Farmers Union on Thursday expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers in India,  stating that “if our experience here in the United States is any indication, they are right to be concerned” about the three farm laws. Identifying with the cause that is agitating farmers in India, the National Farmers Union said in a statement: “We have learned the hard way that fair prices and farmer sovereignty are the bedrock of flourishing rural communities and an equitable food system — in the United States and everywhere else.” “As National Farmers Union works to secure these basic rights for American farmers, we stand in solidarity with Indian farmers as they do the same,” the statement said. According to the NFU, the issues facing the farming community here are all too familiar to farmers in the US. “Following a wave of similar deregulatory actions in the 1970s and 1980s, large agribusinesses quickly amassed control of the American food chain while farmers and consumers were stripped of much of their power and protections.” The NFU board of directors said: “Our fellow farmers in India are fighting against measures that would shift authority over the agricultural industry towards corporations as well as weaken policies that sustain farmers and their communities. If our experience here in the United States is any indication, they are right to be concerned.” Policymakers, the NFU noted, have weakened price support for American farmers over the past several decades, resulting in a never-ending cycle of overproduction and low prices that has pushed tens of thousands of small- and mid-sized farms out of business. “Meanwhile, lax anti-trust enforcement and deregulation have enabled the near total corporatisation of the food system, with dire consequences for farmers and consumers. We all have suffered fewer choices, less innovation, unfair prices, manipulative business practices, and greater vulnerability to disruption.” The support from the US-based farmers’ collective comes at a time the protesting farmers have been claiming their apprehension of corporate takeover of their land through the new laws — particularly the contract farming law — stands vindicated by the fact that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and his wife Melinda are the largest private farmland owners in the US. Between the two of them, the couple have bought and now own a total of 268,984 acres across the length and breadth of the US, bulk of it farmland (242,000 acres), according to The Land Report magazine — an American niche quarterly on land-related issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Farmers protest: UNHCHR condemns crackdown on activists, scribes   ||The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has said the charges of sedition slapped on journalists and activists in connection with the farmers’ protests and the attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media in India are “disturbing departures from essential human rights principles”. Michelle Bachelet brought up the matter on Friday while updating the 46th session of the Human Rights Council (HRC) on rights issues in more than 50 countries. In two paragraphs on India, she flagged the farmers’ movement and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Her intervention comes a few days after external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, in his speech at the ongoing HRC session, stressed the need to respect the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty. “Continued protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers highlight the importance of ensuring laws and policies are based on meaningful consultations with those concerned,” Bachelet said, in an oblique reference to the criticism that the three farm laws were enacted without proper discussion. “Charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the protests, and attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media, are disturbing departures from essential human rights principles,” she continued. Bachelet expressed hope that talks between the government and the farmer leaders would yield a solution. “I trust that ongoing dialogue efforts by both sides will lead to an equitable solution to this crisis that respects the rights of all,” she said. On Kashmir, Bachelet said restrictions on communications and clampdown on civil society activists remained a concern. “Despite recent restoration of 4G access for mobile phones, the communications blockade has seriously hampered civic participation, as well as business, livelihoods, education, and access to health care and medical information. Raids against human rights defenders in October and November exemplify the continued restrictions on civil society, and resulting impact on the rights of the people of Kashmir to impart and receive information, and to engage in free, open debate on government policies affecting them,” she noted. Last week, special rapporteurs of the HRC had voiced concern that the constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir could undermine minorities’ rights. This had drawn a sharp response from the government, which termed the conclusions as “inaccurate assumptions” and “deliberately timed” to coincide with the visit of foreign envoys to the Union Territory. The external affairs ministry has rebutted the reported contention of UN rapporteurs that Christian Michel, accused in the VVIP chopper case, had been extradited from the UAE in a “de facto swap” for India’s capture and return of Sheikha Latifa, the daughter of Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, after she attempted to flee her homeland. According to the AFP report, the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention has called for the British middleman’s immediate release, arguing that he was being detained arbitrarily. Reacting to the report, the ministry said in a statement: “We regret that the conclusions drawn by the Working Group are based on limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system. “The extradition was done entirely in accordance with the provisions of the Extradition Treaty signed between two sovereign States. The arrest and subsequent custody were done as per the due process of law and cannot be considered arbitrary on any grounds.” Further, according to India, at no time was Michel denied his rights to legal counsel or a fair hearing. “The fact that he has been able to approach courts on multiple occasions including the higher judiciary is itself proof of this. There have also been no restrictions on consular access by the authorities. He has been treated at par as other detainees and provided all facilities by the prison authorities as per rules,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Three routes to register for Covid vaccine||Eligible people can seek Covid-19 vaccination through online pre-registration, walk-in spot registration or state-organised bulk inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Friday, outlining three routes to open during the campaign’s phase starting on March 1. The three routes are intended to simplify the registration process as the vaccination campaign expands to inoculate everyone aged 60 years or older and those 45 years or older with chronic health disorders. Until now, vaccines were available only to healthcare and frontline workers. Potential beneficiaries can self-register in advance by downloading the Co-Win 2.0 app that will list all government and private hospitals offering the vaccine with the available date and time schedules. The beneficiaries can choose the vaccination centre and book appointments. Those unable to self-register in advance could walk into identified vaccination centres and get themselves registered on site and get vaccinated. All beneficiaries would need to carry Aadhaar cards or voter photo identity cards, or other photo identity cards approved for the registration. People between the ages of 45 and 59 years eligible for the vaccine because of comorbidities would need to carry a certificate from a registered medical practitioner specifying their health disorder. The health ministry, in a meeting with state officials on Friday, said states could also organise “facilitated cohort registration” under which local healthcare workers or auxiliary nurse midwives, women’s self-help groups or panchayati raj officials could mobilise groups of people for vaccinations. The Centre had said earlier this week that the campaign would be conducted through 10,000 government hospitals and nearly 20,000 private hospitals. The vaccines would be free of cost in government hospitals, but those who opt for private facilities would need to pay a pre-fixed charge. The health ministry is yet to announce the cost of the vaccines in private hospitals. The government has also not specified yet whether beneficiaries would have the option to choose between the two vaccines currently used in the campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine. The health ministry said private hospitals empanelled to provide services under the central government health scheme or the national health insurance scheme called the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana or state schemes could offer vaccines. Government vaccination centres would include medical college hospitals, district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and health-and-wellness centres. But each vaccination centre would have to maintain refrigeration equipment for the cold chain required by vaccines, a team of vaccinators and associated staff, and adequate facilities to manage any adverse events following immunisation. The campaign has vaccinated 6.6 million healthcare workers with first doses, 2.2 million healthcare workers with second doses, and nearly 5 million frontline workers with first doses. Healthcare and frontline workers left out could continue to receive vaccines in the coming phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Ire over illegal sand mining in Odisha||The Odisha government on Friday faced the Opposition wrath over its failure to formulate a policy to curb illegal sand mining in the state. The state is losing nearly Rs 14,000 crore per annum because of illegal sand mining, which is rampant across the state, the Opposition members alleged in the Assembly. They said that though a draft policy was prepared in 2018 to curb the illegal sand mining no steps were taken to turn it into a law. Members of both the Congress and the BJP alleged that as the state does not have a clear policy on curbing the illegal sand mining, the mafias are indulging in a massive racket and sending thousands of trucks of sand to neighbouring states. There was rampant lifting of sand from different riverbeds crisscrossing the states. “Every thing is going under the nose of the local officials but no steps are being taken to check it. The State is losing Rs 14,000 crore revenue per annum due to illegal sand mining.” said senior Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. The Congress MLA said: “It’s a matter of great concern that that local officials are imposing a hefty fine on poor villagers for lifting sand and stones for construction of their housed but no action is being taken against mafia indulging in such illegal business and transporting the sand to neighbouring state.” Opposition chief whip and senior BJP MLA Mohan Charan Majhi said: “Though the draft policy was formulated in 2018, no law has been made to this effect. The mafias are taking benefit of the laxity of the law.” The state government landed in trouble when Speaker Surya Narayan Patro himself leapt on his feet and said sand was also being transported from his constituency to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. He also raised the question as to why there has been delay in formulating a policy to curb it. “The state is earning Rs 1,500 crore as revenue from sand lifting but it is still losing nearly Rs 5,000 crore owing to illegal trade,” said Patro. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, revenue minister Sudam Marandi assured the Assembly that the draft policy on sand would be brought soon. “We are into discussions with various departments to formulate a new sand policy. It will be implemented soon,” said Marandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Congress dissenters join Ghulam Nabi Azad on Jammu trip||Several Congress leaders have joined the veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad in Jammu for an event in what could be the first public manifestation of a revolt brewing within the party after the collapse of a reconciliation process with dissenters known as the “Group of 23”. There is more to the Jammu gathering than demonstration of solidarity with Azad whose Rajya Sabha term ended this month. Although the contours of the future course of action have not taken shape yet, this is definitely a pressure tactic to make Rahul Gandhi understand that any decision to sideline the dissenters will not be tolerated. But for a substantial course correction by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul, a split in the Congress cannot be ruled out at this stage. Those who reached Jammu on Friday to be with Azad on his tour of his home state are former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former Union ministers Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari, former Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Raj Babbar, and head of the party’s legal and human rights cell Vivek Tankha. The reason they cited for their presence in Jammu is an invite from an NGO — the Gandhi Global Family Foundation — for a programme on Saturday. Asked if this was like delivering a warning to the leadership after conveying their sentiments through a letter to Congress chief Sonia on the drift in the party, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “Warning for what? We are in the Congress and all our efforts are aimed at strengthening the Congress. We are not going to retire from politics only because some leaders want so.” Another leader said: “Azad was ill-treated. The agreement worked out with Sonia Gandhi in December was violated. We don’t hide our sense of hurt.” “Decisions cannot be taken based on pique and personal likes and dislikes. The party belongs to all of us, we have nurtured it with our blood and toil since Indira Gandhi’s days,” one 
of the G-23 leaders had told this newspaper a few days ago. While Azad had not informed the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Congress about his tour, local office-bearers too had not been invited to the programme by the Gandhian institute. It was only after the central leadership intervened late on Thursday night that a reception for Azad at the party office in Jammu was organised on Friday. Azad was requested to visit the office to avoid sending a wrong message and the local office-bearers were asked to receive him at the airport. Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir himself organised the reception at the party office and described Azad as the best ambassador of the Union Territory in India. Azad too asked every Congress worker to strengthen the party in these difficult times. He stressed that the Congress worked to unite the society while the BJP divided people on religious lines. But that conciliatory gesture failed to alter the script as the dissenting leaders reached Jammu by the evening flight for Saturday’s programme. This was neither appreciated by central leaders nor Jammu and Kashmir functionaries even as the party tried to downplay the development. Barely two days ago, two leaders from the G-23, Sharma and Sibal, had subtly disapproved of Rahul’s statement about the different kinds of politics in the south and the north. Some other issues being flagged by a section within the party include the emergence of a coterie around Rahul and the opaque decision-making processes. One leader said: “Why was Randeep Surjewala sent for seat-sharing negotiations with the DMK in Tamil Nadu after the disastrous experience in the Bihar elections ? Who is taking the decisions?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Data breach investigation in Indian Army||The Indian Army has ordered a court of inquiry into an alleged case of data breach at the Udhampur-based Northern Command in Jammu and Kashmir after a soldier was found to have passed on tactical and operational military data to Pakistan’s ISI, sources in the army headquarters have said. The breach, a senior army official said, came to light early this month amid heightened tensions along the Line of Control with Pakistan and the ongoing border standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May last year. “It’s an extremely serious issue as the alleged data breach involves top military secrets including specifics of vital installation, army deployment, patrolling routes and military maps along the LoC and the LAC in the Ladakh sector,” the official said. Considering the sensitivity of the matter, he said, the top army brass had immediately ordered a court of inquiry to ascertain the extent of the breach. The army spokesperson in Delhi declined to comment. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is in charge of security on both the China and Pakistan borders in the Ladakh sector. The breach came to light following a tip-off from India’s external spy agency Research & Analysis Wing (RAW).The sources said several officers were under the scanner for the failure to detect the breach. As per records available with the Union home ministry, 13 serving and retired defence personnel had been arrested for allegedly spying for the ISI or being part of its espionage racket over the past six years. In February 2018 Delhi police had arrested a senior Indian Air Force officer for allegedly sharing classified information to a woman. Group Captain Arun Marwah, 51, was booked under the Official Secrets Act after the probe revealed that he was honey-trapped online by the ISI through two Facebook accounts and WhatsApp and allegedly shared classified information. In a similar case, Ranjith, another IAF official, was arrested by Delhi police in December 2015 on charges of sharing secret documents with operatives of the ISI. He had come in touch with a woman on Facebook while recovering from an illness in a military hospital, and had passed on classified information to her. Investigations had revealed that he had shared sensitive details of a base from where drones and airborne early warning and control systems were operated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||India and China to set up new hotline||India and China have agreed to set up a new hotline at the ministerial level for “timely exchange of views’’, but continued to differ on the centrality of the border situation to the bilateral relationship with New Delhi insisting that it cannot be business as usual without peace and tranquillity and Beijing maintaining that it should not eclipse ties. “Border disputes are an objective reality and need to be attached adequate attention and taken seriously. However, they are not the whole story of China-India relations, and should be placed in a proper position in the bilateral relationship,’’ Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi told Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar in a 75-minute phone call on Thursday. Stating that the boundary question may take time to resolve, Jaishankar iterated that disturbance of peace and tranquillity, including by violence will inevitably have a damaging impact on the relationship. According to the Indian readout of the conversation, Jaishankar underscored that it was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. “That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship.’’ Further, external affairs ministry quoted him as stating that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was an essential basis for development of bilateral relations. “A prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side. It was, therefore, necessary that the two sides should work towards early resolution of remaining issues.’’ The lengthy conversation took place a week after the completion of the disengagement process on the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso, following which the senior commanders met to work towards the same at other friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Jaishankar is said to have emphasised the need for both sides to now quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. And, once disengagement is completed at all friction points, then the two sides could also look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity. On the disengagement at Pangong Tso, Wang is quoted as saying that it has significantly defused the situation on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
27-02-2021||India||Nodeep gets bail, report reveals bruises||Trade unionist Nodeep Kaur, in jail since January 12 for a demonstration for labour rights in Haryana’s Kundli, was released on bail on Friday night. A medical report submitted in Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday revealed that Kaur, who had alleged police assault in custody, had suffered multiple injuries. According to the medical examination report placed before the high court on Friday, Kaur had “purplish bruises of around 10x7cm present over LT (left) thigh, lateral aspect, bruises of around 5X6cm over RT (right) buttock”. The court had on February 24 directed the Haryana government to place on record Kaur’s medical report. The medical examination was conducted at Sonipat Civil Hospital on January 25 on the orders of a local court. In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested. Haryana police had denied the charge as “baseless”. The medical report of a co-accused, Shiv Kumar, had on Thursday revealed two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. Kaur was arrested on January 12 while agitating against erratic wage payment at the Kundli industrial cluster in Haryana’s Sonipat. The police had claimed that the trade unionist had gheraoed the industrial unit and demanded money from a company. They had also claimed that a team of cops was attacked with sticks, resulting in injuries to seven policemen. Kaur has said she was falsely implicated in the case because she had succeeded in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Centre's three new farm laws at Delhi’s borders. The only condition, besides the bail bond, imposed by Justice Avneesh Jhingan of Punjab and Haryana High Court was that Kaur “shall maintain a restrain while being on bail to ensure that no law-and-order issue arises due to her actions”. The bail order says: “It would be a subject matter of trial as to whether the line for peaceful protest was crossed in the alleged incident or not.” “Considering the material placed on record before this court, the issue with regard to invoking of Section 307 (attempt to murder), 332, 353 (both relate to assaulting a public servant to prevent the discharge of duty) and 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint) IPC would be a debatable issue and to be considered during the trial,” it adds. The bail order further says: “Albeit the matter is under investigation, that itself would not be sufficient ground to deny personal liberty to the petitioner.” One of Kaur’s lawyers, Harinder Bains, told reporters the order does not prevent her from joining any peaceful protest, including the farmers’ movement, as long as she does not violate the law. Kaur, from Punjab’s Muktsar, was freed later in the evening from Karnal jail. Kumar is behind bars in his home district of Sonipat in Haryana. They both face two other FIRs, accusing them of attempting to extort money from factory owners, for which Kaur had earlier got bail. Both are from landless Dalit families. Kaur’s case had received international attention after American activist Meena Harris, who is the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, had tweeted about her. Meena tweeted on Friday: “Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi, young female activists jailed for supporting the farmer protests in India, were granted bail. I want to believe it’s in part because so many people spoke out against the government’s silencing dissent. Please stay loud — this fight is far from over.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit leading the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders, welcomed Nodeep’s release. “She fought for Kisan Mazdoor unity and lent strength to the movements. It is known that along with Nodeep, her colleague Shiv Kumar had also been arrested by the police. The recently released medical report of Shiv Kumar proves custodial torture that he had to undergo and SKM condemns this strongly. We demand his immediate unconditional release.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
