28-02-2021||India||PM, Shah direct officials to cooperate in Delkar’s death probe: Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday mentioned that he would be requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to direct the authorities in Dadra and Nagar Haveli to cooperate with Mumbai police in the probe in Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar’s death. Delkar, seven-term MP from the Union Territory, was found dead in a south Mumbai hotel room on February 22. A suicide note in Gujarati was also found at the spot. “I will request the PM and Shah to direct authorities there to cooperate with Mumbai police when they visit Dadra for investigation in Delkar’s death case,” Thackeray told reporters here in the evening. While addressing a press conference on the eve of the 10-day budget session of the state legislature, Thackeray said the Independent MP had left a suicide note of 13 to 14 pages. “The note includes names of some people. Why is nobody speaking about it,” Thackeray said, in a veiled reference to the BJP. The chief minister declined to comment on the nature of the probe to be undertaken by the police. “The probe hasn’t started yet. But I will request the Prime Minister and Home Minister to instruct the authorities in the Union Territory to cooperate with the Mumbai police when they reach there for investigation,” he said. Earlier in the day, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut asked why the people who raised a hue and cry in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death were silent over Delkar’s “mysterious” death. In his weekly column ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut said an actor’s suicide and demolition of illegal construction by an actress created sensationalism. How could there be silence over the MP’s death, the Rajya Sabha member wondered. Delkar, who has houses in Delhi and Gujarat, must have thought that the Mumbai police will act on his suicide note and arrest the guilty, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Army cancels recruitment exam after paper leaked||The Army has cancelled an examination for pan-India recruitment of general duty personnel after a paper was found to have been leaked, officials said on Sunday. They said at least three persons have been arrested in Pune so far in this connection. "The Indian Army has zero tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for selection of suitable candidates," an official said. Based on a proactive joint operation with local police at Pune, a case of possible leakage of question paper for the Common Entrance Examination for Recruitment of Soldiers (General Duty) was reported last night, the official added. While further investigation is still underway, it was decided to cancel the examination to ensure continuous transparency in the recruitment process, he added. The soldiers (general duty) are the backbone of the army and consist mainly of fighting troops apart from other trades. They are enrolled into Arms or Services. In Arms, they could join the Infantry, Artillery, Armoured Corps, Engineers or the Army Air Defence (AAD) as fighting troops, drivers, operators, gunners and many other general duties. In Services, they could be enrolled into the Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), Army Medical Corps (AMC) on General Duties, operators and drivers. The Indian Army recruitment offices conduct exams for enrolment of jawans, while Officers are recruited through the Combined Defence Services (CDS) exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission and the Staff Selection Commission (SSC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||PM Modi laments not making much effort to learn world's oldest language Tamil||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said he regrets not being able to learn the world's oldest language Tamil during his long political innings as a chief minister and prime minister. He stated this during his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address. The prime minister said sometimes even a very small and simple question rankles the mind. "A few days ago Aparna Reddy ji of Hyderabad asked me one such question. She said 'You have been PM for so many years and were CM for so many years. Do you ever feel that something is missing?' Modi said. Noting that the question seemed simple but was difficult, he said, "I pondered this over and told myself that one of my shortcomings was that I could not make much effort to learn Tamil, the oldest language in the world; I could not make myself learn Tamil!" The prime minister praised the Tamil language and its rich literature. "It is such a beautiful language, which is popular all over the world. Many people have told me a lot about the quality of Tamil literature and the depth of the poems written in it," he said. Modi highlighted that India is a land of many languages, which symbolise its culture and pride.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Jaish-ul-Hind claims responsibility of placing explosives-laden car near Ambani house||An organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind has claimed the responsibility of placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis house in south Mumbai, police said on Sunday. A senior police official said that all possible angles were being investigated in this connection. The outfit claimed the responsibility by posting a message on social messaging app Telegram, which went viral on social media and came to the notice of Mumbai police, the official said. A Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near Antilia, the multi-storey residence of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. The registration number on the vehicle's number plate was the same as that of an SUV in Ambani's security detail, police had said. The vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai had been stolen last week, and a letter found inside said this was only a "glimpse" of things to come, police had said on Friday. "The owner of the vehicle (Scorpio), Hiren Mansukh, visited the police commissioner's office in south Mumbai this afternoon after he saw visuals of the SUV found near Ambani's house, which was similar to his vehicle," the police official said. Mansukh, a resident of neighbouring Thane, told reporters that he had parked the SUV near Airoli Mulund Bridge on February 17 after its steering got jammed while he was on his way to attend a family function. "The next day, when I went to get my car, it could not be found....following which I lodged a complaint at Vikhroli police station," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Azad praises Modi’s pride in his roots of being a tea seller||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday said he likes leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi who are proud of their roots and noted that Modi speaks frankly about his past as a tea-seller. Addressing a function by Gujjar Desh Charitable Trust here, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said a person should not try to hide his background from the world. I, myself, had come from a village and I am proud of being a villager. I admire a lot of things about leaders like our prime minister who also says that he was from a village. He used to sell tea. "I might have political differences with Modi but he is also frank about his past of being a chaiwala (tea-seller), Azad said. The remarks come a day after Azad and other 'G-23' dissident leaders, who have been pressing for a leadership change and organisational overhaul in the Congress, gathered on one stage here and said the party is weakening. The content and tenor of the discourse made it clear that they were not happy with the state of affairs in the party even as nobody spoke against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi directly. While Kapil Sibal said they had assembled here because Congress was weakening, Anand Sharma declared they were the true Congress. Sharma said, “We have risen from the student movement; we have not given the right to anybody to tell us whether we are Congressmen or not. We know what Congress is and we will rebuild the Congress.” Modi had recently profusely praised Azad, who was the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, during the Congress MP's farewell in the Upper House. An emotional prime minister had recalled how Azad had reached out to him in 2006 after tourists from Gujarat were killed in a terrorist attack. He said the person who will replace Azad will find it tough to match his contribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi vows to defeat BJP, dubs Modi ‘formidable enemy’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi a "formidable enemy" who 'crushed' his opponents and vowed to send him to political oblivion by following the path of love and non-violence.  During an interaction titled 'Educators Meet' at the St Xavier College here, Gandhi, touring southern Tamil Nadu for the second day as part of his second leg of campaign for the April 6 assembly polls, also said he counted on the people's support to defeat the BJP.  When a participant wanted to know if Gandhi felt it was possible to nudge the Modi government to implement his 'good ideas' rather than waiting to assume power which seemed 'Utopian', he said it could be done with the 'powerful' and 'valuable' support of the people.  It was important to dream big, though some of it may not come true, he said in an obvious reference to snatching the reins of power from the BJP at the Centre.  Continuing, he said, "yes we are fighting a formidable enemy (Modi). We are fighting an enemy that is dominating the money in this country. We are fighting an enemy that is crushing its opponents. But we have done this before. We have defeated a much bigger enemy (British) than this new enemy that has come."  Recalling the country's independence movement, he said the Britishers were much more powerful than Modi would ever be.  "Who is Narendra Modi in comparison to the British empire? Nobody. People of this country sent the British empire back and in the same way we will send Narendra Modi back to Nagpur (RSS headquarters in Maharashtra)," he said.  Apparently, he meant that Modi would go into political oblivion after defeat by the Congress with people's support.  Gandhi said this would be achieved without any hatred, anger or violence towards PM Modi or his party even if they may 'abuse' or unleash 'violence' against them.  Congress is an ally of the DMK in Tamil Nadu and BJP is a partner of the ruling AIADMK.  The Congress leader, replying to another participant, alleged the BJP-led Centre claimed to "represent Hinduism" in several ideas they espoused, but in reality it had nothing to do with that faith.  Hinduism does not preach insulting, killing or beating up people, Gandhi asserted, alleging "but they do it."  The essence of all religions was love but the Central government's 'whole game' is to 'steal' money of ordinary people, including farmers through initiatives like farm laws, and give it away to the biggest businesses in the country, he alleged.  To another question, he said he did not like the Centre's New Education Policy, 2020 either.  When a professor alleged the NEP was agenda driven, Gandhi said any policy on education should be an outcome of deliberations with learners and teachers.  "Unfortunately this was not done," he claimed adding it concentrated too much power in the hands of the Centre and it was set to damage the education system.  Though NEP had a positive aspect of flexibility, it was however, a "weapon to communalise, to push a particular ideology into the Indian system and that is why I do not like it."  He batted for more scholarship so that more and more poor students got education and underscored women empowerment.  Be it education, agriculture or healthcare, these were being seen as a "financial commodity," and he was against it.  Rich or poor, man or woman, it is a duty of the nation to give education and healthcare to all its people, he said.  To a demand on bringing back education to the state list of the Constitution from the concurrent category, he said, "I don't know, we will look into it."  Centralising everything was a bad idea and decentralisation and facilitating access to education from all corners of the country were fundamental, he said.  In 1976, the then Congress government led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi shifted education, which was previously a state subject, to the concurrent list allowing Centre to legislate on the matter besides the states.  He visited the Nellaiappar temple here and interacted with people at several places including a tea shop. After his interaction with small traders and farmers, Gandhi said he was able to understand "how a badly designed Goods and Services Tax has hurt our lemon farmers," and the difficulties faced by women who work in the beedi industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Maha minister Sanjay Rathod quits from state cabinet after ‘dirty politics’ over woman’s death||Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod, facing flak from the opposition BJP after being linked to a woman's death, on Sunday resigned from the state cabinet. Rathod made the announcement after submitting his resignation to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the president of his Shiv Sena party. "There has been a lot of dirty politics over the issue of the woman's death," Rathod told reporters, adding he has quit the ministry so that the truth can come out. Rathod, who holds the forest portfolio, was facing allegations of complicity in the death of Puja Chavan (23), a resident of Beed district, who was found dead in Pune on February 8, apparently after falling off from the building in which she lived. Talking to reporters after meeting the chief minister at his official residence Varsha, Rathod said he had resigned to facilitate a free and fair probe. "Attempts were made to tarnish my image and destroy my reputation I had built after 30 years of social work. I was saying that let the probe happen before taking any decision. But the opposition threatened to disrupt the budget session," Rathod said. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the resignation of the minister wasn't enough and demanded that an FIR should be filed against him. The BJP has accused Rathod of having links with the woman after his purported photographs, audio and video clips with her went viral on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
28-02-2021||India||Brigade Rally: Left-Cong-ISF's third alternative calls for 'Janhit Sarkar'||After a decade of losing power, the Left Front, in alliance with the Congress and the newly formed Indian Secular Front (ISF) on Sunday projected itself as a "third alternative force" in the emerging TMC versus BJP political binary in West Bengal, but chinks were evident in the nascent alliance. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance kicked off its campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. At the rally, leaders of the CPI(M)-headed Left Front called for "knocking out the communal TMC and BJP, and stressed the need for a third alternative to provide a "Janhit Sarkar" (people's welfare government) to ensure employment generation and usher in industrial development in the state. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said that the grand alliance of the Left-Congress and other secular forces won't let the West Bengal assembly elections to be a two- cornered contest and would defeat both the ruling Trinamool Congress and the opposition BJP. However, a discordant note was sounded by ISF chief Abbas Siddiqui who, unhappy with the progress of seat-sharing talks with the Congress, issued a veiled threat to the party. Siddiqui vowed to defeat the TMC and the BJP and ensure that the Mamata Banerjee-led party becomes a "zero" after the assembly elections, but in a word of caution for the Congress, with which the party's talks are in choppy waters, said that the ISF is here to become a partner and get its rightful claims. The TMC and the BJP slammed the Left and the Congress accusing them of surrendering before a "communal force" like the ISF. Accusing the ruling TMC and the opposition BJP of dividing people on communal lines to serve their political interests, West Bengal CPI(M) secretary Surya Kanta Mishra said that the state needs a government that would work for its development and would not be a "copycat" of the TMC and the BJP. "Both the TMC and the BJP are two sides of the same coin. They plan to divide people on communal lines and rule. We have seen how TMC leaders are joining the BJP lock, stock and barrel. Except for the chief minister and some other leaders, the rest have switched over to the BJP. Both the TMC and the BJP now stand unmasked. We, the Left along with the Congress, would provide an alternative to people," Mishra said. He said that the state needs a government that can take up industrialisation and generate employment for youths both in government and the private sectors. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the Trinamool Congress has to be defeated first to stop the communal bandwagon of the RSS-BJP and claimed that the TMC might rejoin the NDA to form the government in West Bengal in case of a hung assembly. "Many people ask me what we would do in case of a hung assembly. I tell them to direct their question to the TMC as they are in the best position to answer it. "The TMC has been part of the NDA (for several years) since 1998. It was part of the NDA government (at the Centre). In case of a hung assembly, I am confident that the TMC would join hands with the BJP to form the state's government," he said. Terming the ongoing political tussle between the TMC and the BJP as a "mock fight", Yechury alleged that the saffron party is using money from the PM CARES fund, set up to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, to "buy" leaders during the time of elections. "Our call is we want a Janhit Sarkar in Bengal for its overall development and protection of the rights of the masses," he said. CPI(M) politburo member Mohammed Salim said that the grand alliance would give a "knock out" punch to the communal TMC and the BJP. "We are fighting for changing the situation in Bengal, and some people are busy changing sides. Those who looted public money in chit fund scams are now switching parties. If we are voted to power, we will auction properties of corrupt leaders to return the looted money," he said. The Left Front ruled the state for 34 years since 1977 and its government was ousted by the TMC in 2011. Addressing the rally, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury asserted that the massive gathering proved that the election will not be a two-cornered contest. "Morning is the harbinger of the day, and this meeting proves that both the TMC and the BJP will be defeated in the coming election. The goal of the grand alliance is to ensure the victory of secularism and democracy and to defeat communal and repressive politics in Bengal," he said. "In Delhi, the BJP talks of getting rid of the opposition. In Bengal, the TMC talks of opposition free elections. The BJP and the TMC want that other than the two, there should not exist any other political force in Bengal and no other party should come between them, he said. ISF president Siddiqui asserted that people of West Bengal would teach Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee "a lesson for her arrogance" and ensure that her party becomes politically insignificant after elections. The ISF was floated by Siddiqui, an influential Muslim cleric of Hooghly district's Furfura Sharif last month. "We don't want appeasement. We want our rightful claims, just like any other citizen of this country. We too have equal rights," Siddiqui said. The BJP often accuses the TMC of appeasing Muslims for vote bank politics. Expressing his gratitude for the West Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose for accommodating his fledgeling party in the grand alliance by sharing 30 seats, Siddiqui said that ISF activists and supporters will fight until the last to ensure the Left Front's victory and its allies in various parts of the state. However, he said, "I didn't speak about the Congress. I am here (in politics) to be a partner, not for any kind of appeasement. I am here to get my rightful claims." The ruling TMC and the opposition BJP slammed the Left's brigade rally and accused them of surrendering before a "communal force" like ISF. The TMC claimed that the Left has surrendered before a communal force like the ISF. "It is now proved that both the Left and the BJP are communal forces. The TMC is the only secular party," senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said. Alleging that the Brigade rally was sponsored by the TMC, BJP leaders said that both the Left and the Congress would fail to make their presence felt in the elections. The Election Commission of India had on Friday announced an eight-phase poll in West Bengal, which will commence on March 27 and conclude on April 29. Counting will be held on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Covid: India's total active cases reach 1,64,511, six states show surge in cases||India's total number of active COVID-19 cases has reached 1,64,511, which comprises 1.48 per cent of the country's total infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday highlighting six states that have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours. It said 86.37 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. A total of 16,752 new COVID-19 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,623, followed by Kerala with 3,792 cases while Punjab reported 593 fresh COVID-19 cases. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the ministry said. "The Centre has been engaging with states and union territories exhibiting higher active number of cases and those reporting a spike in the daily new COVID-19 cases," the ministry stated. The cabinet secretary chaired a high-level review meeting on Saturday with states and union territories exhibiting a surge in cases, including Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal. The cabinet secretary reiterated that states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hardwork of last year. They were advised not to lower their guard, enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. It was strongly underlined that they need to follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events, the ministry said. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts were also strongly emphasised. The Centre has also deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir to ascertain the reasons for the surge and coordinate with the state health departments in COVID-19 control and containment measures. On the front of COVID vaccination, a total of 1,43,01,266 doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 66,69,985 healthcare workers (first dose), 24,56,191 healthcare workers (second dose) and 51,75,090 frontline workers (first dose). India is all set to start the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. To ramp-up the COVID-19 vaccination capacity, around 10,000 private hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY and over 600 private hospitals under the central government health scheme will be utilised. Other private hospitals empanelled under state governments health insurance scheme can also participate as COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs). A total of 1.07 crore (1,07,75,169) people have recovered so far with 11,718 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 84.19 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,650 newly-recovered cases. A total of 3,648 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours, followed by 491 in Tamil Nadu. Besides, 113 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 84.96 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum of 51 casualties. Kerala follows with 18 daily deaths and Punjab reported 11 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Nineteen states and union territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Goa, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Sikkim, Ladakh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Narayansamy gave ‘cut money’ to the Gandhi family from Central funds, alleges Shah||Lambasting the erstwhile Congress government in Puducherry, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday alleged V Narayansamy, who headed it, gave "cut money" to the "Gandhi family" from Rs 15,000 crore Central funds. Addressing an election rally of BJP in Karaikal, an enclave of the union territory, Shah claimed the Congress government, which collapsed earlier this month after losing majority, indulge in "petty politics” over Central schemes meant for Puducherry. He charged the former chief minister with focussing more on serving the "Gandhi family" in Delhi and giving "cut money". Hitting out at Narayanasamy for blaming the BJP for the fall of his government, Shah said many senior leaders were leaving the Congress "because it is collapsing across the country due to dynasty politics." Shah also ridiculed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry, and pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set it up two years ago. He took a swipe at the Wayanad MP saying "you were on vacation (then)." "Rahul Gandhi said here a few days ago... Why has the Modi government not created a separate department for fishermen? Narendra Modi-ji has already worked to form a separate ministry for fishermen. Rahul bhaiya (brother)... you were on leave, so you are not aware,” NDTV quoted Shah as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Modi calls for water conversation, clean water campaign in monthly address||Underlining the importance of collective responsibility towards water conservation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for a 100-day campaign to clean up all water bodies and prepare them for rain water harvesting before the monsoon season starts. In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi said water has been crucial for the development of humankind for centuries. "We have to understand our collective responsibility towards water conservation," he said. The prime minister also said that when people feel proud of indigenous products then Aatmanirbhar Bharat does not just remain an economic programme but becomes a national spirit. Noting that monsoon will begin in many parts of the country by around May-June, the prime minister asked can there be a 100-day public campaign to clean up all nearby water bodies and prepare those for rain water conservation. In this regard, the Union Jal Shakti Ministry is also launching the "Catch the rain" campaign and its main theme is "catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls", he said. "This is the best time to think about water conservation in the summer months ahead," Modi said. He also said there is a need to make science more popular across the country and asserted that science cannot be limited to physics-chemistry and labs. Modi called for expanding science with a mantra of 'lab to land'. During the broadcast, the prime minister also rued not being able to make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language, Tamil. "In the run up to Mann Ki Baat, I was asked if there was something I missed out on during these long years as chief minister and prime minister. I feel -- it is a regret of sorts that I could not make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language Tamil. Tamil literature is beautiful," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Supreme Court will no longer use WhatsApp groups to share video conference links||The Supreme Court will no longer use WhatsApp groups to share video conference links for court hearings, the apex court registry said on Saturday. In a circular, the registry said that instead of WhatsApp, the links for virtual court hearings in the apex court will be shared on registered email ids and registered mobile numbers of the concerned advocates-on-record and party-in-person. The step was taken in the wake of the newly notified Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021). It is notified for the information of the Advocates-on-Record /Party-in-Persons that the creation of groups in WhatsApp for sharing of VC links for hearing of their matters is restricted/barred due to new guidelines or regulations issued by government of India pertaining to social media Apps and OTT platforms, it said. It said the VC links shall be shared "w.e.f. March 1, 2021 through registered email ids as well as by SMS on registered mobile numbers of the Ld. Advocates-on-Record / Party-in-Persons . The government on Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against the security and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||PSLV C-51 carrying Amazonia-1, 18 other satellites takes off||India's Polar rocket on Sunday successfully launched Amazonia-1 of Brazil and 18 other satellites from the spaceport here, in the first mission of the year for space agency ISRO. The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV-C51 lifted off at around 10.24 am from the first launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SHAR) and first injected into orbit primary payload Amazonia-1 about 17 minutes later. After a gap of over one-and-half hours, the co-passenger satellites, including one from Chennai- based Space Kidz India (SKI), which is engraved with a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, were launched subsequently one after another in the space of ten minutes in a textbook launch. SKI's Satish Dhawan Satellite (SD-SAT) also carried Bhagavad Gita in a Secured Digital card format. According to SKI, the picture of Modi has been engraved on the top panel of the spacecraft to show solidarity and gratitude for his Atma Nirbhar initiative and space sector privatisation. A beaming Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K Sivan announced the mission was successful and all 19 satellites were launched in precise orbits. "Today is a very great day for the entire ISRO team and the PSLV-C51 is a special mission for India. Let me congratulate and compliment the team ISRO for achieving the precise injection of AMAZONIA-1 and 18 other satellites," he said. PSLV-C51 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm, and the launch was watched among others by Brazilian government officials at the mission control centre here, over 100 kms from Chennai. The 18 co-passenger satellites placed in the orbit are -- four from ISRO's Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (three UNITY Sats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and the SD-SAT from SKI) and 14 from NSIL. The 637-kg Amazonia-1 which became the first Brazilian satellite to be launched from India is an optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE). It is intended for providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory. Earlier, at the end of the 25.5 hour countdown, the four-stage 44.4 metre tall PSLV, a workhorse launch vehicle of ISRO in its 53rd mission, soared into clear sky and every stage performed as programmed, ISRO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Nearly 17,000 fresh Covid cases in one day, highest in a month||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,10,96,731 on Sunday with 16,752 new infections, the highest in the last 30 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll mounted to 1,57,051 with 113 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country had recorded 18,855 new infections on January 29. The active caseload further increased to 1,64,511. It constitutes 1.48 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,75,169, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.10 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,62,31,106 samples had been tested until February 27 with 7,95,723 being tested on Saturday. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Subramanian Swamy: Modi must demand that his name be removed||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get his name removed from the Ahmedabad cricket stadium. “PTs, is there any leader of a nation allowing a stadium to be named after himself?” Swamy, 81, asked in a tweet addressed to “Patriotic Tweeples”. Swamy himself answered:  “My research shows only two: Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi. That is ill omen.” “Did Nehru, Mao or Idi Amin? Modi must demand that his name be removed and Sardar Patel’s name restored,” he added. On Friday,  Swamy had said that many from Gujarat “have informed me of their agony over the removal of Sardar Patel’s name from the stadium”. Swamy had offered a way out too. “My suggestion is that the Gujarat government cuts its losses and say… Modi was not consulted in the name change. Therefore, it is withdrawn.” Swamy is a member of the BJP’s national executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Indian media regain voice, but it’s against Nodeep||⚫Policemen dragged me by the hair. ⚫ They drove me to a desolate place and slapped me around. ⚫ Two policemen sat on top of me and told me to sign papers. When a trade unionist freed a day earlier after 44 days in custody narrates her experience at a news conference, what do some intrepid reporters ask? “So you admit to vasooli (extortion)?” trade union activist Nodeep Kaur was asked by a journalist on Saturday.  Kaur, 23, was explaining how the union had helped some workers at an industrial unit get back wages. Kaur was addressing the news conference at Delhi’s Singhu border where she had been invited to speak by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the movement against the three farm laws. As she spoke of her arrest and alleged police torture, Kaur was repeatedly interrupted by some journalists who said police must have had reason to act. The discharge of “fearless journalism” came at a time the systematic, State-sponsored harassment of Indian journalists has drawn international attention. The “tough” questions were dusted, loaded and fired at a time the Prime Minister has not fielded a single question at any media conference in the country where his government enjoys unparalleled media servility. The activist who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan trade union was arrested while agitating against erratic wages at the industrial unit at Kundli, not far from Singhu, and charged with attempt to murder. Narrating the sequence of events, she said: “The police did a lathicharge, when they began to hit women and drag me by my hair, there were no women constables… Workers also hit back, I don’t deny that, but I was not involved in that. They hit back to save me from being dragged away by my hair. “Four policemen pushed me to the ground and dragged me by my hair. When they saw people around, they took me into a vehicle and took me to a desolate place behind the industrial area. The doors of the vehicle were opened and uniformed as well as those in plainclothes slapped me around a lot and pulled my hair.” Kaur said she was further tortured at Kundli police station before being driven to the district headquarters Sonipat. “I was brought on an unmetalled road to Sonipat. Two policemen sat on top of me and told me to sign (some papers). I had no option but to sign. They had many blank papers I was asked to sign on… One of them caught my hair, gave a pen in my hand and said, ‘Sign kar!’. I was hit badly, I couldn’t walk. When I was taken to a hospital, no medical check-up was done.” The report of a medical examination done a fortnight after her arrest and submitted in Punjab and Haryana High Court lists injuries to her thigh and buttock. A Sonipat court had ordered the examination. Sonipat police have denied allegations of torture and said seven of their personnel were injured by Kaur and other trade union workers. “At the civil hospital, she underwent not just a general medical examination but also a special medical examination by a lady doctor for sexual assault where she herself gave a written statement to the female doctor that she doesn’t want to be medically examined as she had not been assaulted,” the police said earlier this month. “Immediately after the medical examination, she was presented before the Chief Judicial Magistrate within a few hours of arrest to seek judicial remand,” the police had added. Kaur denied seeing a doctor or a magistrate that night. “We were merely demanding the payment of wages from before the lockdown. Have you ever seen people doing a dharna for extortion?” she asked, pleading her case at the news conference. Extortion is one of the charges brought against Kaur and fellow activist Shiv Kumar, who is still in jail and whose medical report has listed fractures and broken toenail beds. Kumar has also alleged police torture. Kumar and Kaur claim that he was not present at the protest on January 12. “When labourers came back after the lockdown, the company refused to recognise them or pay their back wages,” Kaur said. When she mentioned that private guards of companies had opened fire during a protest by workers last year, Kaur was asked whether the weapons were licensed or not and faced tangential remarks suggesting the workers had brought the police action upon themselves. But she held her ground that peaceful protests are a democratic right. “Can workers who own nothing besides their own bodies afford to go hire lawyers in a labour court?.. We have been able to secure payment of back wages of 300 workers, so far, of up to Rs 5 lakh,” she said. This inspired the journalist’s question: “So you admit to vasooli?” The word in Hindi translates to either recovery or extortion. Kaur’s arrest had drawn international attention after American activist Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted earlier this month against it and highlighted the allegation of custodial torture of the Dalit activist who was also part of the farmers’ movement. Kaur says she was arrested because she had been able to mobilise support for the protest at Singhu. “There are many who were arrested for January 26 and they are still not out. We demand that they be released too. Shiv Kumar should also be released. We will keep fighting until the farmers’ movement continues, until laws against workers (the new labour codes that restricts on collective bargaining) are repealed… I will stay right here on Singhu border and continue to struggle for peasants and workers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||FIR on journalist for report on rape case in Karnataka||A journalist has been booked in Chitradurga in Karnataka for writing about the brother of a prominent Lingayat seer who is accused in a rape case. G. Mahantesh, based in Bangalore, had on February 6 published a story in his Kannada news portal about a woman who had on January 16 filed a police complaint accusing M.G. Doreswamy of allegedly raping her in 2019. Doreswamy is the brother of Swami Shivamurthy Sharanu, seer of Muruga Mutt in Chitradurga, and CEO of Sri Jagadguru Murugarajendra Vidhyapeetha that runs a chain of schools and professional colleges. “I had written the story by quoting the FIR filed by the woman and the court order rejecting his bail application. There was nothing defamatory in the report,” the reporter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
28-02-2021||India||Dissenters raise ‘true Congress’ banner in Jammu||The Congress dissenters who held their first public rally in Jammu on Saturday are prepared for a long haul, planning an ambitious outreach programme over the coming months in different parts of the country. While these leaders under the guidance of veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad, known as G-23, have so far portrayed themselves as true Congress soldiers working to strengthen the party, history is replete with examples of internal tussles beginning with similar objectives and arguments. There is no denying the fact that this is a strong pressure group wrestling for space and say within the party and their dislike for Rahul Gandhi’s leadership is barely concealed. Though only five leaders were present at Saturday’s  rally, Azad himself clarified that he discouraged several others who wanted to come. “There would have been unnecessary speculation about what is happening in Jammu and hence I asked them to come for other meetings,” he said, describing their endeavour as a new “struggle based on Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy”. The content and tenor of the discourse made it clear that they were not happy with the state of affairs in the party even as nobody spoke against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi directly. While Kapil Sibal said they had assembled here because Congress was weakening, Anand Sharma declared they were the true Congress. Sharma said, “We have risen from student movement; we have not given the right to anybody to tell us whether we are Congressmen or not. We know what is Congress and we will rebuild the Congress.” This parallel stream, when Rahul Gandhi was leading the party’s campaign in election-bound Tamil Nadu, may climax in a split in the party if no compromise is struck within the next two months. That the initiative doesn’t fizzle out as a flash-in-the-pan effect is ensured by this group which is planning to contact leaders of regional parties across the country, sending out a clear message against the presumption that Rahul was still the supreme leader of the Congress. One leader of the G-23 told The Telegraph after the rally, “This is the start of the process of Congress revival. We stand united and we have to do it together. We are not excluding anyone. And we have to realise that this battle, originating in Jammu, is against Nagpur, not 10, Janpath.” Every leader speaking at the rally took care to speak against the BJP and stress the value system espoused by Gandhi. Raj Babbar went to the extent of saying, “People call us G-23. We are Gandhi-23.” Manish Tewari also said, “The foundational values of Indian republic are being challenged. We have to protect India from these forces.” Azad too said, “Only the Congress can take everybody together — people of all castes, all religions, all regions.” Interestingly, all these leaders wore saffron headgear, probably sending out a message against bellicose secular fundamentalism that avoids majoritarian symbols. While the decision of Sonia-Rahul not to retain Azad in the Rajya Sabha and instead nominate K.C. Venugopal from Rajasthan has doubtless been a bone of contention, Azad threw hints of his displeasure too. He said, “I have retired from Parliament, not from politics. And this is not the first time I have retired from Parliament. Hum idhar se doobate hain, udhar se niklte hain (I sink somewhere, spring up at another place). There is no need to get disheartened.” The rebellion is real and the top leadership will commit a grave mistake by ignoring it. This group, which is basically unhappy with Rahul’s style of leadership and choice of people, would still prefer to remain in the Congress if a sense of accommodation is displayed. “If Rahul Gandhi wants to tell us only Randeep Surjewala, K.C. Venugopal and Rajiv Satav are Congress and we are enemies, we can’t digest this. It is up to him to decide whether he wants to destroy the Congress in the process of rebuilding it,” one leader who sympathises with this group explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Centre asks eight states to improve testing rates, intensify surveillance and conduct priority vaccination drives||The Centre on Saturday asked eight states, including Bengal, to improve testing rates, intensify surveillance and conduct priority vaccination drives in districts with large numbers of Covid-19 cases amid a steady rise in daily counts in multiple states. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba through a videoconference asked officials from Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir to look for unusual clustering of cases or hotspots and consider priority vaccinations in districts with large caseloads, The Union health ministry said these states have reported either high active Covid cases or daily new cases over the past week. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat have shown a surge in new cases over the past 24 hours, the ministry said. In Maharashtra, the number of active cases — patients under clinical treatment or observation — has doubled over the past two weeks, from 34,440 on February 14 to 68,810 on Saturday, the sharpest rise among states. Active case counts have also increased in Punjab (from around 2,300 to 4,200), Madhya Pradesh (1,800 to 2,500), Gujarat (1,700 to 2,100) and Haryana (845 to 1,100) over the past two weeks. The rise in daily counts and active cases has stirred fears about a second wave that experts say could be averted through stringent efforts to contain what could be clusters or localised outbreaks through rigorous testing, isolation of cases, and quarantining of the contacts of cases. Gauba also asked the state officials to maintain rigorous vigil, enforce masks and physical distancing and deal firmly with violations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Private hospitals can serve Covid vaccine at Rs 250 per dose||Private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres may charge Rs 250 per dose, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, announcing the prefixed cost and eligibility criteria for the campaign’s next phase starting on March 1. The campaign that expands vaccination to people older than 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with chronic health disorders will offer the vaccines free in government facilities. The ministry also released a list of 20 chronic health conditions defining the eligibility of those between 45 and 59 years. The list includes cardiovascular diseases with hypertension or diabetes, severe respiratory disease, advanced cirrhosis, end-stage kidney disease, among other disorders. The Centre has told the states that private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of a vaccine. The ministry did not specify how the cost would be split between the cost of the vaccine and the cost a hospital could charge for the vaccination service, but a hospital industry representative told The Telegraph that hospitals would get Rs 100 per dose. The campaign is currently using two vaccines — Covishield, the Astra-Zeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. The government has not yet specified how the two vaccines might be distributed across hospitals and whether recipients would have an option to choose between the two vaccines. The government is procuring Covishield at Rs 200 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 295 per dose and industry analysts had expected the cost in the private market would be higher than the government’s procurement costs. The list of comorbidities for people between 45 and 59 years for vaccine eligibility includes; ⚫ Heart failure with hospital admission over the past year ⚫ Post-cardiac transplant/left ventricular assist device ⚫ Significant left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF less than 40 per cent) ⚫ Moderate or severe valvular heart disease ⚫ Congenital heart disease with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension ⚫ Coronary artery disease with past history of bypass, stents, heart attacks, and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Angina and hypertension ⚫ CT/MRI documented stroke and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Pulmonary arterial hypertension and hypertension/diabetes on treatment ⚫ Diabetes (>10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment ⚫ Kidney/liver/hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipient/on wait-list ⚫ End-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD ⚫ Current prolonged use of oral corticosteroids/immunosuppressant medications ⚫ Decompensated (advanced) liver cirrhosis ⚫ Severe respiratory disease with hospitalization in last two years/FEVI <50 per cent ⚫ Lymphoma/leukemia/myeloma ⚫ Diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after July 2020 or currently on any cancer therapy ⚫ Sickle cell disease/bone marrow failure/aplastic anemia/thalassemia major ⚫ Primary immunodeficiency diseases/HIV infection ⚫ Persons with disabilities due to intellectual disabilities/muscular dystrophy, acid attack with involvement of respiratory system, persons with disabilities having high support needs/multiple disabilities, including deaf-blindness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Ajit Singh, Rakesh Tikait share farm protest stage ||A mahapanchayat against the three farm laws in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district saw several leaders not usually seen together drop their differences and share the same platform. The gathering was hosted by the Desh khap, the second largest of 32 khaps across Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on the birth anniversary of Raja Salakshanpal Tomar. Besides Desh khap’s leaders, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Rashtriya Lok Dal president Ajit Singh addressed over one lakh peasants. The khaps, the BKU and the RLD have been separately organising rallies across Uttar Pradesh against the three farm laws. Despite the common goal to make the Narendra Modi government repeal the controversial laws, they were avoiding being seen on the same platform. Gajendra Chaudhary, convener of the programme, said: “Salakshanpal was a king of 10th-11th century who protected every caste and community in Delhi and adjoining areas. That’s why we decided to organise his birth anniversary on a bigger scale this year and bring the majority of the anti-farm laws forces together. They agreed immediately.” They organised a hawan from 8.30am to 10.30am in the presence of the head of Desh khap Chaudhary Surendra Singh and Rakesh Tikait before the mahapanchayat started. “We are all present at the dharna sites on the Delhi border for around the last 100 days. This togetherness is the need of the hour in our rallies too. We will try to organise more such joint rallies in the coming days in which all 32 khaps would participate”, said Surendra Singh. The Tomar dynasty had ruled over Delhi and adjoining areas sometimes between the 8th century and 11th century. Salakshanpal (979-1005 CE) was one of the kings of the dynasty. “Salakshanpal fought many battles and won. His son Deshpal Tomar was chaudhary (head) of Desh khap, which belongs to Tomar Gotra. Later on, the Tomars gradually shifted from Delhi via Rohtak (Haryana) and settled in Baraut area of Baghpat,” Singh added. The Rajputs and Gujjars, who constitute a major part of the population of western Uttar Pradesh, consider Tomar kings as their ancestors. “The farmers have no option other than death if their demand to repeal the farm laws is not met,” said Rakesh Tikait. “The Centre will destroy farmers and farming if we allow them to go ahead with the three farm laws. This is why we are consolidating ourselves to fight a battle till the farmers win,” said Ajit Singh. However, Dharmendra Malik, a senior BKU leader, said this should not be seen as a joint rally. “It was essentially organised for a hawan on the birth anniversary of a Tomar king. Those who reached there were invited by Desh khap and they were guests there. It was not a political platform. But we have no plan to hold joint mahapanchayats as such,” he claimed. “It happens that all these groups come together on certain occasions. They all had assembled in Sisauli village in 2008 when the then chief minister Mayawati had wanted the police to arrest Mahendra Singh Tikait (founder of the BKU),” Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Kerala minister alleges racial profiling by probe agency||A Kerala minister has alleged that officials of a central investigating agency had racially profiled a man while interrogating him over a case linked to the distribution of food kits sponsored by the UAE consulate general during Ramzan last year. State minister of higher education and minority welfare K.T. Jaleel on Saturday said the officials had questioned the Muslim youth from Malappuram who supplied cloth bags to pack the Ramzan kits on why he was so close to the family of his Hindu friend. Two central agencies had investigated the minister for alleged violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) for accepting the Ramzan food kits and copies of Quran sponsored by the Consulate General of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram in 2020. The minister had all along maintained that he had not directly received anything and had only helped the UAE consul-general organise and distribute the material to the needy during the month of Ramzan. “I had asked my gunman (a Hindu) to see if anyone could supply cloth bags to pack the Ramzan kits. He contacted his younger brother’s friend (a Muslim) who agreed to supply them,” Jaleel told The Telegraph. Jaleel had helped the consulate source the dry rations for the Ramzan kits from state-run Kerala State Co-operative Consumers Federation Ltd (Consumerfed) that supplies affordable consumer essentials to the people. But the bags had to be outsourced as the consulate, which engages in such charity in many countries, wanted the Ramzan kits to be packed in cloth bags with the UAE insignia. “One evening, around three months ago, the officers of one agency that I won’t name went to his house as if they were going to nab some big criminal. They then took him away and started asking all kinds of questions. But what hurt him the most was when they asked him why he was so closely connected to the Hindu family (of the gunman),” Jaleel said, adding the officers were Malayalis and not from any other state. “They kept asking him why were the two families (one Hindu and the other Muslim) visiting each other’s homes,” said the minister, who is an Independent lawmaker backed by the Left Democratic Front. “This young man who is hardly 25 years old came to me and wept and said for the first time someone made him aware of his religion for all the wrong reasons. It came as a shock to me since people in Kerala, especially in Malappuram, are known for our syncretic culture that respects one another,” the minister said. “I then informed the chief minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) about this and he too was really shocked.” The alleged FCRA violation, still under investigation, was raised by the Opposition soon after one of the biggest gold-smuggling attempts was busted at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July last year. Customs officials had found 30kg of gold ingots valued at Rs 14.82 crore when they opened a diplomatic parcel from Dubai addressed to the attache of the UAE consulate in the Kerala capital. A furore followed with the Opposition accusing the LDF government of colluding with the smugglers. It was then that the issue of Ramzan kit emerged and was probed by the customs department and Enforcement Directorate. Jaleel attributed the racial profiling of the man to the saffronisation of investigating agencies. “They (the Centre) had posted officials with clear Sangh parivar leanings to handle this case. Otherwise the religion of any man wouldn’t have been raised, that too in Kerala,” Jaleel said. He noted how the customs had transferred its Kerala joint commissioner Aneesh B. Rajan to Nagpur. One of the officers who started investigating the gold smuggling case, Rajan was accused of being a Left sympathiser for telling the media no one had called the airport customs to get the diplomatic baggage released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Concern over digital media super-blocker rule||A rule in the new digital media code that grants emergency powers to the Union information and broadcasting secretary  to block online content without having to hear out the platforms has triggered widespread concern. The rule — known as Rule 16 under Part III of The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 -– is expected to give the government control over content on social media, digital news portals and over-the-top (OTT) platforms. The rules have also triggered fears that they will help the government arrogate to itself the role of an adjudicator on defamation. The Union information and broadcasting ministry on Saturday sought to allay the fears by saying that the provision has always been there in the law books. Referring to the misgivings, the ministry said this provision was a copy-paste of what had been exercised by the ministry of electronics and information technology for the past 11 years under the information technology (procedure and safeguards for blocking for access of information by public) Rules, 2009. “Since Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the ministry of information and broadcasting, the reference to secretary MeITY has been replaced by secretary, ministry of information and broadcasting. There is no new provision which has been made,” the ministry said. In the new code, Rule 16 can be invoked when “no delay is acceptable”. According to Section 69A of the IT Act, the instances when such emergency powers can be invoked are when the sovereignty and integrity of India or the defence of India or  the security of the state or friendly relations with foreign states or public order is at stake. They can be invoked for preventing incitement of the commission of a cognisable offence. However, according to the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) — a digital liberties organisation that seeks to ensure that technology respects fundamental rights — digital news media and OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney-Hotstar were not previously regulated under the provisions of the IT Act. On November 10, 2020, the Centre  issued a notification under the business allocation rules to bring such platforms under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. The Foundation maintains that the November notification only confers administrative clarity on which ministry gets to administer the sector. “It does not create the power to exercise it. For this, a clear parliamentary enactment is necessary. However, instead of going to Parliament, the Intermediary Rules framed under the IT Act seek to expand the scope of regulation under the purview of the IT Act to include digital news media and OTT platforms. This amounts to the executive amending parliamentary legislation and is not permissible under the Constitution,” the Foundation said. Digipub News India Foundation, an association of digital publications of news and current affairs, too red-flagged the emergency provision. The association stated that in some places, the rules appeared to go against the fundamental principle of news and its role in a democracy. “We draw your attention to the well-settled jurisprudence on news media. A publication relating to current affairs represents not only the author or publisher’s fundamental right to expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution but also the citizen’s right to be informed and to have access to differing viewpoints. For the executive to have the absolute power to regulate the content of news portals or publications would be to strike not only at the constitutional scheme but at democracy itself.” It countered the government’s claim of creating a level playing field for all forms of media,  pointing out that both print and the electronic media have been fairly insulated from executive interference. According to the Digipub Foundation, it is unfair and overarching to subject the digital medium to executive control in the manner provided for by the rules. Digipub has also flagged the bypassing of the legal process in the case of defamation complaints. “In the rules as drafted, expression may invite adverse consequential action, such as in the case of defamation. Such action should only happen after adjudication by open courts of law, on legal principles. This entire legal process is bypassed by the rules, in as much as, upon a complaint of defamation, a body consisting of bureaucrats and controlled by the central government may decide the merits and block access to the content of any current affairs publication.” Recognising that freedom of expression is subject to reasonable restrictions, Digipub said: “These restrictions must be demonstrably and strictly necessary to the interests enumerated in Article 19(2), and must also be reasonable, fair and just. To empower a body of government servants to do so could inhibit the news media from doing its job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
28-02-2021||India||Rahul: Allow voting machines to be checked||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday argued that the capture of key institutions by the RSS-BJP had destroyed democracy in India and expressed serious concern at the Election Commission’s failure to address doubts about the manipulation of Electronic Voting Machines. Responding to a question about EVMs during an interaction with lawyers at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu, Rahul said: “Fundamentally, I am not convinced that EVMs are 100 per cent secure. I think there are problems with EVMs. The world over, EVMs have shown to have problems. A number of developed countries refused to use them because they are seen to be open to manipulation.” “One of my biggest issues with the EVM is that the Election Commission doesn’t give political parties access to the machines for examination. We ask for random checks by neutral observers, the commission says ‘No’. I would be comfortable with the EVM if it was open to checking, if it was transparent. The first step the EC can take is to say we will allow checking of machines if so many political parties are having doubts.” The former Congress president has voiced doubts about voting machines in the past as well. Responding to another question whether Congress MLAs could be purchased using money and coercion by central agencies because the party did not pick good candidates, Rahul said: “Choosing the right candidate is only one component of the problem. Our government was bought in Madhya Pradesh. I know the amount of money thrown at MLAs. Massive amounts of money. You have seen in Arunachal, the attempt made in Rajasthan. The force of power and money is so strong, so heavy, even the right kind of MLAs will not be able to sustain.” Referring to the larger challenge that Indian democracy was grappling with, Rahul said: “A nation is a balance between its institutions. If that balance is disturbed, the nation is disturbed. Legislatures, judiciary, media, bureaucracy… they hold the nation in place. What we have seen over the past few years is  a systematic attack on these institutions. Democracy doesn’t die with a bang. It dies slowly. Sad to tell you that democracy is dead in India. It doesn’t exist anymore.” He continued: “It is dead because one organisation — the RSS — has combined with huge finances to penetrate into these institutions and disturb the balance. That has happened. Misuse of the sedition law, killing and threatening of people are symptoms of the bigger problem. The problem is concentration of capital has combined with the RSS to destroy multiple balances at different levels. As a political person, I require institutional support. I require a media that is objective. I require a judiciary that is aggressive. I require a Parliament where we can speak.” Alleging that RSS had managed full penetration of the judiciary, media, bureaucracy and other institutions, the Congress leader said: “There is only one way it is going to be resolved. That is mass action, when citizens realise that the country is not being run by their mandate, the country is run by force, undemocratically. You can see the beginnings of mass movement. The stirrings are there; farmers are sitting on Delhi’s borders.” Referring to the huge resources that the RSS-BJP command, he added: “When we have one party fighting with thousands of crores and you have other parties not allowed to raise finances. Financiers who want to support other parties… they come to us and say we understand what you stand for and want to support. But if we give you one rupee, our businesses will be destroyed. So on one side, there is capture of institutions and monopoly on finances, monopoly on media and finances and on the other side parties are not allowed to compete. Their mandate is taken away. I never imagined before 2014 that we will not have any institutional support.” Asked if anti-defection laws should be strengthened given the largescale purchase of MLAs in several states, he said: “We can make laws stronger but for that you need Parliament. We don’t have that. We can have good ideas but we need institutional structure to implement those ideas. The situation is like when India was fighting the British. We can’t rely on institutions.” Arguing that anybody who speaks against the BJP is pushed around, he said: “I am lucky. I am lucky because there is nothing they have on me. Because I had the good sense through my whole political career to be an honest man.  That is why they can’t touch me. There is nothing they can do to me. Because no ED, CBI is going to affect me. They know this man is not corrupt and we have no leverage on him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
