01-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Relief for daily wagers at Jesuit-run centre in Nepalgunj||Around 200 people whose livelihood has been hit by Covid-19 curbs got dry ration on Sunday at Kalahrdaya, a Jesuit-run centre for art and culture in Nepalgunj. The centre, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, is around 40km from the heart of the city. “Many of these people used to depend on daily wages. Now their income has stopped,” said Father Saju George, the founder-director of the 20-year-old centre. The centre had provided relief materials to over 3,000 families during the lockdown and after cyclone Amphan last year. On Monday, volunteers of the centre went to the Mathurapur II block of the Sunderbans to distribute relief materials among families affected by cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Second wave horror dispels jab hesitancy||The increased virulence and transmissibility of the coronavirus in the second wave have blown away some of the vaccine hesitancy that was apparent a few months ago, said officials of vaccination centres and public health experts. Some of the private hospitals that have resumed vaccination after weeks are seeing a sharp rise in the number of prospective recipients turning up for the jab. Also, the demand from corporates to get their employees vaccinated has grown manifold. Covid vaccination for senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities had started on March 1. On April 1, everyone above 45 became eligible for the Covid shot. Since May 1, everyone above 18 has been eligible for vaccination. A private vaccination centre in south Calcutta would administer 100 doses every day in March and the first half of April. On an average 10 to 15 people who had booked slots would not turn up. “But since the first week of May everyone with a booked slot has been turning up,” said the unit head at the centre. “Vaccine hesitancy is gone and there is a role reversal. Now people are desperate to get vaccinated because of the fear caused by the second wave. Earlier, even a number of healthcare workers, including doctors, had not taken the vaccine,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. He cited two reasons why vaccine hesitancy is gone. “This time, the number of deaths and the degree of criticality are much more compared with the first wave. This has caused fear in the minds of many. Also, over a period of time, people have observed that the adverse reactions of Covid vaccines are minimal. This has gone a long way in encouraging people to get vaccinated,” Chowdhury said. He said more younger people were getting infected during the second wave compared with the first, a trend that has left corporate houses worried about their workforce. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 300 to 350 people would book slots every day before May 1. The hospital resumed vaccination on Friday afternoon after several weeks. On Monday, it administered more than 1,000 doses. Earlier, it would have one vaccination site, but now the hospital is running three sites. “Of the 1,000-odd recipients, 88 per cent were in the 18-44 age group. All had taken their first dose,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. Venkatesh said the demand from corporate houses for vaccination had shot up. “There is a demand for 30,000 doses from corporates over the next month, at our hospital as well as workplaces,” he said. Belle Vue Clinic received 6,000 doses of Covishield on Sunday night and would resume vaccination on Tuesday, said an official. The hospital was earlier administering doses on its Loudon Street premises. It has now rented a bigger space to accommodate more recipients. "We have taken a building of La Martiniere for Boys. More people will come for the shot,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. He said 3,000 slots had been booked for the first five days. “Around 500 people will get the second dose and the remaining 2,500 are their family members,” Tondon said. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals used to administer 700 to 900 doses every day on an average before May 1. Now, the number has gone up to more than 3,000, including off-site vaccinations, said an official. “The demand from corporations is very high, about 50,000 doses every week,” the official said. The latest vaccination policy of the Centre that came into effect on May 1 requires private vaccination centres to buy doses directly from the manufacturers. The Telegraph has repeatedly reported that government as well as private hospitals and nursing homes are not getting enough doses. AMRI Hospitals received about 1,500 calls from individuals and corporate houses on Monday about vaccination. “The demand is huge. We need more doses to cater to the demand,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Fraudulent withdrawal from ATMs of private bank reported in city ||The city police have received four more complaints of fraudulent withdrawal from ATMs of a private bank, which had earlier reported similar fraud at three other ATMs. Police sources said in all the cases the fraudsters had detached the ATMs from the bank’s server by setting up proxy servers before withdrawing the money. “The fraud amounts to a tune of around Rs 2 crore. We want to clarify that the theft will not affect the account-holders or the bank. The company hired to refill the ATMs is bearing the immediate losses. The money is insured,” an officer at Lalbazar said on Monday. The fresh complaints are related to ATMs in Phoolbagan, Bowbazar, Beniapukur and Behala. Earlier, the bank had complained about fraudulent withdrawals from ATMs in Cossipore, Jadavpur and New Market. Sources said there could be at least two or three more incidents of fraudulent withdrawal. The bank has not issued any statement on the ATM breach but an official who did not want to be named said: “An agency of global repute is in charge of maintaining and refilling the ATMs. They are fixing the issue. An additional layer of firewall and more secure communication between the machine and the ATM network is needed to prevent such breaches.” A forensic team visited some of the affected ATMs on Monday to ascertain the modus operandi of the fraudsters. The team found that the fraudsters had removed the “hood” of the ATMs and inserted a device to create a proxy server that would give and receive commands from the machine. “Once the device is installed and the bank’s server is disconnected from the ATM, any debit card can be used to withdraw money. The withdrawal amount will depend on the cash inside the machine and not the balance in the account to which the card is attached,” said an officer. The police said “electronic evidence” suggested that the gang was in Calcutta for 10 to 20 days and attacked the ATMs where a breach had been detected earlier in the end-to-end encryption in the communication between the bank’s server and the machines. A similar ATM fraud had been reported from Faridabad a few weeks ago. Calcutta police are in touch with the Faridabad police. Investigators at Lalbazar feel someone who had “complete technical knowledge” about ATMs was behind the thefts. In some of the ATMs, the fraudsters had swiped debit cards more than 60 times to withdraw the money. “We have been able to extract details of the debit cards used to withdraw the money but the cards have turned out to be fake,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Purulia’s Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University waives fees of students from Covid-affected families||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in Purulia has waived fees in the current semester of the students from Covid-affected families. An official of the university said the decision was taken after a significant number of Covid cases were reported from families of disadvantaged students during the second wave of infections. “The students who will get the studentship will not have to pay the fees in the current semester, which spans from January to June. The fee for lab based subjects ranges between Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500. That for the non-lab based subjects ranges between Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. The students have to apply with relevant documents,” he said. Vice-chancellor Dipak Kar said the students from Covid-affected families who had already paid the fees would get a refund. “Covid has claimed the earning members of many families. The cost of treatment is financially crippling, too. It would be inhuman to collect the semester fees from such students, who are anyway underprivileged,” said Kar. The university has close to 2,500 students. Many of the students are tribals or from Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Their parents are daily wage earners or farmers, who have been hit hard by the pandemic. “Covid has crippled them further,” said an official of the university. The university is spending Rs 12.05 lakh from its coffers so the 2,500-odd students receive Rs 500 each to recharge their data packs for three months. The university has formed a Covid management committee to keep track of cases in families of employees and students and help students or staff by providing ambulances, oxygen cylinders and medicines. “We can verify the applications for fee waiver by going through the records available with the committee,” said an official. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, had announced last week that it would waive the semester fees of the students who have lost earning members of their families to  Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclonic circulation over Bihar and north Bengal triggers rainfall||A cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining areas of north Bengal triggered light to moderate rain across Bengal on Monday. Calcutta woke up to a cloudy sky and claps of thunder on Monday. Intermittent rain continued through the first half of the day. Usually, in the aftermath of a cyclone, the weather is hot and dry because the storm sucks all moisture in the atmosphere. Same had happened in the wake of cyclone Amphan. But with monsoon knocking on the doors of mainland India, the trail of Yaas is different from Amphan, said a Met official. The route Yaas took after hitting land — quite different from that of Amphan — has also played a role in the weather after the storm. Timing The cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining parts of north Bengal, being fed by south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal, was behind the clouds and rain in almost all districts of Bengal, according to the Met office. “Strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay are moving towards the circulation. These moisture-laden winds are leading to formation of thunderclouds,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Yaas hit the east coast on May 26, with days left for the onset of the monsoon in Kerala. South-westerly currents remain strong over the Bay during this time. “Amphan had hit land on May 20 last year. The weather in its trail was comparatively drier because the monsoon currents on the Bay were not as strong as they are now,” said a weather scientist. Route after landfall After making landfall in Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas, Amphan travelled via Calcutta and North 24-Parganas towards Bangladesh. On the other hand, Yaas, after having made landfall near Balasore in Odisha, travelled via Jharkhand and Bihar. A couple of days ago, the system had degenerated into a low-pressure area over eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “If Yaas had moved towards Bangladesh and Myanmar, the weather in Calcutta would have been hot and dry. The wind flow would have been towards Bangladesh and Myanmar,” said a Met official. But since Yaas moved in the opposite direction, the wind flow is still towards Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. These winds, most of them coming from the Bay, are travelling through Bengal, the official said. A breakaway cloud mass from the remains of Yaas had drifted towards the city on Thursday — a day after the storm’s landfall — and led to a downpour. Forecast “The south Bengal districts are likely to see clouds and thundershowers on Tuesday as well. The rainfall is likely to be light to moderate. The districts of north Bengal are tipped to get light to moderate rain for the next five days,” said Bandyopadhyay. Calcutta is set to witness overcast conditions and temperatures are likely to be on the lower side over the next two days. “The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are likely to remain around 32 degrees and 24 degrees over the next two days,” a Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Over 42,000 students register for RKM online tutorials||As many as 42,159 students from Classes IX to XII have registered for free tutorials by students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur. The tutorials will be held on digital platforms and will start on Tuesday. The registration was open from May 20 to May 24. A notice signed by Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college, says because of a high number of registrations “we won’t be able to individually email and update you on class-schedule but we shall share all the important details regarding the tutorials, including timetable, syllabus, notifications etc. on this webpage: rkmrc-online tutorials.blogspot.com”. For each class a designated YouTube channel has been created, details of which will be available on the webpage and the college’s Facebook page. According to a routine drawn up by the college, the tutorials will be held five days a week. Seventy students of the college, who underwent training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will take classes. The classes will be held from 8am to 10am and again from 7pm to 9pm. Twenty classes will be held each week in Bengali, English, geography, history, physical science, life science and mathematics. Only the routine for June has been uploaded, said a monk. “We will decide on extending the classes based on the response to the tutorials. The college will keep an eye on the decision of the state administration regarding closure of institutions before taking a call,” he said The classes were supposed to begin on May 26. But they were deferred to June 1 because ofCyclone Yaas that hit Bengal and Odisha on May 26. Before the commencement of the classes, an online inauguration programme was held on Monday morning on the YouTube channel of the college. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said the overwhelming number of registrations underscored the need for the tutorials. “Registration from over 42,000 students makes it clear that the senior school students are eagerly looking forward to the free tutorials. The pandemic has come in the way of continuing their studies. We have trained our college students so that the queries of the senior school students can be addressed with utmost patience,” said Swami Sarvalokananda. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12 after a closure spanning 11 months as a precautionary measure against Covid. But the classes were suspended on April 21 because of the surge in the number of infections. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, are offering free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes III to VIII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College holds Covid-19 vaccination drive on campus||Around 150 people got Covid-19 vaccine shots at St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, on Saturday. The recipients, including Jesuit priests and teachers, non-teaching staff and alumni, were above 45 years and got Covaxin doses. The camp, held in collaboration with the state government, took place at the ground-floor auditorium and a couple of adjacent rooms on the Park Street campus. Starting Wednesday, the campus will also serve as a government vaccination site, said an official of the college. A Calcutta Municipal Corporation team visited the college on Saturday. “We will offer space and some volunteers. The site will be managed by the civic body,” a college official said.  The college’s own vaccination drive will continue in the coming days. “We will organise the next camp in the first week of June. We want to include students as well,” said a member of the former student association of the college, which organised the drive. Father Dominic Savio, principal of the college, inaugurated the camp on Saturday. “We have been providing relief to the people whose livelihood were adversely impacted by the pandemic since last year. We are now trying to arrange vaccines to protect the people,” he told Metro. Preparations are on to set up a safe home on the college’s Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas, said the member of the alumni association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 vaccine: Separate slots for different groups trim queues||In April, a couple in their 50s had to wait for over 10 hours outside a clinic run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in Kasba to get vaccinated. On Monday, a woman in her 50s waited for three hours to get vaccinated. The 57-year-old resident of Behala’s Fakirpara, who took her first dose at Sarat Sadan in Behala, said: “My husband had gone to the centre around 10.30am. He got a token. We live close to the centre. He told me to go to the centre around 1pm. I got vaccinated at 1.15pm.” Tamal Saha, the owner of a garment store on Rashbehari Avenue, took the jab at a community centre in Triangular Park. An acquaintance of Saha had queued up since 7am and Saha reached the centre around 9.30am. “The serial number of my token was 18,” Saha, 33, said. He was vaccinated by 10.30am. The shorter queues are a result of the civic body’s decision to allot separate windows for various groups of people. The first four hours of the day — 9am to 1pm — have been reserved for people above 60, who can walk in and get vaccinated. This window is for those who cannot book slots through the CoWin portal or the WhatsApp chatbot opened by the CMC. From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines are being administered to those who have booked their slots through the WhatsApp chatbot. Officials of the civic body who have been managing Covid vaccination for long said the three-hour wait was far less than the length of time people had to spend outside vaccination centres earlier to get the jab. Officials said the queues that were still forming were because some people were fearing they might not get a chance to get vaccinated later. “The queues are mostly being seen during the 9am-1pm window. Post-1pm queues are shorter as only those who have booked slots are eligible to get the jab then,” said an official. Civic officials said they were not turning away anyone from priority groups, such as hawkers, retailers and transport workers. Long queues are, however, still a daily feature at the vaccination centres in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area and in Dum Dum. Despite having 41 ward offices, six borough offices and several primary health centres, the civic body is administering shots from Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake and Narayanpur Matri Sadan hospital in Rajarhat. As a result, long queues for vaccination are seen in front of the two hospitals daily. “The vaccine supply has been erratic. We cannot say when we will be able to start giving the first dose to people from eligible age groups,” said a senior official of the Bidhannagar civic body. On Monday, a vaccine drive was conducted for hawkers and shopkeepers of Rajarhat, Atghara, Kaikhali, Baguiati and other areas at Atghara Free Primary School. More than 150 men and women were administered the shot, an official of the civic body said. In areas under South Dum Dum and Dum Dum municipalities, shots are being administered from at least six primary health centres. The centres are struggling with long queues, which civic officials are attributing to lack of enough doses. “Every day, we are witnessing huge queues and we are having to turn away many people because we are running out of shots,” said an official of South Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||BJP leader Baishali Dalmia’s son ‘assaulted after row’||BJP leader Baishali Dalmia’s son was allegedly assaulted and the car, in which he was returning home, was damaged following an altercation with the passengers of another car near Behala Chowrasta on Monday morning. The argument broke when the vehicle, carrying a patient to a hospital on EM Bypass was allegedly unable to take a left turn from Diamond Harbour Road as Dalmia’s car, stalled by a red signal, was almost occupying the adjoining lane. Dalmia, who had contested the Assembly polls from Bally in Howrah, reached the spot and took her son, 22, to a hospital. On her way to the hospital, she recorded her statement on Facebook Live and alleged that her son was targeted because she had contested the elections. “Eta ki dhoroner anyay atyachar amader opor (What kind of torture is this)?...Ten people beating up a small boy (chhoto chhele),” Dalmia alleged. Reacting to her charge, Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said he was not aware of the incident. “Trinamul Congress has nothing to do with this. She may go and lodge a complaint with the police....” Dalmia’s driver Suman Halder submitted a complaint with Behala police station alleging that the family had started the altercation and used abusive language. Based on that, one of the persons in the Swift DZire was arrested under sections of wrongful restraint, assault, mischief and criminal intimidation. He was later granted bail. The family, too, lodged a complaint against Dalmia’s driver for assault and wrongful restraint. By then Dalmia’s son and the driver had left. The police said action would be taken according to the second complaint as well. In 2015, Dalmia’s son was detained for alleged assault of cops near EM Bypass under the jurisdiction of Garfa police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Modern High School on hygiene mission||Three Class X students of Modern High School are using their pocket money to help poor children maintain hygiene during the ongoing pandemic. Besties Adya Nathany, Vashita Rungta and Akshita Poddar have used their time at home for the past year to spread awareness on menstrual hygiene on social media. This year, they took their cause a few notches higher by distributing hygiene kits to children for whom frequent sanitising and social distancing are a luxury. “We first decided to spread awareness about Covid-19 and the necessity of hygiene to these students,” said Adya who, along with her friends, is spreading awareness through online sessions among the NGO kids and those studying in government-aided schools.From spreading knowledge and starting a dialogue to distributing the hand-made hygiene kits — the students have come a long way. They have named their initiative Sahyog and its long-term goal is to fight “period poverty”. “It was important to make children interact about menstrual hygiene. Initially, they would not open up and share their problems with us. This year, we put in our pocket money to make safety kits for those. Every kit includes a soap, an antiseptic liquid, a sachet of oral rehydration salts, face mask and sanitary pads. We have already distributed it to 1000 children and plan to cover 1,000 more by next month,” said Vashita. They have also contributed for oxygen cylinders to NGO Knognat Foundation that is setting up a Covid care unit. A few years ago, the term friendship had a different connotation for this trio. “We would chatter over tiffin, share our common love for sports and fight for K-pop or One Direction. School used to be just fun. Now it’s time to be responsible, too,” chipped in Akshita. The three plan to carry on with the project, even after they leave school. They are also getting volunteers to help them out.“Since past month, when the number of Covid positive people had peaked, we have been making hygiene kits at home in leisure time. The first lot was distributed among the NGO children. We hope to give away the next lot in the slums near our locality,” said Dover Road resident Adya. The trio are also planning an online fundraiser to fund more kits in the coming months. They already conducted one to help Amphan victims last year. “Helping society is part of our students’ DNA. That’s the school’s mission and vision. Students grow up with the consciousness that they must help people around them. Our alumni have also done some great work. But it’s not just the school’s credit. Students can help only if their parents are supportive. Often, they are equally involved,” said Modern High School director Devi Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Culture and heritage prize for student||Devarsh Bhatia, a Class VI student of South City International School, became the only winner from Calcutta in his age group at The Heritage Olympiad held recently. The Heritage Olympiad is India’s first online Olympiad on culture and heritage. It was open to all age groups — from classes V to XII, university level and heritage enthusiasts. Devarsh’s passion for history and heritage of India paid dividends, as the 11-year-old was one of the top-ranked performers at the Olympiad, organised by Cultre, a cultural enterprise, and supported by Unesco, New Delhi. “There were four age groups, and I was in Group 1 that was meant for classes V to VII. They had given us study material, covering an array of domains — from important people who played a role in shaping Indian history to the built heritage such as museums and architectural sites, literature and languages, natural environments, performing arts and rituals. We had to answer 100 questions, and the top 25 scorers from each group were named. There were hundreds of participants from all across India,” said Devarsh. Devarsh always takes special interest in museums and places of historical importance. An admirer of Mughal and Rajput architecture, he has undertaken heritage tours of Calcutta quite a few times. “Devarsh always insists on hiring guides while visiting any heritage spot and listens to them carefully. Rajasthan is one of his favourite destinations as the old palaces attract him a lot. He likes to read and hear about stories of the past,” said Devarsh’s mother Monisha. However, Devarsh’s dream destination is Egypt. “I have read a lot and watched several YouTube videos on Egypt. I simply fell in love with the country and wish to go there someday,” said Devarsh. South City International School principal John Bagul is all praise for Devarsh and his achievement. “I am personally passionate about the glorious history of Calcutta and India. I always try to pass on this passion to my students through various platforms. We used to encourage our students to visit various monuments in pre-Covid times with their families as summer projects,” said Bagul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Calcutta||Students of Asian International School organises Covid awareness campaign ||Students of classes VI to XII of Asian International School recently organised a campaign to spread awareness on Covid-19 and the dos and don’ts during the pandemic. They used the 5R — refuse, reduce, reuse, repurpose, recycle — principle to create posters, slogans and messages that had been put up in classrooms and corridors. The campaign was also posted on the school’s official Facebook page. “The morning assembly is the time when we orient and reinforce Covid appropriate behaviour in our students. The lessons have been very effective,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
01-06-2021||Business||TV Narendran elected as new CII president||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at its national council meeting held online in New Delhi on Monday evening elected its new office-bearers for the year 2021-22. T.V Narendran, CEO and managing director, Tata Steel assumed office as the president of CII for 2021-22. He took over from Uday Kotak, managing director and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited. Notably, T.V Narendran has been engaged with CII for many years at the state, regional and national level. He was the chairman of CII Eastern Region during 2016-17 and has led CII national committees besides being chairman of CII Jharkhand. He was also the president designate of CII for 2020-21. Narendran is an alumnus of IIM Calcutta and NIT Trichy. He is a recipient of Distinguished Alumnus Awards from NIT Trichy and IIM Calcutta. He is also the chairman of the Board of Governors of XLRI Jamshedpur and the vice-president of the Indian Institute of Metals. He was a member on the Board of the World Steel Association and is a member of its executive committee. Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO, Hero MotoCorp Ltd., took over as CII vice- president for 2021-22. He has been closely associated with CII for almost 30 years. He has been the Chairman of CII northern region during 1996-97 and has led several CII National Committees including on sports, environment, technology and Innovation. Hero MotoCorp is one of the largest corporate promoters of multiple sporting disciplines around the globe, including golf, cricket, field hockey, motorsports, and football.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and SBI amid a mixed trend in other Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 271.72 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 52,209.16 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 69.70 points or 0.45 per cent to 15,652.50.  Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising more than 2 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC, Bajaj Finance, L&T, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Infosys, TCS, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 514.56 points or 1 per cent higher at 51,937.44, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 147.15 points or 0.95 per cent to its fresh closing record of 15,582.80.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth 2,412.39 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  "The ongoing bull run in the market has taken even the incorrigible optimists by surprise. FIIs, regarded as smart investors, have been caught on the wrong foot," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  Their sustained selling from early April to mid-May has proved to be a wrong strategy and, therefore, now they are making amends through heavy purchases. Massive FII buying in the cash market is an indication of the likely direction of this market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the positive territory in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red.  Equities on Wall Street closed higher in the overnight session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.20 per cent higher at USD 70.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Banks cannot quote April 2018 circular to restrict customers from dealing in cryptocurrencies: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said that banks cannot quote its April 2018 circular to restrict their customers from dealing in cryptocurrencies. The banking regulator, however, said that lenders should carry out customer due diligence processes in addition to other provisions under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) for overseas remittances. The clarification comes amid reports that some banks, including HDFC Bank, have cautioned their customers against dealing in cryptocurrencies. The lenders are understood to have also warned that if they continue to do so, their services may be curtailed. Similarly, SBI Cards has also sent an email to some of its customers saying that they cannot use their cards for transacting in virtual currencies and if they do so, it would lead to suspension of the credit card. Earlier, there have been reports of few private sector lenders making it difficult for crypto currency exchanges by pushing payment processors to stop facilitating crypto transactions. All these banks cited a circular from the RBI in April 6, 2018 which said that regulated entities will not deal in virtual currencies or provide services to facilitate any person or entity in dealing with or settling these currencies. These services included maintaining accounts, registering, trading, settling, clearing, giving loans against virtual tokens, accepting them as collateral, opening accounts of exchanges dealing with them and transfer or receipt of money in accounts relating to purchase or sale of virtual currencies. However, the Supreme Court had struck down that circular. In a circular on Monday, the RBI said that it has come to its attention through media reports that certain banks and regulated entities have cautioned their customers against dealing in virtual currencies by making a reference to the April 2018 circular. “Such references are not in order as this circular was set aside by the Supreme Court on March 4, 2020... the circular is no longer valid from the date of the Supreme Court judgment, and therefore cannot be cited or quoted from,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||BMW Group India launches the new BMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ edition||BMW Group India on Monday launched the new BMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ edition. Limited units of the exclusive edition can now be booked online. The vehicle is priced at Rs 2.02 crore. The model is available in India as a completely built-up unit. Vikram Pawah, president of BMW Group India, said: “The BMW X7 is a statement of the luxury class — the flagship of the X Range. It opens up a brand-new dimension in luxurious driving pleasure... “BMW serves to enhance its ultra-exclusivity with limited editions of just 500 units world-wide. The precisely coordinated details of the design and features give it the status of a collector’s item.” The BMW X7 M50d is powered by a 2993cc three-litre six-cylinder diesel engine which produces an output of 400hp and a maximum torque of 760Nm at 2,000– 3,000rpm. The car accelerates from 0-100 km/hr in just 5.4 seconds. The most striking feature is the special paint finish in frozen arctic grey metallic. This high-quality and elaborate body finish is being used for the first time in a BMW X model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Intel says it will  take two years to address supply shortage in semiconductor ecosystem||Global chip maker Intel on Monday said it could take a couple of years to address the supply shortage in the semiconductor ecosystem that is witnessing huge demand for tech products, accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger noted that the work and study-from-home trends during the Covid-19 pandemic have led to a “cycle of explosive growth in semiconductors” that has placed a huge strain on global supply chains around the world. “We have been working diligently with our partners to address the constraints and increase output to meet demand, and we are acting to help ensure capacity to meet the world’s needs for this new era... But while the industry has taken steps to address the near-term constraints, it could still take a couple of years for the ecosystem to address shortages of foundry capacity, substrates and components,” he said at a virtual session at the Computex event. He stated that the company has doubled its internal wafer capacity in the past four years, and that it is driving a collaborative approach to help the supply chain. Semiconductors play a crucial role in everything, right from computers to appliances, communication devices, transportation systems to critical infrastructure. “We’ve already announced more than $20 billion of new investment in our foundry capability. This includes large scale capacity expansion in Arizona, in support of advanced semiconductor manufacturing technologies in New Mexico. We plan to expand to other locations in the US and Europe, ensuring a sustainable and secure semiconductor supply chain for the world,” Gelsinger said. Intel Corporate vice-president and general manager CCG sales Steve Long announced the launch of two 11th generation Intel core SKUs that will help the company deliver performance and extend its leadership in the thin and light notebook category. The company is also launching the Intel 5G solution 5000, its first 5G product for the next-generation of PC experiences. “This is Intel’s first 5G product coming out from our previously announced collaboration with MediaTek with global certification. Acer, Asus and HP are expected to bring these 5G-enabled PCs to the market this year and the momentum continues in 2022, with over 29 designs expected,” Long said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
01-06-2021||Business||Carlyle group to lead Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in PNB Housing Finance Ltd ||The Carlyle group is leading a Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion in PNB Housing Finance Ltd along with other investors that include Aditya Puri, the former MD and CEO of HDFC Bank. Pluto Investments S.a.r.l, an affiliated entity of Carlyle Asia Partners IV, LP and Carlyle Asia Partners V, LP, will invest up to Rs 3,185 crore through a a preferential allotment of equity shares and warrants at a price of Rs 390 per share in the housing finance company. This represents a premium of 12 per cent to the closing price of the PNB Housing Finance share last Friday. The PNB Housing Finance stock leapt 20 per cent to settle at Rs 525.20 on the BSE on Monday. Existing shareholders of the company, the funds managed by Ares SSG and General Atlantic are also participating in the capital raise. As part of the transaction, Salisbury Investments Pvt Ltd, the family investment vehicle of Aditya Puri, a senior adviser for Carlyle in Asia and the former CEO & managing director of HDFC Bank, will also invest in the fund raise. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception to make it the country’s largest private sector lender, will be nominated to the PNB Housing Finance board as a Carlyle nominee director in due course. Stock market circles are of the view that his strong experience will help the housing finance firm gain more market share in a highly competitive segment. A regulatory filing made by PNB Housing Finance said that Salisbury will have a 0.2 per cent stake in the company after the issuance of equity shares and warrants. The board of PNB Housing Finance approved a preferential allotment on a private placement basis, an aggregate of 8,20,51,281 equity shares and 2,05,12,820 warrants exchangeable into equity shares to Pluto Investments, Salisbury Investments, General Atlantic Singapore Fund FII and Alpha Investments V Pte Ltd in specified proportions for a cash consideration aggregating to Rs 4,000 crore. The transaction will trigger a mandatory open offer by Pluto Investments to purchase up to 26 per cent equity shares of PNB Housing Finance from public shareholders. This is because after the allotment of equity shares and warrants, Pluto Investment’s stake will stand at 30.2 per cent. The open offer will be made at a price of Rs 403.22 per share and it will be for over 7 crore shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Output of eight core sectors jumps by 56.1 per cent in April||The output of eight core sectors jumped 56.1 per cent in April mainly because of a low base effect and an uptick in the production of natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity. The eight infrastructure sectors of coal, crude, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity had contracted 37.9 per cent in April 2020. Core industry output was at a 32-month high in March 2021. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra, said: “The low base of the nationwide lockdown in 2020 pushed up the core sector expansion to 56 per cent in April 2021, a shade lower than our forecast of around 60 per cent. However, the core sector in April 2021 trailed the April 2019 level by 3 per cent, with six of its eight constituents lagging the pre Covid levels. We expect the IIP to record a transient spike to a 130-150 per cent expansion in April 2021, followed by a moderation in May 2021 because of the state-wise restrictions.” “The data suggests that while all states individually implemented lockdowns in 2021, these are not as stringent as the nationwide lockdown of April and May 2020. All sectors except crude oil registered positive growth in April 2021. Even IIP growth in April 2021 is likely to be strong due to weak base in April 2020. However, weak demand conditions is unlikely to keep this growth momentum strong in coming months,” Devendra Kumar Pant chief economist, India Ratings, said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “One may be confused by this number (core output) as this was also the month when we had lockdowns in states. Therefore, we need to see growth over March which was -15.1 per cent — there is no reason to sit back and feel satisfied. The PMI numbers will be more relevant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stands at 9.3 per cent of GDP||The fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stood at 9.3 per cent of GDP, 0.2 per cent lower than the finance ministry’s revised estimate of 9.5 per cent of GDP. In absolute terms, fiscal deficit stood at Rs 18.21 lakh crore. Revenue deficit during 2020-21 stood at Rs 14.54 lakh crore, or 7.42 per cent of GDP. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Fiscal deficit is lower by Rs 27,000 crore compared with the revised estimate of FY21. Total revenue is higher by Rs 88,000 crore. Tax revenue has benefited from higher excise and customs collections. GST, income tax and corporate tax collections were lower. Non tax revenue was slightly lower while non-debt receipts were higher. Total expenditure was higher by around Rs 61,000 crore and interestingly capex was cut by Rs 14,000 crore.” “For FY22, pressure will be there on tax revenue because of the lockdown, while non tax revenue will be higher because of the RBI transfer of Rs 99,000 crore this year. Expenditure control will be important,” he added. “Although the government announced a stimulus package of more than 10 per cent of GDP in FY21, actual stimulus in FY21 budget has been Rs 4.69 lakh crore, 2.4 per cent of GDP. Higher expenditure contributed 45.7 per cent to fiscal deficit slippage followed by lower revenue receipts (37.9 per cent) and capital receipts (16.3 per cent),” Devendra Kumar Pant,chief economist, India Ratings, said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of ICRA, said: “There is a modest risk that the fiscal deficit in FY22 will be higher than budgeted (Rs 15.1 lakh crore), especially on account of shortfalls in divestment receipts, and higher-than budgeted expenditure. Accordingly, the space for a fiscal stimulus appears to be limited and would need to be carefully targeted.” The fiscal deficit for 2020-21 stood at 9.3 per cent of GDP, 0.2 per cent lower than the finance ministry’s revised estimate of 9.5 per cent of GDP. In absolute terms, fiscal deficit stood at Rs 18.21 lakh crore. Revenue deficit during 2020-21 stood at Rs 14.54 lakh crore, or 7.42 per cent of GDP. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Fiscal deficit is lower by Rs 27,000 crore compared with the revised estimate of FY21. Total revenue is higher by Rs 88,000 crore. Tax revenue has benefited from higher excise and customs collections. GST, income tax and corporate tax collections were lower. Non tax revenue was slightly lower while non-debt receipts were higher. Total expenditure was higher by around Rs 61,000 crore and interestingly capex was cut by Rs 14,000 crore.” “For FY22, pressure will be there on tax revenue because of the lockdown, while non tax revenue will be higher because of the RBI transfer of Rs 99,000 crore this year. Expenditure control will be important,” he added. “Although the government announced a stimulus package of more than 10 per cent of GDP in FY21, actual stimulus in FY21 budget has been Rs 4.69 lakh crore, 2.4 per cent of GDP. Higher expenditure contributed 45.7 per cent to fiscal deficit slippage followed by lower revenue receipts (37.9 per cent) and capital receipts (16.3 per cent),” Devendra Kumar Pant,chief economist, India Ratings, said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist of ICRA, said: “There is a modest risk that the fiscal deficit in FY22 will be higher than budgeted (Rs 15.1 lakh crore), especially on account of shortfalls in divestment receipts, and higher-than budgeted expenditure. Accordingly, the space for a fiscal stimulus appears to be limited and would need to be carefully targeted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Business confidence of India Inc plunges with Covid second wave ||Business confidence has caved in with the second Covid wave prompting industry chamber Ficci to lobby hard for a fresh stimulus package. Ficci’s Business Confidence Survey overall has nosedived and stood at 51.5 in the current round after reporting a decadal high value of 74.2 in the previous survey. There was a “sharp deterioration” in the optimism level of corporate India vis-a-vis the previous survey, it said. “Worsening current conditions as well as muted expectations about the near-term prospects on the back of a sweeping second wave of coronavirus infections, pulled down the overall index value by over 20 points,” it said. The chamber said companies unanimously felt “the need for another fiscal package, focusing majorly on addressing the demand side. Demand boosting measures such as direct income support to the rural as well as the urban poor, income tax reductions for the middle class and temporary reductions in indirect taxes must be urgently considered”. The respondents also highlighted the need for continuation of liquidity support and credit enhancement measures to MSMEs as announced in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||Business||Indian economy contraction for fiscal at 7.3%||A surprise 1.6 per cent growth in real GDP in the fourth quarter (January-March) helped the Indian economy close out a Covid-wracked annus horribilis with a contraction of 7.3 per cent —considerably better than the 8 per cent that the National Statistical  Office had forecast in its second advanced estimate in late February. This is the first contraction in the Indian economy since 1979-80 when it plunged to minus 5.2 per cent after the so-called Second Oil Shock — and caps a year of fumbling efforts to limit the damage with a poorly-funded fiscal stimulus, a grossly mismanaged lockdown last March that saw people lose jobs, and disingenuous talk about an imminent recovery to persuade those dangling precariously between life and death on the streets of the capital for several weeks in April that they ought to ignore the reality of impoverished families flung into a statistical abyss. Growth in gross value added (GVA) — a measure that strips out the effects of product taxes and subsidies — leapt in the fourth quarter to 3.7 per cent, buoyed by the 6.9 per cent growth in the manufacturing sector and  a 14.5 per cent surge in construction. “The sharp rise in the wedge between the GDP and GVA growth in Q4 FY2021, can be attributed to the back-ended release of subsidies by the government of India, especially those related to food,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. The surprise growth in fourth quarter real GDP came on top of a 0.5 per cent growth in the third quarter ended December 2020. However, economists remained pessimistic about growth in the first quarter of this fiscal (April-June) after a massive second wave of Covid-19 infections. “Overall, things are about to worsen in the first quarter of FY22 though year-on-year data will look great,” said Nikhil Gupta, chief economist at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “India continues to need monetary and fiscal policy support,” said Krishnamurthy Subramanian, chief economic adviser at the finance ministry — a comment that will put pressure on Mint Street policymakers when they hunker down to review the monetary policy later this week. Subramanian admitted that it was difficult to forecast a double-digit growth this fiscal. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, India’s real GDP contracted to Rs 135 lakh crore in FY21 (2020-21) from Rs 145 lakh crore at the end of March 2020. If the economy has to swell to the size it was in FY20, it will need to grow by 10-11 per cent in the current fiscal. Said D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor, EY India: “The sharp recovery projected for 2021-22 by a number of agencies like the IMF at 12.5 per cent and the RBI at 10.5 per cent  may have to be moderated. These projections were made prior to the impact of the second Covid wave. The combination of Covid’s second wave and the revised base effect may imply a lower GDP growth for the Indian economy for 2021-22 which may be in the range of 9-9.5 per cent.” China, which was once the hotbed of coronavirus infections, has recorded 18.3 per cent economic growth in January-March 2021. Not many have great expectations from the RBI’s ability to produce a raft of measures to jump-start the economy. Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist at Bandhan Bank, said: “Today’s GDP print, though a positive surprise, will likely not materially influence the RBI’s monetary policy decision later this week. The central bank looks set to keep all the key policy rates unchanged in June.” On the demand side, all the major components witnessed growth in the fourth quarter ended March 31. However, on an annual basis, the only component that reflected growth was government final consumption expenditure which grew at 2.9 per cent. The other two components — private final consumption expenditure (PFCE) and gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) — contracted by 9.1 per cent and 10.8 per cent. Both these numbers, like GDP growth, are the lowest in India’s history since 1951. The previous lowest PFCE growth was negative 2.2 per cent in 1979-80 and lowest GFCF growth was negative 9.5 per cent in 1957-58.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
01-06-2021||India||8-year-old girl foils rape bid by Army jawan in train||Showing extraordinary courage, an eight-year-old daughter of an ex-serviceman not only fought back a 33-year-old Army jawan who tried to sexually assault her in a toilet of a moving train in Maharashtra in the early hours of Tuesday and threw her on tracks, but also helped the police nab him by providing his description. The alleged incident occurred on the Goa-Nizamuddin Express between Lonand and Salpa railway stations in Satara district in western Maharashtra, a senior officer said. “The girl, a daughter of an ex-serviceman, was travelling to Delhi with her mother, father, sister and brother,” said Sadanand Wayse Patil, Superintendent of Police (Pune division), Government Railway Police (GRP). The accused, later identified as Prabhu Malappa Uphar, allegedly picked up the girl while she was fast asleep on her berth and took her to the toilet, he said. While the accused tried to sexually assault her, the girl woke up and resisted his advances and started shouting, the SP said. The accused then told the girl that he was taking her back to her parents, but after coming out of the toilet, he pushed her down the moving train. “Fortunately, the train was moving slowly due to the ghat section due to which the girl sustained less grievous injuries. On Tuesday morning, some locals spotted her lying on the railway tracks and took her to a hospital,” said Patil. At the hospital, the girl not only narrated the ordeal but also provided the description of the jawan to the police which proved crucial. “We then launched a search operation in the train and ordered that no one should get down from the train. At least 400 police and GRP constables boarded the train at various stations to ensure that the accused does not flee,” he said. During the search, the cops identified at least 30 passengers whose description matched with the suspect. “We short-listed four suspects out of the 30 and finally identified Uphar. He was apprehended when the train was near Bhusaval in north Maharashtra,” the officer said. The girl, who sustained injuries on her legs and under the chin, was later reunited with her family. Uphar is a jawan of Naik rank and posted at Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE Class XII exams cancelled in the ‘interest of students’||The government decided to cancel Class 12 board exams on Tuesday, ending weeks of uncertainty among students, their parents and teachers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the “anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end”. At a high-level meeting chaired by Modi, it was decided to cancel CBSE Class XII board exams. It was also decided that CBSE would take steps to compile the results of Class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner. Hours later, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) took a similar decision and cancelled its Class XII board examinations this year in view of the COVID-19 situation, according to its secretary Gerry Arathoon, PTI reported. "The exams have been cancelled. The alternative assessment criteria will be announced soon," he said. The CICSE had last week asked its affiliated schools to submit data, including average of marks obtained by Class 12 students in Class 11 and during this session. The board had postponed Class 12 exams which were scheduled from May 4 in the light of the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tuesday’s decisions on the exams come amid a high caseload of COVID-19 cases in several states and continuing health-related apprehensions about the future. Modi said the health and safety of students were of utmost importance, and there would be no compromise on this aspect. “Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” a government statement quoted the Prime Minister as saying at the meeting. The CICSE had last week asked its affiliated schools to submit data, including average of marks obtained by Class 12 students in Class 11 and during this session. The board had postponed Class 12 exams which were scheduled from May 4 in light of the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the decision coming amid a high caseload of Covid-19 cases in several states and continuing health-related apprehensions about the future, Modi said the health and safety of students are of utmost importance, and there would be no compromise on this aspect. “Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” a government statement quoted the prime minister as saying. Modi further asserted that all stakeholders need to show sensitivity towards the students as well as their parents and teachers. At the review meeting, officials gave a detailed presentation on the wide and extensive consultation held so far and views received from all stakeholders, including by the state governments. "In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid-19 and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that Class XII Board Exams would not be held this year," the statement said. Modi said at the meeting that Covid-19 has affected the academic calendar and the issue of board examinations has been causing immense anxiety among students, parents and teachers, which must be put to an end. He said the Covid-19 situation is dynamic across the country, and that the number of cases is coming down with some states managing the situation through effective micro-containment, while some states have still opted for a lockdown. Students, parents and teachers are naturally worried about the health of the students in such a situation, he noted, asserting that students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation. Tuesday’s meeting was attended by Union ministers of home, defence, finance, commerce, information and broadcasting, petroleum and women and child development, and Principal Secretary to PM, Cabinet Secretary and secretaries of School Education and Higher Education departments. The CBSE had on April 14 announced cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponement of Class 12 exams in view of surge in coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Education had recently sought detailed suggestions from states and union territories on proposals discussed in a high-level meeting on the issue. The government had informed the Supreme Court, which is hearing a plea seeking the exam's cancellation, that it will take a final decision by June 3. Kejriwal relieved Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it is a "big relief" that the Class 12 board exams had been cancelled. "I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief," Chief Minister Kejriwal tweeted.  His deputy Manish Sisodia, who has been against the idea of conducting the exams in the given circumstances, also said, "I am happy that the never-ending class 12 for 1.5 crore students of the country will finally end."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Three million doses of Russian Sputnik V lands in India||A consignment of around three million doses of Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday. A GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo press release said the vaccine consignment arrived from Russia on a special chartered freighter RU-9450 which touched down at Hyderabad Airport at 03.43 hours. "While GHAC has already handled several import shipments of vaccine prior to this, today’s shipment of 56.6 tonnes of vaccines is the single largest import shipment of Covid-19 vaccines handled in India till date. This shipment completed all processes and was dispatched in less than 90 minutes," it said. The Sputnik V vaccine requires specialised handling and storage, required to be kept at a temperature of -20 C. GHAC has been working closely with the experts from the customers supply chain team, officials from customs department and other relevant stakeholders over an extended period of time to ensure that the necessary infrastructure and handling processes are fully in place at the Air Cargo Terminal for smooth handling of the vaccine shipments, it said. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V in India. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. Dr Reddys which had earlier received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 54 days||India reported 1,27,510 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 54 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 6.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of coronavirus cases rose to 2,81,75,044, out of which 2,59,47,629 people have recuperated from the disease. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,31,895 with 2,795 fresh fatalities, the lowest reported in 35 days, and the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh after 43 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. While the case fatality rate has increased to 1.18 per cent, the data stated. However, recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 19 successive days. Also, 19,25,374 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 34,67,92,257. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for eight consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.64 per cent. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh after 43 days. They have reduced to 18,95,520 comprising 6.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.09 per cent. A net decline of 1,30,572 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,795 new fatalities include 500 from Maharashtra, 478 from Tamil Nadu, 411 from Karnataka, 174 from Kerala, 151 from Uttar Pradesh, 131 from West Bengal, and 118 from Punjab. A total of 3,31,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 95,344 from Maharashtra, 29,090 from Karnataka, 24,237 from Delhi, 24,232 from Tamil Nadu, 20,497 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,541 from West Bengal, 14,550 from Punjab and 13,048 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Centre issues showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay||The Narendra Modi government on Monday issued a showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who retired as Bengal chief secretary in the evening, and is contemplating unspecified action against him for defying the order to report to the Centre on Monday. “Suitable action is being contemplated by the Centre for defying the DoPT (the department of personnel and training) order and a showcause notice has already been issued,” a source said on Monday evening. However, going by the experience in the case of the IPS officers the Centre tried to call back on central deputation from Bengal in December, the scope of such disciplinary action is limited, bureaucrats said. According to these sources, all deputation is done in consultation between the Centre and the states. If it is felt that disciplinary action needs to be initiated by the Centre, it has to be routed through the cadre-controlling authority, which, in this case, is Bengal. On Monday, the DoPT had sent a letter to Bandyopadhyay asking him to report to the Centre on Tuesday morning at 10. This was in response to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Prime Minister Modi stating that her government “cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid”. After Mamata’s media conference around 5pm, the Centre sought to project to its ecosystem that this was a victory for the Modi government as the chief minister had done a U-turn by getting Bandyopadhyay to retire hours after asking the Prime Minister to confirm the extension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: SC questions Centre's vaccine pricing policy ||The Supreme Court on Monday questioned the government’s Covid vaccine procurement policy that allows the manufacturers to set different prices for the Centre, states and private hospitals and has left the states to compete against one another to import doses. A three-judge bench said it would like to see the file relating to “dual” pricing, dismissing solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s plea that policies should be left to the executive. It said its “arms are strong enough” to pull up the government for any non-compliance of its orders about patients’ right to be treated and air their grievances. The court’s grilling of the Centre came against the backdrop of several state governments, individuals and civil liberties activists demanding the Union government provide free vaccination to every citizen as a matter of fundamental right. Meenakshi Arora, appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) with fellow senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, told the bench that Indians were being forced to pay for vaccines for the first time in seven decades. She said countries across the world were supplying free jabs to their people. The court asked the Centre to come out with an amended affidavit, filed by an officer above the rank of joint secretary, explaining the measures taken to mitigate the people’s pandemic-induced hardships. “We are not framing policy. There’s our order of 30th April that these are the problems. You will be flexible. You just can’t say that you are the Centre and you know what’s right,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told Mehta. “Our arms are strong enough; we can come down on the government if there is non-compliance.” The bench, which included Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, has been monitoring suo motu the management of the Covid crisis by the Centre and the states. The April 30 order had said no patient should be turned away from a hospital for a lack of beds or other facilities like oxygen. It had threatened contempt action against police and others if FIRs were registered against citizens for airing Covid-related grievances on social media. During Monday’s hearing, the bench noted that various states and civic authorities like the Mumbai corporation were floating tenders for vaccine import, amid a shortage of doses, and wondered whether the Centre intended to be a mere “nodal agency” to facilitate imports. “Does the Government of India contemplate a situation where states are left to compete among themselves by floating tenders?” Justice Chandrachud asked. “We are on the role of the central government…. What is the rationale for dual (pricing) policy? Centre is procuring certain amount and not willing to give it to states at same rate?” the bench asked. The Centre is buying vaccines at Rs 150 a dose and providing doses free to the states for inoculating those aged 45 or above at government facilities. But to inoculate younger adults, the states need to buy directly from the vaccine makers — Covishield at Rs 300 and Covaxin at Rs 400 per dose. For private hospitals, the prices are Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,200 for Covaxin. The bench noted that the Centre had claimed it was being charged a lower price since it bought the vaccines in bulk. “If this is the rationale then why do the states have to pay a higher price? There needs to be one price for the vaccines across the nation,” it said. Mehta pleaded that if the court examined the price structures it would only hamper the ongoing negotiations to place more orders for vaccines. He stressed that there was a uniform price for all the states. “There are conflicting claims by manufacturers. There is no one single price for all states,” Justice Bhat observed. “Distribution for states will also be now through proportion. Why should there be two prices?” Justice Bhat said the court would like to see the file relating to the decision on dual pricing to understand its rationale. “What is the basis for the Centre to say that for (those aged) 45 and above we will supply and procure vaccines free of charge and for below 45 years, (the) states will have logistical arrangements?” Justice Chandrachud said. “In the second wave it was the pre-45 which suffered a great deal.... If the purpose is to procure vaccines then why should the Centre confine itself to post-45 and leave pre-45 entirely to states for arranging logistics? How do we look at the marginalised and economically weaker ones?” The court later adjourned the matter saying it would pass a short written order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS to hold postgraduate entrance test on June 16||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences has decided to hold its postgraduate entrance test on June 16, prompting protests by thousands of candidates who have cited the health risks and lockdown restrictions and suggested the exam could turn into a “super-spreader event”. They have also underlined that all other national-level exams have been postponed amid the surging pandemic, and that many of the candidates have volunteered for  Covid duty on an appeal from the government amid an implicit assurance about their exams being deferred. AIIMS is the first authority to schedule a national-level exam amid the second wave of the pandemic. The June 16 Institutions of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INICET) is meant to fill the 850 MD and MS seats in the 6 functioning AIIMS and 3 other medical “institutions of national importance” — PGIMER Chandigarh, Jipmer Puducherry and Nimhans Bangalore. Other medical colleges select their postgraduate students through the NEET-PG, which has been postponed beyond August 31. There’s no clarity whether Class XII board exams would be held at all. The Union Public Service Commission has postponed its civil service entrance exams from June 27 to October 10. The National Testing Agency has put off the JEE Main and the National Eligibility Test for would-be assistant professors, and the IITs have deferred the JEE Advanced. The NEET (undergraduate medical entrance exam) is scheduled in August but might well be postponed. Nearly 30,000 MBBS graduates on Sunday protested on Twitter under the tag #postponeINICET to express their many concerns, from the risk of catching Covid to the difficulties of reaching the exam centres in locked-down states. About 80,000 MBBS graduates have registered for the INICET, originally scheduled on May 8 but deferred because of the resurgent Covid. On May 28 night, AIIMS announced the revised date on its website. What has triggered charges of a “double standard” is that on May 30, AIIMS cited the pandemic to indefinitely postpone its BSc (nursing) entrance exam from June 14. Many INICET candidates have underlined how a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on May 3 decided to postpone the NEET-PG indefinitely beyond August 31, and said the students would be informed one month in advance about any revised date. That meeting had encouraged NEET-PG candidates to join the Covid workforce, saying those providing 100 days’ service in pandemic management would receive priority during regular government recruitments. Most of the INICET candidates figure among the 1.7 lakh NEET-PG candidates. “The government called us for 100 days’ duty and offered PM Samman certificates and assured us (implicitly) that medical exams will not be conducted before August 31,” said Dr Chinmayee from Bangalore, who has registered for both NEET-PG and INICET. “Following this, AIIMS authorities too postponed the INICET. But on May 28, out of nowhere, they announced the exam would be held on June 16 at just 19 days’ notice.” Chinmayee said many candidates who had joined Covid duty stood disadvantaged because of the abrupt announcement. “They are working 10 to 12 hours a day. Many have not been able to meet their families. Don’t they need enough time to refocus on their exam preparations?” she said. A medical graduate from Calcutta said the INICET candidates had chosen exam centres near their home during registration but many of them had since moved elsewhere to join Covid duty or other kind of work. He said these students would find it particularly difficult to reach their exam centres amid the lockdowns. “Even if the students reach the city (where their centre is located) by train or flight, they will struggle to get local transport,” he said. “In Calcutta (where the Covid restrictions have been extended till June 15), no hotel will be open till June 15 night; so they can’t get accommodation. There may not be any public transport or taxis on June 16 morning to reach the exam centres.” The students must reach the centre before 8am for the three-hour exam that starts at 9am. In Odisha, the lockdown has been extended till June 16, and in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, till June 15. These and many other states might extend the restrictions to or beyond June 16. A student from Maharashtra asked why the exam could not be put off till September or October. “AIIMS as an institution of national importance should set an example. What message is it trying to send out by holding the exam in the middle of the second wave of Covid? This exam may become a super-spreader event,” he said. An email sent to AIIMS director Randeep Guleria seeking the reason for holding the test in June when the NEET-PG has been postponed beyond August 31 has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: SC asks Centre to provide ‘tangible' reason to conduct Class XII exams||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Centre must give a “tangible” reason if it decides to go ahead with the Class XII board examinations amid the pandemic. “No issue. We do not want to get into the nitty-gritty at this stage. You take a decision. You are entitled to it. But it is the sanguine hope of the petitioners that last year’s policy could be used this year. If you are departing from the policy of last year, you need to give us tangible reasons,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a bench, told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a brief hearing. The bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, adjourned the matter till Thursday on a request from Venugopal to place the government’s final view. The bench was dealing with a petition filed by advocate Mamta Sharma seeking cancellation of the Class XII board exams and evaluation of the students on the basis of the internal assessment marks obtained, as was done last year. Besides Sharma, the NGO Youth Bar Association has filed an intervention application seeking cancellation of the exams, arguing that holding the tests would be in contradiction with the CBSE’s own decision not to conduct the Class X exams owing to the second wave of Covid-19. In the case of Class X students, the CBSE had decided to evaluate their performance on the basis of the internal assessment marks as was done last year when the first wave of Covid was raging. The petitioner has complained that though the CBSE and the ICSE chose to cancel the Class X exams this year too, no such benefit has been extended to the Class XII students, which amounts to discrimination and violation of citizens’ fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and personal liberty). The petitioner has pleaded that the court must exercise its special powers under Article 142 to cancel the exams keeping in view the health and safety of the students and others since the second wave has been more devastating than the first wave was last year. It was pointed out that last year, upon the court’s intervention, both the CBSE and the ICSE chose to cancel the board exams and relied on internal assessment for determination of the final results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre's non-vaccination strategy is a dagger in Bharat Mata’s heart, says Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Narendra Modi government’s inability to arrange for enough vaccines was like stabbing Mother India as reports of closure of vaccination centres poured in from across the country. Rahul said in an acerbic tweet: “Modi Government’s non-vaccination strategy is a dagger in Bharat Mata’s heart. Tragic truth.” While the former Congress president has directly blamed the Prime Minister for the abnormally high number of deaths caused by the second wave of Covid-19, the latest attack is a subtle attempt to target the RSS-BJP’s self-proclaimed monopoly on patriotism. The horrifying images of bodies strewn on the banks of the Ganga in several places in Uttar Pradesh have already bruised the Hindu sentiment. While the Ganga is linked with Hindus’ spiritual consciousness, it is also probably the greatest symbol of national pride. Rahul has now used this imagery of stabbing “Bharat Mata” in an obvious attempt to highlight that the failure to arrange vaccines for the people in time exposed the fake patriotic credentials of the BJP. He put out the message both in Hindi and English. Posting another tweet that suggested that 97 per cent of Indians had become poorer post-Covid, Rahul tweeted: “One man and his arrogance + One virus and its mutants.” This was again a direct attack on the Prime Minister for mismanaging both the pandemic and economy. The GDP figure for 2020-21 released on Monday showed a negative growth of 7.3 per cent. The Congress has been creating a noise about the slow vaccination drive over the past few days. The party has also raised questions about private hospitals getting supplies while government facilities being forced to down shutters. They also alleged a scam in Karnataka where BJP youth wing chief and Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya appealed to people through a newspaper advertisement to get vaccinated in a private hospital. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera had said that leaked audio conversations suggested Surya’s uncle and BJP legislator Ravi Subramanya got a commission of Rs 700 per dose from the hospital. Karnataka Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar had tweeted: “Allegations against BJP MLA Ravi Subramanya of taking commission for vaccines is a serious one….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka backs parents' proposal to not conduct the class XII exams||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday supported the suggestions of many students and parents who are against the conduct of Class XII exam this year and advocated awarding marks to examinees on the basis of internal assessment. Priyanka wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal at a time when the government is slated to take a decision on the exam issue soon. The decision on the Class XII board exam will help universities and testing agencies to decide on whether to conduct end-semester exams and entrance tests, respectively. In her letter to Pokhriyal, Priyanka conveyed the suggestions she had received from parents and students opposing the conduct of board exam. The CBSE has already postponed its Class XII exams till June 15. Last week, a group of ministers headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh discussed this issue with state education ministers and officials. The government has presented two options — conducting the exam in selected subjects or under a changed pattern with objective-type questions in exam centres in each school. Priyanka wrote that the children have already coped with immense pressure in the last year of their schooling. For much of the year, the schools remained closed. Many students contracted Covid-19 and many have lost family members, friends and loved ones, she said. “How can we expect them to set aside all that they are witnessing and focus on their board exams? How can we, as the guardians of their future, refuse to hear their cries of help and turn away from their requests to be heard? How can we willingly put them in situation that is potentially dangerous and life threatening for them?” Priyanka wrote. She said many have suggested that, like in other countries, internal assessment should be done for the students considering that the second wave of the pandemic has hit hard at a time when they were to study for their exams. The very real fear and psychological trauma of the raging pandemic coupled with prolonged and intense pressure of board exam can lead to several mental health issues like depression and anxiety, she said. “I once again urge you to reconsider CBSE 12th Board exam and to consider the above suggestions made by them. It will be a great injustice if they are pushed into circumstances that endanger their lives when it is completely unnecessary and it will be a great pity if we let them down at this trying time in their lives.” University students Most of the universities in the country are yet to hold their end-semester entrance exams too. The final-year students are awaiting the award of degrees. The ministry of education and University Grants Commission have asked these institutions to defer any offline exam but have allowed them to hold exams online. Most of the central universities are planning to hold exams online in June. However, students’ organisations have largely opposed any online exam and supported award of marks based on internal assessment. The Students’ Federation of India has opposed the online exam plans of the Delhi University and urged the varsity to take alternative measures. The All India Students Association (AISA) has said many students have lost multiple family members, loved ones and professors and opposed exams. The National Students Union of India demanded vaccination of students before any exam. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad has suggested conduct of exam in universities in online mode followed by offline mode later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Congress highlights jump in bank frauds under Modi govt||The Congress on Monday said bank frauds witnessed a constant high growth under the Narendra Modi government and a staggering Rs 5 lakh crore of public money was looted in the last seven years. Citing disclosures by the Reserve Bank of India in its latest annual report (for 2020-21), Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “While the RBI points to certain alarming statistics, including the impact of the failure of the Modi government in controlling the second wave of Covid-19 on the economy as well as consumer confidence, the most shocking is the continuing bank fraud. There has been a steady increase in loot, showing the government’s failure in checking frauds. While the fraud amount was Rs 19,455 crore in 2014-15, the amount for Rs 2020-21 is Rs 1.38 lakh crore.” Recalling the national outcry over the escape of high-profile fraudsters such as Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi, who were supposed to be close to the establishment, the Congress spokesperson said: “Why has the government failed to curb the bank frauds in the last seven years? What is the government doing to recover the amount involved in these bank frauds? How much amount has been collected from these fraudsters who are weakening our banking system? Who are these people who looted the banks?” Vallabh said that Modi promised a $5-trillion economy and ended up allowing bank frauds of Rs 5 trillion in his seven years of rule. Alleging that the government has weakened the banking system, he said: “The cases and amount of bank fraud have been on a rapid rise since 2014-15. For 2020-21, when loan moratorium was in effect till August 31, 2020, and restructuring initiatives were in effect until December 31, 2020, the fraud amount for the entire year was still Rs 1,38,422 crore.” He added: “Even if we focus on the last three years, the average fraud amount increased from Rs 10.5 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 21.3 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 18.8 crore in 2020-21. The average fraud amount was Rs 4.2 crore in 2014-15. Hence, the average fraud amount has become four to five times bigger. The maximum amount of fraud — Rs 1,85,468 crore — was reported in 2019-20.” Vallabh pointed out that the RBI report clearly stated that the average time lag between the date of occurrence of frauds and the date of detection was 23 months for those reported in 2020-21 and 24 months for those reported in 2019-20. This means, he explained, the government couldn’t vaguely argue that the frauds happened during the previous governments and the Modi government had to bear the cross. “Even for large frauds greater than Rs 100 crore, the average lag (between occurrence and detection) was 57 months for 2020-21 and 63 months for 2019-20. Hence, the frauds identified in 2020-21 were committed sometime in 2018-19 and large frauds were committed sometime in 2015-16 when Modi was in power. They can’t escape responsibility now. They will have to answer how this public money was looted and who are these people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||SC to revisit the constitutional validity of the sedition law||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would revisit the constitutional validity of the sedition law and its application to media houses and journalists in the wake of rising instances of states indiscriminately using the colonial-era legislation under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 505 (public mischief). “It’s time we define the sedition law…” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said while issuing notice on the sedition and other cases registered by the Andhra Pradesh government against two television channels — TV5 and ABN — for airing the views of a Lok Sabha MP critical of chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Justice Chandrachud during the course of the hearing also sarcastically remarked: “A news report yesterday showed that dead bodies were being thrown in the river. I don’t know if a sedition case has been filed against the news channel yet or not.” While under Section 124A, an accused can be sentenced to life imprisonment, under the other two provisions, a person can face imprisonment up to three years. The bench, after hearing senior counsel Shyam Divan and Sidharth Luthra appearing for the two channels, passed the following order: “….The gravamen of the allegation against the news channels arises from certain programmes which have been broadcast by them. During the programmes, Mr Raghurama Krishnam Raju, member of Parliament is alleged to have expressed views critical of the state government and the chief minister. Besides Mr Raju, who has been named as the first accused, TV5 and ABN have been named as the second and third accused. “Mr Shyam Divan and Mr Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, have submitted that the FIR constitutes an attempt to muzzle the electronic media and is an assault on the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It has been submitted that, read as they stand, the allegations in the FIR do not establish any offences under the provisions which have been invoked against them. ‘The jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 has been invoked on the ground that while dealing with the suo motu Covid-19 case 1, this court in its order dated April 30, 2021, has made categoric observations in regard to the need for restraint on the invocation of the coercive arm of the law against persons voicing comments critical to matters of governance which arise in the context of the Covid crisis. The member of Parliament has been granted bail by the court. “Having heard learned counsel, we are of the view that the ambit and parameters of the provisions of Sections 124A, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation.” The bench issued notice to the government to reply within six weeks. YSR Congress MP Raju, who was earlier granted bail by the apex court, had alleged that he was subjected to third-degree torture by the state police for his critical views against the chief minister and for seeking cancellation of Jagan’s bail in a corruption related case. The court passed the order on Monday after the two regional channels challenged the FIR registered against them on May 14 under the IPC Sections 124, 153A, 505 and Section 120B based on an inquiry report of the deputy inspector-general, CID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Khattar  accuses Kejriwal of playing politics over  vaccines||Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar on Monday accused his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal of playing politics over Covid vaccines, saying the national capital is exhausting its supply too soon while his own state is stretching it over a longer period. His comment on vaccine rationing invited a sharp reaction from the Congress, which said Haryana had vaccine doses but was administering them to people in small numbers over several days. “Deliberate delay in administering vaccines is also being termed as a strategy. He (CM) says the government has vaccines, but these will be administered to people in small numbers over several days. This is the reason why the people of Haryana are not able to get the vaccines..,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet. Claiming that Kejriwal always has a critical tone, Khattar said Delhi was getting more vaccine doses considering the size of its population. Giving an example of his own state and virtually admitting to rationing of vaccines, Khattar said: “Even we (Haryana) can administer two lakh doses in one day and exhaust our stock. But we know how much stock we are getting and if we keep administering 50,000 to 60,000 doses to people daily, this (stock) will keep going on.” He said given the current pandemic situation, the Centre is doing its best to lend assistance to the states. “So far, all vaccination doses are coming from the Centre’s side. Delhi’s population is two crore, our population is 2.90 crore,” the Haryana chief minister said. “If we go by this ratio, Delhi has got 51 lakh vaccine doses and accordingly we should have got 74 to 75 lakh doses, but we have got only 58 lakh doses. If one goes by per million population, Delhi has got more and Haryana has got less vaccine doses,” he added. His remarks come amid Kejriwal’s demand for more vaccine doses from the Centre. “Whatever stock is available, it has to be distributed to the entire country. Delhi alone cannot get it. And if the entire country has to get it, then it will be given on a pro rata basis,” the Haryana chief minister said. Khattar said many states, including Haryana, are also making efforts to procure vaccines from abroad by floating global tenders. “The Centre is already giving vaccines and will keep giving in future too. But he (Kejriwal) always indulges in drama,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Lt Gen. Manoj Pande to take charge of the Eastern Command||Lt Gen. Manoj Pande will take charge as the General Officer Commanding in Chief (GOC-in-C) of the Eastern Command on Tuesday amid the ongoing border stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. The country’s only tri-services command, Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), which Lt Gen. Pande headed, will also get a new commander on Tuesday when Lt Gen. Ajai Singh will take over. Lt Gen. Pande will take the charge from Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan who retired as the Eastern Command chief on Monday. The Eastern Command looks after the critical LAC with China and borders with Myanmar in the east, besides anti-insurgency operations in the Northeast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Delhi High Court  glare on Gautam Gambhir ||Delhi High Court on Monday criticised the drug controller for not properly examining as to how BJP MP Gautam Gambhir procured a huge quantity of the Covid-19 drug Fabiflu. “You (drug controller) can’t take us for a ride. If you think we are so gullible, so naive, we are not,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The high court said its confidence in the drug controller has been “shaken completely” and rejected as “trash” its status report on the inquiry into procurement of the medicine by cricketer-turned-politician Gambhir. The high court took strong exception to the drug controller’s report, which concluded that the dealers had ample stock to supply to others, and said everyone knows that the medicine was in short supply and while Gambhir bought thousands of strips of the medicine, other people who needed it could not get it on that day. “Please don’t tell us there is no shortage. We know there was a shortage. You don’t have to swallow the report. You have to question your officers. You (drug controller) are wrong to say it was not in short supply…. You better do your job. If you can’t do your job, tell us, we will have you suspended and let someone else do your job,” the bench said. It also pulled up Gambhir for again making a statement that he will continue to do such work. “We have already said it is a malpractice. This tendency of people trying to take advantage and then trying to appear as a saviour when they themselves created the problem, has to be denounced. And then the person goes on to state he would do it again. If it continues, we know how to deal with it,” it said. “Thousands of strips he is obtaining. On the day people needed it, they were not able to buy it….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Toll in the Aligarh hooch tragedy climbes to 36 ||The toll in the Aligarh hooch tragedy climbed to 36 on Monday with 11 more deaths being confirmed by the district authorities. Viscera samples of 35 other people, who are suspected to have died after consuming spurious liquor, have been sent for examination to confirm the cause of death, chief medical officer Dr Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said. “A total of 71 bodies have arrived at the post-mortem house from Friday to Monday. Liquor poisoning has been confirmed as the cause of death for 36 of these people,” Kalyani said. Former Aligarh MLA Zameerullah Khan of the Samajwadi Party produced before the media the families of 12 people who he claimed died over the past three days after consuming spurious liquor and whose post-mortem was not conducted. He demanded that the state government provide compensation to all such families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Books by Adityanath and Ramdev to become part of philosophy syllabus ||Calling modern medicine a “stupid science” must be excellent philosophy. For yoga televangelist Ramdev is now officially a philosopher. Ditto chief minister Yogi Adityanath, though in his case it’s a self-anointment. Books by Ramdev and Adityanath will now be part of the philosophy syllabus at the state government-run Chaudhary Charan Singh University in Meerut following a recommendation from the Uttar Pradesh government, varsity authorities have confirmed. One of the books is Ramdev’s Yoga Chikitsa Rahasya, which deals with yoga’s proficiency in curing illnesses. The other is Adityanath’s Hathyoga: Swaroop evam Sadhana. They will be taught alongside books by giants like Plato and Aristotle. University authorities said the recommendations had come last week, that is, a few days after Ramdev had called allopathy a “stupid science”. “We didn’t take the decision on our own. We received a recommendation from the state government and included it in the undergraduate philosophy syllabus,” Y. Vimala, pro-vice-chancellor of the university, said on Monday. N.C. Lohani, dean of arts, said: “It was done keeping in view the need of the times.” A few months ago, the university administration had got its board painted saffron. A teacher at the university, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed frustration. “We understand they are appalling recommendations — powerful people are forcing us to teach from their books, which are substandard,” the teacher said. “Asking people to practise yoga isn’t the same thing as forcing them to read the books of people with half-baked knowledge.” However, the teacher said, the university had made the best of a bad situation by inducting books by three progressive poets into the Hindi literature syllabus as a trade-off. “Since the university administration was eager to accept the government recommendation, we (the varsity academic panel) pushed for the poetries of Bashir Badra and Kunwar Bechain of Meerut and Dushyant Kumar of Bijnore,” the teacher said. “This was accepted immediately because they knew we would not otherwise approve the books by Adityanath and Ramdev.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator||The Kerala Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution seeking the immediate recall of the Lakshadweep administrator and a rollback of his controversial reforms ranging from a ban on cow slaughter to measures facilitating land grab. Moving the resolution, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the reforms as “an attempt to impose saffron agenda and corporate interests by denying the rights of the people”. “The administration has taken steps to deny the staple food of beef and thus implement the Sangh parivar agenda through the backdoor. They are moving to stop cow slaughter and ban beef and shut down all dairy farms. The administrator is now giving lead to measures that destroy a people’s culture and livelihood,” Vijayan said. Praful Khoda Patel, the first politician to be appointed administrator of the Union territory off the Kerala coast, has brought in several legislations that negate the people’s basic rights to food and land. Vijayan blamed the Centre for empowering the new administrator with unprecedented powers through an order. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress extended support to the resolution and termed it as an example for other states to follow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Dogs eat bodies on a riverbank in Uttarakhand||A video has emerged showing dogs eating bodies on a riverbank, purportedly Kedar Ghat along the Bhagirathi in Uttarkashi, Uttarakhand. Residents said the bodies had presumably been dumped upstream into the river, a tributary of the Ganga, and had got stuck in the sandbars before the past few days’ rainfall raised the water levels and caused them to drift towards the banks. The smell apparently attracted street dogs, which pulled the bodies out of the water. Residents told reporters on Monday they had complained to the civic body in the morning. “But they didn’t show any interest,” a priest who didn’t want to be named said. Ramesh Semwal, chairman of the nagar palike, told reporters: “Some half-burnt bodies were seen on the ghat being eaten by dogs. We have assigned a sadhu who lives on the ghat to keep cleaning the area after last rites are performed.” He seemed to be suggesting that rather than floating down from elsewhere, the bodies had been cremated at the spot. He didn’t explain why they had remained half-burnt and how the sadhu would be “cleaning the area” of such bodies. Bodies have been seen floating down rivers in Uttar Pradesh and other states, apparently dumped by relatives amid the rising Covid deaths, shortage of cremation space and firewood, and spiralling funeral costs. Many families are burying their dead in the sand on riverbanks. Residents of Unnao and Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh reported seeing at least three dozen and six bodies, respectively, floating in the Ganga in the past 24 hours. Fatehpur sub-divisional magistrate Pramod Jha said: “Some corpses were spotted in the river. They were fished out and cremated.” Jha said he was informed about the bodies floating in the river on Sunday morning, following which a search operation was launched. Six decomposed bodies were found in the river, he said. The bodies could not be identified. Later in the day, a team of doctors performed the last rites at Bhitora Ganga Ghat, he said. Dayashankar Pathak, SDM of Unnao, said: “I visited the area but didn’t see any bodies.” Chief ministers Tirath Singh Rawat and Yogi Adityanath have been silent on the reports of floating bodies but claim the Covid situation has been “almost controlled” in their states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Vijayan writes to 11 chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states on vaccines ||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday wrote to 11 chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states seeking a united effort to press the Centre to procure Covid-19 vaccines and ensure free universal vaccination. “Wrote to 11 CMs in the spirit of Cooperative Federalism. Quite unfortunate that Centre absolves itself of its duty to procure vaccines, ensure free universal vaccination. United effort to jointly pursue our genuine demand is the need of the hour, so that Centre acts immediately,” Vijayan tweeted. In his letter, the chief minister said statements to the effect that the responsibility to provide vaccine entirely fell within the realm of the states defied the very basis of the cooperative federal system. “The need of the hour is a united effort from our side to put forth the genuine demand that the Centre should procure vaccine needed by the states and distribute them free of cost. This will be more cost-effective as well,” Vijayan said in the letter. “When the nation is passing through the second surge, it is quite unfortunate that there appears to be an attempt by the Centre to absolve itself of its bounden duty to provide adequate supply of vaccine to the states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
01-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Election cash heat on BJP ||Kerala police’s questioning of seven BJP functionaries in a nearly two-month-old carjacking and robbery case has intensified charges of money-laundering and election malpractice against the party. On April 3, during the Assembly poll campaign, seven men allegedly hijacked a car in which money was being purportedly taken from Kozhikode to Alappuzha by two men, at least one of whom has been identified by the police as an RSS official, Dharmarajan. A complaint about the crime in Thrissur district was, however, filed only on April 7 – a day after the state elections — by the other occupant, Shamjeer. He said the occupants were carrying Rs 25 lakh in cash, which the carjackers took away. Shamjeer did not mention any BJP links, and the party has denied any connection with the money. However, the sum of Rs 25 lakh falls within the limit that an Assembly candidate is allowed to spend on electioneering. However, unconfirmed media reports alleged the cash robbed from the car was Rs 3.5 crore, leading to accusations that it was unaccounted money that the BJP planned to use to lure rival parties’ MLAs. The speculation has gained strength with the special investigation team (SIT) saying that Rs 90 lakh had been seized so far from the 19 people with criminal backgrounds arrested in the dacoity case, registered with Kodakara police station in Thrissur. The SIT has questioned state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh, state office secretary G. Girish, Thrissur secretary K.R. Hari, district treasurer Sujay Senan, Ayyanthole area secretary G. Kasinathan, Thrissur office secretary Satheesan and Alappuzha treasurer K.G. Kartha. Kartha was grilled for over four hours after testimonies of some of those in custody and their telephone records showed they had contacted him several times after the heist, police sources said. They alleged that some of the accused had acknowledged spending the night before the heist in two hotel rooms booked by the Thrissur BJP office, implying an inside job. Salim Madavoor, national president of the Loktantrik Janata Dal’s youth wing, on Monday moved a petition before Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the Enforcement Directorate to take up the case, which he says comes under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Madavoor says he had earlier written to ED offices in Kerala and Delhi to probe the case. State BJP president K. Surendran has told reporters his party has no links with the case and that the police are taking a heist investigation “beyond their jurisdiction”. However, the incident seems to have triggered questions and resentment among party cadres, sparking infighting that led to a BJP worker getting stabbed and injured on Sunday. Police sources said two groups of BJP workers had got into an argument after one group blamed senior party leaders for the money-laundering controversy. This apparently led to fisticuffs when a BJP worker, Kiran, came with friends to get his Covid vaccine on Sunday in Thrithallur, Thrissur. A rival group member allegedly stabbed him in the stomach. Three suspects have been taken into custody and a search is on for a fourth, the suspected assailant. Kiran is in hospital. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan had in April complained to the Election Commission about alleged money-laundering by the BJP to sabotage the Assembly elections. The case has brought under focus Surendran’s pre-election claim that his party would come to power by winning just 35 of the 140 seats. Surendran had not explained how, but it was assumed the BJP planned to buy MLAs to grab power, a template it is accused of carrying out in several states, including neighbouring Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Home ministry showcause notice to Alapan under Disaster Management Act||The Union home ministry showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay for not attending a Prime Minister’s review meeting cites provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005, a move that is likely to embed the former chief secretary at the centre of a bitter dispute between the state and Centre. A home ministry official said the showcause notice was served on Bandyopadhyay for not attending a Prime Minister’s review meeting to assess damages caused by Cylcone Yaas, hours before chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced his retirement on Monday. Bandopadhyay, said the officer, has been asked to reply within three days to the notice that effectively opens up the senior and respected bureaucrat to the stringent provisions of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment of up to two or more years, depending on the circumstances. “… by this act of abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister who is also the chairman of National Disaster Management Authority in the aftermath of cyclone Yaas as part of his visit to the cyclone affected areas in the state of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, chief secretary, government of West Bengal, has acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directives of the central government and is thus violative of section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the letter reads. Bandyopadhyay, who has time till Thursday to submit a reply, has, however, been left with few options. He can move a high court or the Supreme Court if any action is taken by the Centre or any other authority. The notice has been served under Section 51 of the Act that specifies “whoever without reasonable cause refused to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the Central government or the state government or the National Executive Committee or the State Executive committee, shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and a fine or with both”. If it is determined that the action of a person, through obstruction or refusal to comply with directions, “results in loss of lives or imminent danger”, the conviction can be punishable with a term extending up to two years. A senior bureaucrat said the Centre’s decision to slap the Disaster Management Act on Bandyopadhyay was not surprising. “They could have issued the same notice to him on Saturday when the first notice was served. They knew he would not comply and waited till his retirement was announced to serve the notice under the Disaster Management Act. Technically, he is no longer in the protection of the state government,” said a retired IAS officer who has served in Bengal. A 1987 batch IAS officer, Bandyopadhyay was due to retire on May 31. On a request from the state government, the Centre had agreed to grant him extension for three months, starting from June 1. “When the order to recall him to Delhi came, the Centre did not cancel the earlier order granting him extension. For any disciplinary action as IAS officer the department of personnel and training can take any action against him _ like, say, withhold post-retirement benefits,” another former officer said, adding that the proceedings against Bandyopadhyay and the DoPT orders were not to be clubbed together. In any case, he explained, that the matter would not have been resolved amicably even if Bandyopadhyay had complied with the Centre’s order of May 28. “He would have to be given a post equivalent to chief secretary in Delhi. Since he hasn’t applied for secretary empanelment since he held the rank of joint secretary, he couldn’t be given that rank in Delhi. The government would have to appoint him as officer on special duty,” the officer said. Sources close to the government debunked chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clarifications on the controversy. “PM landed at Kalaikunda at 1.59 pm. Mamata Banerjee landed at 2.10 pm. It is clear that PM was kept waiting for Mamata Banerjee as he landed much before her,” ndtv.com reported an officer saying. Defending the move against Bandyopadhyay, sources said, he had ignored his constitutional duties. “Chief secretary is an All-India services officer. He chose to ignore his constitutional duties, as a result of which no presentation was given to PM and no officer of the West Bengal government attended the PM’s review meeting,” the officer added. “She knows that facts of the matter are against the chief secretary and his behaviour was such that it will invite strict disciplinary action. All India officers are not expected to be part of politics. Mamata knows all this and his retirement is a last bid to save him,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar takes dig at Mamata over skipping PM meet||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday stirred fresh controversy by saying "ego prevailed over public service" on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee skipping Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting to review post-cyclone damages on May 28. Dhankhar said the chief minister had called him before the meeting at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district and indicated that she won't attend it if Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari is present in it. "Constrained by false narrative to put record straight: On May 27 at 2316 hrs CM @MamataOfficial messaged 'may I talk? urgent'," Dhankhar tweeted. "Thereafter on phone indicated boycott by her & officials of PM Review Meet #CycloneYaas if LOP @SuvenduWB attends it. Ego prevailed over Public service," he said in another Twitter post. Besides Adhikary, Dhankhar and BJP MP Debosree Chaudhuri were present at the meeting. The chief minister said she skipped the meeting because "a BJP MLA has no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting". Adhikari has defeated Banerjee in Nandigram seat in the recent assembly elections. In a letter to the prime minister on Monday, Banerjee had written, "I wanted to have a quiet word with you, a meeting between the PM and the CM as usual. You, however, revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting." Banerjee had also mentioned in the letter that she had no objection to the presence of the governor and other Union ministers in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Deocha-Pachami coal mine project on govt land for now, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked top officials to start the first phase of Deocha-Pachami coal mine project on vacant government land and said her government would compensate adequately those whose land might be acquired later. “Now we are not taking anyone’s private land. We will process the first phase on the land of the state government lying vacant. If we need to take anyone’s land, I can assure you all, including my tribal and minority brothers, there is nothing to worry. We will not evict anyone but provide you with a house, school and a job,” said Mamata at her administrative meeting. The coal block in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar is spread over 11,222 acres with estimated coal reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for 1.5 lakh people, said sources. An official said 550 acres are government land. The state government has been bullish about the project since last year. The chief minister has said the project will not only benefit the local economy and give jobs but also secure coal supply for the state for at least 100 years. In an effort to take the project forward, former chief secretary Rajiva Sinha in July last year held a meeting with tribal leaders in Deocha to seek their cooperation and promised proper compensation. In her campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls, Mamata had stressed how important the coal block project was to her scheme of things. “We don’t need any private land in the first phase and if it is needed in the second phase, we will first talk to you (the owners). If the project is successful, there will be no scarcity of coal in the next 100 years. It will bring you a golden era. You people have nothing to worry as I am here as your guard,” said Mamata. Officials said Mamata spoke on the need to get work started as she was aware that the first phase of the coal mine can be rolled out on 550 acres of government land available at the project site. “Of the 550 acres, around 40 acres can be used immediately as there is no human habitation on the stretch....,” said a senior district official. The Power Development Corporation Limited (PDCL) has started a primary survey in a few areas of the proposed coal mine project to understand the compensation demands of the local populace. “The chief minister has given the directive to start the project today from Nabanna. We will follow the guideline of the secretariat to start the project,” said Bidhan Chandra Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate. Before the poll, BJP leaders started visiting Deocha-Pachami allegedly to instigate the people against the project. The saffron camp had also held several meetings with the villagers but the efforts went in vain. In her several public meetings, Mamata had also warned people not to fall in the trap of the instigators. “If someone instigates or provokes you, don’t fall for it. You need to believe that Didi is with you. I sacrificed a lot for Singur and Nandigram and I will be for you here too,” Mamata said. Rabin Soren, the secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, said, “We have no problem if the project starts on government land. Our only demand is that the government should engage in a dialogue with the owners before they take over private land.” Apart from Deocha-Pachami coalmine project Mamata also asked her officials to speed up projects like green city and sports city in Howrah’s Dumurjala as soon as possible. In 2017, the government had announced its plan to upgrade 125 municipal towns into green cities. However, the project worth over Rs 450 crore has not been rolled out. In 2018, the government had planned to set up a sports city in Howrah’s Dumurjala with a fund of around Rs 1,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee expresses dissatisfaction with ‘poor quality’ of development work in Digha||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the “poor quality” of development work in East Midnapore’s Digha and advised her officials to do more than just seek funds. “There was definitely some negligence in work…The construction (near) the sea beach has been blown away. There are no chairs (of concrete) that we had beautifully set up for visitors to rest. Stones on the walkway have been damaged. I saw that the stone blocks had been placed on concrete, which is not the way to do it. You had to set those deep and not just on the concrete base,” Mamata said and explained how she observed the faults during her visit to Digha on May 28 in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. “Work can last long only if the foundation is strong,” she added. Since Mamata came to power in 2011, she launched a slew of projects for Digha to enhance its standing as a tourist and business destination. The beach in the sea resort town was decorated and a marine drive-like road had been built to connect Digha with Mandarmani and Tajpur. On Monday, Mamata admitted that the beauty of Digha built during her tenure had been completely damaged by Cyclone Yaas and high tide. She directed the officials to get Digha back to its prior look by implementing plans properly. “The beauty of Digha has been damaged. Even shops on the beach that we built have been damaged....Even the shop of Biswa Bangla has been ruined. So, you have to make a good plan to repair those,” said Mamata. Mamata also asked her officials to finish work on the bridge to complete the part of the Marine Drive that remains incomplete.“We have built a Marine Drive that is 7km long. The 3.5km has already been constructed and if the bridge is completed then the rest 3.5 km will be completed.” I will request you to construct the bridge immediately,” said Mamata. In her meeting she asked to reconstruct the shops, and rearrange the stone blocks that had been washed away using the right technique and attitude. “Everything you do needs proper planning. But it will not be right if anyone seeks a lot of funds at this time. I think there is no need for huge funds, but you need a special attitude towards work,” said Mamata asking state and district officials to take care of fishermen and boatmen who suffered a lot due to the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Three-member committee to probe if BJP workers had to flee: Calcutta High Court||A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday directed the state government to set up a three-member committee to find out if some BJP workers had been forced to leave home in the aftermath of the alleged post-poll clashes in several areas of the state. The bench focused particularly on Calcutta’s Entally. The bench directed the inclusion of a representative of the chairman of the National Human Rights Commissio, a representative of the State Human Rights Commission and a member of State Legal Aid Services Authority in the panel. “If necessary, the committee members will help the persons to return to their respective residences and police will have to provide full assistance to them,” the bench ordered. The court order followed a petition by advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who had lost the Assembly polls as the BJP candidate from Entally. She had claimed that a large number of BJP activists had been beaten up and forced to leave their homes by Trinamul supporters after election results on May 2. In Entally, Swarna Kamal Saha of Trinamul Congress defeated Tibrewal with a margin of over 58,000 votes. Tibrewal in her petition claimed Trinamul workers damaged the properties of BJP supporters and tortured their kin. The case will come up for hearing on June 3. Narada case The hearing of a petition moved by the CBI, seeking shifting of the Narada case from a CBI court to Calcutta High Court, resumed before a five-judge bench on Monday. The hearing will continue on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||State BJP unit ‘unhappy’ with Delhi’s stand||The Centre’s recall of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to Delhi and the series of events that led to his superannuation on Monday have not gone down well with a section of the state BJP unit, and the incident is being seen as proof of the ever-widening rift between the national and state leaders in the saffron camp. Sources in the BJP’s state unit feel that central leaders of the party are carrying forward the mistakes of the Assembly poll campaign and continue to overlook the sentiment of the people of Bengal who think injustice is being done to Bandyopadhyay, a Bengali chief secretary. “There is no doubt that Alapanbabu is a decorated and able officer. What is being done to him is tantamount to harassment and citizens of the state aren’t taking it well,” a BJP state office-bearer said. “If the central leadership had discussed with us before going all out against Alapanbabu, we would have advised against it,” this source added. Several other leaders, speaking to The Telegraph, said “leaders in Delhi” were oblivious of the ground reality existing in the state. Top rungs of the saffron camp refuse to learn from the poll drubbing, several BJP leaders said. “The common Bengali isn’t happy with Alapanbabu being harassed. Neither is a major section of our own leaders. But Delhiwallahs refuse to accept that,” said a state unit leader of the BJP’s women wing. The leader reminded that the fuss over Bandyopadhyay’s recall had helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee establish, once again, that BJP was unaware of the Bengal reality. “Bengal might not have another Bengali chief secretary in a long time. Our leaders just proved Mamatadi right once again,” the leader added. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, however, accused journalists in Bengal of blowing the issue out of proportion. Ghosh said: “The government has failed to perform its duties during the cyclone…victims of post-poll violence have not returned home…The media is trying to deviate from these issues by focusing on Alapan.” Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said he was not aware of who in the BJP “think injustice is being done to Alapanbabu”. “If true, it shows there are some sensible people in the BJP.” The controversy on Alapan brought Trinamul critics CPM and the Congress on the same page. CPM leader Rabin Deb accused the BJP of trying to deviate attention from the Centre’s failure to control the second wave of the pandemic by harassing a senior IAS officer. “The chief minister has in fact been very courteous on this matter and had asked the Union government to rethink. Yet they didn’t reconcile,” Deb said. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said: “The chief secretary has turned down the extension offer and no disciplinary action can be taken against him. The Centre should not have recalled him.” “The state government and the CM shouldn’t complicate things any further because of the pandemic situation. The Centre and the state should work together in the interest of the people,” Bhattacharya added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay has guts, boldness, honesty, sincerity: Didi||At 5.11pm on Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s superannuation as Bengal chief secretary and his appointment as her chief adviser for three years. Mamata, who had held a virtual administrative review meeting and a brief news conference on the impact of Cyclone Yaas in the afternoon, had steered clear of elaborating on the developments regarding the chief secretary after she sent a five-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning. Bandyopadhyay was present at the administrative meeting, having not gone to New Delhi to report to North Block by 10am as the Centre had asked him to. However, after the Centre sent another letter to Bandyopadhyay ordering him to report to North Block by 10am on Tuesday, the chief minister appeared for an unscheduled news conference to make the announcement. “Shri Bandyopadhyay has superannuated from the afternoon of May 31, 2021, on his normal date of retirement…. Hence his services are no longer available to join the central government tomorrow (Tuesday). He did not resign; he retired, superannuated,” Mamata said. The chief minister added that state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi would succeed Bandyopadhyay as chief secretary while personnel and administrative reforms secretary B.P. Gopalika would be the new home secretary. It was clear that the decision was prompted by the Centre’s apparent unwillingness to stand down in the latest confrontation with Mamata’s government in Bengal since the BJP’s defeat in the Assembly election. Mamata said she could have prevented Bandyopadhyay from retiring and had him continue as planned with the three-month extension, and the Centre would not have been able to say anything. “But I did not force him; after he said he would like to retire on schedule, today, I permitted him,” she said, repeatedly underscoring the value of Bandyopadhyay’s service and the need for it to continue for Bengal amid the pandemic and in the wake of the cyclone, the grounds over which his extension had been sought and cleared earlier this month. “Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the bright officer… he has the guts, the boldness, the honesty, the sincerity, and his name will be forever in the history of India, about how a bureaucrat was victimised after his long service,” Mamata added. “I allowed him to be the chief adviser to the chief minister --- he will start his work from tomorrow --- for three years, not three months…. Bengal doesn’t know defeat. It is our moral victory, we never bowed our heads.” The Trinamul Congress chief called the Bandyopadhyay episode yet another “great blunder” by the Centre in its alleged efforts to bulldoze state governments and the federal structure of the nation. She demanded answers on the decision, which she called illegal and unconstitutional, wondering about the quality of the political counsel being offered to Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “It’s really a danger for the country… they are damaging the morale of the bureaucrats throughout the country…. Are bureaucrats their bonded labour? They are not,” she said. “There are so many Bengal cadre officers working for the Centre; if we confront like this, what will be the future of this country, Mr Prime Minister? Mr Busy Prime Minister, Mr Mann Ki Baat Prime Minister… what, do you want to finish me? Never, ever…. As long as people give me support, you cannot,” she added, accusing the Centre of adding “injury to the insult”. Mamata repeatedly accused the Modi government of having created the conflict over Bandyopadhyay simply because the BJP does not like her and remains unable to accept or respect the historic Bengal mandate. She lambasted efforts from the saffron ecosystem to discredit the mandate and even call for President’s rule since the results, while creating disruptions in the way of her governance amid the pandemic, even in the wake of the cyclone. “The most senior bureaucrat of the state, the chief secretary, you just call him away like that? It has never happened before since Independence. This is a matter of shame,” she said. “They think only BJP people are superhuman, (and that) everybody else, including the bureaucrats, will digest everything…. There must be end to tolerance now…. I had never seen such a cruel, merciless Prime Minister or Union home minister. Because they are against Mamata, they also attack the bureaucrats, not even sparing the chief secretary. This is too much,” she added. Mamata appealed to civil society across the nation, besides all state governments led by parties from the national Opposition, NGOs, and the bureaucracy to stand together and fight, as this was not just about an Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “This battle is for all bureaucracy…. Only the two-member (Modi and Shah) syndicate, that is the law? Even if they go to court, the court will also not give support as far as my knowledge as a lawyer goes,” she said. “They will regret this one day. For seven years, they binged on Dilli ka laddu, that’s why they are out to destroy the federal structure,” she added. “Having failed on all fronts in running this nation, with disaster in every area, they have nothing left to do, so they are trying to impose -- not even an Emergency -- martial law.” The chief minister said the BJP had been trying to “disturb” the state government relentlessly in her third term misusing its political power, but it was committing yet another blunder in the process. “We don’t mind. We will fight the battle. Ours is a pro-people government, they cannot stop us from working for the people…. They have no idea about us: we were born and raised in struggle, forged in mass movements,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee: State to write to Niti Aayog for shelter funds||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that her government would write a letter to the Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, seeking funds to set up 500 cyclone and flood shelters in the state, considering that natural calamities have become a regular feature in this part of the country. “We will write a letter to the Niti Aayog, seeking funds to set up 500 flood shelters and cyclone shelters in the state. Floods and cyclones are a regular feature now and that’s why more such shelters are needed,” said the chief minister during a virtual meeting with district magistrates and senior officials at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said that currently Bengal has a total of about 100 cyclone shelters in three the coastal districts of East Midnapore, South and North 24-Parganas with the corpus of the PM Relief Funds that had started in 2008. But the state administration believes that those shelters are not adequate as Bengal has started witnessing a cyclone every year since 2019, Fani, Amphan and now Yaas. “Earlier, the cyclones were not an annual affair. Cyclone Aila had hit the state in 2009 and after that there was  a big gap. Now, as cyclones are hitting the state regularly, the chief minister’s plan to set up more cyclone shelters is a timely one,” said an official. Another reason, cited by the officials, for more cyclone shelters in Bengal is that more and more people are being evacuated these days to prevent loss of lives. “During Amphan more than 16 lakh people were evacuated last year. This year, about 18 lakh people were evacuated. We definitely need more cyclone shelters to accommodate so many people,” said an official. This year, several school and college buildings had to be requisitioned to accommodate so many people during the natural calamity. “This year, it was easy as all schools and colleges were closed because of the pandemic. But we will face trouble in accommodating people from vulnerable areas in school and college buildings in future as people may stay more than two weeks in the shelters in case of flooding,” said an official. However, even though the chief minister has stated that her government would write to the Niti Aayog for cyclone shelter funds, many state officials were not hopeful of drawing attention of the central body. “Last year, we had drawn attention of the Niti Aayog for setting up stronger embankments in Sunderbans as relief and rescue related work in the area has become a national problem in the context of cyclones and floods. But we did not get any response yet on the issue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Alapan Bandyopadhyay retires as Chief secretary||Narendra Modi had to digest on Monday another defeat in Bengal less than a month after his party suffered a drubbing in the Assembly polls, with state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay refusing to accept the three-month extension offered to him by the Centre and retiring from service. Bandyopadhyay has opted to serve as chief adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for three years from Tuesday, rebuffing the three-month attachment with the Centre that New Delhi was unceremoniously trying to foist on him through an unprecedented step that smacked of political vendetta. “We wanted Alapan only for three months to take care of the pandemic situation, but see how they behaved…. Now I have managed to keep him for three years,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee told The Telegraph on Monday evening. The biggest victory, Mamata underscored repeatedly, has been won for the pride of Bengal. “It was proven one more time that they cannot dictate to or browbeat Bengal,” the chief minister said. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer who was due to retire on Monday, found himself in the middle of a tug-of-war between Modi and Mamata after New Delhi unilaterally attached him to the Centre through an order on May 28 after allowing him a three-month extension as Bengal chief secretary. That Bandyopadhyay did not opt for a stint in the capital — despite the order and a follow-up letter this afternoon — is being viewed as a setback for Modi. It is perceived that the Prime Minister wanted to teach Mamata a lesson by punishing Bandyopadhyay for skipping a meeting he had convened in Kalaikunda last Friday. Unlike the Assembly polls in which Modi lost to Mamata, the list of victors this time is longer: the bureaucrat himself, Mamata, the bureaucracy and the pride of Bengal. “Alapanda had played by the book all through his career and did the same on the last day…. He didn’t want an extension, but had agreed to lead the state’s battle against the pandemic for three more months because of a request from the chief minister. He chose to retire after realising that he cannot serve the specific purpose,” said a source in the state administration. As opting for an extension in service is the discretion of the person concerned, Bandyopadhyay cannot be faulted for refusing to present himself before the department of personnel and training in Delhi. “It was clear that the plan was to humiliate him by asking him to report to Delhi. By retiring gracefully, he didn’t let that happen,” said another source. The chronology of events since Mamata skipped Modi’s meeting in Kalaikunda on Friday can be seen as a political victory for the chief minister. It offers her another opportunity to highlight the Prime Minister’s perceived arrogance and demagoguery in dealing with the states at a time his Covid crisis management has drawn fire. Mamata has repeatedly explained that she went to Kalaikunda following courtesy and protocol and also met Modi briefly. In a letter to the Prime Minister, she explained in detail why she felt that he had breached protocol, which prompted her to skip the meeting. “A faceless Prime Minister with baseless logic is taking such decisions against Bengal,” Mamata told this newspaper, summing up New Delhi’s action on Bandyopadhyay. If Mamata’s assessment is read carefully, it is clear that she will use the controversy over the bureaucrat’s transfer to buttress her narrative that the BJP regime in the capital is anti-Bengal. In the by-election that she has to win and the civic elections that will follow, the Bandyopadhyay incident will surely add to the existing stock of ammunition in Mamata’s armoury. The other collateral benefit that will accrue to Mamata is higher levels of trust from the bureaucracy --- as the controversy has proven beyond doubt that she rallies around her officers --- whom she needs to deliver on her promise of governance. “It is also a victory for the bureaucracy in the state, which will be a morale-booster for the officers,” a bureaucrat said. According to the officer, had the reverse happened – with Bandyopadhyay going to Delhi and spending three months in ignominy – it would have been a blow to the IAS and IPS community and robbed them of the pride that’s an integral part of their service. “The incident establishes that even a diktat from the level of a Prime Minister can be contested on the ground of propriety and that’s a victory for the entire bureaucracy,” an officer said. Although most of the Bengal cadre officers, who had gone to meet Bandyopadhyay after the news of his retirement became public, were sad to see him go, they were relieved that a senior officer like him could not be bulldozed. The exchanges in the WhatsApp groups of bureaucrats indicated the sense of relief, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt allows shops to operate three more hours daily, between 12 noon and 3pm||The Bengal government has decided to allow shops selling essentials, mainly grocery, to operate three more hours daily, between 12 noon and 3pm, from Tuesday following appeals from across the state after the stricter restrictions were extended till June 15. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday that the information technology sector would be allowed to function with 10 per cent of their employee strength. On the shops, an official said: “Outlets selling essential items were initially allowed to operate between 7am and 10am. Further relaxation has been introduced to give the shop owners reasonable time to refill their stocks and also sell them.” Book shops will be allowed to operate between 12 noon and 3pm like garment shops and jewellery stores. “We were receiving requests to allow retail counters and book stores to open for some time. We had earlier allowed jewellery shops and garment shops to stay open between 12 noon and 3 pm. We are allowing these establishments to operate between 12 noon and 3pm,” Mamata said during a meeting with senior officials and district magistrates in Nabanna on Monday. Some officials said the stricter restrictions imposed by the state government on May 15 had helped the state bring down the daily positive cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 17,856 recoveries||Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 7,850 to 87,048 on Monday, as the state logged 17,856 recoveries, 10,137 new infections, and 131 deaths. The month of May was a mixed bag for the state in the second wave of the pandemic, as the first two-three weeks were a story of largely unabated surge in the outbreak, while the latter half — especially the last 10 days — showed reliable signs of a turnaround. Over the month, Bengal reported over 5.3 lakh new infections, but it was outweighed considerably by the 5.56 lakh recoveries. There were 4,097 Covid-19 deaths in May. “We began May with 1.16 lakh active cases, with the recovery rate at 84.68 per cent. We are ending it with 87,000 active cases, and a recovery rate of 92.55,” said a minister. In another significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 30th consecutive day, rising by nearly 8 percentage points. The national rate now is 92.03. Bengal now has 4.57 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with most active cases. “At the beginning of May, our daily positive confirmation rate was over 31 per cent. Today, it is barely 17 per cent,” said the minister. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. With 15,541 deaths in all this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.12 per cent at the moment, while the national figure is 1.17 per cent. Of the 131 deaths reported on Monday, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts in the state. Calcutta logged 1,324 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,376. The minister said that the two worst-hit districts were also showing signs of improvement. “At the start of May, these two districts had around 50,000 active cases between them. Today, it is down to barely 30,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s retirement creates ripples in administrative corridors||The administrative corridors in Bengal were shocked on Monday afternoon when the Centre overlooked  chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to the Prime Minister and she announced that chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was retiring without taking a three-month extension. Few in the administration expected matters to reach such a pass, especially after the chief minister herself wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to withdraw the letter that asked the chief secretary to be in New Delhi. “I was just shocked when the chief minister announced that H.K. Dwivedi would take over as the new chief secretary this evening. We had thought that the issue of recalling the CS would be resolved after the chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister explaining why the state needed his service for another three months, the tenure that was extended by the Centre itself,” said a senior bureaucrat. The developments that followed the announcement made by the chief minister suggested that the decision to allow the chief secretary to avail himself of his superannuation was taken in a hurry. “H.K. Dwivedi, who was the home secretary, was holding meetings with his department officials till late evening (on Sunday) before clearing some urgent files. In case of premeditated decisions, the officer who would take over as the next chief secretary would complete his work in the existing department much earlier,” said an official. A source told The Telegraph that the home department officials came to know that their boss would take over as the chief secretary on Monday just before the chief minister made the announcement at a media conference a little after 5pm. “We knew that Dwivedi Sir would be the next chief secretary. But it was unexpected that he would take over on Monday itself,” said a senior official. The state government issued the order shuffling IAS officers only late in the  evening. “B.P. Gopalika would be the new home secretary, it was announced by the chief minister. But the change at the top entails a series of reshuffles in other departments too. In normal situations, such orders are issued by the afternoon, not evening,” said another official. According to sources, the officials were almost certain that Bandyopadhyay would continue as chief secretary till 3pm when he attended a review meeting with the chief minister on the post-cyclone situation. “But things dramatically changed after the Centre sent another letter asking the chief secretary to report to Delhi on Tuesday, ignoring the chief minister’s requests. As the chief secretary decided not to accept the extension of service, a series of developments took place after the chief minister accepted the chief secretary’s request around 4pm,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee sends five-page letter to Narendra Modi on conflict over Alapan Bandyopadhyay||Mamata Banerjee on Monday morning sent a five-page letter to Narendra Modi on the conflict over Alapan Bandyopadhyay in an assiduous response to the Centre’s position on Bengal’s then chief secretary. The chief minister’s letter, drafted with careful thought and displaying sagacity, preceded the retirement of Bandyopadhyay on schedule without taking the three-month extension that had already been cleared by the Centre. A letter from the Centre’s under secretary Kuldeep Chaudhary, sent to Bandyopadhyay in the evening, made it clear that rapprochement with the Bengal government was not foremost on the Prime Ministerial agenda. Mamata called it yet another “great blunder”, taking exception to her letter not being responded to. The highlights of Mamata’s letter to the Prime Minister: Shocked and stunned: I must confess I am shocked and stunned by the unilateral order… asking us to release Sri Alapan Bandyopadhyay… so that he may join the government of India on May 31, 2021, the normal date of his superannuation. The decision seems to have been taken with mala fide intention and in hot haste. Legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional: The unilateral “order” comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the government of West Bengal, without any volition/option of the officer. The unilateral “order” comes without… meeting any of the pre-conditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and other applicable laws under reference. Post-extension change: I really do not understand what happened between your allowing extension to the officer as chief secretary… after Centre-state consultation to enable him to serve the state of West Bengal in these times, and your unilateral order (four days later) issued in contradiction to the extension granted by you. The Kalaikunda meeting of May 28: I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities. Local MLA of the BJP at Kalaikunda: I wanted to have a quiet word with you, a meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief minister as usual. You however revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view (based on my knowledge of the affairs of the state for about 40 years) that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting.   …An individual MLA, having no locus, attending the meeting  was unacceptable. “A local MLA” is believed to be a reference to Suvendu Adhikari who is now with the BJP. The Kalaikunda interaction: Finally, keeping aside my legitimate reservations, I entered the meeting with the chief secretary of my state to hand over our report to you… and then I specifically and expressly sought permission from you for us to leave for Digha… where a meeting was due and participants were waiting. You expressly permitted us…. Request for withdrawal: I therefore humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. Hope for cooperative federalism: I sincerely look forward to earnest federal cooperation in these grim times, the spirit in which I had flown to Kalaikunda…. People suffering: I am sure that you will not inflict further suffering on the people of this state by taking away the services of an experienced officer… whose continued presence in my state in these difficult times was accepted to be vital and necessary by your government even four days back. Appeal to conscience: I thus humbly appeal to your conscience and good sense, on behalf of the people of West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||North East||Covid: Assam govt makes it mandatory for hospitals to drop patients home ||The Assam government on Monday evening made it mandatory for hospitals to drop home people who have recovered from Covid-19 after a discharged patient was allegedly raped while walking back to her residence during curfew on the evening of May 27. The victim, in her forties, and her daughter were discharged from the Sapekhati Model Hospital in Upper Assam’s Charaideo district after they tested negative for Covid-19. They decided to walk home to Dangoikumar, around 20km away. On the way, two youths, who have since been arrested, allegedly abducted the woman and raped her around 7pm in a nearby tea estate. The daughter somehow managed to escape and mobilised help for her mother. A senior health department official told The Telegraph on Monday that instructions have been issued to all the districts to ensure the safety of discharged patients to avoid a repeat of the May 27 incident. The directives are: ⚫ Patients who have recovered from Covid-19 should be discharged before curfew hours. ⚫ Discharged patients who don’t have personal vehicles or couldn’t arrange one should be dropped home by the hospital. ⚫ If the number of discharged patients is more, drop them one by one, and if required by the next day, as it will be difficult to arrange separate vehicles for each of them. The directives were issued because the woman had reportedly requested the hospital to drop her home since they won’t get any transport because of the curfew imposed between 2pm and 5am in rural areas while it is from noon in urban areas. Curfew has been imposed to break the chain of transmission of the virus. Till Sunday, there were 52,448 active cases in the state. Condemning the incident, the state Congress said: “The mother and daughter were left to fend for themselves when lockdown was in force. Isn’t it the responsibility of the hospital and local authorities to see to it that the woman and her daughter reached their home safely?” However, the hospital authorities denied receiving such a request. “They were released before 11am but stayed back for lunch which was served at 1.30pm. Seven people were discharged that day. We don’t know when she left,” a doctor said. The woman, her husband and daughter had tested positive on May 21. The husband was released on May 25. Charaideo deputy commissioner Binita Pegu told this newspaper that she has ordered an inquiry into the alleged incident and has also issued a slew of directives to prevent a recurrence. “Henceforth patients have to be released in presence of guardian/family members and before 10am. Those having transport will be allowed to leave during curfew hours. Those without vehicles will be provided one by the hospital or by us. Once they reach home, they have to give in writing the time they reached home so we can ensure end-to-end safety,” Pegu said. Charaideo police arrested both the accused on Monday. “They are both under 30 years. The victim and the accused belong to the tea community but did not know each other. They will be produced in court on Tuesday,” Charaideo superintendent of police Sudhakar Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
01-06-2021||Opinion||Pakistan paradox: promising a peace it cannot deliver ||Hamid Mir, Pakistan’s popular talk show host didn’t mince his words after yet another journalist was beaten up by goons. But woven into the biting diatribe against the army’s efforts to browbeat the press was an additional searing critique of the Establishment’s hush-hush outreach to India. Left unsaid was the media’s scepticism over the manner in which Pakistan’s army and intelligence services arrogate to themselves, the right to ‘reset’ Pakistan at a time of their own choosing, while the effete civilian leadership has no choice but to play along. Delhi remained silent after the UAE envoy to Washington, Yousuf Al Otaiba openly talked about facilitating the December 2020 meeting in the Emirati city of Dubai, that led to the February cease-fire on the Line of Control; Implicit in that deafening silence is that Delhi may not have gone willingly. Pakistan, on the other hand, has everything to gain by playing along with the Gulf leaders, and the US, whose sole focus these last two years has been getting its last remaining soldiers out of Afghanistan. It is angling for the ultimate prize – a return to its former status as Washington’s pre-eminent ally in the region. Pakistan’s canny army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa who is driving the initiative has used every opportunity to reach out to arch-rival India and Afghanistan, countries. He smartly let out that the Dubai meeting was between his controversial top aide, the ISI chief Lt. Gen Faiz Hameed and Ajit Doval, India’s National Security Adviser – the two men at the top of the India-Pakistan strategic pecking order – to a select group of invitees at a six-hour Iftar in late April, knowing full well that it would be the talk of the town. The General didn’t stop there. He urged the group to go out and build a consensus on the need to make peace with India, saying he would like to be given a chance to explain ‘Pulwama’ –the 2019 suicide bomb attack on an Indian Army convoy that killed 40 soldiers -  personally to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The General, who first reached out to India by offering to open the Kartarpur Corridor, setting cameras clicking when he hugged Indian cricketer turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, told his audience that he felt the time for an India initiative was right. Delhi, faced with a two-front war with Pakistan in the west, and a newly aggressive China in the northern reaches, would be ready to meet Pakistan half-way, he said. Significantly, aides in the room let on that both sides were examining modalities - and concessions - on the main sticking point of Kashmir. On Sunday, in a clear about turn to show that both the ‘Deep State’ and the elected civilian leadership were on the same page, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan who has blown hot and cold (alongside his foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi,) until now, finally fell in line. He said Pakistan was ready to restart talks with India, provided it comes up with a roadmap on restoring the previous status of Jammu and Kashmir. Imran, who snapped ties with India, after Modi integrated Jammu & Kashmir into the Indian Union as a truncated Union Territory on August 5, 2019, by scrapping Article 370 and Article 35a, was signalling that he did not expect India to restore J&K’s status, before talks could begin, as he had insisted before. This is a major step, particularly as he raised the possibility of resuming trade with India, which he had baulked at only a few weeks ago. And in music to Washington’s ears, Imran said Pakistan was no longer looking for ‘strategic depth’ in Afghanistan, a reference to Pakistan’s  strategy of trying to take over its western neighbour. India, Pakistan and Afghanistan are clearly being nudged and prodded to mend fences by the US and its Gulf Arab allies. But for India, peace comes at a price. What does India gain by doing a deal with the ‘unelected invisibles,’ who can switch the jihadi switch on and off at will? Should Delhi – and Washington – be comforted by the head of Pakistan’s Army amplifying the eponymous Bajwa Doctrine, to ‘reset’ Pakistan, "divest the country of the terror tag," of being the nursery of jihad that preyed on its neighbours, and reinvent itself as a “normal” state. Can the general be taken at his word? It’s clear that  Bajwa is driven by the need to show that Pakistan is changing and will embrace its old role as Washington’s trusted partner in the region, even offering the use of Pakistan’s military bases to the United States, which is seeking to keep a token presence in the region as it exits the Afghanistan-Pakistan theatre after 20 long years. Both, the India peace offer that saw both sides announce a simultaneous cease-fire on the Line of Control in February, and the balancing act that Pakistan is now attempting in wooing Washington while trying not to alienate ‘iron brother’ Beijing is the brainchild of the Bajwa-Hameed duo. The appointment of Moeed Yusuf as the National Security Advisor, who has worked in Washington and knows his way around the corridors of power there, and is a favoured protégé of the military-intelligence cabal that calls the shots in Islamabad, was a further sign of the Army’s moving yet another pawn into place. But if the generals believe they will be able to control all their pieces in this elaborate chessboard, they may have to think again. Moeed had little answer when in a meeting with his American counterpart, Jake Sullivan, in Geneva, he was called out on Pakistan’s continuing destabilisation of Afghanistan. Sullivan, like Biden, is an old Af-Pak hand, and sees through Pakistan, playing both rogue and policeman. Pakistan has good reason to make peace.  It needs to urgently rebuild its bankrupt economy and scale down crippling military expenditure. Financial mentors Saudi Arabia and the UAE are back fighting in Pakistan’s corner. But for a free a flow of funds from the IMF and World Bank, Pakistan must be taken off the Financial Action Task Force grey list by proving it does not support terror. So far, Bajwa has stopped all infiltration across the LoC, but has done little to bring the mastermind behind the Mumbai 26/11 atttack, or Uri, and certainly not Pulwama, to book.  India would be doing itself no favours by backing off. The bigger question however is how far Modi is willing to go to make peace with Pakistan, and whether this will involve revisiting the status of J&K? An Indian insider said integrating J&K into the Indian Union was mainly done to shut down former US President Donald Trump's repeated offers to mediate. But, keen to win favour with Biden and facing criticism from US Democrats for jailing human rights activists, the government’s rabid Hindutva and anti-minority stance, and incarceration of political leaders in J&K, Delhi has been forced to change tack. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s recent visit to the U.S. which wasn’t exactly a love fest, drove home the message that while India is vital in countering China, it’s rivalry with Islamabad cannot impact the United States’ Pakistan policy. In return for cooperation, the Pakistan Army chief wants the US to pressure India to step back and accept Pakistan’s primacy in the Afghanistan endgame.  That’s what he’s been driving home to the US Special envoy on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad and UK chief of defence staff Sir Nicholas Carter. Knowing that with Pakistan under greater international scrutiny, he can no longer use its leverage over the Afghan Taliban and Kashmiri militants to continue the destabilisation of Afghanistan and India, Bajwa has claimed a complete U-turn and publicly pressured the Taliban’s top leadership to participate in talks with Kabul’s Ashraf Ghani government. But the huge spike in violence in Afghanistan in recent weeks must raise questions over the Pakistan Army’s control of the Haqqani Network and Taliban, run through the Quetta, Miramshah and Peshawar Shura. Within Pakistan’s own borders too, the army has to contend with Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and other Taliban affiliates. The TTP exploded a car bomb outside a hotel in Quetta, when the Chinese top envoy was visiting the Baloch capital. It’s but natural, that there is scepticism in Kabul on what the US-UK brokered Afghan-Pakistan peace accord will entail. But what makes Modi’s inner circle believe the Pakistan Army chief, who speaks of forging a “strategic re-set of ties with India”, is the right man to do business with?  At the April 23 dinner Bajwa did say that India and Pakistan must “bury the past, resolve the Kashmir dispute through peaceful means,” with his aides’ adding that while Islamabad was still upset over India unilaterally changing the special status of J&K, it may not be averse to accepting the revocation of Article 370, but not 35/A, as that invited changes to the demography of the state. Big talk. Will India acquiesce to the big ask - when and if Islamabad declares Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, Gilgit and Baltistan as Pakistan’s fifth province? Bajwa’s aides, interestingly, claim that India, in a major confidence-building measure has already reduced troop strength on the LoC. High-level Indian Army sources insist the three strike corps are very much in place. Washington insiders say they are pushing for incremental next steps - a Doval-Yusuf face-to-face, resumption of diplomatic ties, reconvening the South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation as the backdrop for an India-Pakistan summit. The 2016 SAARC meet which Pakistan was set to host, was scrapped after Delhi, irate at the Uri terror attack, refused to attend. But can Modi, weakened by his mishandling of the pandemic and several electoral setbacks, deliver? Agreeing to talk to Pakistan, under pressure is one thing. But, agreeing to cede ground on Kashmir? That may be far harder to sell to the bhakts. The received wisdom has always been that only the powerful Pakistan army and the right-wing BJP can arrive at an India-Pakistan accord. In the past that hope has never been turned into reality. Or is that what Modi's banking on? Are the leaders on both sides only making the right noises with no real intention of arriving at a permanent solution? (The writer is a foreign policy analyst and author of The Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
01-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Courtly view||It is disconcerting when a ruling on alleged sexual assault focuses on the behaviour and habits of the complainant. It is a step backward, as though reforms in the laws against sexual assault never happened. Beginning with the Criminal Law (Second Amendment) Act, 1983, evolved after a prolonged struggle by activists after the judgments on the Mathura rape case of 1972, reforms continue till the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013. That old problems still bedevil sexual assault cases was made clear in the judgment of the Mapusa district and sessions court in Goa that acquitted the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka of sexual assault alleged by a co-worker in 2013. The acquittal was based partly on the court’s finding that the police had failed to build a convincing case. But the disconcerting part of its reasoning was revealed in the reported statement in the judgment that the complainant did not demonstrate trauma or tearfulness — she did not ‘behave’ like a sexually assaulted woman. A rape survivor has no normative behaviour; it is just a stubborn notion that no law or campaign has been able to remove fully. The argument here is similar to one in the Mathura judgment: the woman did not scream or cry. Besides, her clothes were not torn. Where, then, was proof of resistance? The idea of submission being consent is dangerous. Yet the Goa sessions court acknowledged that the accused was powerful and could have dominance or control over his accuser. This is fundamental to sexual harassment in the workplace. It has been repeatedly pointed out that the clothes of the complainant — reportedly described in detail in the Goa judgment — or facts such as her relationships with men, or habits such as smoking or drinking or ‘flirting’, are irrelevant to her accusation. The Supreme Court made this clear in a 1996 ruling. A workplace relationship is especially complicated: that the complainant phoned her alleged attacker after the event may not have a simple explanation. The position of social and professional power that an accused occupies cannot be ignored when scrutinizing ‘glaring’ inconsistencies in a complainant’s testimony. Irrespective of the direction the case takes on appeal, it cannot be denied that making the habits, appearance and behaviour of the survivor central to the case sets an unfortunate precedent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Endless horror: Yaas and Covid ravaged Odisha||Sir — As if battling the devastating second wave of Covid-19 was not enough, the Odisha government now has to deal with the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas, which battered parts of the state last week (“After the storm”, May 28). The intensity of the cyclone was such that more than half a million people had to be evacuated to cyclone centres and scores of villages were inundated by the tidal surge. Both the chief minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, and the prime minister, Narendra Modi, have undertaken aerial surveys of the affected zones and a review meeting between the Centre and the coastal states has been held to assess the damage. The geographical location of Odisha makes it an easy target for tropical cyclones. It was left in tatters when Fani pummelled the coastal districts in 2019. Last year, it battled Amphan and, now, this year, Yaas has left devastation in its wake. Now the immediate task before the government is to undertake post-cyclone reconstruction in the midst of a raging pandemic. The cyclone has not only led to an immediate loss of life and property, but has also further exposed the administration, mainly relief and rescue workers, to the coronavirus. In spite of imposing a statewide lockdown from May 5, Odisha is yet to see any significant improvement in the situation. Although the lockdown period has since been extended, it seems unlikely that the Covid situation in the state will improve anytime soon. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The cyclone, Yaas, which made landfall on the country’s east coast last week, left a trail of destruction in Odisha and West Bengal. According to initial estimates, hundreds of villages and towns were inundated, lakhs of homes destroyed, property washed away or lost and infrastructure ruined. Moreover, with thousands of trees uprooted, the impact of Yaas on the ecology is bound to be severe as well. However, the low death toll suggests that the state governments were effective in their efforts to minimize the loss of lives. Lakhs of people were evacuated from their homes and housed in shelters. Considering the severity of the storm and the population density in the affected areas, it seems that the governments did the best they possibly could. Successive disastrous cyclones are a reminder that India will now have to step up its preparation for natural calamities. According to the report, State of the Global Climate 2020, the cyclone, Amphan, that hit Bengal in May last year, was the costliest cyclone on record for the North Indian Ocean, amounting to economic losses of $14 billion. Around 2.4 million people were displaced in the aftermath of Amphan. The people of the country cannot be expected to recover from such massive losses on a yearly basis. The Centre and the states must come together and devise a comprehensive plan that would put in place certain anticipatory measures so that losses can be minimized in case of natural calamities. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — We often forget that natural calamities like cyclones, which result in the massive felling of trees, are just as disastrous for animals as they are for people. Spring is nesting season for birds, and summer storms and cyclones are calamitous for the nesting and the young. While there is little that can truly be done to save the birds, it is time we at least recognize that a range of losses are incurred by other species as well during a cyclonic storm. Sourav Malik,South 24 Parganas Bleak future Sir — For years, a rising global population had been a matter of concern, but now, as we move towards a population bust, the future seems just as bleak. While some nations continue to see their population rise, most countries, including Italy and South Korea, have witnessed a sharp drop in their fertility rates. Although a decrease in population will ease pressure on resources, it will also result in a decline in the working age population, thus putting an unprecedented strain on the economy. As the ramifications of a bust begin to appear, countries must now prepare for a different kind of calamity. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: It’s itching||Could it be that India is experiencing the first signs of the proverbial seven-year itch with the Narendra Modi government? What else can explain the apparent nervousness in the rank and file of the Bharatiya Janata Party after completing its seventh year in power? There are, of course, several reasons for the public disenchantment. The death and devastation caused by the second wave of the coronavirus — Mr Modi had declared victory over the virus rather prematurely — lie at the heart of this collective anger. The Centre’s apathy and unpreparedness — India continues to struggle for vaccines, oxygen, hospital accommodation and, in its hinterland, for quality healthcare — may have eroded the prime minister’s popularity considerably. Mr Modi’s focus on the ‘ten-fold’ rise in India’s oxygen production in his latest Mann ki Baat episode is unlikely to improve his popularity ratings even though it must be admitted that none of his political rivals can hope to replace him just yet. The debacle in healthcare has been matched by a precipitous slide in the economy. The gross domestic product growth has shrunk dangerously; unemployment is sky-high; the informal sector decimated. The autonomy of India’s institutions, the vibrancy of its democracy, the glue of social cohesion — the hallmarks of the foundational idea of India — are under unprecedented threat. None of this would have bothered India’s ruling regime had it not been for the spreading stain on Mr Modi’s Teflon-tinted image. In spite of the best diversionary tactics employed by the prime minister and his minders — the pliant media are among them — there is a growing perception that Mr Modi has failed in his responsibilities. This could be a matter of worry for the BJP because the party has always managed to rely on Mr Modi’s image to tide over such other disastrous experiments as demonetization. This over-reliance on Mr Modi’s charisma on the part of the BJP is a testament to the increasing centralization within the party. A dip in the prime minister’s public endorsement — the man and the party are now one — could lead to a dip in the BJP’s electoral fortunes. The results of the rural polls in Uttar Pradesh and the debacle in Bengal may herald ominous signs. The other worry would be a hostile middle class that has been one of the BJP’s staunchest allies. If the Opposition can mobilize the middle class along with other disgruntled communities — farmers, industrial and informal workers and influential caste groups — Mr Modi could well be looking at a rather rough road ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||The road ahead for Assam||After much speculation over who would be Assam’s new chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma finally took charge as the fifteenth chief minister of the state. It is no secret that Sarma has been restive for over a decade to serve the people of Assam as chief minister. Now, he must deliver. Unlike his predecessor, Sarma is a polarizing figure. Yet he is also known to be efficient, articulate, and influential within the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Northeast. What is the mann ki baat of the ordinary Assamese people that Sarma must listen to? As a fellow Assamese, a native of Majuli river island — the constituency of Sarma’s predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal — and a researcher on Assam’s socio-environmental issues, I want to draw the new government’s attention to some of the critical issues facing the state. One of the biggest crises confronting Assam is the twin disaster of flood and riverbank erosion. Assam’s politicians (and some activists) may be obsessed with ‘Bangladeshis’, but the real force that is changing the shape and size of the state is riverbank erosion, turning thousands of families homeless every year. Between 1954 and 2012, the Brahmaputra Valley lost about 7.4 per cent of its total landmass — roughly 3,860 square kilometres — to riverbank erosion. This is around 80 sq km of land lost annually. On top of it, floods wreak havoc every year, sometimes in multiple waves in a year. It is important to note that flood and erosion are part of the natural landscape in Assam. But they have become disastrous on account of human interventions. It is high time that the government moves beyond technocratic fixes, such as building embankments, spurs, and cognate infrastructures. Numerous studies from around the world have now shown that embankments and other such hydraulic interventions have turned the rivers far more volatile, thereby worsening flood, erosion and other such disasters. Governments must be more imaginative in water governance and river management in particular. There is a lack of adequate understanding of the biophysical and social processes of the Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The Assam government must invite and support research projects on the vast waterscapes of Assam. To explore more lasting solutions to the crises of flood and erosion, the government must engage with scholars, technocrats, and activists and incorporate both science and local traditional knowledge. Furthermore, the conversation needs to shift from ‘flood control’ to ‘living with flood’, which will necessitate not just a reorientation of policies but also spatial reimaginings. In the run-up to the recent assembly election, the home minister, Amit Shah, said, “We want to make Assam flood free... Modiji wants to make Assam flood free.” Nothing can be more unscientific and unsustainable than any attempt to make Assam flood-free. Floods and the Brahmaputra valley landscape are co-constitutive. We must acknowledge that and find and revive ways of living with flood (and erosion) intelligently. Second, rural Assam needs urgent attention and thoughtful interventions. The Assamese farmers are one of the most disadvantaged agrarian populations in India. They are crying for government support in the form of capital, innovation, and better access to market. Rural Assam is also haunted by steady outmigration of its youth to big cities in search of employment. ‘Rural development’ needs a new approach, a new direction. It is not simply about building roads and bridges, nor is it about the proper implementation of a few employment-generation schemes. Given the state of the rural economy in Assam, it calls for massive investments in asset creation and a holistic approach to rural livelihoods. Livelihoods are much more than income; they are meaning-making endeavours in people’s lives. They are a cultural enterprise. Again, in this realm, the Assam government would do well to involve scholars and practitioners in the field of rural development and livelihoods and not leave the matter to the bureaucrats alone. Third, despite representing a party that champions Hindu majoritarianism, the new government must always remember Bhupen Hazarika’s immortal lines: “Mahabahu Brahmaputra mahamilonor tirtha... (O mighty Brahmaputra, the pilgrimage of great confluence...)” As Hazarika reminded us, Assam has been a land of assimilation for centuries. It is the land of Sankardev and Azan Faqir, Bishnu Rabha and Jyoti Prasad Agarwala. In the recent past, the communal rhetoric around the National Register of Citizens seems to have overshadowed, if not threatened, Assam’s glorious past and its cultural heritage. A deeply divisive communal rhetoric was also deployed by the BJP in the run-up to the election. The new government must protect and nurture Assam’s rich and unique social fabric and not tamper with it. This brings me to the final point. And that is about the space for dissent. During the recent election campaign, Sarma openly said, “We always want good and strong opposition for it is good for democracy...” I hope he meant it sincerely. The BJP, unfortunately, does not have a good track record of allowing dissent, as evidenced by the arrest of numerous activists and student leaders around the country since 2014. In Assam too, the last government was hard on its critics — Akhil Gogoi’s prolonged imprisonment is a case in point. Let us hope that Sarma will live up to his word and create spaces for constructive criticism and dissent. Let there be many more Akhil Gogois and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samitis. That will strengthen, not weaken, the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Blood sport||On February 23, 2021, a report in The Guardian stated that more than 6,500 migrant workers from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have died in Qatar since it won the right to host the World Cup 10 years ago — a direct consequence of abuse and exploitation of migrant workers, including ‘heat stress’ as reported by the United Nations in 2019. This figure was compiled through data made available by the governments of these countries. While these 6,500 deaths cannot be ascribed directly to the building sites, a significant proportion of migrant workers were in the country because of the approaching World Cup. The total number of casualties linked to the upcoming 2022 World Cup is, of course, higher as it does not include people from other countries, such as the Philippines. The vast majority of these deaths are filed as ‘natural’ since no autopsy is provided. As The Guardian and Amnesty International pointed out, there is a distinct lack of transparency in recording deaths in Qatar. In the wake of these revelations, before their qualifying game against Gibraltar, the football players of Norway sported T-shirts defending human rights. German players followed suit before their game against Iceland on March 25, as well as the national teams of Denmark and the Netherlands. Are these the first signs of a possible boycott of the World Cup? Although Norway may not qualify, the interesting feature of this movement is that it has been initiated by the players themselves. There have been numerous attempts — some have been successful — to boycott mega events such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games. Indeed, these events, which generate global media exposure, constitute an echo chamber equally for activists and for the organizing country or city. They also provide authoritarian regimes or dictatorships with an opportunity to whitewash their crimes and build international goodwill. Two years after the junta seized power in Argentina, it organized the 1978 World Cup. Attempts to initiate a boycott failed. In France, a committee for the boycott of the World Cup was launched, hoping to persuade the French national team as well as other European teams not to participate in a tournament, which was held under a ruthless military junta — the River Plate stadium, where the final was played, was one kilometre away from the largest torture centre of the dictatorship. Although the boycott was unsuccessful, the awareness for the crimes of the junta was certainly enhanced by the European campaign. More significantly, as shown by the social anthropologist, Eduardo P. Archetti, Argentina later developed ambivalent feelings towards the event, torn between the joy of a country obsessed with football having won the greatest prize of all and the anguish generated by the torture and the death of about 30,000 of its citizens. The most resounding failure of boycott in sports is provided by the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games. Activist groups, particularly in the United States of America, had been advocating a boycott of the Games, notably in opposition to the anti-Jewish laws. But the president of the International Olympic Committee, Henri de Baillet-Latour, with support from the president of the American Olympic Committee, Avery Brundage, managed to uphold the idea that the Games should be left independent of politics. Token gestures were proffered on both sides (there was one half-Jewish athlete in the German team, while Jewish athletes or athletes of colour were made officially welcome, even as they were closely monitored by the German police). In 1934, the US confirmed its participation in the Games, which probably prevented other nations from boycotting them. The only gestures of dissent were taken at individual level. The staging of alternative Games, first in Barcelona and, then, in New York, flopped. While a boycott by the main nations would have prevented Hitler from using the Games as a powerful propaganda platform, the decision was in keeping with the general policy of appeasement towards Nazi Germany. More recently, a boycott of the 2014 Sochi games had been advocated to oppose Russia’s anti-gay legislation, which was in contradiction of the Olympic Charter — it states the incompatibility of any form of discrimination with membership of the Olympic movement. While no boycott took place, some athletes opted for shows of dissent. Nor was this the only issue connected with the Sochi Olympics — it is likely that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uzbek workers died on Olympic construction sites. On the other hand, the two successful boycotts of the Games, Moscow 1980 and Los Angeles 1984, were prompted by a strong political stance taken by the American administration. The 1980 Games were boycotted by 62 nations, officially to oppose the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, as well as to look back at the participation in the 1936 Games as a mistake. But the US administration had been contemplating a boycott well before the invasion of Afghanistan as a way of addressing human rights issues in the USSR. Similarly, the boycott of the 1984 Games by the Soviet bloc countries was brought about by the fear, played up by the Reagan administration, that the US would help athletes defect to the West. So why do boycotts fail? The first reason is the alleged ‘ignorance’ of the political situation in a given country. Even football players who went on to have a political career, such as the Argentinian, Ricardo Villa, claimed not to have known about the reality of torture and repression in the country at the time of the 1978 World Cup. This connects with the larger argument, heralded by many Olympic officials following the founder of the Olympian movement, Pierre de Coubertin, of the apolitical nature of the Olympic Games and of sports in general. This enduring myth suggests that sports are ahistorical, universal, and the purveyors of peace and fair play. Ignoring all of the national, economic, and, indeed, political interests involved in the organization of and participation in global sporting events, the leaders of international sports tend to repeat the mantra that politics and sports do not mix. The neutral dimension of sports is systematically put forward, under different forms, which may include arguments in favour of ‘opening up’ political regimes thanks to sporting events, or invoking Olympic values and ideals in the face of political protests. In the absence of strong national leadership on the issue of boycott, these arguments tend to win the day. Where does this leave the prospect of a possible boycott of the Qatar World Cup? From the beginning, Qatar’s bid has given rise to grave concerns. The surprising awarding of the most important football competition to a country with no footballing history and an indifferent national team, customary accusations of sleaze and corruption in the awarding of the tournament, the possibility that a summer competition could be played in a country with temperatures in the high 40s, the ecological disaster of building air-conditioned stadiums (not to mention a new airport, roads, hotels, and a new city, which will host the World Cup final), and the allegations of support of extremist groups in the region are now compounded by the tragic human costs of building the World Cup facilities. Will the fact that the threat of a boycott originates from the players themselves, or that the very organization of the competition is tainted with the blood of the workers, bring a successful outcome for the boycott? In the absence of a strong political stance, such as that of the US at the end of the Cold War, this possibility is, sadly, doubtful. Alexis Tadié is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends lockdown till June 10, but eases curbs||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday extended the partial lockdown, also known as Health Safety Week, till June 10, 6 am but announced a number of relaxations in travel and trade. All the 24 districts have been split into two categories on the basis of Covid-19 infections to allow business activities as part of the unlocking process. It also scrapped mandatory e-permits for intra and inter-district movements, thereby allowing free access to people in their individual vehicles but ban on public buses will continue to be in force. As many as nine districts have been placed under the high infection category. They include Bokaro, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur (East Singbhum), Deoghar, Hazaribag, Garhwa, Gumla and Ramgarh. “In these districts, shops related to jewellery, garments and footwear sector will remain closed and remaining all will be functional,” informed an official following a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. In the remaining 15 districts, all kinds of shops will be allowed to function. However, malls and multi-brand shops will continue to remain shut. “All shops across the state will only be allowed to operate only till 2 pm,” read the official note. All other curbs announced earlier such as closure of educational institutions, social & religious gatherings, avenues of amusement & entertainment, dine-ins at restaurants among others remain unchanged. Notably, the government first began lockdown on April 22 and went on to gradually increase the curbs in form of extensions. The current phase of the partial lockdown was due to expire on June 3. But considering the dip in overall covid-19 cases and fatalities across the state, government has begun the unlocking process in a phased manner to support livelihood. Covid toll touches 5,000 The Covid toll in Jharkhand reached 5,000 as at least nine more patients died during treatment on Tuesday. The active caseload, however, dropped further down in the state as at least 1,449 patients recovered from the infection while 609 people were found infected on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). As per the bulletin, as many as 8053 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Tuesday. East Singhbum on Tuesday reported 113 fresh cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district also reported three of the nine deaths on the day, which took the Covid toll there to 1010, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, on the other hand, reported 72 cases and two casualties on the day. As per government data, as many as 2,266 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Tuesday evening, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 170. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 24,085 residents, while the second jab was administered to 5023 beneficiaries, a separate bulletin from NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum flags off 'Vaccination Express' vehicles||Four 'Vaccination Express' vehicles with jab doses and healthcare workers were flagged off on Monday to fan out across East Singhbhum district and step up the immunisation drive among those over 45. Present on the occasion at the district collectorate at Sakchi were East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar,  JMM's Potka MLA  Sanjeev Sardar and Manoj Jha, personal secretary of health minister Banna Gupta. Two of the vehicles (Innova) carrying Covid vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) left for rural areas of Ghatshila and Potka, while the remaining vehicles will go around urban areas of the district. "Four Vaccination Express vans with the Covid vaccine will now be available at people's doorstep with trained health workers," said deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, adding that the vaccination will cover people of above 45 of age group. Health department officials said Vaccination Express will also help immunise elderly people who are unable to travel. "The vehicles with vaccines and trained health staff will go to various localities in urban areas and rural blocks where people can get vaccinated," said A.K. Lal, civil surgeon of East Singhbhum district. He said that if required more such vehicles would be introduced for the success of the Covid vaccination drive in the district. According to health department sources, in all 3,68,793 people have been vaccinated in East Singhbhum. Of these, 3,02,610 have got their first dose. Only  66,183 people are fully vaccinated in the district. Notably, the number of Covid positive cases which had crossed the daily mark of 1,000 in the first three weeks of May, has dropped considerably in the district during the last few days. Last week, the number of positive cases for six consecutive days dropped below 100. But, on Monday positive cases again witnessed a slight  rise. As many as 283 new positive cases were reported with eight casualties. The 283 new cases reported on Monday took the district’s total tally to 50,131 reported since the beginning of the pandemic last year. According to a health bulletin the recovery rate of the district rose to 96.04 per cent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city resumes vaccine drive for 18-44 age group||The vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age-group is expected to resume from Thursday after a consignment of 7,000 doses of Covaxin is scheduled to reach the steel city on Tuesday. The programme for the 18-44 age-group at government-run centres was suspended for over a week, causing anxiety among residents. Moreover, the number of persons registering for the vaccine is much greater than the age-group of 45 years and above. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said the slots for the beneficiaries will be allocated as a fresh lot of vaccines reach here. "The district administration is going through a crisis of vaccines for the 18-44 years age-group due to short supply of the vaccines. But the administration is making all efforts to procure the vaccines so as to keep the drive for this age-group regular. As of now we are going to get 7,000 doses of Covaxin for resumption of the drive shortly, "said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The deputy commissioner said the vaccination drive for the 45 years and above is going on smoothly. "Since the last 10 days, I was trying to get a slot online for the vaccine. Since May 25, no slot is being allocated. It is not known when I will be able to get vaccinated, "said Amit Singh, 23, a resident of Kadma to The Telegraph Online. Tata Steel employees and their dependents are being administered the vaccine at Loyola School and Dhatkidih Community Center. Whereas those belonging to 45 years and above are getting the vaccines at the Dhatkidih Community Center, the ones belonging to the 18-44 years age-group are getting the vaccines at the Loyola School. At present, 3,02,610 individuals have been given the first dose and 66,183 have received their second dose in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Munda Park staff face salary crisis during lockdown||The Birsa Munda Park’s employees and shopkeepers are facing the economic stress of the state-wide lockdown due to its closure since April 22. The staff members including eight gardeners, five swing operators, two parking lot staff, two counter clerks, two toy train operators and 1 electrician have not received their salaries for the last two months. The shopkeepers at the park, with almost negligible income since March last year, are being asked to pay rent during the lockdown. “We had to undergo a similar situation during the first phase of lockdown when we faced salary discontinuation from August 2020 to November 2020 and again faced a similar situation from December 2020 to March, 2021,” said Subal Mahto, one of the oldest staff members at the park. “Barring the brief solace of around 52 days from March 1 2021 to April 22, 2021 we are facing financial difficulties during lockdown since the first phase of lockdown of March 2020,” said Subal and added the park maintenance has also been affected during lockdown due lack of provisions like diesel. “We were very hopeful for better days of park to return ever since April 2021 when regular shows of the newly installed laser fountain was launched in the park but all our hopes were dashed on ground with beginning of second phase of lockdown since April, 22, 2021,” said Paresh Mali a gardener of the park. Bittu Sao, a shop keeper of the park said, “We are the worst victim of the lockdown as despite the continuous closure of over 11 months, we are being compelled to pay the rent during the closure period.” “We have written to both Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and park management requesting for the waiver of the rent of lockdown period and if no steps are taken we will be compelled to approach the chief minister in Ranchi to intervene in the issue,” said Sao. “Dhanbad Municipal Corporation expressed its inability to pay salaries due to lack of funds and we are waiting for their response to the salary crisis and will have to ultimately approach the district administration,” said park manager Niwas Kumbhkar. Established in 2009 on 25 acres of land at Nawadih area of Dhanbad at the instruction of then Deputy Commissioner, Ajay Kumar Singh the park is equipped with a host of facilities including seven swings, 10 slides, a toy train, a vortex (Illusion ride), a caterpillar, a dragon train, a Dhum Jhula, a triple slide, six seesaw, one tree swing beside the seating arrangements in the form of six FRP recliners and 20 concrete recliners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city health centre set for hospital upgrade ||The district health department has roped in Karnataka's Manipal Hospital Group for converting the Dhanchatani Primary Health Centre, located on the outskirts of the city about 4km away from Telco, into a hospital. The government primary health centre, built at a cost of around Rs 5crore three years ago, is yet to be inaugurated. Health department officials said after elaborate discussions with Manipal Hospital Group, they plan to start the hospital in the next three months. A section of local residents led by Congress's Kolhan spokesperson Jammi Bhaskar had recently approached health minister Banna Gupta and East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar demanding the inauguration of the hospital at the primary health centre. "We initiated steps so that a hospital could be started at the health centre which has the necessary infrastructure. It will immensely help local people who can get better health care facilities," said Bhaskar. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said, "A team of the health department led by me and a representative of Manipal Hospital inspected the primary health centre on Monday and examined the possibilities of starting it as a full-fledged hospital." He said that during the inspection, the team went around the approach road and took stock of electricity, water, ambulance service and other necessary facilities. Health department sources said a meeting with Manipal Hospital authorities on the hospital project has been scheduled for next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans district-level teams to manage ICUs for children ||The Jharkhand health department has asked all 24 district administrations to constitute a six-member team of doctors and nurses to undergo training in managing neonatal intensive care units (NICU) and paediatrics intensive care units (PICU) for treating children with severe Covid-19 symptoms, officials said on Tuesday, explaining that the decision was taken in view of a possible third wave of infections. The team in each district will comprise two child specialist doctors, two medical officers and two staff nurses, Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s IEC, said. Once the districts send in names of team members, the government will start training programmes for the teams to ensure that each district has trained manpower for managing ICUs for children, he added. “Intensive care facilities for adults and children are different, and we need to ensure that each district has caregivers trained to treat children who are admitted in NICUs and PICUs,” Tripathi said. National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla addressed a letter to chief medical officers of all districts recently and asked them to send a list of team members by Tuesday. The training programme, as per the letter, will be conducted online as well as offline. “It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 might affect people in the age bracket of 2 to 18 years, and it is imperative to prepare for this wave well in advance,” the letter stated. While there is no data available on how many children have been infected by the Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far, the Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS) being carried out by the state government found that at least 28 of the 776 people who tested positive for Covid-19 during the ongoing survey were children. As per data shared by the health department, at least 25 of the 28 children were in the age bracket of six to 18 years, one was in the age bracket of two to five years and two in the age bracket of zero to one year. It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children and at least 9,000 of them may need intensive care. Jharkhand, however, has only 125 child specialists and is focusing on training more doctors and nurses to treat children, officials said. Apprhending a third wave, the Jharkhand government has set up special ICUs for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind that it would have an impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress on 'Mission Vaccination' in rural areas||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee is crafting an election-like strategy to kick off a door-to-door campaign in rural areas against vaccine hesitancy so that more and more rural residents can be convinced to take the jab. The party, which is a part of the ruling alliance with JMM and RJD, has constituted a task force under the aegis of agriculture minister and Jarmundi MLA Badal Patralekh  and is gearing up to launch the drive on or after Thursday, June 3, the day when the current phase of Covid restrictions is set to end, party workers announced on Tuesday. As a first step, the Congress will run a social media campaign titled, "Speak up for vaccine" on Wednesday for creating awareness about the benefits of taking jabs to curb the rampant spread of the coronavirus. Senior party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “Although the state administration is already trying hard to motivate people in rural areas to take the Covid-19 vaccine and adopt Covid appropriate behavior, there is widespread apprehension among villagers. As a political party which is in the government we have decided to press our resources to create awareness about vaccination.” Teams have been formed in districts and blocks. “District level teams will be supervised by the respective district president and office- bearers.  In each team, besides party workers, we are keeping local panchayat representatives, religious leaders and social workers for better communication and engagement with people,” he said. As per state government data till Monday night, out of a target of 83.86 lakh, 34.92 lakh had got the first dose of the vaccine. Similarly, against a target of 37.31 lakh, just about 7.13 lakh have taken their second dose. Officials said that the biggest problem the state government was facing was in the vaccination of those above 45. There have been  instances where health workers have faced stiff resistance from villagers in hamlets of Khunti, Mandar (Ranchi) and Gumla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand promised 10 lakh vaccine doses for 45-plus in June ||The Centre on Monday promised to provide over 10 lakh vaccine doses for residents above the age of 45 years in Jharkhand in June, health officials said on Monday amid an ongoing shortage of doses meant for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Jharkhand, officials said, was expecting around 5.8 lakh doses in June for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The vaccination rate for beneficiaries in this age group has been slow in the state with around 15,000 people getting the first jab daily on an average. In stock now is only 1.35 lakh doses for the 18+ category of beneficiaries. “We have been assured supply of 3,33,770 doses of vaccine in the first fortnight of June and 6,77,510 more in the second fortnight. The vaccine doses will be provided in installments,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing in Jharkhand. Jharkhand continued to report more than twice as many Covid recoveries against fresh cases of infection on Monday, causing a drop in the growth rate of Covid-19, but over a dozen deaths kept the state's Covid mortality rate above the national average, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by NHM, as many as 831 people were found infected by the coronavirus in the state on Monday while 1,816 Covid patients recovered on Monday. The active caseload in the state dropped to 8,907, while 14 deaths took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4,991. East Singhbhum reported 283 cases, the highest among all districts. However, at least 411 Covid patients recovered in the district on Monday, bringing the active caseload there down to 316. East Singhbhum also reported eight of the 14 deaths recorded on Monday, which took the toll there to 1,007, the NHM stated its bulletin. Ranchi reported 61 cases against 276 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 2,463 by Monday evening. The district accounted for three Covid deaths on the day which took the toll here to 1,555, the highest in the state. The district also accounted for more than 30 per cent of the active caseload in Jharkhand. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 50,338 residents and less than 2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.37 lakh people have been infected by the Coronavirus in Jharkhand and more than 95 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. The state on Monday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 29,597 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,313 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkahnd traders seek extension of business hours||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Monday called for extending business hours, allowing trading of “seasonal merchandise” and abolishing the e-pass system for vehicular movement within the state in response to chief minister Hemant Soren’s tweet seeking suggestions on the process of relaxing restrictions in place to control the spread of Covid-19. Soren’s tweet earlier in the day indicated that the state government was in favour of either discontinuing the ongoing five-week lockdown or allowing more relaxations if it was extended further. Underscoring that the state was able to control the spread of Covid-19, Soren said that “in the struggle between life and livelihood, our focus will now be on the latter” and invited suggestions on the process of “Unlock-1”. “Since lockdown can’t continue indefinitely, we have to be engaged in different economic activities while taking precautions for checking the spread of the infection,” federation president Praveen Jain Chabra told The Telegraph while welcoming the chief minister’s decision. Since the intention is to avoid crowds, it is desirable that business hours be extended beyond the present 2pm deadline so that customers get more time to buy necessary things without crowding the shops, he argued. “The business establishments dealing in seasonal merchandise such as clothes and dresses for marriage and electrical items like fans, coolers or air-conditioners for summer should be allowed to open immediately,” Chabra further said, adding that otherwise the traders will have to wait for the next session resulting in their capital getting stuck. The e-pass system for vehicle movement within the state should also be withdrawn to facilitate smooth running of businesses, he added. “We will, however, formally communicate our views after an executive committee meeting, to be held this evening, takes the final decisions on those points,” Chabra said. The Covid situation has improved in the state during the partial lockdown that was introduced on April 22 and extended, in phases, till June 3 morning.The number of active Covid cases that stood at 35,826 on April 22 came down to 9,906 on Sunday evening, while the infection rate also dropped from 11.66 per cent to 1.58 per cent during the period. The recovery rate which stood at 78.89 per cent, less than the national rate of 85.60 per cent, on April 22 also improved to 95.58 per cent, more than the national rate of 91.30 per cent, during the period. However, with 3,368 deaths reported due to the virus during the period, the mortality rose from the earlier 0.90 per cent to 1.47 per cent, while the national rate was 1.20 per cent. “Yes, the situation has certainly improved. We now have to handle about one-third of the total number of patients that we had earlier,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, who heads the Covid-19 task force at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. Asked how can the spread of Covid-19 infection be checked if the lockdown is lifted, he said: “All should now behave responsibly.” Covid-appropriate behaviour like the use of masks and sanitisers and maintaining social distance have be strictly followed by the people while going out, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jesuits question decision to vaccinate Covid-positive Stan||Jesuits are planning to submit a petition to the Maharashtra home department against the alleged callous approach of the Taloja Central Jail authorities in administering Covid-19 vaccine to octogenarian priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy despite him showing coronavirus symptoms. The decision was taken after the incarcerated Jesuit priest tested positive for Covid-19 at the Holy Family Hospital in Bandra, Mumbai, on Sunday noon. “We will be writing to Maharashtra home minister (Dilip Walse Patil) tomorrow (Tuesday) on the callous and negligent manner of the Taloja Central Jail authorities in giving vaccine to Father Stan Swamy on May 18 despite him suffering from fever. The jail authorities later told his lawyer (senior advocate Mihir Desai) that Fr Stan underwent the rapid antigen test (RAT) and as the report came negative, they gave him the vaccine. However, as he had fever and Covid symptoms, they should have gone for an RT-PCR or other accurate confirmatory test. We are worried about Fr Stan who is already on oxygen support and has been diagnosed Covid-positive at the hospital,” said Father Joseph Xavier, director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, who is coordinating with Jesuits on Fr Stan’s condition and is regularly in touch with him at the hospital. Experts also said vaccine should not be administered to persons showing Covid symptoms. “Even if there are mild symptoms, vaccine plans should be postponed. It can totally be catastrophic if you take vaccination when your body has an infection. Even if there is an iota of doubt that you could be suffering from an ailment, one should go for an RT-PCR test. Even if the report is negative they should hold on instead of rushing to take vaccine shots. There is no emergency and studies have shown that if you delay the vaccination, it is better. The immune response is better if the vaccine is delayed till up to 12 weeks,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, head of the critical care department and medical director, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Ranchi. He said conducting the rapid antigen test on a person showing Covid symptoms was fundamentally wrong. “The government strictly stipulates that the RAT cannot be used for diagnosis of Covid. The test can be used for diagnosing somebody negative after they have been positive,” said Dr Mishra. Bombay High Court had on Friday directed Taloja prison authorities to shift Fr Stan Swamy to the Holy Family Hospital in Bandra for 15 days. He was shifted to the hospital late on Friday where he was put in the ICU on oxygen support. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The high court in its order said: “It is not in dispute that the appellant’s age is 84 years and according to findings recorded by a team of doctors from JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. However, due to the present pandemic situation, and influx of patients, it may not be possible to give attention to the appellant in JJ Hospital.” The court had allowed Fr Frazer Mascerenhas, former principal of St Xavier’s College, Mumbai, and parish priest of St Peter’s Church in Bandra, who is Fr Stan’s friend, to visit him at the hospital according to the facility’s protocols. “At the moment we are collecting the facts before approaching the court in this connection (administering vaccine to Fr Swamy). We will press for interim bail after the high court re-opens in June,” advocate Mihir Desai, Fr Stan’s counsel, told The Telegraph. Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency from his house in Namkum near Ranchi on October 8, 2020, and has been in Taloja Central Jail since October 9. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
01-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Notices served to 55 private hospitals for violating fire safety norms||Bokaro: The district health department has started taking action against the private hospitals, nursing homes, dental clinics and diagnostic labs operating without a proper fire safety system. After conducting a survey, the health department on Monday served notices to 55 private hospitals and other centres asking them to make necessary arrangements within 15 days or face legal action. Majority of these medical institutions are situated in the township of Bokaro Steel Plant. Civil surgeon, Dr A.K. Pathak in the letter wrote, “To ensure 100% compliance of fire safety norms according to the prescribed standard within 15 (fifteen) days, otherwise relevant action will be taken against the concerned under the Clinical Establishment Act 2010.”. However, obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department for the private hospitals and other health providers operating in Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is not easy. “Private hospital, pathology lab, diagnostic centers and nursing homes running in Bokaro Steel City falls under the category  of “restricted trade” under company rules and such a trade cannot be run from a leased premise without prior written permission of the lessor (BSL),” said a BSL officer. Before obtaining NOC from fire department, the health institution should have to get approval from BSL, which several times earlier had served them notices directing them to close down their operations. In February, 2020 Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has also raised concern over the violation of bio-medical wastes by the private hospitals and nursing homes operational in BSL township. However, for obtaining fire NOC, these medical institutions should have to apply online going through the website. Bokaro Fire Station in-charge Satyendra Pathak said, “We had conducted fire safety audit of all the private hospitals in April. 55 hospitals and nursing homes were found running without complying with fire safety norms. This is a matter of concern for the patient in those hospitals and also for the doctors and other personnel working there. These hospitals should have fire safety as per the prescribed standard norms.” (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: A farmer died in a road accident on Monday near the Kothar Petrol Pump of Ramgarh police station area. Sub Inspector Sonu Kumar said, "Amjad Ansari,30, a farmer of Jariyo, was returning on his scooty from Ramgarh. An LP truck coming from Bokaro crushed the rider in a collision. He died on the spot. As soon as the incident was reported, the family of Amjad Ansari reached and caught the driver. Police took possession of the truck and its driver and helper." After the accident, the family of the deceased beat up the truck driver and helper. Social worker Umesh Kushwaha said that the driver and the helper of the truck were heavily intoxicated. The truck was on its way to Ramgarh from Bokaro. Police have seized the truck. Amjad Ansari’s body has been sent for post-mortem. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Bhuli based property dealer Sahabuddin Siddiqui on Monday lodged a complaint with Dhanbad police regarding extortion demand by Aman Singh, an accused in the Niraj Singh murder case of 2017, who is presently lodged in Hotwar jail of Ranchi. Siddqui informed police that he received two whatsapp messages from one Chhotu Singh, a member of Aman Singh’s notorious gang demanding extortion money of Rs 50 lakh and threatened to kill him if he failed to pay the money within 72 hours. Earlier, Ashraful Hasan also known as Lala Khan, a Wasseypur based property dealer was killed by unidentified criminals on May 12, when he was heading towards his house on a bike. The name of Aman Singh also figured in the murder of Ashraful Hasan. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Five people at a wedding party sustained injuries from a bee attack in Jeruadih village in Tatijharia block, around 35km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Villagers said someone targeted the bee hive with a stone. The injured were sent to a local health centre while the marriage was solemnised at Dharmpur Shiv temple. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A joint team of district police and 26 Battalion CRPF recovered an Improvised Explosive Device planted by suspected Maoists under a culvert at Khasmahal area under Gandhinagar police station, said SP, Chandan Kumar Jha on Monday. “Security personnel, acting on a tip-off conducted a raid at the spot and found active IED planted under the culvert situated on a main road. It is difficult to say at this point of investigation about who has planted the IED, but though the area is a Maoist stronghold, their involvement cannot be denied,” said the SP. Sources suspect Maoists strategically planted the IED near the culvert to trigger a blast targeting security personnel patrolling the area. The IED was about 12.5kg, which was diffused at the spot by the bomb disposal squad of CRPF. The district police have intensified their vigil in the area. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
