02-06-2021||Calcutta||Ex-students and retired teachers can turn to South Point School for breath of fresh air||Former students and retired teachers of South Point can turn to the school if they need help to catch their breath. The South Point Ex-students’ Association is set to provide rent-free oxygen concentrators for emergency use. Current teachers and staff members can also avail themselves of the scheme. “Since the school building is not in use, we, from the ex-students’ forum, were thinking of ways to use the space in the fight against Covid-19. That’s why we launched a walk-in RT-PCR swab collection at the school in association with a private diagnostic clinic in the second week of May when infection and requirement for the test were high. The oxygen scheme now will instill confidence in many that they have somewhere to turn to in an emergency,” said Krishna Damani, the president of the association who is also the vice-chairman of the school’s managing committee. Christened Oxy Point, the scheme will start on Thursday with five machines. “We have purchased 10litre concentrators though they cost much more than the 5litre and 7litre ones. This way we can support patients with greater requirements of oxygen,” he said. The machines have been kept at the high school in Ballygunge Place and five volunteers are the contact persons. The service will be available from 8am to 9pm. Former students seeking to take home a concentrator would need to get their application endorsed by a life member of the association. “That way we will know the person to be a bona fide ex-Pointer,” Damani said. They will also need to collect the machine from the school themselves and buy the pipe and the mask. The school will keep some in stock only for emergency situations. “We are offering the machines for a short period as we want to help as many as possible.” While ex-students will have to pay Rs 5,000 as refundable security deposit and another Rs 500 as sanitisation charge, the service is free for serving and retired teachers. The school has a care wing run by former students. They will deliver the machine at the doorstep. “We have already lost two current teachers and three other staff members to Covid. Several ex-teachers have also succumbed to the disease,” Damani said. The association plans to buy five more machines and are asking alumni to donate funds. “Within the first hour of posting the appeal, we got almost Rs 10,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Two men open fire while fleeing after snatching gold chain and bracelet from jeweller||Two men on a motorcycle opened fire while fleeing after snatching a gold chain and a bracelet from a jeweller in a residential area in north Calcutta’s Baranagar on Tuesday morning. A woman and her son who had stepped out of the house hearing the jeweller’s cries for help ran back in after they heard the gunshots and the bike-born men threatened to shoot them. Pabitra Barick, in his early 50s, was parking his two-wheeler outside the house of his uncle Amarendranath, who had passed away a few days back, on Sambhu Nath Das Road around 11.35am when he felt a hand around his neck. Barick turned and saw a man holding his gold chain. The man asked him why he had abused his mother. “I was dumbfounded. I’ve never abused anyone,” Pabitra told Metro. “That was probably meant to leave me bewildered for a few seconds. Before I realised what was happening, the man whisked out a revolver and snatched the bracelet from my left hand.” The snatcher then ran towards his partner who was on a bike. Barick alerted his cousin Sourav and aunt Tapasi and the two stepped out. The attackers asked them to go back inside. When Saurav refused, the man with the revolver opened fire. When Tapasi tried to walk down, he fired another round in the air. “Ebar kintu gaye marbo (This time I will target your body),” the man said. The mother and son ran inside. Police said Barick ’s family owned land in and around Baranagar. Barick owns a small jewellery shop in the locality, which is dotted by several such shops, the police said. “I don’t think this has anything to do with my business. Possibly, these youths have run out of money during the pandemic and were looking for a soft target,” Barick said. A team of officers from Baranagar police station, which is probing Tuesday’s incident, has started scanning CCTV footage from cameras fitted on almost every other gold shop in the locality. “The registration number of the two-wheeler in front is illegible and the one at the back is partly covered by the hands of the pillion rider,” said an officer of the police station. “We will trace them nevertheless.” Split by BT Road in the middle Baranagar on the northern tip of Calcutta has a considerable population of goldsmiths and small-time gold traders working out of small shops and establishments spread over at least five wards of Baranagar municipality. “After Bowbazar, this part of Calcutta has possibly the highest concentration of goldsmiths and gold shops with close to 50,000 people working out of this area. This is the first time that we have witnessed such an incident,” said Dilip Narayan Basu, a member of the board of administrators of the Baranagar Municipality from Ward 21. “Several shop owners and traders have been calling me up since asking if they should be worried. This is unbelievable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Health clinics will not administer Covaxin first doses till fresh supplies arrive||The health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will not administer Covaxin first doses till fresh supplies arrive as the stock of the indigenously developed Covid vaccine is running low, officials said on Tuesday. The civic body is administering Covaxin from 41 vaccination centres run by it, but only to second dose recipients aged 45 or above. An overwhelming majority of them had taken their first doses at private hospitals. Those recipients had to queue up at government vaccination units for the second dose because most private hospitals had suspended inoculation after May 1, the day the central government rule requiring them to buy doses directly from the manufacturers came into effect. The private hospitals that halted the drive said they had failed to procure doses. “We do not have adequate stocks of Covaxin, which is why we have restricted administration of the vaccine to second dose recipients. Administration of the Covaxin first dose will resume once we get adequate supply,” said Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic health department as a member of the CMC board of administrators. An official said that if the civic body gave the Covaxin first dose now, it might fail to administer the jab to the second dose recipients who have become eligible for it. Besides, as the supply of Covaxin is uncertain, the CMC does not want to push first-dose recipients towards any uncertainty by administering them the home-grown vaccine. “We are giving priority to second-dose recipients. We want to ensure that those who got the Covaxin first dose get the second on time. We have ample supply of Covishield to give as first doses,” said the official. Since Monday, the CMC has been vaccinating different age groups at different hours. People who are 60 or above and cannot book slots through the CMC chatbox are getting vaccinated with Covishield between 9am and 1pm at 101 civic vaccination centres. Those who are booking slots are getting vaccinated with Covishield at the same centres from 1am to 4pm. The second dose of Covaxin is being administered at over 40 vaccination centres throughout the day. Those who are in priority groups like hawkers, transport workers and shop owners are being vaccinated in about 12 dedicated centres across the city. The CMC is yet to start inoculation of people in the age group of 18-44, barring those who are in priority groups. “We did not want to have so many divisions and priority groups. This had to be done since there is a shortage in vaccine supply. Had the supply been steady and adequate, we would have vaccinated anyone who is above 18,” said the official. Board of administrators member Ghosh told Metro that they were trying to start vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group soon. “A large shipment of vaccines is supposed to arrive this week. We are hoping we will be able to start vaccinating everyone above 18 after it arrives,” he said. Suspended for a day Covid vaccination for those above 60 would remain suspended at the civic health clinics on Wednesday because children will be vaccinated as part of the universal vaccination programme, an official said. Vaccination of priority groups from the dedicated centres will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 lockdown: Mixed response to afternoon shop rule||An apparel store on Theatre Road was closed. Another on Camac Street was open. A liquor store in Ballygunge was open. Another in Chandni Chowk was closed. Less than a fifth of the bookstores in the College Street area opened. The hawker zones of Gariahat and New Market were deserted. There was no uniformity in how retail stores on Tuesday reacted to the new rule that they could stay open from noon to 3pm. Police’s interpretation of the rule and transport curbs were also a big impediment to opening the shops in the afternoon window. The Telegraph drove around the city and here is what it saw: Rule “Retail shops in addition to those already notified to be allowed to a degree in the below mentioned time frame vide earlier orders shall also be allowed to remain open during 12 noon and 3pm,” said the notification issued by the state government on Monday. Until Monday’s notification, jewellery and sari shops were allowed to stay open from noon to 3pm, mainly because of the marriage season. But some stores selling readymade garments used to open in the afternoon window, too. “Absence of clarity” in the nature of retail shops that could open between noon and 3pm led different shop owners and the law enforcing officers to execute the order in different ways. “There is no clarity on how to execute the order. A large number of store owners are calling up seeking permission to remain open between noon and 3pm. But we have kept them on hold and requested them to wait for a few more days,” said an officer in south Calcutta. However, many shops in north and west Calcutta were open in the afternoon on Tuesday. “We are allowing the shops, other than the ones that were open between 7am and 10am, to operate in the afternoon,” said an officer in south-west Calcutta. Several officers feel it would be difficult to force the shops that are allowed to open in the morning as well as in the afternoon to close for two hours in between. Apparel On Tuesday, among the ones that were open in the afternoon was a store selling sportswear on Middleton Row. “There are hardly any customers. But being back in business feels good,” said an employee. A franchisee of a menswear brand near the intersection of Camac Street and Theatre Road remained shut on Tuesday. “We are sanitising the store. We need to conform to a set of SOPs before we can open. We should open from Wednesday,” said the manager of the store. Some other garment stores said they would start operating in a day or two. But several others said the lack of transport options was the main hurdle to opening because the employees would not be able to turn up. Books Of the 550-odd book stores in the College Street area, less than 100 had opened on Tuesday. Many of the store owners come from the suburbs. The suspension of local trains and the lack of adequate transport options prevented them from coming to work. The owner of a store selling CBSE and ICSE books who lives in Sodepur, in North 24-Parganas, reached the shop riding a two-wheeler on Monday. “Opening the stall and setting things up took a lot of time. There were hardly any customers,” said the owner. Liquor Several liquor shops were open between noon and 3pm on Tuesday. But the queues were missing at the counters. There were two customers in front of a store in Kasba around 1.30pm. Stores in Ballygunge and Chowringhee were no different. But from Esplanade to Behala, many stores continued to remain shut, mainly because of transport curbs. “I am trying to arrange for a temporary accommodation for at least two employees by this week so that they can open the store,” said the owner of a store on Diamond Harbour Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University Students’ Union to spend Rs 5 lakh for welfare activities||Funds earmarked for students’ activities like fest and freshers’ welcome at Presidency University will be used to provide resources to a healthcare unit treating Covid-affected children. Presidency University Students’ Union, which will spend the money on the treatment, will also offer scholarships to underprivileged students of the university. Of the Rs 7.05 lakh in its kitty, the union will spend Rs 5 lakh on the welfare activities. An official of the university said the decision in this regard was taken last week at a meeting of the students’ welfare board. The meeting was attended by the university’s dean of students, Arun Kumar Maity, among others. Another official of the university said that after receiving the proposal from the students’ union, they held talks with the Institute of Child Health (ICH) in Park Circus. Forty per cent of the corpus (Rs 3 lakh) will be transferred to the institute. Deeprajit Debnath, an assistant general secretary of the students’ union, said “it was the call of the hour that we dedicate resources” to help those facing challenges. “Events like fests, freshers’ welcome can wait. Even if the campus reopens, we don’t want to spend money on these celebrations. The funds will be transferred to the Institute of Child Health, which is setting up more beds for children who are becoming more vulnerable to the disease.” Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, the director of the institute, said “cases of children getting infected with Covid are being reported during the second wave”. “We have 30 beds in the Covid ward. To add beds we need funds. The gesture of the students is laudable. We hope this will inspire many others to come forward.” A member of the students’ union said they would give scholarships to students of Presidency based on their family income. He said many students were encountering financial constraints following salary cuts or job loss. “Many of our students are from districts. Some of them have been facing extreme financial hardships over the past 15 months. Since we have limited funds, we will give scholarships to those who are among the worst sufferers,” he said. The students’ activity fund is created with contributions that students make at the time of admission. The students’ union has appealed to the university to refund the semester fees to students facing financial constraints. A student has to apply with a proper income certificate and other valid documents to seek a waiver. “If approved, the fees will be refunded to the bank account of a student,” a university official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||‘Stretch between Park Circus and Park Street-AJC Bose Road turned into two-way corridor’||The stretch between the Park Street-AJC Bose Road crossing and the Park Circus seven-point crossing has been turned into a two-way corridor for autos and buses from 7am to 1pm, the Calcutta police commissioner notified on Tuesday. The order will be implemented once the Covid restriction on the movement of public vehicles is withdrawn, police said. Till now the stretch used to follow the traffic system like Park Street and allowed city-bound (east to west) traffic between 7am and 1pm and EM Bypass-bound (west to east) vehicles from 1pm till 10pm. There are no traffic flow restrictions post-10pm. On Tuesday, the stretch was notified as a two-way corridor between 7am and 1pm for autos and buses. It will remain reserved for Bypass-bound vehicles from 1pm to 10pm. Several other roads have been turned into one-way corridors across the city, the police said. The list is available in the “traffic restrictions” section of the Calcutta traffic police website: kolkatatrafficpolice.gov.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation opens safe home for Covid-19 patients in Behala polytechnic||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will open a safe home for Covid-19 patients at a polytechnic in Parnasree in Behala this week. It will cater to Covid patients with mild or no symptoms from Behala, Parnasree, Jadu Colony and adjoining areas. Senior officials of the civic body have finalised arrangements to accommodate 100 beds on the Behala Government Polytechnic campus on Upendra Nath Banerjee Road. “A team of CMC doctors will visit patients twice a day. There will be a team of nurses, too,” said an official of the CMC. A person who has tested positive for Covid will have to get in touch with the local health clinic of the civic body to get accommodation at the safe home, a CMC official said. The civic body is going ahead with the decision to start a safe home in Behala as the area lacks a facility like this. “We are starting this safe home though Calcutta is witnessing a dip in the number of cases so that we are ready for any eventuality,” an official said. A little over 1,000 positive cases were reported from the city on Tuesday compared with around 4,000 on May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Drive-in vaccination unit set to open at Quest Mall||Drive-in vaccination against Covid has been planned at Quest Mall and is likely to start on Friday, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said. Once the facility starts, people of age 45 or more can get their first jab while seated in their cars from 10am to 5pm. The civic body is yet to start inoculation of people in the 18-44 age group. Only Covishield will be administered at the mall, on Syed Amir Ali Avenue, off the Park Circus seven-point crossing. Officials said the drive-in vaccination had been planned primarily for the elderly and the ailing who may find it difficult to get out of a car and wait at a vaccination centre. In a drive-in vaccination facility, the recipients need not step out of their cars. “We have decided to start drive-in vaccination at Quest Mall. We are trying to start the service on Friday,” said Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic health department as a member of the CMC’s board of administrators. “The decision as of now is that the facility will be available to people above 45. Those in the 18-44 age group can opt for the service if they belong to any priority or potential superspreader group,” Ghosh said. One has to book a slot for drive-in vaccination through the WhatsApp chatbox opened by the civic body, which is also accepting bookings for over 100 ward health clinics of the CMC. Prospective recipients have to type ‘Hi’ and send it to 8335999000 to start the booking process, which comprises a series of interactive steps. “We will include Quest Mall as a Covid vaccination centre among other options. It seems Quest Mall will be added as an option on Thursday. We are awaiting a final nod from the CMC,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which designed the chatbot. To book a vaccination spot at the drive-in facility, one needs to provide the registration number of the vehicle in which she or he will travel. “We will give a 30-minute window to those who will book slots at the drive-in facility. If someone turns up too early, he or she will not be allowed in. This rule aims to ensure that the parking area does not get clogged,” said the SeMT official. The recipients, he said, will be advised to register on the CoWIN portal before heading for the mall. A maximum of four persons per car can take the jabs. Two-wheelers will not be allowed now, the SeMT official said. An official of Quest Mall said they were approached by the CMC to provide space for the drive-in vaccination. “We are awaiting a formal communication from the CMC,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
02-06-2021||Calcutta||Police officers find hotel CCTV lead in ATM fraud case||Police officers probing the ATM fraud said they had found evidence that some of the suspects had stayed at a hotel in Topsia and checked out after May 22. Inputs that Calcutta police have received from their counterparts in Faridabad suggest that a man arrested by the Mujesar police of Faridabad district in Haryana, in connection with a similar offence a few months ago, was a foreign national. It is still not clear whether the Faridabad gang had operated in Calcutta. Till now, the city police have received seven complaints of fraudulent withdrawals totalling around Rs 2 crore from ATMs of a private bank. The gang allegedly withdrew the money after detaching the ATMs from the bank’s server by setting up a proxy server. “Faridabad police arrested a foreign national in connection with a similar case. But we are yet to get any confirmation whether the same gang was involved in the crime here,” said an officer of the detective department of Calcutta police. CCTV footage from the hotel where the suspects had allegedly stayed has been collected. Lalbazar officers have learned that before the attacks in Calcutta, similar crimes were committed in Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Delhi. Till now, it has emerged that the gang that executed the ATM robberies would camp in a city for a few days and then shift to another city before their crime could be detected. “Prima facie, it appears that the gang keeps shifting locations. The crime is detected only when the company hired to refill ATMs tallies the sum withdrawn with transaction statistics from the bank. By the time the discrepancy in the figures is spotted, the gang would have fled. It seems they attack two ATMs a day on an average,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
02-06-2021||Business||Sensex slips 85 points in closing trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped 85 points on Wednesday, tracking losses in ITC, HDFC twins and Infosys amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 85.40 points or 0.16 per cent lower at 51,849.48, while the broader NSE Nifty inched up 1.35 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,576.20. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, Asian Paints, TCS, HCL Tech, HDFC and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Auto and Maruti were among the gainers. "Ahead of the MPC policy, domestic market continued its volatility with a mixed bias. Selling was witnessed in financials, IT and FMCG stocks but it reduced towards the close of trading," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Weakness across US and Asian markets also added to the negative trend, he noted. "PSU banks attracted buyers in hopes that the government will soon finalise the list for privatisation. In the policy, RBI is expected to focus on economic growth by maintaining the status quo on policy rates and ensuring liquidity while keeping an eye on the inflationary pressure due to rising commodity prices," Nair said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the negative territory, while Tokyo and Seoul rose. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.98 per cent higher at USD 70.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a largely negative trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 309.54 points or 0.60 per cent lower at 51,625.34 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 70.45 points or 0.45 per cent to 15,504.40.  Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by ITC, HDFC, HCL Tech, Kotak Bank, Infosys and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, NTPC, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, Maruti and Reliance Industries were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 2.56 points lower at 51,934.88, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 7.95 points or 0.05 per cent to 15,574.85.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth 449.86 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  The steady decline in fresh COVID cases and rising recovery rates indicate that India is succeeding in bending the pandemic's curve, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  "With no short-term risks to the market, consolidation is likely in the near term with a stock-specific action in response to the news. Since markets are over-bought and over-valued investors should exercise caution even when the markets are exhibiting surprising resilience," he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the negative territory in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading in the positive territory.  Equities on Wall Street closed with losses in the overnight session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.24 per cent higher at USD 70.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index stands at 50.8 in May||The surprise 6.9 per cent growth in the manufacturing sector in the fourth quarter (January-March) of 2021-22 may be a statistical aberration or just a flash in the pan. Sobering micro data has just kicked in that will dampen the enthusiasm of anyone who harboured the hopes of a quick recovery. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index stood at 50.8 in May 2021 — a 10 month low — compared with 55.5 in April, according to a media statement on Tuesday. A reading above 50 indicates economic expansion. “The Indian manufacturing sector is showing increasing signs of strain as the Covid-19 crisis intensifies. Key gauges of current sales, production and input buying weakened noticeably in May and pointed to the slowest rates of increase in 10 months. In fact, all indices were down from April,” said Pollyanna de Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Darren Aw, Asia Economist, Capital Economics, said the drop in manufacturing PMI suggested that activity had taken a hit from the second virus wave despite the sector being largely exempt from containment measures. “And though the outbreak is now subsiding, the recovery is likely to be more gradual than it was after the lifting of restrictions last year. The reading has fallen to its lowest level since July. This suggests that broader weakness in domestic demand has taken a toll on the manufacturing sector.” Lima, however, noted that the detrimental impacts of the pandemic and associated restrictions seen in the manufacturing sector were considerably less severe than during the first lockdown when unprecedented contractions had been recorded. The growth of the manufacturing sector was curbed by the escalation of the pandemic and difficulties in securing raw materials, the survey said. “Amid a lack of new work, goods producers reduced headcounts again, with the rate of job shedding quickening in May,” Lima said. On the macroeconomic front, India’s economy contracted less-than-expected 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 2021 after reporting a positive growth of 1.6 per cent  in the fourth quarter. The next bi-monthly monetary policy review of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is scheduled to be announced on June 4. Experts believe, with the economic outlook remaining uncertain in light of the continuing pandemic, the monetary policy stance of RBI is likely to remain accommodative. Overseas trends China's factory activity growth slowed slightly in May as raw materials costs grew at their fastest pace in over a decade, weighing on the output of small and export-oriented firms. The official manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) inched lower to 51 in May, against analyst expectations that it would remain unchanged from April at 51.1. The PMI in the Eurozone rose to 63.1 in May from April's 62.9, the highest reading since the survey began in June 1997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||SBI slashes 2021-22 GDP growth forecast to 7.9 per cent in Ecowrap report||SBI has come out with its Ecowrap report in which it has slashed its 2021-22 GDP growth forecast to 7.9 per cent from 10.4 per cent earlier. However, it imparted an "upward bias” to the number based on what it termed a “fervent hope” that the country could achieve 1 crore vaccinations per day from mid-July in line with the government's projections. At present, the country is vaccinating 28 lakh per day. The report draws attention to a peculiar characteristic in the provisional estimates: in absolute terms, nominal GDP contracted Rs 6.1 lakh crore while real GDP shrank Rs 10.6 lakh crore in the year ended March 31. “In FY21, the contraction in real GDP is more than the contraction in nominal GDP, which is quite disturbing,,” says the report. The study has also examined a district-wise comparison of the Covid deaths for each state between the first and second wave. It concludes that deaths in the second wave have had a profound impact in rural and semi-rural areas. "These (deaths) account for lower amount of overall economic activity; thus the GDP loss due to the current wave is lower than that in the first wave where urban and semi-urban centres were affected more. However, rural is not as resilient as urban and, hence. the pick-up in pent up demand is unlikely to make a large difference in 2021-22 GDP estimates," the report says. They, however, said that at Rs 145.8 lakh crore, the real GDP for 2021-22 will be “slightly higher” than those in 2019-20, and called it a “W-shaped” recovery with two troughs and not the earlier anticipated 'V-shaped' recovery. Moody’s view The Indian economy would rebound in the current fiscal and clock a growth of 9.3 per cent, but a severe second Covid wave has increased risks to India's credit profile and rated entities, Moody's Investors Service said on Tuesday. Moody's in February had forecast 13.7 per cent growth, this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||Opec+ to stick to existing pace of gradually easing supply curbs||Opec+ oil producers agreed on Tuesday to stick to the existing pace of gradually easing supply curbs through July as they sought to balance expectations of a recovery in demand against a possible increase in Iranian supply. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies — known collectively as Opec+ — decided in April to return 2.1 million barrels per day (bpd) of supply to the market during May through July as it anticipated demand would rise despite high numbers of coronavirus cases in India. Since that decision, oil prices have extended their rally and have now gained more than 30 per cent this year, although the prospect of more crude from Iran, as talks on reviving its nuclear deal make progress, has limited the upside. Benchmark Brent crude hit $71 a barrel, its highest since March, on Tuesday. Speaking after an Opec+  conference — being held online  most months after the pandemic prevented the usual face-to-face meetings in Vienna — Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said he saw a good recovery in demand in the US and China. “The vaccine rollout has gathered pace with around 1.8 billion vaccines administered around the world ... This can only lead to further rebalancing of the global oil market,” he said. Opec secretary-general Mohammad Barkindo said he did not expect higher Iranian oil supply to cause problems if and when Tehran reaches a nuclear deal with Western powers in return for an easing of oil sanctions. “We anticipate that the expected return of Iranian production and exports to the global market will occur in an orderly and transparent fashion,” he said in a statement. Iran could boost production and exports by between 1.0 and 1.5 million bpd if sanctions are fully removed. Opec+ still forecasts a 6 million bpd jump in oil demand in 2021 — equivalent to 6 per cent of global consumption — as the world recovers from the Covid-19 pandemic. Opec+ cut output by a record 9.7 million bpd last year as demand collapsed when the pandemic first struck. As of July, the curbs still in place will stand at 5.8 million bpd. On Tuesday, Opec+  did not discuss output levels beyond August, three sources said. OPEC+ would next meet on July 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||Sebi bars eight entities from security market for insider trading||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has barred eight entities, including two employees of Infosys, from the securities market for insider trading activities in the shares of the IT services firm. Infosys on Tuesday said it would initiate a probe into the matter. In an interim order passed by wholetime member Madhabi Puri Buch, the market regulator said illegal gains worth Rs 3.06 crore be impounded from two of the entities — Capital One Partners and Tesora Capital. The entities have allegedly traded in the scrip of Infosys while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) pertaining to the firm’s financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2020. Capital One and its working partners — Amit Bhutra and Bharath C Jain — have been barred from the securities market. Sebi has also barred Tesora Capital and its partners — Amit Bhutra, Ankush Bhutra and Manish Champalal Jain— from the markets. Besides, Pranshu Bhutra, senior corporate counsel of Infosys, and Venkata Subramaniam V.V, senior principal, corporate accounting group of Infosys, have been barred. According to the order, Amit Bhutra was connected with Pranshu Bhutra through frequent phone calls. It has been noted that Subramaniam and Pranshu continue to be employed with Infosys and had access to ongoing UPSIs. By virtue of being a designated person, Subramaniam was reasonably expected to have access to and be in possession of UPSIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
02-06-2021||Business||Supreme Court stays tax relief on oxygen concentrators||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Delhi high court order which had declared as “unconstitutional” the levy of GST on the import of GST concentrators. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal on Tuesday told the apex court the GST council would be meeting on June 8 to take a formal decision on granting various reliefs to individuals importing medical equipment. The senior most law officer argued that pending the GST Council decision, the court must stay the Delhi high court order of May 21. The Delhi court while quashing the levy of the GST on oxygen concentrators said the levy violated the fundamental right to life and personal liberty. The high court had passed the impugned order while dealing with a writ petition filed by one Gurucharan Singh questioning the GST on the import of life saving equipment particularly when the country was grappling with the acute shortage of oxygen concentrators. Appearing on behalf of the finance ministry, Venugopal told the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah that the government had  prior to the high court verdict brought down the GST on concentrators to 12 per cent. He said earlier the levy was 77 per cent but reduced to 28 per cent and gradually brought down to 12 per cent. Justice Chandrachud heading the bench reminded the AG that the court during the earlier hearing on Covid related issues had asked the Centre’s views on exempting wheel chairs from tax. Venugopal said the GST Council was sitting on June 8  and they would consider all these issues. The high court judgment ought to be stayed in the meantime. Justice M.R Shah, reminded the AG that the high court had passed the order while taking into consideration the constitutional rights of citizens for equality and right to life. Perhaps the Centre had not properly argued its case in the high court, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
02-06-2021||Business||Coal India sales increase by 38 per cent||Coal India on Tuesday said it had sold (offtake) 55 million tonnes (mt) in May against 40 million tonnes a year ago, an increase of 38 per cent,  spurred by a revival of demand from the power sector. The PSU sold 44mt to the power plants last month, up 41 per cent over the year-ago period. Coal stock at the thermal power plants fell 5mt in April from 28.9mt in March because of the onset of summer and a higher demand for the  fuel. The stock was restored to 29mt in May. Data from the Central Electricity Authority show thermal power generation for the ongoing fiscal till May 20, 2021 at 162 trillion units, which were 3.54 per cent above the programmed generation for the period. Generation was significantly affected in 2020-21, with actual output at 90.69 per cent of the programmed generation for the fiscal. The impact was more prominent in the first half as a country-wide lockdown put a pause on economic activity. “Due to the Covid induced lockdown, coal supplies had suffered last year. But even then, a robust 30mt offtake upsurge during the first two months of the current fiscal year is an encouraging sign compared with April-May 2020. During this period, coal offtake to the power sector was higher by 23.6mt,” said a Coal India executive. Total coal offtake for April-May was 109.1mt compared with 79mt in the same period a year ago. Supply to the power sector was 86.3mt compared with 62.7mt in the same period a year ago. Coal India liquidated a total of 25mt of stocks in the first two months after the stock rose to 100mt at the start of the fiscal. Coal India produced 84mt in the first two months of the fiscal year but the growth was a modest 2.6 per cent over previous year. Officials however said that keeping the stock level in mind, production can be ramped up even at a short notice when demand peaks to higher levels in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
02-06-2021||Business||Car sales nosedive in May 2021 ||Car sales in May 2021 nosedived as local shutdowns came into effect because of the second wave of the pandemic compared with April this year. Sales in the corresponding month last year were much lower because of a nationwide shutdown. The recovery in the auto segment will take another month or so, say experts. Maruti Suzuki posted total sales of 46,555 units in May 2021 against 1,59,691 units in April. Domestic sales stood at 33,771 units, sales to other OEMs were at 1522 and exports of 11,262. Total domestic passenger vehicles sales stood at 32,903 units in May compared with 1,35,879 in April. Hyundai Motor registered cumulative sales of 30,703 units in May 2021 against 59203 in April. Domestic sales stood at 25,001 and exports were at 5,702. In May last year, sales stood at 12,583 with domestic sales at 6,583 and exports at 5,700. Tata Motors’ sales in the domestic and international market for May this year stood at 26,661 vehicles. Total domestic sales stood at 24,552 units, a 38 per cent decline from its April 2021 sales of 39,530 units. Total number of passenger vehicles sold stood at 15181 units compared with 25,095 in April. Total commercial vehicles sales stood at 11401 units compared with 16,644 units in April 2021. Kia India has reported a 31 per cent decline in dispatches to dealers at 11,050 units in May compared with 16,111 units in April this year. The company said it was the fourth most sold car brand in the country last month. The company has secured a 10.7 per cent market share in the month. M&M announced that its overall auto sales (passenger+commercial+ exports) for the month of May 2021 stood at 17447.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
02-06-2021||Business||Adani group enters business of developing railway stations||After airports, the Adani group has entered the business of developing railway stations. The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd (IRSDC) has shortlisted the Adanis and eight others, including Godrej Properties and GMR Enterprises, to submit their proposals to redevelop the iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) railway station in Mumbai. Work is now in progress for the redevelopment of 123 stations that are in various stages of implementation. The IRSDC is the nodal agency for 63 stations and the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) for the other 60. The total investment needed for the redevelopment of the stations along with real estate development is about Rs 50,000 crore. Some of the other stations to get a facelift include Nagpur and Ajni in Maharashtra; Habibganj and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh; Safdarjung and New Delhi; Ayodhya & Gomti Nagar stations in Uttar Pradesh; Ernakulam in Kerala; Amritsar in Punjab and Pondicherry. The IRSDC had received responses from 10 developers for the CSMT whose redevelopment  is estimated to cost Rs 1,642 crore. Of these nine have ‘‘qualified’’ for the next stage — Adani Railways Transport, Godrej Properties, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments, Oberoi Realty  and ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments Pte Ltd. The others are GMR Enterprises, Moribus Holdings, BIF IV Infrastructure Holding and DIFC Pvt. Ltd. Bidders needed to have a minimum net worth of Rs 821 crore at the close of the preceding financial year. Adani Railways Transport Ltd has also been shortlisted among eight others for the redevelopment of New Delhi railway station. The group has already made its presence felt in the airports business within a period of two years.  Adani Airports has earlier won the mandate to modernise and operate six airports – Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram. In February this year, Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL) acquired  an additional 23 per cent stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd  — the country’s second largest airport in terms of passenger traffic — from ACSA Global Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
02-06-2021||Business||ITC Ltd reports 22.6 per cent increase in revenues from operations in fourth quarter||ITC Ltd has reported a 22.6 per cent increase in revenues from operations in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal even as profit slipped 2.79 per cent on a consolidated basis in the same period because of  higher tax incidence. The quarterly revenue of Rs 15,404.37 crore was mainly driven by the agri business, followed by cigarettes and the non-tobacco FMCG segment. ITC had recorded revenues of Rs 12,560.64 crore a year ago. Profit after tax, including the share of profit from the joint ventures and associates, stood at Rs 3,819.62 crore compared with Rs 3,926.72 crore a year ago. The company had reaped a one-time benefit from switching to a lower corporate tax regime in that quarter. For the full year, ITC reported a 3.42 per cent increase in revenue at Rs 53,155.12 crore while profit dipped 14.17 per cent to Rs 13,382.88 crore. The board announced a final dividend of Rs 5.75 a share (575 per cent) in addition to Rs 5 a share it declared on an interim basis on February 11. Total cash flow on dividends will be Rs 13,230.27 crore. ITC said it experienced strong sequential recovery in Q4 in all segments. However, the second wave of the pandemic may hit recovery. Segment break-up Cigarettes continued to be the bulwark for ITC. Revenue went up 13.18 per cent to Rs 6,508.43 crore in Q4  while pre-tax profit was up 6.72 per cent to Rs 3,895.27 crore, accounting for 77.2 per cent of profit before tax (PBT). Non-tobacco FMCG — food, health and personal care, stationery products and agarbatti — reported a 15.81 per cent rise in revenue year-on-year at Rs 3,694.8 crore while profit was up 26.6 per cent. For the full year, the PBT jumped 97.2 per cent to Rs 837.99 crore. Hotels continued to bear the brunt of the pandemic. Even though losses were contained in the Q4 at Rs 40.26 crore from the previous quarter losses of Rs 72.25 crore, for the full year this segment posted a loss of Rs 563.87 crore compared to Rs 154 crore of pre-tax profit. This segment had posted Rs 38.27 crore profit a year ago. Revenue from agri-business jumped 78.14 per cent to Rs 3,383 crore while PBT rose 45.6 per cent to Rs 185.11 crore. Paper and paperboard remained the most profitable segment after tobacco, posting 13.13 per cent PBT at Rs 323.25 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-33
02-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses Centre of hiding Covid death figures||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday accused the Central government of "hiding" the actual coronavirus death figures, even as he urged people to raise their voice for universal free vaccination. "GOI is hiding actual Covid deaths," he said in a tweet, tagging a media report that conducted a survey on who people thought were responsible for coronavirus deaths. Gandhi also launched a campaign to pressure the government for universal free vaccination in the country. "Vaccine is the strongest protection against the corona pandemic. You should also raise your voice for providing free vaccination to the people of the country - wake up the central government," he said on Twitter, using the hashtag #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination. He also shared a video highlighting the shortage of vaccines. His sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted for universal free vaccination and slammed the government over a "confused and dithering" vaccination program. "We are one of the biggest vaccine-manufacturers in the world. Yet only 3.4% of our population is fully vaccinated. Who is responsible for India's confused and dithering vaccination program," she asked in the tweet. She said that on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared that there was a plan in place to vaccinate every Indian. But it is now mid-2021, and the country's inoculation rate is just 1.9 million people per day, whereas "we need 7 to 8 million people to be vaccinated per day to achieve that target", she said. "The Centre first took all responsibility, after that as the 2nd wave hit it started to abdicate responsibility to the states. Other federal countries like Germany and the USA have followed a completely different process, where the Centre has procured the vaccines and distributed it to states," she asked in a video tagged in the tweet. "Why did the Modi government not do so?" The Congress has been critical of the government's handling of the pandemic and has slammed the vaccination policy. The party has also been demanding free vaccination for all and has urged the Centre to procure jabs and provide them to states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||Congress behaving like ‘ostrich reading economic data’, says Anurag Thakur||Hitting back at former Finance Minister P Chidambaram for his comments on the economy, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said India's growth will rebound on the back of consistent reforms and strong fundamentals. Thakur also regretted that "leaderless Congress (was) behaving like an ostrich reading economic data". "Indian economy is resilient and will rebound in the times ahead based on consistent reforms that have ensured strong fundamentals through these difficult times. "I am not surprised that the former finance minister chose to ignore hard data and instead went ahead with 'whataboutery' - the Congress leadership has embodied this clueless approach over the years," the Union minister said in a press release. Consistent reforms and strong fundamentals have ensured that India had a swift rebound from a contraction of 24.4 per cent in the first quarter to a growth of 1.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of FY 2020-21, he pointed out. On Tuesday, Chidambaram termed the financial year FY 2020/21 as "the darkest year of the economy in four decades" and said the record negative growth has left "most Indians poorer than they were two years ago". Chidambaram had slammed the government for misleading the people, a reference to the "green shoots" claims of the finance ministry in July last year, after the first wave peaked and also for mishandling of the country's finances. India's economy -- which was experiencing a slowdown even before the pandemic broke out last year -- contracted 7.3 per cent during April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal (FY21), weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. This is the first full-year contraction of the Indian economy in the last four decades since 1979-80 when GDP had shrunk by 5.2 per cent. On the issue of the gloomy forecast made by the former finance minister, Thakur said, "while you doubt the resilience of Indian entrepreneurs, small businesses, traders and MSMEs to revive themselves, various international agencies project India to grow by 12.5 per cent in FY 2021-22 making India the only major economy to have a projected double-digit growth". "Is the Indian economy an island in isolation; have other major economies not faced a GDP contraction? Are you not aware that France, Germany, Italy, the UK contracted by 8.2 per cent, 4.9 per cent, 8.9 per cent and 9.9 per cent, respectively," Thakur said. He also noted that Canada, Russia, South Africa, USA too have seen contraction in their GDP in the past year and that despite the disruptions in the globalised world, India has remained resilient. Further, the minister urged Chidambaram to shift gears from his gloom and doomsday prediction and stressed that lockdown saved lives while gradual unlocking allowed green shoots. On the issue of cash transfer to poor and farmers, Thakur said that during the NDA tenure (2014-19), the government disbursed Rs 8 lakh crore on procurement of wheat and rice as compared to Rs 3.74 lakh crore during the UPA tenure (2009-14). The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi purchased 74 times more pulses at MSP (Minimum Support Price) than that procured during UPA tenure 2009-14, the minister said. He also noted that the NDA government procured 306.9 million tonnes of paddy and 162.7 million tonnes of wheat in the last five years as compared to 2009-13 during the UPA tenure wherein only 176.8 million tonnes of paddy and 139.5 million tonnes of wheat were procured. By opening 42 crore Jan Dhan accounts, Modi government has stopped leakages in the system ensuring every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary swiftly and even during the COVID pandemic, through Direct Bank Transfer (DBT), it provided financial support to millions, Thakur said. He reminded the former finance minister that DBT was also given under NSAP (National Social Assistance Programme) to widows, divyangs, senior citizens, to building and construction workers as well as to front load PM-KISAN for farmers and to make 24 per cent contribution to EPFO and Ujjwala. Noting that total transfers exceed Rs 68,000 crore, Thakur wondered whether these are not "cash in hand". While the UPA government during your (Chidambaram) tenure as the finance minister disbursed bad loans, Thakur said, Modi government provided Rs 3 lakh crore government guarantee through the ECLGS scheme to the industry to sustain and revive their businesses. Over Rs 2.65 lakh crore has been sanctioned by public and private sector banks, and NBFCs to over 92 lakh accounts as part of "cash flow for businesses" under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||States must work together to procure vaccines, says Naveen Patnaik||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday wrote to all the chief ministers in the country, urging them to build a consensus over procurement of the Covid vaccines by the Centre for distribution among the states. In the letter, Patnaik wrote that no state is safe unless all the states adopt vaccination as the topmost priority and execute it on war-footing. "The only way to protect our people against future waves and provide them with a hope of survival is vaccination," Patnaik wrote in the letter that he shared on Twitter, tagging all the chief ministers. "But this cannot be a battle among the states to compete against each other to procure vaccines," he added. Patnaik noted that after the Centre announced phase 3 of the vaccine policy, allowing vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 and opened procurement for the states and private sector, the demand increased. "Many states have floated global tenders for vaccine procurement. However, it is quite clear that the global vaccine manufacturers are looking forward to the Union Government for the clearances and assurances," he said. "They are unwilling to get into supply contracts with the State government. While the domestic vaccine manufacturers are having supply constraints and are not able to commit required supplies," the chief minister said. Patnaik said that under these circumstances, the best option available is for the Centre to centrally procure vaccines and distribute them among the states so that the people are vaccinated at the earliest. "At the same time, the execution of the vaccination programme has to be decentralised and States allowed the flexibility to determine their own mechanism to ensure universal vaccination," he mentioned. For example, many hilly areas cannot access the internet and therefore online registration has to be flexible, he said. Patnaik said that he has already raised the matter with the Centre and also spoken to a few chief ministers. "However, I would respectfully suggest that all the State Governments should come to a consensus on this issue for early resolution of this problem. We should act fast before any third wave comes and creates further havoc," he said. Maintaining that the Covid-19 pandemic is the greatest challenge that the country is facing since the Independence struggle, Patnaik urged the chief ministers to come together in the spirit of cooperative federalism, setting aside the political differences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||SC asks Centre for vaccine purchase data, roadmap of  availability||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to place on record all relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking that culminated in the Covid-19 vaccination policy and the purchase history till date of all vaccines, including Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V. A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said, “While filing its affidavit, UoI shall also ensure that copies of all the relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking and culminating in the vaccination policy are also annexed on the vaccination policy.” "Hence, we direct the UoI to file its affidavit within 2 weeks,” the bench said in its May 31 order uploaded on Wednesday on its website. The bench asked the Centre to ensure that each issue dealt with by it in the order is responded to individually. The court noted that the Centre's policy of giving free vaccination to the 45-plus age group and having a paid system for those below, was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational". Mentioning several other issues, the court asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy and "place on record a roadmap of projected availability of vaccines till 31 December 2021". The bench asked for the “complete data on the Central Government's purchase history of all the Covid-19 vaccines till date (Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V). The data should clarify: (a) the dates of all procurement orders placed by the Central Government for all 3 vaccines; (b) the quantity of vaccines ordered as on each date; and (c) the projected date of supply.” On May 31, the top court had highlighted the digital divide between rural and urban India and posed searching queries to the Centre on mandatory registration on CoWIN for Covid jabs, vaccine procurement policy and differential pricing, saying the policymakers must have ears on the ground to effectively deal with the unprecedented crisis. Asking the Centre to "smell the coffee" and ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are available at the same price across the nation, the top court had advised the government to be flexible with its policies to deal with the dynamic pandemic situation The top court's order came in suo motu case on Covid-19 management. The top court also highlighted the pricing issue of vaccines, asking the Centre to submit a comparison of the prices of vaccines available in India to their international prices, reported ndtv.com. Calling the issue of vaccination "absolutely crucial", the court said currently people in the 18-44-year age group are not just getting infected, but suffering from severe effects of the infection, "including prolonged hospitalization and, in unfortunate cases, death". The "changing nature of the pandemic" has created a situation where this younger age bracket also needs to be vaccinated, "although priority may be retained between different age groups on a scientific basis," the bench said. "Hence, due to the importance of vaccinating individuals in the 18-44 age group, the policy of the Central Government for conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first 2 phases, and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/UT Governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is, prima facie, arbitrary and irrational," the order read. The government has said it will vaccinate the eligible population by December this year, the announcement met with much scepticism by the Opposition. Under the "liberalised" vaccine policy that came into effect May 1, the Centre is paying for vaccines of people above the age of 45. For those below, the states can buy up to 50 per cent of their vaccine requirements from manufacturers but they are paying a much higher price than the Centre. Private hospitals are paying even more. The court will take up the case again on June 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||HC: Why start so many vaccine hubs when you can’t provide second dose?||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said if the Delhi government could not ensure that people get both the doses of Covaxin within the stipulated time, then it should not have started so many vaccination centres with "much pomp and splendour". Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before expiry of the incubation period of six weeks between the two doses. The court also issued notice to the Centre on two pleas to make the second dose of both vaccines against Covid-19 -- Covaxin and Covishield -- available in the national capital. "Why did you (Delhi government) start it (vaccination) if you were not sure you can provide the second dose also? You should have stopped. Maharashtra stopped when it found it cannot provide a second dose. "You opened so many vaccination centres everywhere with so much pomp and splendour and now you say you don't know when the second dose stock would be available," the court said while hearing the two petitions. One of the petitions has been moved by a lawyer, Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second jab which has to be taken within six weeks of the first. Subsequently, he had to travel to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose of the vaccine, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Virmani, told the court. During the hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that the matter of getting stocks was presently between the state and the manufacturer. He said even he is yet to receive his second dose and added that there is scarcity of Covaxin. Aggarwal said he will seek instructions on when the stock of Covaxin would be available and whether those who got the first jab can be provided the second dose within the stipulated time of six weeks. The court listed the matter for hearing on June 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||Only one out of three strains found in India matter of concern, says WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said only B.1.617.2, one of the three strains of the B.1.617 Covid-19 variant first detected in India, is a variant of concern now and noted that lower rates of transmission have been observed for the other two lineages. The B.1.617 variant was first detected in India and was divided in three lineages - B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. In the Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update published on Tuesday, WHO said available findings for lineages B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 were initially used to designate B.1.617 a global Variant of Concern (VOC) on May 11 this year. Since then, it has become evident that greater public health risks are currently associated with B.1.617.2, while lower rates of transmission of other lineages have been observed, WHO said. The UN health agency said that in order to reflect this updated information, B.1.617 has been delineated . “B.1.617.2 remains a VOC and labelled variant Delta. We continue to observe significantly increased transmissibility and a growing number of countries reporting outbreaks associated with this variant. Further studies into the impact of this variant remain a high priority for WHO. “The Delta variant has now been reported in 62 countries around the world as of June 1,” the update said. It added that the B.1.617.1 strain has been reclassified to a Variant of Interest (VOI) and labelled variant Kappa . While Kappa is also demonstrating increased transmissibility (in specified locations), global prevalence appears to be declining. This variant will continue to be monitored and reassessed regularly. The B.1.617.3 lineage is “no longer classified as either a VOI or VOC”. Relatively few reports of this variant have been submitted to date. On Monday, the WHO announced the new naming system for key Covid19 variants and the labels are based on the Greek alphabet (i.e. Alpha, Beta, Gamma, etc), making them simple, easy to say and remember. “The labels do not replace existing scientific names, which convey important scientific information & will continue to be used in research. The naming system aims to prevent calling #Covid19 variants by the places where they are detected, which is stigmatising & discriminatory,” WHO said in a tweet. WHO said that as the global public health risks posed by specific Covid-19 variants becomes better understood and evolves, it will continue to update the list of global VOIs and VOCs. This is necessary to adjust to the emergence of new variants, their changing epidemiology (e.g., the incidence of some variants is rapidly declining), and our understanding of their phenotypic impacts as new evidence becomes available and is shared. “Variants no longer classified as VOCs or VOIs will continue to be monitored as part of the overall evolution of SARS-CoV-2, and may be reassessed pending new evidence indicating an increased public health risk,” WHO said. The update further said that India reported the highest numbers of new Covid-19 cases in the past week at 1,364,668, a 26 per cent decrease compared to the previous week. Other countries reporting the highest numbers of new cases are Brazil (420,981 new cases; 7 per cent decrease), Argentina (219,910 new cases; 3 per cent increase), the United States of America (153,587 new cases; 18 per cent decrease), and Colombia (150,517 new cases; 40 per cent increase). The South-East Asia Region reported over 1.5 million new cases and over 29,000 new deaths, a 24 per cent and an 8 per cent decrease respectively compared to the previous week. Case incidence continued to follow a sharp decline for a third consecutive week, and death incidence decreased for the first time since early March 2021, primarily driven by trends reported in India, the update said. In the South-East Asia Region, the highest numbers of new deaths were reported from India (26,706 new deaths; 1.9 new deaths per 100,000; an 8 per cent decrease), Indonesia (1057 new deaths; 0.4 new deaths per 100,000; a 15 per cent decrease), and Nepal (1010 new deaths; 3.5 new deaths per 100,000; a 22 per cent decrease). Globally, the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths continues to decrease, with over 3.5 million new cases and 78,000 new deaths reported globally in the past week; a 15 per cent and 7 per cent decrease respectively, compared to the previous week, the update said. The European and South-East Asia Regions reported the largest decline in new cases and deaths in the past week, while case incidence increased in the African and Western Pacific regions. Although the number of global cases and deaths continued to decrease for a fifth and fourth consecutive week respectively, case and death incidences remain at high levels and significant increases have been reported in many countries in all regions, the WHO update said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Media reports on May vaccination numbers factually incorrect: Centre||The Union health ministry on Wednesday termed as "factually incorrect and without any basis" media reports alleging that while the Centre has promised 120 million doses of anti-Covid vaccines in June, only around 58 million doses were administered of the 79 million doses available in May. According to the ministry's data at 7 am on June 1, between May 1-31, a total of 61.06 million vaccine doses were administered by the states and Union territories. A total of 16.22 million balance and unutilised doses were available with the states. The total number of vaccine shots available from May 1-31 was 79.45 million, the ministry said in a statement. The Centre has been supporting the efforts of the states for an effective vaccination drive under the "Whole of Government" approach since January 16. In order to streamline the availability of vaccine doses, the Centre has been in constant touch with the vaccine manufacturers and has opened up different procurement options for the states and Union territories since May 1. There have been several unfounded media reports that have peddled misinformation among the masses regarding this exercise of national importance, the ministry said, adding that the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 21,85,46,667. "There have been media reports alleging the Union Government promised 120 million doses of vaccines during June 2021 while administering only around 58 million doses from the total of 79 million doses available in the month of May. This report is factually incorrect and without any basis," the statement said. Some media reports have criticised India's vaccination policy based on unverified quotes, it said, adding that these reports, questioning the prioritisation of population segments, are not supported by full information on the matter. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was formed in August last year to provide guidance on all aspects of vaccine introduction, including prioritisation of beneficiaries, procurement, vaccine selection and its delivery. The prioritisation of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination was based on a review of available scientific evidence, WHO guidelines, global examples and practices followed in other countries, the ministry said. In India, the primary objectives of Covid vaccination are to protect the healthcare workers as part of the pandemic response system, prevent deaths and protect individuals at the highest risk and vulnerability of mortality due to the disease. Accordingly, the vaccination drive has been sequentially expanded to cover the prioritised groups, starting with the healthcare workers (HCWs), followed by the frontline workers (FLWs), then people aged 60 years and above and those aged 45-59 years with 20 identified comorbidities. Subsequently, from April 1, all citizens aged 45 years and above became eligible for vaccination. Such an approach has yielded positive results by achieving more than 81 per cent first-dose coverage among the registered HCWs and around 84 per cent first-dose coverage among the FLWs, thereby protecting these cohorts who are involved in providing healthcare services, surveillance and containment activities amidst the second wave of the pandemic. Also, 37 per cent beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, whereas 32 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries in this segment have received the second dose, the statement said. From May 1, all citizens aged 18 years and above became eligible for vaccination. A "Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy" was adopted on May 1 which is guiding the ongoing third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Under the strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the vaccine doses of any manufacturer cleared by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to the states and Union territories for free, as was being done earlier. The remaining 50 per cent doses are available for direct procurement by the states, Union territories and private hospitals, of which the states' share is on a pro-rata basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||DCGI waives norms for clearing foreign-made jabs to bolster availability ||India's apex drug regulator has waived the requirement of testing every batch of foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines by the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli and post-launch bridging trials for such firms, a move that will bolster the availability of vaccines. The decision by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) comes in the backdrop of Pfizer and Cipla putting forth similar demands during negotiations to supply imported vaccines to India. These exemptions have been made in light of the huge vaccination requirements in India in the wake of the recent surge of Covid-19 cases and the need for increased availability of imported vaccines to meet national requirements, according to DCGI. "It has been decided that for approval of Covid-19 vaccines in India for restricted use in emergency situations which are already approved for restricted use by US FDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or which are listed in WHO Emergency Use Listing and which are well-established vaccines from the standpoint that millions of individuals have already been vaccinated with the said vaccines, the requirement of conducting post-approval bridging clinical trials and of testing every batch of vaccine by CDL, Kasauli can be exempted, if the vaccine batch/lot has been certified and released by National Control Laboratory of the country of origin," it said. However, scrutiny of their summary lot protocol and certificate of analysis of batch or lot shall be undertaken by CDL, Kasauli for release as per standard procedures and requirement of assessment on the first 100 beneficiaries for seven days for safety outcomes before the vaccine is rolled out for further immunisation programme, the DCGI said in a notice issued on June 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Google claims new IT rules not applicable to its search engine||Google LLC has contended that Information Technology rules for digital media are not applicable to its search engine, and urged the Delhi High Court on Wednesday to set aside a single judge order which applied the rules on the company while dealing with an issue related to removal of offending content from the internet. The single judge's decision had come while dealing with a matter in which a woman's photographs were uploaded on a pornographic website by some miscreants and despite court orders the content could not be removed in entirety from the World Wide Web and "errant parties merrily continued" to re-post and redirect the same to other sites. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman, on whose plea the single judge's ruling had come, and sought their responses to Google's plea by July 25. The court also said that it was not going to issue any interim order at this stage. Google has contended that the single judge, in his April 20 judgement, "mischaracterised" its search engine as a 'social media intermediary' or 'significant social media intermediary' as provided under the new rules. "The single judge has misinterpreted and misapplied the New Rules 2021 to the appellant's search engine. Additionally, the single judge has conflated various sections of the IT Act and separate rules prescribed thereunder, and has passed template orders combining all such offences and provisions, which is bad in law," it has said in its appeal against the April 20 judgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||India logs 1.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,207 casualties in a day||India added 1,32,788 new coronavirus infections taking the country's tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,83,07,832, while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 6.57 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,35,102 with 3,207 fresh deaths. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the second consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,19,773 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 35,00,57,330, while the daily positivity was recorded at 6.57 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.21 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 17,93,645 comprising 6.34 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.48 per cent. A net decline of 1,01,875 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 20th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,61,79,085, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.18 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,207 new fatalities include 854 from Maharashtra, 490 from Tamil Nadu, 464 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 175 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from West Bengal and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,35,102 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 96,198 from Maharashtra, 29,554 from Karnataka, 24,722 from Tamil Nadu, 24,299 from Delhi, 20,672 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,678 from West Bengal, 14,649 from Punjab and 13,077 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Chidambaram joins banker Uday Kotak to urge govt to ‘print money’ to save Covid-ravaged economy||First, it was billionaire banker Uday Kotak. Now it’s ex-Congress finance minister P. Chidambaram who has joined the print money club. Chidambaram has told the government to “print money” if necessary to spur growth after what he called the “darkest year” for the economy in four decades. This is “not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit,” Chidambaram told reporters in a video call. “This is the time to act boldly and decisively -- to borrow and spend (and) if necessary print money.” “Spend on healthcare, spend on infrastructure, but spend and, as part of spending, spend on welfare measures, which today means cash transfers plus distribution of rations,” he said. Chidambaram was speaking after government data showed that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) shrank 7.3 per cent in the financial year to March 31 from a year earlier. “2020-21 has been the darkest year of the economy in four decades. The first two (quarters) witnessed a recession (contractions of 24.4 per cent and 7.4 per cent)... (and) performance in the third- and fourth-quarters did not herald a recovery," he said. “We cannot lose another year like we lost the last year. The way the government is reacting it is like we are going to lose another year,” Chidambaram said. The senior Congress leader’s call chimed with an appeal by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chief and billionaire banker Uday Kotak for the government to use fiscal “short-term steroids” to aid the economy’s recovery. Kotak, who’s the founder and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank, said last week the time had come for “the printing of money” by the central bank “to save the Indian economy for sustained growth.” Like Chidambaram, Kotak urged that direct cash transfers be given to “the poorest of the poor for meeting their day-to-day needs” and that work programmes like NREGA be strengthened – moves, he said, were crucial to shoring up vitally needed consumption. “We have to ensure the human (pandemic) cost is controlled and simultaneously the economic cost is given a breather so the economy can… bounce back,” Kotak said. Despite fears that expanding the money supply can fuel inflation, there has been a record wave of money printing globally to combat the pandemic. The country’s other main business group, FICCI, has also called on the government for a fresh fiscal stimulus package to offset the hit to household spending from soaring unemployment and Covid-19 health expenses. “Most Indians now are poorer than they were two years ago,” adding “some 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line and into debt,” Chidambaram said. He called “alarming” new figures from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showing unemployment at close to 14.7 per cent in the week ending May 23, its highest level in a year, and noted the central bank has warned the economy faces the possibility of a crippling “demand shock.” The pre-budget Economic Survey in January pegged economic growth for this financial year to March 31, 2022, at 11 per cent, billing it as a “conservative” forecast. But due to the upsurge in Covid-19 cases which began in March and warnings about a third wave, optimism has dimmed. There has been a “sharp deterioration” in business confidence, FICCI reported. FICCI says business needs more low-rate lending, tax waivers and financial help as well as incentives like support for salary payments to avert layoffs. India’s chief economic advisor K.V. Subramaniam insisted Monday that the overall economic impact of the punishing second wave was unlikely to be “large.” He conceded, though, that “economic activity is inextricably linked to the path of the pandemic” and that "the speed and scale of the second wave do lend caution" to talk about the extent of the economic recovery. The Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) has already warned that macroeconomic estimates will likely “undergo sharp revisions” due to the “pandemic-led economic situation.” Economists had been pinning their hopes for growth on a rebound in consumer spending but now they have started slashing their bullish forecasts. Moody’s Investors Service has cut its full-year forecast to 9.3 per cent from 13.7% projected earlier. Chidambaram said the government had been selling “a false story” of “green (economic) shoots” and a V-shaped recovery. “If 2021/22 should not go as 2020/21, the government must wake up,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Kerala BJP brawl and sacking over carjacking ||A robbery and suspected money-laundering case that led to strife in the Kerala BJP and spilled to the streets with a stabbing incident has now led to the removal of a senior leader of its OBC wing from the party’s primary membership. Rishi Palpu, the state OBC Morcha vice-president, had slammed some BJP leaders in Thrissur over a carjacking and robbery of a large sum of money before the Assembly elections in April. In a sarcastic Facebook post, Palpu had accused the Thrissur district leadership of protecting those who stabbed a party colleague on Sunday over the fiasco instead of taking action against them. A brawl between two groups, one of them accusing the party’s district leadership of money laundering, ended with a member named Kiran getting stabbed in Thrissur on Sunday. “Apart from shaming the party that rules the country on Seva Hi Sangathan Day (to mark the completion of seven years of the Narendra Modi government), the Thrissur district leadership is protecting these great people who decided to stab and kill a party colleague,” Palpu had written. A gang of seven men had on April 3 waylaid a car that was carrying cash from Kozhikode to Alappuzha when it reached Kodakara in Thrissur district. But the occupants of the car — Shamjeer and RSS worker Dharmarajan — lodged a complaint about a heist of Rs 25 lakh only on April 7, a day after the Kerala Assembly polls. Unofficial information from police soon indicated that the actual amount was Rs 3.5 crore and it was unaccounted money belonging to the BJP, a claim the party has denied. Subsequent investigations have unearthed close to Rs 1 crore from the gang members and their associates, 19 of whom have been arrested. Palpu’s remarks came at a time the BJP was vehemently denying any role in the incident. State president K. Surendran has repeatedly said his party had nothing to do with the money. Palpu had pointed out that the BJP never lost a chance to attack the CPM over alleged corruption. “When we abuse the CPM over (gold) smuggling, terrorism and politics of murder, we should also turn around and look at ourselves.” He acknowledged that “there is a group fight going on in the party” over the “hawala” money robbery. Palpu on Tuesday told a news channel that Surendran had sacked him over phone. “I was not even given a showcause notice. No explanation was sought for my statement.” Police sources said Dharmarajan had admitted that the money that was robbed had been collected at the behest of BJP leaders, but had not named anyone. The police had asked him why some BJP district functionaries had made several calls to his mobile phone on the day of the heist. Thrissur BJP office secretary Satheesan, who was questioned on Monday over allegedly booking two hotel rooms — one for some of those who robbed the cash and another for Dharmarajan and Shamjeer — has told the police that he didn’t know Dharmarajan. It is not known whether the occupants of the two rooms knew each other or were aware of each other’s presence. Some district BJP functionaries whose phone numbers were found on Dharmarajan’s mobile call record on the day of the robbery had claimed they were following up on getting from him election publicity material he had been assigned with. But the police are not ready to but that argument since it has been found that Dharmarajan did not have any election duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Covid: ICSE council cancels Class XII board exams||The ICSE council has cancelled its 2021 Class XII (ISC) board exams, its chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Tuesday evening. The council said in a media release that after the declaration of the ISC results, if some students are not satisfied with the marks awarded to them, it will give an “option to such candidates to write the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination at a later date, when the situation is conducive to conduct the same”. Arathoon said: “We have cancelled the ISC (Class XII) exams. We took the decision because of the pandemic and though the number of fresh infections is on the decline in some places, it is still high in many states.” Arathoon said that the results would be based on the internal assessments conducted at the schools. “We have no other marks. The results will be based on the internal assessments of two years and we have asked schools to submit the marks. Once the data are submitted, experts will work on it and decide what the procedure would be,” he added. On May 27, the council had asked schools to submit the marks of Classes XI and XII for ISC candidates of Year 2021 by June 7. The decision to call off the exams brings closure to students who had been concerned about the uncertainty over the exams because their college admissions and academic career depend on when the Class XII results are announced. But a section of students are also feeling that it might not give them a level playing field. The principal of an ISC school said: “The academically strong students who are well prepared want to write the exams because it is a true reflection of their marks.” The ICSE council (the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations or CISCE) is yet to announce when it would publish the results of the Classes X and XII exams. The Class X exams were cancelled earlier. Hundreds of Class XII examinees have already got offer letters from foreign universities and are waiting for their results. “All these (foreign admissions, for example) will be taken into consideration. We are waiting for school principals to send us the data of Classes XI and XII as soon as possible to help us tabulate. Most schools have a digital record and do not have to do it manually so we expect schools to submit the data fast,” Arathoon said. In the media release, the ICSE council said: “In view of the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to cancel the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination. The safety, health and well-being of our students, teaching faculty and all stakeholders is our topmost priority and of paramount interest.” It added: “The results will be processed on a mechanism which will also include the internal examinations conducted by the schools. The schools will be informed in due course of time of this mechanism.” Several school heads said that students and their parents would want to know how the marks would be calculated, now that the board exams have been cancelled. “Especially for students who have not yet secured college admission, they would want to know how the council will calculate their marks and what the criteria will be,” a principal said. The Bengal government has yet to take a decision on the Classes X and XII exams that are conducted by the state boards. Before the cancellation announcements came from Delhi on Tuesday evening, the state boards had announced a joint news conference on Wednesday where the schedules of the forthcoming HS and Madhyamik (Class X) exams are supposed to be announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre cancels CBSE Class XII board exams||The CBSE Class XII board exams for this year will be cancelled in view of the pandemic, it has been decided at a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. The national board will come out with “well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner” to assess the students. Those seeking to improve their performance will get the option of appearing in traditional pen-and-paper exams “as and when the situation becomes conducive”. The Press Information Bureau (PIB) said in a media release: “In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that the Class XII board exams would not be held this year. It was also decided that the CBSE would take steps to compile the results of Class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.” The Supreme Court had on Monday said the Centre must give a “tangible” reason if it decides to go ahead with the Class XII board examinations amid the pandemic. The court was hearing a plea alleging discrimination against Class XII students as the CBSE had already cancelled the Class X exams. This is the first time the decision to cancel a CBSE board exam has been taken at the level of the Prime Minister. Earlier, Narendra Modi had held three meetings on the CBSE board exams. Also, a group of minister (GoM) headed by the defence minister had discussed the possibility of conducting the Class XII exams. The GoM meeting was attended by state education ministers. Nearly 14 lakh students had registered for the Class XII exams. Principals, teachers and parents welcomed the decision. Some academics advised the CBSE to develop the assessment criteria keeping in mind the fact that schools usually adopt a conservative approach while awarding marks in pre-board exams. An academic cautioned against government interference in academic affairs of school boards and universities. The PIB release said the meeting chaired by the Prime Minister reviewed the wide and extensive consultations held over the exams and the views received from all stakeholders, including state governments. On May 23, the GoM had hinted that the exams might be held. That meeting had discussed two proposals for the conduct of the exams, triggering protests from ministers in Opposition-ruled states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Monday written to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to cancel the exams and announce results on the basis of internal assessments. According to the PIB release, the Prime Minister said that the decision to cancel the Class XII CBSE exams had been taken in the interest of the students. Tuesday’s meeting helmed by the Prime Minister was attended by the Union ministers of home, defence, finance, commerce, information and broadcasting, petroleum and women and child development, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, the cabinet secretary, the secretaries of the school education and higher education departments and other officials, the release said. An academic and former chairman of a national school board who did not wish to be identified disapproved of the trend of politicians and bureaucrats taking key decisions on academic affairs, which “should be left to academic bodies and school boards”. “I can say with full conviction that the CBSE could have held the exams and certified students (in a way) that would have been valid and reliable. There is no need for any government or bureaucracy to interfere and make it a political issue,” he said. Education minister Pokhriyal had on December 31 announced that the Classes X and XII board exams would begin from May 4. Ideally, the students and teachers should have been vaccinated after the announcement of the dates, the academic said. The 21.5 lakh Class X CBSE students will be graded on the basis of a formula that will give 80 per cent weightage to school exams and 20 per cent to internal assessments. The internal assessment will be on performance in projects, notebook writing, homework and classroom activities. Each school will form a panel of teachers to award 80 marks to school-based exams whose break-up will be 10 marks for periodic tests, 30 marks for half-yearly exams and 40 marks for pre-board exams. Academic Usha Ram said schools were usually tight-fisted in awarding marks in pre-board exams. “Whatever criteria are developed (for Class XII), the board should keep in mind that bright students do not suffer,” she said. Ram said students planning to go abroad for higher studies might like to appear for the optional pen-and-paper exams when they are held. Sangita Bhatia, principal of KIIT World School, said the government had no choice but to cancel the exams. “It is not in the interest of students to hold exams in the physical space when they have been away from school since March 2020,” Bhatia said. Kiran Mehta, the dean of academics of Mother Mary School, highlighted the health risks associated with holding the exams in the middle of a pandemic. “In my opinion, this is the best decision. Students should not be subjected to exams at this point. They have not been vaccinated. The second wave has affected a large number of families,” Mehta said. Sanjeev Kumar, a parent, welcomed the decision and said the health of children was the priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay  under Disaster Management Act||The Centre has asked Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to explain in writing by Thursday why action should not be taken against him for violating the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting in Kalaikunda on Friday. A letter sent by the Centre to Bandyopadyay on Monday night said that after the Prime Minister arrived at Kalaikunda for a scheduled review meeting with the chief minister and chief secretary of Bengal, “the Prime Minister and other members of his entourage waited for nearly 15 minutes for the officers of the state government to arrive”. It added that “in view of the absence, the Chief Secretary was called by an official as to whether they wanted to participate in the review meeting or not. Thereafter, Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal, arrived, along with the Chief Minister of West Bengal, inside the meeting room and left thereafter immediately.” The Centre said that by abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister, who is also the Chairman of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), in the aftermath of cyclone Yaas, Bandyopadhyay “has acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the central government”. The letter felt the abstention violated Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The section prescribes punishment for obstruction or refusal to comply with a directive given on behalf of the Centre or the state government. The offence carries a maximum jail term of two years on conviction. Several serving and former officers said the Centre had fallen back upon the Disaster Management Act to harass Bandyopadhyay as his retirement on superannuation — by refusing to opt for the three-month extension that was given to him unilaterally by attaching him to Delhi — had immunised him from any action under the IAS (Cadre) Service Rules, 1954. “This (showcause notice by the Centre) smacks of vendetta and nothing else. It is pure harassment of a senior IAS officer who retired yesterday,” former Union HRD secretary Anil Swarup told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Swarup said that under IAS service rules, the Centre could not have taken any justifiable action against Bandyopadhyay. “He has not been served a notice as a chief secretary per se. It is under a particular section of the DMA. The Centre could not find anything else against him so they picked it (the DMA) up,” he said. Swarup added that according to the Disaster Management Act, the Centre would have to first register an FIR and investigate the matter. A serving Union home ministry official attached to the internal security wing said the Centre’s action was totally “unwarranted”. “I think the action against the officer is the result of the Centre’s perceived vindictiveness towards the state government,” he said, requesting anonymity. “It is sad that a civil servant is getting caught in a political crossfire because he, being an officer in a state government, had to go by what the CM had said. No way he could have attended the meeting, and using the Disaster Management Act to punish him is very sad and unfortunate,” said a retired IAS officer who had served in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). An IAS officer who had served as secretary in the home ministry said: “It’s simply shocking to come to know of the Centre’s priorities at a time thousands of people have died because of the pandemic. The Centre has chosen to harass an officer. This is nothing but a distraction from the key issues facing the country and hiding their own failures.” Sources in Nabanna said that Bandyopadhyay would send a reply to the MHA probably on Wednesday. “The tone of the letter will not be confrontational... He is likely to explain why he himself could not be present at the meeting venue on time. Moreover, as the district magistrate and the police superintendent were present there, it cannot be said that the protocol was not followed,” said a source. Sources in Nabanna said the version of the Centre about the review meeting at Kalaikunda was in divergence with what the chief minister had already explained. The chief minister had categorically pointed out during a news conference on Saturday that she had to wait for 20 minutes in Sagar, where she had gone to hold a review meeting after making an aerial survey of the area, before boarding the helicopter to reach Kalaikunda. “I didn’t mind it. I respect the Prime Minister’s security protocols,” the chief minister had said, indicating that she was asked to wait before boarding the chopper to Kalaikunda. She had also added that the chopper had to hover in the air for 10 to 15 minutes before landing at Kalaikunda. The chief minister had also said that when she reached Kalaikunda, a meeting was already on and she had to wait before handing over the list of damages to the Prime Minister at the conference room as his meeting had started. “Then I handed it over to the Prime Minister. He took it. And with his permission, I left (for Digha),” the chief minister had said. As the chief minister’s version made it clear that she would have landed at Kalaikunda at least 35 minutes earlier had she been allowed to proceed as planned, neither she nor Bandyopadhyay can be blamed for making the Prime Minister wait, the sources pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Two Bengal workers die on Modi project site in Varanasi||Two labourers from Bengal were killed and six injured in their sleep when a dilapidated building that the government was dismantling as part of Narendra Modi’s pet Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi collapsed early on Tuesday. Police have identified the deceased as Ebadul Momin, 27, and Aminul Momin, 45, hailing from Malda’s Kaliachak. The injured labourers, also from Kaliachak, are Mohammad Imran, Arif Momin, Shahid Akhtar, Sakiul Momin, Hakim Khan and Arif Momin (Aminul’s son). Local people claimed that a part of the rundown Goenka Hostel had been razed two days ago, but the local administration and the project contractors had asked the labourers to sleep there. Around 30 labourers were sleeping inside the building when it caved in around 4am, the locals said. Deepak Aggarwal, the local divisional commissioner, said “an inquiry would be conducted to find out why the labourers were sleeping in the dilapidated building”. Rajesh Kumar, the labour contractor, said no arrangements were made for the labourers to sleep and that they slept wherever they could. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, launched by Prime Minister Modi in 2018, is a project under which the area around the Kashi Vishwanath temple is being beautified by broadening streets and removing structures. The temple is now obscured by a maze of narrow lanes and cheek-by-jowl constructions. The project is being implemented jointly by the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government. Awadhesh Kumar Pandey, additional commissioner of police of the Dashaswamedh area, said: “The injured have been admitted to Kabir Chaura Divisional Hospital in the city. The bodies of those who died have been sent for post-mortem. An inquiry will reveal why they were sleeping in the dilapidated building.” A resident said, preferring anonymity: “The building collapsed at 4am. We believe there were 30 labourers sleeping there. We pulled out two bodies before the police arrived and cordoned off the area.” This is the second accident at the project site in 10 days. “A three-storey building had collapsed at Lahori Tola on April 23. Five labourers had suffered serious injuries,” the resident said. The demolition of structures for the corridor had been opposed by Swaroopanand Saraswati, the Shankaracharya of Dwarka-Sarda Peetham. He had claimed that 20 small temples had been demolished in Varanasi to widen streets. Laying the foundation of the corridor on March 8, 2019, Modi had suggested that he had been chosen by God for the job. Modi had said Lord Shiva had told him: “Son, you speak a lot; come here and prove yourself by doing something.” The Prime Minister had claimed that the Mughals had vandalised the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Some historians believe that emperor Aurangzeb had been infuriated when the Maharani of Kutch was dishonoured inside the temple and ordered its demolition. Ahilyabai Holkar, the hereditary noble sardar of the Maratha Empire, had refurbished the temple between 1777 and 1780. Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, the mahant of Sankat Mochan temple in Varanasi, said he had come to know that a large number of labourers used to sleep at Goenka Hostel. Referring to Modi’s assertion in 2014 that “Mother Ganga” had called him to Varanasi to contest the Lok Sabha election, Mishra told The Telegraph: “Nobody had called him here. He is imposing his whims and fancies on the city in the name of the Ganga and Kashi Vishwanath. While bodies (suspected to be of the Covid dead) are now floating in the Ganga, people are also dying in Varanasi because of his mindless corridor project.” In Kaliachak, Aminul’s wife Asmina Khatun said he had promised to bring gifts for their children when he would have returned in a month. Ebadul’s father Kalimuddin Sheikh said: “He went to Varanasi only 12 days ago. His death has ruined the family.” Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||UP Assembly elections 2022: BJP team to prepare for next year polls||The central leadership of the BJP has kick-started preparations for the crucial Uttar Pradesh polls early next year, focusing on ironing out differences among state leaders, getting the caste matrix right and improving the image of the Yogi Adityanath government. Two leaders — general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh — held a two-day preliminary review meeting with the state leaders on Monday and Tuesday to get feedback for the central leadership on poll preparedness. Although the current BJP leadership is known to be constantly in election mode, the shock of the defeat in Bengal has sent party managers into an overdrive, given the significance of Uttar Pradesh. The state has 80 Lok Sabha seats. The Yogi Adityanath government’s failure in handling the Covid crisis has invited sharp criticism and party managers believe it has damaged the image of the state government, necessitating corrective measures. The results of the recent panchayat polls have also alarmed the party into advance stocktaking. The results showed that the party-backed candidates suffered defeats in strongholds such as Ayodhya, Mathura and Gorakhpur besides many other regions. Overall, if the results of the panchayat polls are any indication of the mood on the ground, it’s not something to be excited about, party leaders said. The state government and the party organisation have been asked by the central leadership to run a massive campaign to help Covid-affected people. The two central leaders reviewed the campaign, party leaders said. The choice of sending Santosh, in-charge of organisational matters and co-ordination with the RSS, showed the focus on reviewing organisational preparedness to face the polls, party leaders added. Differences among ministers and leaders in the crucial state, stemming mostly from Adityanath’s “autocratic style” of functioning, have dogged the party. Many party leaders feel the dismal performance in the panchayat polls was the result of infighting among local leaders. The anger over Adityanath’s style of functioning came out in the open during the Covid crisis when many MLAs of the party complained that they were powerless and could face action if they spoke against the government. The two central leaders also held separate meetings with the chief minister and his two deputies. Party insiders said the aim was to gauge the level of coordination between Adityanath and his deputies amid reports of differences. Party insiders said one of the deputy chief ministers, Keshav Prasad Maurya, had found himself sidelined by Adityanath and there were fears it could impact the support of backward castes. Maurya was the party chief in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly polls and his face was widely used to woo the backward castes. However, after the results, Adityanath, who hails from the upper Thakur caste, was made the chief minister. After meeting the Delhi leaders, Maurya, however, suggested all was well in the party. “We will win 300 seats in 2022,” he told reporters. Apart from strains in the backward caste support base, problems have also surfaced in the BJP’s traditional upper caste base. Sections in the party said Adityanath’s domineering governing model had annoyed the Brahmins who felt marginalised under “Thakurvad” pervading at all levels of the government. “The district officials don’t listen to us. We can’t even get simple things done for our people,” one backward caste MP of the party said. The MP added that there was unrest among backward caste voters and stressed the need for the party to address many issues. Party insiders said some significant changes in the government and the organisation could be made based on the assessment of the two central leaders. The buzz over replacing Adityanath, however, has been rubbished by insiders. “Yogi Adityanath is the darling of our core Hindutva votaries. The party can’t dare to drop him,” one BJP MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Appeal in Supreme Court against citizenship notification||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to stay the May 28 executive order of the Union home ministry to grant citizenship to non-Muslims from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan residing in 13 districts of India. In an application through its general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, the IUML has urged the apex court to declare the government’s decision as being violative of citizens’ fundamental rights to equality (Article 14), non-discrimination (Article 15) and life and personal liberty (Article 21) since the constitutional validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019, was pending adjudication. The court is hearing a batch of over 50 petitions, including that of the IUML. The petitions could not be taken up because of the pandemic. The interim application argued that by granting citizenship under the original Act, the Centre was trying to circumvent the assurance given to the apex court that there was no need to stay the CAA as its rules had not been framed. Neither the Citizenship Act, 1955, under which the Centre is inviting applications for citizenship in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab, nor its rules framed in 2009 provide for religion-based citizenship. The CAA proposes to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. Critics argue that the law appears to be aimed at excluding Muslims. The CAA had sparked widespread protests for tying citizenship to religion. Last Friday, the Union home ministry issued a notification inviting people of these communities tracing their roots to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh and residing in 13 Indian districts to apply for citizenship under the Citizenship Act, 1955. The IUML, a party based in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, submitted that the order issued by the home ministry is “manifestly illegal and runs counter to the provisions of the Act, as well as the Constitution”. The petition filed through advocate Pallavi Pratap has alleged that the home ministry has “illegally” permitted the collectors of the 13 districts to grant citizenship although such a provision was added only in the CAA, whose rules are yet to be framed. The 1955 Citizenship Act lays down in unequivocal terms that persons are eligible to apply for citizenship through registration or naturalisation. Through Section 16 of the CAA, a third procedure has been added, delegating the power to “collectors of certain districts to grant citizenship to persons”. “Therefore, the attempt being made by the respondent Union in whittling down the applicability of the two provisions through an executive order is illegal. That the two provisions read together do not permit the classification of applicants on the ground of religion and therefore the order goes beyond what is permitted by the provision itself,” the IUML plea said. “Furthermore, the order does not withstand the test of Article 14 inasmuch as it treats people within a particular class, i.e. persons entitled to apply for citizenship by registration and naturalisation, unequally by virtue of their religion,” the petition added. Pointing to the Centre’s assurance to the Supreme Court that the CAA need not be set aside as the rules had not been framed, the IUML said: “…The respondent Union, in a roundabout way, and in an attempt to circumvent the assurance given to this court, has sought to implement their malafide designs envisaged under the Amendment Act through the recently issued order dated May 28.” The IUML contended that if the Supreme Court struck down the CAA, the citizenship granted on the basis of religion under the 1955 Act would also have to be declared void. “Then, to take back the citizenship of these persons, granted pursuant to the present order, will be a Herculean task and would be near impossible to implement. In the event the said exercise is conducted, it would render the entire batch of writ petitions (challenging the CAA) as infructous,” the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid surge spooks tea gardens||When Indian tea plantation worker Bholanath Natto and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 their biggest worry was not their health, but where they would quarantine and how they could get hold of food and drinking water without his wages. As some of the cities worst hit by India’s Covid-19 crisis see a lull in new cases, infections are rising among millions of tea pickers — many of whom live in cramped living quarters where measures to curb the virus’s spread are difficult to implement. The positive test result and hospital orders to quarantine have been a logistical nightmare for the Nattos, who have spent the last 15 days holed up in a wood shed behind the two-room plantation house they share with their children. “We converted a shed where we stored wood in case our cooking gas ran out into a makeshift room for my wife and me to live in isolation,” Natto, 55, said from his home in Bengal. “My teenage daughter stepped into the kitchen for the first time to cook, while her older brother tried to arrange drinking water for us. Nobody wanted to help us because everyone is scared. We are home alone, with food running out.” India reported its lowest daily rise in new infections since April 11 on Monday, but concerns have been voiced about rising numbers in the country’s east and northeastern regions, home to lush tea gardens that supply much of the world’s tea. Since the pandemic began, India has reported 28 million cases and 329,100 deaths, health ministry data showed, though the true figures are widely believed to be much higher. India’s tea estates employ some 3.5 million workers, thousands of whom are currently quarantining in small, overcrowded homes, struggling to access food, water and aid, union leaders said. In Bengal, more than 4,500 cases have been recorded across 300 of the state’s 800 tea gardens, according to government data. Cases in the tea gardens of neighbouring Assam have risen three-fold in the last 10 days, with more than 6,000 workers and family members testing positive, local media reported. “The situation is alarming,” said Abhijit Mazumdar, working president of the Tarai Sangrami Cha Shramik Union, which represents tea pickers in Bengal. “There are no facilities — no isolation centres, no doctors in defunct dispensaries — leaving workers to battle the disease alone. Fever cases are up, those testing positive are stuck at home with their families and simply resigned to fate,” he added. India is the world’s second-largest tea producer and the industry has long faced accusations of exploitative labour conditions. “The gardens are like isolated islands, each supposed to have all facilities for its workers who live on site. But in reality they are islands of neglect,” Mazumdar said. Tea industry group the Indian Tea Association said it was pushing for plantations to ensure on-site vaccination for all workers and their families. “We are not just concerned but fully involved with the district authorities to keep tea garden workers safe,” said Arijit Raha, the association’s secretary general. “There are customised guidelines for tea gardens and we are ensuring our members follow them. Fever checks, masks, sanitisation and Covid care centres are a must. We have managed to keep the infected numbers low, but the challenge remains.” But deep in the heart of the gardens, where ongoing tea picking season means non-stop work, workers said they had no access to separate quarantine facilities and were constantly worried they would spread the infection to their families. “There are up to three generations living in these two-room, often dilapidated homes, with one bathroom to share,” said Victor Basu, founder of Dooars Jagron, a charity working to defend tea workers’ rights. “It’s a recipe for disaster. Tea garden hospitals need to be made functional and if safe spaces for isolation are not created, the pandemic will spread like wild fire,” he added. In Banarhat in Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district, Gangaram Teli, who works as a security guard, has been watching with trepidation as coronavirus cases in his tea garden rise. “There is one tap for four houses,” said Teli, 39. “For affected families, accessing the water point or buying groceries is very stressful. The disease is such that neighbours hesitate to help.” While Natto’s fever has passed, the last few days of the couple’s three-week confinement have been particularly fraught because their savings have dried up. “I feel fine but cannot step out for another few days,” said Natto, who earns about Rs 7,000 per month and only gets four days of paid sick leave. “We need food in the house…. I have to go back to work.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi govt enables home delivery of liquor ||The Delhi government on Tuesday notified an amendment to the excise rules enabling the home delivery of liquor ordered online or through mobile apps. However, the date of implementation is yet to be announced. The new rules also remove the additional fee on serving of alcohol in open spaces attached to hotels. Liquor shops have been closed since the capital went into lockdown on April 20, and serpentine queues outside the vends the previous day led to scuffles with police who were trying to enforce social distancing. Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Karnataka allow home delivery and app sales of liquor. Last year, the Supreme Court had observed that states should consider home delivery of liquor to prevent crowding at shops. The Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules 2021 notified in the Delhi Gazette on Tuesday allows for “Licence in Form L-13 for home delivery of Indian liquor and foreign liquor by ordering through mobile app or online web portal”. One of the conditions includes that “no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution”. Under flak from both the BJP and the Congress, a source in the Aam Aadmi Party government clarified: “L-13 is an existing licence which has been amended. No licence for L-13 or home delivery licence has been issued.” The 2010 rules had provisions for orders through email and fax under L-13 which was never implemented. In March, the Delhi government’s new liquor policy declared that the state would get out of liquor retail through its four PSUs — which own most of the capital’s liquor shops. So far, there has been no move by any of these companies to tie up with food delivery apps to deliver alcohol. The liquor industry welcomed the move. Suresh Menon, secretary general of the International Spirits and Wines Association of India, told The Telegraph: “Maharashtra created such an enabling provision in May last year… The state has been able to realise its targeted revenue from liquor which is one of the major sources of its revenue. We will wait for the government to announce the policy to see what concerns retailers raise. Unlike the FMCG market, liquor is a turf market so there is a possibility of a retailer objecting to loss of customers from his area to a retailer in some other area... It would change the buying experience which currently involves jostling in queues and not being able to get a brand of one’s choice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha plea to govt to buy foreign vaccines||The Odisha government has asked the Centre to buy Covid-19 vaccines from foreign manufacturers and provide them to states after getting a poor response to its global tender for their procurement. In a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday, state health and family welfare minister Naba Kisore Das said: “Odisha floated a global tender for procurement of vaccines. However, there has been limited response to the tender as observed during the pre-bid stage. Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (which produces (Covaxin) have not participated in the pre-bid meeting. It is understood that at their present capacity they won’t be able to provide vaccines on a large scale to states and there is an urgent need to scale up their capacities.” “It might be faster and economical if the procurement of global vaccines is made at the country-level rather than by individual states. Our chief minister Naveen Patnaik is committed to provide vaccines free of cost to our people and the state will bear the necessary cost of the vaccines.” Pointing out that other states which floated tenders have also received poor response from vaccine manufacturers, Das said: “It seems that the global vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer and Moderna are concerned about indemnity related issues, among others. Secondly, they are willing to deal with federal-level central procurement only, at this stage. Global vaccine manufacturers will be requiring the central government’s statutory clearances for supplying to the states.” However, the minister said: “States may be given the flexibility to design and decide on distribution of vaccines taking local factors into consideration (for example in many hilly terrains, Internet connectivity is poor and we can’t make online registration mandatory in those districts).” Odisha has informed the Centre that it would give priority for vaccination of Plus Two students and their family members in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: 9346 orphaned during the pandemic, says NCPCR report||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has informed the Supreme Court that it has received a tentative figure of 9,346 children left orphaned or abandoned by their parents because of the pandemic from March 2020 till date and has recommended that the respective states reimburse the tuition fees of such children studying in private schools. In an affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, the NCPCR has listed the measures it has undertaken to safeguard the orphaned or abandoned children from trafficking rackets. It added that a large number of individuals and NGOs were seeking to adopt such children through illegal means. Of the 9,346 children, 140 have been abandoned by their parents while 1,742 have lost either of their parents to the pandemic, the commission said. The commission has furnished the information in response to a direction from the top court last week. According to the NCPRC, through a letter dated May 27 it has, among other things, made the following recommendations for the state governments, district education officers (DEOs) and schools: ⚫ In case of death of one or both parents of the child and/ or the earning member of the family and if the child is studying in private school, the expenditure on elementary education of such a child in the same school may be borne by the appropriate government under Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act, 2009 ⚫ For this, the child along with guardian/ any member of the family; and/or the school where the child is studying shall approach the child welfare committee (CWC) of the district. Based on proceedings before the CWC, the child may be included in the list of children already admitted in the school under Section 12 (1)(c) of the RTE Act, 2009. The school shall then follow the appropriate procedure to raise the demand for reimbursement of the expenditure as per respective state RTE rules ⚫ The implementation of these recommendations made in the enclosed documents and herein shall apply to all categories of schools entrusted with the responsibility under Section 12(1) of the RTE Act — aided, unaided private schools; specified category schools. Schools with minority institution status and all residential schools shall also follow the procedure and ensure that no such child is forced to leave the school in any manner against the child’s choice due to non-payment of fees. ⚫ For classes above VIII (beyond RTE), the state government shall devise guidelines for the schools and/ or issue necessary directions and/or devise a policy for reimbursing the expenditure of education of these children. According to the NCPCR, child welfare committees, under Section 27 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 have been established at district level to exercise its powers and discharge the duties conferred on them in relation to children in “need of care and protection” under the Act. Therefore, every such child affected by Covid-19 and found to be in distress and without family support must be produced before the child welfare committee concerned under Section 31 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. “The commission has been receiving many complaints in the recent past, alleging that there are private individuals and organisations, who are involved in data collection of such children stating that they want to provide assistance to the children and the families and also, these organisations/individuals are giving away these orphaned children to families in adoption without following the procedure given under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” the affidavit said. “In response to these complaints, the commission took out an advisory dated 02.05.2021 to chief secretaries of all states/UTs informing about the growing problem of illegal adoption during the second surge of Covid-19 and advising to produce the children before the child welfare committees, so that necessary action can be taken in the best interest of those children,” it added. The commission also stated that it had been receiving complaints of disclosure of children’s (children who have lost both or either of the parent to Covid) information by government authorities to private NGOs and organisations in violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. The said provision prohibits disclosure of the identity of children through name, school, age and address. “The commission has been taking cognisance of these complaints under Section 13(1)(j) of the CPCR Act, 2005 and asking the state governments and law enforcement authorities to take necessary actions. A letter informing about these complaints was also issued to chief secretaries of all states/UTs on 26.05.2021 to look into this matter and ensure that no information of any child is disclosed to any person/entity/organisation. “The commission, in furtherance to its function as a monitoring authority under Section 109 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, has devised an online tracking portal “Bal Swaraj” for children in need of care and protection, especially for children living in streets,” the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||UN officials accuse NIA of torture of PDP leader Waheed Para||The United Nations’ working groups on human rights and special rapporteurs have written to the Centre alleging that an aide of Mehbooba Mufti was brutally tortured in the National Investigation Agency custody for speaking against atrocities in Kashmir before UN representatives. The NIA has denied the allegation of torture on PDP leader Waheed Para. The central agency had earlier said that Para had been arrested on the charge of having links with militants. Para was believed to have been in the good books of the Centre when the BJP was running a coalition government with Mehbooba’s PDP but fell from grace when the alliance unravelled in 2018. The UN report has coincided with Jammu and Kashmir police filing a chargesheet against Para on Tuesday in another militancy-related case. Para is now in police custody. In their letter to the Union external affairs ministry, the UN officials have written that Para had on July 20 last year engaged with current and future members of the UN Security Council during a virtual meeting and raised alarm over the government’s actions in Jammu and Kashmir and its treatment of Muslim minorities. “He was held in a dark, underground cell at subzero temperature, was deprived of sleep, kicked, slapped, beaten with rods, stripped naked and hung upside down. His ill-treatment was recorded. Mr Para was examined by a government doctor three times since his arrest last November and three times by a psychiatrist. He requested medication for insomnia and anxiety,” the report said. It said Para had been subjected to “reprisal” for his engagement with the UN Security Council members and his denunciation of human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir. The UN officials’ report said Para had received threats following the meeting, “with the NIA indicating that he was inviting trouble by engaging in such events”. “They gave him an ultimatum that if he did not cease speaking out about the government, action would be taken against him,” it said. Para was among thousands of people arrested in Jammu and Kashmir during the clampdown that followed the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status. He had been a bitter critic of the move and continued to oppose the government after his release in 2020. On November 25, he was arrested on terrorism charges by the NIA. An NIA spokesperson contacted by The Telegraph said the allegations in the report were false. “The fact is that when he was in custody he was taken for medical examinations every second day. The allegations (that he was arrested as a reprisal for speaking to the UN Security Council) is also false,” she said. The UN report also sought the government’s response on the alleged custodial death of Irfan Ahmad Dar, a shopkeeper from Sopore, last year and the 2019 disappearance while in custody of Naseer Ahmad Wani, a 19-year-old youth from Shopian. The UN rights group and rapporteurs said Para was arrested three days after he filed his nomination to run for the District Development Council elections. The report claimed that Para was subjected to abusive interrogations, which lasted 10 to 12 hours at a time. On January 9, the report said, a judge in an NIA court ruled that the anti-terror law UAPA did not apply in the case. Para was subsequently granted bail by the NIA but hours before his release on January 11, he was arrested and detained by the counter-insurgency wing of the police in a case related to providing financial assistance to a militant group. Para, who heads the PDP’s youth wing, was said to have unbridled access to the Union home ministry, to which the NIA reports, during the PDP-BJP rule. In 2018 as secretary of Jammu and Kashmir’s sports council, Para had organised a huge gathering of sports enthusiasts for then home minister Rajnath Singh in Srinagar, a rare feat for any politician amid relentless stone throwing by locals those days. “For that (channelising the energy of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir in a positive direction), I want to specially congratulate the secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir sports council, Waheed Para. He has organised a wonderful programme here,” Rajnath had told the audience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Experts submit plan to bolster India’s preparedness for possible paediatric cases||An expert panel has submitted a plan to bolster India’s preparedness for possible future outbreaks of pediatric Covid-19 although all available evidence indicates that only a small proportion of children require hospital care, a top health official said on Monday. The plan seeks to strengthen the nationwide capacity to manage pediatric Covid-19, said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, and a senior paediatrician. “The latest medical evidence and our national experience suggest that only two to three per cent of Covid-19 infected children require hospital care,” Paul said. “But our preparedness will be for two-fold or 2.5-fold of that level.” “We’re working systematically, comprehensively to address paediatric Covid disease for now and the future,” Paul said. “We will strengthen facilities, do an audit of what might be required in a worst-case scenario. Steps will be taken and put into action.” Medical studies from across the world suggest that the vast majority of children infected with Covid-19 develop only minor symptoms such as mild fever or cold or sore throat. But a small proportion might develop pneumonia and require hospital or even critical care. A tiny proportion of children who have recovered from Covid — even after mild illness — have been observed to develop a serious inflammatory condition marked by high fever, body rash, diarrhoea and vomiting, or bleeding. The Indian Academy of Paediatrics had last month asserted that children made up only a small proportion of hospitalised cases during the country’s first wave of Covid-19 last year as well as the current wave. “There has never been any extra or unusual burden on our paediatric care infrastructure,” Paul said. “But we need to keep all future scenarios in mind… the virus can change its behaviour or some other epidemiological dynamics may change,” Paul said. “We’re increasing preparedness through guidelines that will be adopted in a day or two.” Senior paediatricians not involved in the exercise to create the guidelines said there is need to both disseminate guidance for clinical management of Covid-19 and post-Covid inflammatory syndrome and improve skills and infrastructure in geographic regions with shortages of paediatric specialists. “Paediatric care, including paediatric nursing, needs special training and some interior parts of the country may not have adequate specialist staff,” said Dhanya Dharmapalan, a paediatrician in Mumbai and member of the IAP’s Covid-19 committee. Paediatric doses of medicines, for instance, need to be finely calibrated according to a child’s weight, Dharmapalan said. “Even drawing blood from a child for a test requires special care. A plan to improve the paediatric infrastructure would be welcome.” While the number of Covid-infected children needing hospital care has been higher during the second wave than during the first wave, doctors attribute this to the much larger epidemic in the second wave compared with the first. “When overall numbers rise three-fold, so would the absolute number of children,” Dharmapalan said. “But we have not so far observed any increase in the proportion of the children falling seriously ill.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Congress begs Centre to spend on reviving economy||The Congress on Tuesday said 2020-21 had become the “darkest year of the economy” in four decades because Prime Minister Narendra Modi refused to pay heed to good advice and the global experience of management during the time of pandemic and lockdown. Former finance minister and Congress veteran P. Chidambaram said: “The current state of the economy is no doubt largely due to the impact of the pandemic, but it has been compounded by the ineptitude and incompetent economic management of the government. Good advice by distinguished economists and renowned institutions has been rebuffed. Worldwide experience has been ignored. Suggestions on fiscal expansion and cash transfers have been turned down. Hollow packages like Atmanirbhar have fallen flat.” Lamenting that the government didn’t take the required steps last year, the former finance minister said the country could not afford to lose another year, adding, “fortunately, we are only at the beginning of this year. But if you don’t take the steps we are advocating, things will not get better. If you do nothing, it will be a disaster. Take steps now. Don’t worry about the fiscal deficit. It doesn’t make any difference. Print money if needed. But spend. Spend on health, on welfare, on infrastructure. The purpose is to revive the economy”. He added: “We are glad that the two leading chambers of business and industry — CII and Ficci — have, in the last few days, echoed our views and pleaded for fiscal expansion, including cash transfers to the poor. “The RBI’s monthly review has flagged the ‘demand shock’ and its consequences. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) report on loss of jobs and growing unemployment is alarming. The research and survey reports of Aziz Premji University have concluded that 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line and into indebtedness. Yet, even as recently as yesterday (Monday) morning, the finance minister gave a long interview to some newspapers defending her misguided and disastrous policies.” Chidambaram was addressing the media on the provisional estimates of Annual National Income for 2020-21 released by National Statistical Office on Monday. “As expected, the GDP at constant prices recorded a negative growth of minus 7.3 per cent, the first time India has recorded negative annual growth since 1979-80. Three numbers of GDP at constant prices will highlight the parlous state of the economy: 2018-19: Rs 140,03,316 crore; 2019-20: Rs 145,69,268 crore; 2020-21: Rs 135,12,740 crore. The increase in 2019-20 was modest at 4.0 per cent, but the decline in 2020-21 was severe at minus 7.3 per cent. The net result is that the GDP in 2020-21 is lower than the GDP of two years ago (2018-19).” Recalling that the finance minister and her chief economic adviser began to sell the story of a recovery when the first wave of the pandemic appeared to subside last year, he said: “They saw ‘green shoots’ when no one else did. They predicted a V-shaped recovery. It was a false story and we had expressed our strong reservations and warned there were no signs of a recovery. We had pointed out that what the economy needed was a strong dose of stimulus, including increased government expenditure, direct transfers of cash to the poor and liberal distribution of free rations. Our pleas fell on deaf ears, and the result is a negative growth of minus 7.3 per cent.” He obliquely questioned the credentials of chief economic adviser K. Subramanian by saying that nobody he knows takes him seriously. Arguing that the deeply worrying conclusion is that most Indians are poorer than they were two years ago, the Congress leader said: “What is most worrying is that the per capita GDP has fallen below Rs 1 lakh, to Rs 99,694. In percentage terms it is a decline of minus 8.2 per cent over the previous year. It is lower than the level achieved in 2018-19 (and maybe even 2017-18). The NSO reveals that most economic indicators are worse than what they were two years ago. Examples are: private consumption, gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), exports, imports.” Accusing Modi of wiping out the gains of the Manmohan Singh government in lifting millions of people out of poverty, he said: “This government is insensitive, not concerned about what is happening to the lower middle class and the poor. The very rich have become richer over the last year. The upper middle class is secure behind gated communities. The lower middle class have become poor and the poor are pushed below poverty line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Space runs out for graves in Bhubaneswar||The second wave of Covid-19 has brought to light harrowing images from across the country of bodies of victims lined up outside crematoriums or graveyards with families waiting for hours to perform the last rites of their loved ones. With casualties mounting, the cemetery located in the heart of Bhubaneswar is struggling to cope with the rush of bodies. Spread over an acre, the cemetery has graves dug up in every plot of available land. “It’s painful to show disrespect to the soul of the man who has departed from the world unexpectedly and in pain because of Covid-19. But given the large number of bodies coming for burial, we find ourselves completely helpless,” said Father Dibkahar Parrichha. Bhubaneswar has only one cemetery that caters to the Christian community. “Suddenly the number of deaths has risen because of Covid-19. People from as far as Sundergarh come here for treatment and their family members often die in hospitals here. The relatives bring these bodies to the cemetery in Bhubaneswar. This is an important reason why the pressure on the cemetery has gone up,” said Father Bhaskar Parrichha. He pointed out that the cemetery was planned when the population of Bhubaneswar was around one lakh. Now the population of the city has increased exponentially and the number of faithful has gone up accordingly, he added. “We have asked the state government to allot us land at other places on the outskirts of the city for burial. Almost six years have passed but we are yet to hear from the government,” he said. Hemanta Kumar Nayak, the relative of a Covid victim, said: “My uncle Bijay Kumar Nayak, who was a priest in a church in Jatani, passed away last Sunday. When we brought his body for burial, the situation at the cemetery was horrible. We didn’t know where to bury him. As per tradition, we have to give respect to the departed soul. We believe in resurrection. But now there is no space to even to keep the coffins properly, forget about funeral rites.” He added: “As per tradition, the bodies need to be lined up. But such is the situation at the cemetery that they are being placed one upon another. The gap between the graves is also shrinking due to lack of space. We have never witnessed such a situation. We used to come once a year to place flowers on the graves of our relatives. But now even that does not seem to be possible.” The cemetery, the graveyard and the crematorium are located adjacent to each other at Satyanagar here. There are similar problems in burying the dead in the graveyard (kabaristhan). “No space. Such is the situation that people sometimes dig up old graves, take out the remains and bury bodies. This happens in a hush-hush manner. It’s a terrible situation,” alleged S.K. Nizamuddin, former corporator of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation. The problem of cremation has acquired serious proportions as well. “Such is the flow of bodies to the crematorium that sometimes there is lack of space even for performing rituals before the bodies are put in the incinerator. Sometimes the incinerator’s chimney does not work and people have to arrange firewood to cremate the bodies,” said retired state government employee Prashant Mohanty. He said there is invariably a queue outside the crematorium these days with authorities calling out names of people waiting to cremate their family members or loved ones to ensure order. “I have visited this crematorium several times since my childhood but I have never seen such desperation, frustration and even fear among people. They are really scared,” he said. Mohanty referred G.N. Devy’s column published in The Telegraph on May 31 to describe the prevailing situation. “What we are facing is not just an individual’s tragedy: it’s a large, unprecedented and universal catastrophe, a nakba or nauba,” Mohanty said quoting Devy (Nakba means a great catastrophe or a phenomenal disaster, while nauba means a situation or a condition inviting catastrophe).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Health officials suggest jab criteria to ease lockdowns||Districts across the country should relax lockdowns after vaccinating 70 per cent of their populations 60 years or older and those above 45 years with chronic health disorders, top health officials said on Monday, underlining criteria for easing restrictions. The officials who are guiding India’s response to Covid-19 signalled the need for caution alongside steps to ease restrictions, pointing out that the epidemic is currently shrinking only because lockdowns and other precautions have suppressed transmission of the virus. “Unlocking has to be done very patiently, guided by the amount of vaccination done for the vulnerable (population) groups,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and member of the national Covid-19 task force. A test positivity rate — the proportion who test positive among those tested daily — in a district should be less than 5 per cent over a week for the district authorities to consider relaxing restrictions, he said. The test positivity rate is a measure of the epidemic’s size and should be ideally lower than 5 per cent. The number of districts with test positivity rates 5 per cent or lower has increased from 92 in the week ending on May 7 to 350 in the week ending May 31, but 248 districts, including 16 in Bengal, have test positivity rates 10 per cent or higher. Bhargava said the second criterion should be vaccination coverage. “Vulnerable individuals — those above 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities (chronic health disorders) — should be vaccinated. Vaccination coverage should be up to 70 per cent,” he said. “This is an important criterion — districts could prioritise such vulnerable population groups and achieve 70 per cent coverage within days to weeks,” Bhargava said. India’s count of active Covid-19 patients fell to about 1.89 million on Monday after a steady decline since a peak of over 3.56 million cases on May 7. Only Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim have added to the total number of cases over the previous 24 hours. But health officials say testing results underline epidemics that need to be better controlled in at least 248 districts where test positivity rates are still 10 per cent or higher — including in Calcutta, Darjeeling, Hooghly, Howrah and Nadia, among others in Bengal. Thirty-four districts in Tamil Nadu, 25 in Karnataka, 21 in Odisha and nine in Maharashtra are also among those with test positivity rates higher than 10 per cent. “We have to be very cautious. We have only suppressed the virus. We cannot make mistakes,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force, urging continued adoption of the standard responses such as testing and containment efforts and the use of masks and avoiding crowds “We need to prepare ourselves for future scenarios…. If we adopt the protocols individually and collectively, why should another wave come? In five or six months, our vaccination plan would have advanced to a point where our population would be protected,” Paul said. The nationwide vaccination campaign that started on January 16 had until May 31 inoculated over 45 million people nationwide with the two doses required for full protection. This is around 5 per cent of the eligible population estimated to be between 900 million and 950 million. Health officials are hoping that increased production of the existing Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — and the entry of new domestic and imported vaccines will allow India to vaccinate all eligible persons by the end of this year. Health experts say that India would need to inoculate over 4 million persons every day through the rest of the year to meet that target. The average daily inoculation during May was around 2 million doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Is Mamata thinking truce with Centre over Alapan?  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dismissed questions on former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday, fuelling speculation on whether she was calling a truce with the Centre, at least for now. “Case is over now, chapter is over now,” Mamata said during a press conference at the state administrative headquarters in the afternoon. Bandopadhyay, who has been appointed chief adviser to Mamata, has been given an office at the Administrative Training Institute (ATI) in Salt Lake, as per an order issued on Tuesday mentioning that he will hold additional charge as DG at ATI. Salt Lake, in the eastern part of the city, is at a distance from Howrah across the river in the west that hosts Nabanna, the state's administrative headquarters where the chief minister and her key officers have their offices.That the chief minister's adviser would not have his office at Nabanna raises questions on how effective Bandopadhyay would be in his new role. Bandyopadhyay, however, did attend a meeting at Nabanna on cyclone relief on Wednesday. “It is surprising that the chief adviser to the chief minister would not be in the same office. This begs the question how far serious the state is about seeking his advise,” said a retired bureaucrat who has served in Bengal. According to sources, Bandyopadhyay’s continued presence at the state administrative headquarters at Nabanna could undermine the role of current chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi, which the chief minister was keen to avoid. Also, Dwivedi shares an excellent rapport with Gautam Sanyal, the principal secretary to Mamata. “CM feels these two officers would be able to work in tandem and any third person could create problems,” claimed a source. Bandopadhyay was served a notice by the Centre under the Disaster Management Act, seeking an explanation for skipping a review meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Friday at Kalaikunda. Bandyopadhyay, then chief secretary, had left the venue along with Mamata without attending the meet. Hours later, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had recalled him to Delhi without consulting the state government, a move the sparked the latest standoff between the Centre and Bengal. Bandyopadhyay, appointed chief adviser to the chief minister for three years post his retirement on Monday evening, must reply to the notice by Thursday. Troubles for the former bureaucrat are unlikely to be over soon as  DoPT can launch proceedings against any officer till four years from retirement. Trinamul sources, however, claimed that Mamata did not want to pursue the issue further as she had established herself as the most vocal Opposition chief minister against Modi. “She has made her point. There is no need for her to carry on with this issue any further. That is why she said, 'the chapter is over',” said a senior Trinamul leader. Also, the sword of central agencies was still hanging over key leaders of her party and also some of her family members. Prior to the Assembly polls, CBI had summoned Rujira Banerjee, the wife of Trinamul Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek, and her sister Menaka Gambhir in a coal mining scam. After the poll results, CBI arrested three Trinamul leaders, including two ministers, and a former party leader, in connection with the Narada sting operation. “Since there are allegations, a probe will be conducted. Any such move brings a bad name to the party. Probes can damage her national political ambition. Though we can always talk about political vendetta, it may not work every time,” a Trinamul insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s claim to vaccinate all by 2021 a hoax, claims Mamata Banerjee||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday dubbed as "hoax" the Centre's claim of vaccinating the entire population above the age of 18 years by 2021 and asserted that the union government must provide jabs free of cost to states. "That claim is just a hoax. The Centre says things like these. Before the Bihar elections, they had promised to inoculate its population after the elections, but nothing happened," she told reporters at the state secretariat. Mamata said considering the gap between doses, the process to vaccinate the entire eligible age group should take six months to a year to complete. She said her government has spent Rs 150 crore to procure vaccines, but only 1.4 crore of the state's over 10- crore population could be inoculated so far. "The Centre is not sending vaccines to states. Whatever little stock that is supplied, gets depleted within days... It must give free vaccines to state governments," she said. The central government had on Monday said it expects to inoculate the country's adult population by the end of the year. Talking about Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the chief minister claimed that it is a closed chapter now, but asserted that her administration will stand by the former chief secretary of the state on the row over his not joining the central government. "Alapan Bandyopadhyay chapter is over now. The West Bengal government will give full support to Alapan Bandyopadhyay in whatever is going around with him," Banerjee told reporters when asked about her government's stance on the fiasco. Bandopadhyay was set to retire on May 31, but the state had recently sought and received permission for extension of his tenure by three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the Centre, shortly after a row broke out over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's post-cyclone review meeting, which the CM and the state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire amid the Centre-state tussle. He was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser. The Union Home Ministry has served a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment up to two years, amid a tug-of-war between the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government over him. Bandyopadhyay has already started working as the chief adviser and was present at Wednesday's meeting of the state Irrigation department presided over by Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||IAS officers divested of double charge in Bengal||The Bengal government had effected a rejig in bureaucracy after chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that IAS officers should not be overburdened with multiple departments. Naveen Prakash, a 1987 batch IAS officer, was holding the charges of public works and irrigation departments. He has been divested of the irrigation charge. Prabhat Mishra, a 1993 batch IAS officer, is the new irrigation secretary. Similarly, Atri Bhattacharya, a 1989 batch IAS officer, was given the charge of fisheries department, which was being held by Mishra. “The policy is clear. No officer would be given charge of two major departments as this leaves an impact on the activities of both the departments. As Mishra was given the charge of the irrigation department, he was relieved of the fisheries department,” said an official. Only officer who was entrusted with two major departments is A.R. Bandhan of the 1989 batch. Bandhan was given the additional charge of the animal resources development department, beside the department of public health engineering. But it appears to be a temporary arrangement as the new home secretary B.P. Gopalika was holding the department of animal resources development. Fifty-five IPS officers were also covered under the overhaul. While, sources said, the majority of the changes were routine transfers, the most significant shift was putting DIG, Midnapore range, Kunal Aggarwal, on compulsory waiting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Jute unions protest against Jagaddal mill closure||Some 1,000 workers attached to the Jagaddal-based JJI Jute Mill and belonging to trade unions of various parties blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore Road for nearly two hours on Tuesday morning, demanding resumption of work suspended by the mill management two weeks ago. The management had claimed insufficient supply of raw jute. Furious over the sudden suspension of work that rendered around 3,000 workers jobless, all trade unions, including those backed by the CPM, the RSS, the Congress, and Trinamul, joined forces, in a rather unusual instance of solidarity, to demonstrate against the management, demanding immediate opening of the mill. The blockade, which disrupted traffic during the morning rush hour, was also supported by workers of other closed jute mills in the Barrackpore industrial zone. A team of local police and administration officials later met the agitating workers, and promised measures to ensure the reopening of the mill in seven days. “At a time the state government has allowed the jute industry to work with only 40 per cent workers, because of the Covid-induced restrictions, the mill management suspended work altogether, effectively pushing us to the brink of starvation,” said a worker. “The management claimed scarcity of raw material, but it should ask the government to take action against jute hoarders,” he added. Gargi Chatterjee, the North 24-Parganas secretary of the CPM’s labour arm Citu, said: “One after the other, jute mills are closing down in the state, creating a major survival crisis for over one lakh workers and their families.” “Amid the Covid-19 situation, management of the mills is playing dirty. Previously, they did not pay wages for the lockdown period, and now they are suspending work only to avoid the financial burden,” she said, adding that if the jute mills are shut down arbitrarily by the management sacrificing the interests of workers, they would stop all activities of the mill, such as sale of finished products. Trinamul’s local MLA Somnath Shyam said the crisis was created in the industry because of a sudden hike in the price of jute. “I have already taken up the matter at various levels of the state government, and also apprised the labour minister. I am hopeful that JJI Jute Mill will resume operations soon,” he said.“I am also trying my best so that many other mills in the Barrackpore industrial zone reopen soon,” the MLA added. Industry insiders said that at least 16 jute mills have suspended work, apparently because of the paucity of raw jute, which led to the price hike. Sources said the number of such closed jute mills in the Barrackpore region is seven. Last week, in a bid to reopen the closed jute mills, the state government asked jute commissioner Moloy Chandan Chakrabortty to carry out raids on raw jute hoarders. State labour minister Becharam Manna announced that the Bengal government would provide required administrative support to the jute commissioner for executing such raids. The state government also issued an order for zero holding of raw jute by balers and traders to ensure availability and supply of the material to the mills. A jute mill owner in North 24-Parganas said: “The hoarders of jute have created a crisis for the mills and their workers.” “Unless the government takes action against such hoarders, more jute mills would be forced to down shutters,” he added. On Tuesday, the jute commissioner issued an order disallowing the holding of raw jute outside mills after June 25. The raw jute present with farmers, middlemen and sellers will have to be contracted before June 10. Physical delivery of jute to the mills has to be completed by June 25. It implies the seller cannot stock raw jute beyond that date. No mill is allowed to receive delivery of raw jute between June 25 and July 20. Anyone found in defiance of the order would be sternly acted against.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s infections below 10,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday, for the first time in 41 days since April 21, logged less than 10,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in a day. With 9,424 new infections, 17,722 recoveries, besides 137 deaths, the total of active cases fell by 8,435 to 78,613. Since the all-time high of 1,32,181 in the total of active cases reported on May 21, the state has improved by over 41 per cent in 11 days. “Getting to this stage of less than 10,000 new cases daily is crucial, even psychologically. Now, we hope to be able to lower it to less than 5,000 a day over the next couple of weeks, or less,” said a minister. Bengal now has 4.36 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh among states with most such cases. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 31st consecutive day, rising by nearly 9 percentage points to 93.2 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate now is 92.41. “Perhaps the most heartening is the steady fall in the daily positive confirmation rate, which was 33 at the peak of the second wave. On Tuesday, it was down to barely 14 per cent,” the minister said. “. Once we drag it back to less than 10 again, we will be decisively on our way to yet another major turnaround,” said the minister. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases among samples tested. Decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. With a total of 15,678 deaths this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent and the national rate is 1.18. Of the 137 deaths reported on Tuesday, 32 were from the city and 35 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 1,032 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,028.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger kills Cyclone Yaas victim in Sunderbans||A woman, who lost her home in Cyclone Yaas last Wednesday, was killed by a royal Bengal tiger in the Sajnakhali sanctuary of coastal Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas when she went to catch crabs early on Tuesday. Police and local sources said Bhagawati Mondal, 38, was fatally mauled by the tiger when she was searching for crabs in a creek, her husband Atin waiting in a nearby boat. Later in the day, Atin returned home in Chargheri-Lahiripara area of Gosaba with the body of his wife. With this death, at least 23 villagers were killed by tigers in the Sunderbans in one year, a wildlife official said. Sources in Gosaba said the couple and a neighbour went to catch crabs at creeks in the Jhila forest range on Monday. “The tiger attacked Bhagawati when she was searching for crabs close to the muddy bank of Golvoxa khal,” Atin said. “We tried to resist the animal but it mauled her on the neck and shoulder. By the time it left, my wife had bled to death,” Atin sobbed. The incident unleashed panic among fishermen and also created serious concern among state wildlife officials. Officials blamed villagers and shermen for “inviting deaths by entering deep jungles despite a ban against it” There is a strong prohibition on entry inside the jungle. We have taken up an awareness drive among the fishermen and urged them not to risk their lives and to try for alternative sources of income like apiculture, but they do not pay heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. A senior official attached to Sajnekhali Tiger Reserve said: “Incidents of tiger attacks have increased following Cyclone Yaas as nylon nets have been torn at several places. This has led tigers to come close to river embankments at many places. In such a situation, we have asked villagers to be very careful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari jibe on Alapan Bandyopadhyay row||Suvendu Adhikari, BJP MLA and leader of  the Opposition in Bengal Assembly, on Tuesday took to Twitter to accuse chief minister Mamata Banerjee and former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay of destroying the federal structure by “skipping’”a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demand stricter action against the bureaucrat. The series of tweets, sources in the party said, was a result of instructions from BJP headquarters in Delhi. The tug-of-war between the state and Centre over Bandyopadhyay, whom the Modi government had given a three-month extension before unilaterally attaching him to the Centre, didn't go down well with many in the state BJP amid murmurs that the action was being seen as another central affront to Bengal. The tweets by Adhikari, a source said, was aimed at silencing dissent within the state BJP. Many in the state BJP told this paper that a decorated officer like Bandyopadhyay was being unnecessarily harassed by Delhi, which could go against the party’s interest in Bengal. “Theatre of the absurd is playing out in West Bengal. For the sake of her own ego, to destroy India’s federal structure and protect the Chief Secretary for his indiscipline, (non-MLA) CM @MamataOfficial (Mamata Banerjee) Didi is bringing disrepute to the CM office and the Constitution of India,” Adhikari tweeted. On Bandyopadhyay, Adhikari wrote: “Is it really becoming of a CS to skip the Prime Minister’s meet organised to help the people in duress due to Cyclone Yass? No. It is not.” He demanded strictest action against Bandyopdahyay for “indiscipline, violating service rules at a time of a natural disaster and a global pandemic…” The tweets bear resemblance to statements made by central BJP leaders and senior ministers of the Modi cabinet on this issue. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had on Monday accused Bandyopadhay of walking out of Modi’s meeting and hence insulting the Prime Minister. Many state BJP leaders speaking to The Telegraph had said that this will go against the party’s interests in Bengal. “This move didn’t go down well with the people of the state. However, our leadership in Delhi don’t want the state unit’s view to prevail and hence comes the tweets from Suvenduda,” a state BJP office bearer said. The larger saffron ploy becomes clear if one compares the contents of Suvendu’s tweets with those of Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Dhankhar, on Tuesday, put out three tweets levelling similar allegations against Mamata and Bandyopadhyay. He went ahead to dub May 28 as ‘a dark day in India’s long-standing ethos of cooperative federalism’ because the duo were ‘absent’ at the meeting. However Mamata has herself repeatedly clarified that neither herself nor Bandyopadhyay skipped the meeting with the PM. She made it a point to underscore that she had gone to meet the PM following the protocol and courtesy and handed over the documents related to the devastation caused by Yaas and left only with his permission. Suvendu, in his tweets, also alleged that Mamata ‘is moving heaven and earth to protect him’ because Bandyopadhyay knows ‘secrets’. He claimed that Bandyopadhyay will be paid ‘a comfortable salary of Rs 2.5 lakhs per month and cushy perks’ in his new position as the chief advisor to the CM. According to the Nandigram MLA, this would be a waste of money. The group of BJP leaders who are disgruntled over the issue reacted to Suvendu’s tweets by saying that the damage to the party’s image in Bengal has already been done and these tweets could do little to revive it. “People are dubbing the issue of Alapanbabu as BJP’s vendetta towards Bengal for handing them a defeat. Suvenduda’s tweets will do little to change that,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||After 20 months, Toorsa tea garden to reopen on Wednesday||The gates of the Toorsa tea estate will reopen on Wednesday after 20 months. Located in Kalchini block of Alipurduar district, the garden had closed on October 2019, leaving around 800 workers jobless. On Tuesday, the decision to reopen it was made at a tripartite meeting at the office of the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri. Additional commissioner Md Rizwan, the garden’s general manager and tea workers’ union leaders attended the three-hour-long meeting. “At the meeting, it was decided that Toorsa tea estate will reopen from Wednesday. Workers’ wages and staff salary will be paid by June 5. Due bonus will be cleared by July 31,” said Rizwan. According to garden sources, the garden had closed over a dispute on bonus payment for 2018-19 between trade unions and the garden management. The management had declared 8.33 per cent bonus but unions had wanted more. On Tuesday’s meeting, bonus was fixed at 12 per cent. “Initially, it has been decided that wages of a fortnight would be paid to workers while salary of 20 days would be paid to the staff. It is good that the meeting has turned fruitful. The workers were jobless for months,” said a senior trade union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Bathing in Digha sea proves fatal for two visitors ||Two persons died apparently of suffocation after getting sucked by waves in Digha on Tuesday afternoon when they allegedly flouted civic volunteers’ instructions not to bathe in the sea. The deceased were Noor Mohammed Midya, 49, and Maidul Naskar, 38, of Howrah’s Liluah who had come to Digha earlier in the day in a group of four on a business trip. “We came to see the beach as we had seen so much damage by Yaas on TV,” said Muktim Mullick from the group, who insisted he did not bathe in the sea unlike his friends. Civic volunteers on duty differed. “We told the four men repeatedly that bathing in the sea was banned because of strong undercurrents ahead of the June 10 high tide,” said civic volunteer Tapas Jana. “They ignored our advice and proceeded to bathe.” Naskar and Midya were reportedly sucked into a strong series of waves and pulled deep into the sea, where they asphyxiated after drowning. Their bodies were recovered by civic volunteers 15 minutes later and rushed to Digha state general hospital where both were declared brought dead. “We have told the families (about the deaths). The bodies are being sent to Contai for post mortem,” said officer-in-charge (Digha-Mohona), Satyajit Chanakya. The incident occurred in the middle of a state-wide restriction to contain crowds and lower the instances of Covid-19 infection. All hotels in Digha remain shut to tourists. “The reason that we have temporarily banned sea bathing is the brewing high tide that could hit on June 10 or 11,” Chanakya added. Local residents said they had been observing a trend of outsiders taking joyrides through Digha over the past couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Two schoolboys critical after wall falls on them in Murshidabad||Two schoolboys were critically injured when the wall of a decrepit one-storey brick shop fell on them while they were playing cricket on a road at a village in Murshidabad’s Beldanga on Tuesday. The incident occurred around 10am on Tuesday at Mirzapur village when six children were playing near the shop abandoned by its owner over a year ago apparently as it was decrepit. Nabirul Karim, 12, received head injuries and Sakib Sheikh, 9, was hurt in the leg. Their four friends were also injured but less seriously. Eyewitness Alamgir Sheikh, among those who rushed the children to Beldanga block hospital, said they were referred to Murshidabad Medical College. District police chief K. Sabari Rajkumar said probe was on. In Behrampore town, two persons were killed when a truck collided head-on with an autorickshaw around 5.30am on Tuesday. The auto, privately hired by a married couple Babu Sheikh, 26, and Sunita Biwi, from Islampur, was driven by Bellal Sheikh and was headed for Beldanga. Bellal and Babu died instantly. Sunita is critical at Murshidabad Medical College. The truck driver fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas aftermath: Flooded homes, parched throats in Bengal||Floods triggered by Cyclone Yaas have led to drinking water shortage at several places in coastal South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, with most sources of drinking water remaining submerged for almost a week since last Wednesday’s cyclone. As tube wells, pumping and boosting stations are submerged and ponds flooded by saline water, signs of Coleridge’s immortal lines, “water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink” are clear. “We have been living without electricity and water since last Tuesday, May 25, a day before Yaas. We are surviving on food supplied by the local administration but to get water we have to travel 3km,” said Abdus Salam Gazi of Hingalganj’s Kadakhali in North 24-Parganas. While Gazi and his neighbours are trekking 3km every day for drinking water, villagers in Hingalganj’s Mahmudpur lost patience and staged a demonstration on Monday demanding adequate water supply in their village. To address these concerns, the state government’s public health engineering department has been supplying water but angry villagers say the gap between demand and supply is huge, especially in remote areas. A public health engineering official admitted to the shortage of water but said it was difficult to start restoration work since several areas remained under water. “We can’t restore water supply until the water level recedes. We have to repair several pumping and boosting stations and at the same time clean pipelines clogged with dirt,” a senior office of Irrigation department said in Calcutta. However, the PHE official claimed that water pouches are being distributed through the panchayats on doorsteps. “We supply at least 50,000 pouches regularly in every gram panchayat area. At the same time, we have allowed people to collect water from our packaging units. The pouches are handed over to the panchayat officials for distribution since we have limited manpower,” said an irrigation department official. “In the entire Sunderbans, we have been trying our best to supply safe drinking water so that people in the affected areas do not suffer from water-borne diseases,” the official added. The district officials of North 24-Parganas admitted that the demand for water pouches was high but refuted allegations that the administration was not doing enough. On Monday, a team of the district administration visited Bholakhali island for the first time six days after the cyclone. “We took a boat full of water pouches and dry food for villagers,” an official said, adding the island remained inaccessible. Officials of the PHE and local sources said a long stretch of water supply pipelines in the region had been damaged by the cyclone. Since the area is surrounded by rivers attached to sea, saline water gushed into the villages during the high tide by breaching the embankment. The tidal wave damaged many pumping and boosting stations as well as tube wells that are still under water. Drinking water crisis is visible in several areas under Sandeshkhali, Hansnabad, Minakha in North 24-Parganas as well as in Gosaba, Kultali, Kakdwip, Sagar, Mousuni Island, Namkhana, Patharpratima and Raidighi of South 24-Parganas. A PHE official in Basirhat admitted to scarcity of water.  “Water crisis is there in many places from damage to supply lines caused by broken embankments. We are supplying water pouches and drums to affected areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||North East||Five trapped in Meghalaya coal mine||At least five miners, including four from Assam, are feared trapped in a coal mine in neighbouring Meghalaya’s East Jaintia Hills district since Sunday night after it was flooded following the “explosion of dynamite”. The fifth miner is from Tripura. This is the second mine mishap to have taken place in the Meghalaya district since January. Six labourers from Assam had perished in the January mishap at the mine, which is located around 30km from the site of Sunday’s incident. In December 2018, 17 labourers were killed at a mine in Ksan located in the same district. Sources said these mine mishaps expose the dangers of rat-hole coal mining continuing in Meghalaya, though it has been barred by the National Green Tribunal in 2014. Senior leaders from the Opposition Congress and the United Democratic Party (UDP), a constituent of the ruling coalition, have expressed concern over the mishap. Former Congress chief minister Mukul Sangma tweeted: “... illegality of this scale cannot happen without patronage by people in authority — both illegal mining of coal & its illegal transportation goes on under the watch of the Government.” According to Cachar superintendent of police V. Nimbalkar, at least six miners are trapped in the 500-feet coal mine which was located by East Jaintia Hills police around 6am on Monday, the delay attributed to inclement weather, poor night vision and the lack of any eyewitnesses. Cachar and East Jaintia Hills are adjoining districts. However, six eyewitnesses on Monday evening “narrated” the events leading to the May 30 mishap at the Sutnga Interior mine. According to them, five persons got trapped after water rushed into the mine and left it inundated in no time following the “sudden explosion of dynamite”. East Jaintia Hills superintendent of police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa the eyewitnesses have named one Nizam Ali as the person overseeing operations at the mine but “who did nothing to rescue the trapped labourers”. Ali had allegedly threatened the survivors with dire consequences and chased them away, the police said. Based on the account of the eyewitnesses, a case has been filed at Khliehriat police station and security provided to the survivors. One person has been detained for questioning but he too had tested positive for Covid-19. Both Ali and the mine owner are absconding. Officials said equipment has been mobilised to enter the mine in search of the trapped miners on Wednesday. The East Jaintia Hills police have released two telephone numbers (7005286235 and 7005933923) to provide information about the missing persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
02-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Firm links||Silence seems to have prevailed for a while on the phenomenon of dowry deaths. It is almost as though India takes them for granted — a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report showed that in 2018 dowry deaths accounted for 40 to 50 per cent of women’s murders in India every year. The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, heading a three-judge bench, left no doubt as to the scale of the crime when he indicated how Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code should be applied against those culpable in such deaths. The court’s reported remarks suggested that the legislative intent to curb a long-standing evil cannot be achieved by a literal or straitjacketed interpretation of the law. It addressed a crucial ambiguity in the phrasing of the section, which refers to the unnatural death of a woman within seven years of marriage following cruelty or harassment for dowry soon before her death. Since ‘soon before’ is vague, the tendency is to read it as ‘immediately before’, thus creating a loophole for the guilty. The CJI’s bench, while acknowledging that rigorous interpretation is needed when dealing with crime, pointed out that it becomes absurd in cases of dowry death and defeats the spirit of the legislation. Instead, courts must exercise their discretion in interpreting the phrase with the various manifestations of harassment in mind and establish a ‘proximate and live’ link between cruelty and its fatal effect. This is the Supreme Court’s most important clarification. The rigour would lie in the unbroken chain of cause and effect. Alongside other clarifications, the bench also emphasized the importance of natural justice in relation to the accused husband and members of his family. The law should be balanced in its application. The court deplored the cursory and casual manner of trial courts in questioning the accused to bring out their defence in response to incriminatory material. This was part of the justice process, without which the husband and other relatives by marriage can be falsely implicated. The court advised caution, which is not only relevant for the sake of justice but also because the law and its associated processes lose credibility by misapplication. If the law is thus blunted, the ultimate sufferers are women while the guilty stand to gain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Matter of faith: Corona devi||Sir — Reeling from the pandemic, people everywhere are looking for a ray of hope. Many find it in a vaccine, others have to resort to faith. A temple in Coimbatore, which has set up idols of ‘Corona devi’, is an example. Devotees pray to this goddess to save them from the virus. People should be free to seek solace wherever they find it, but the fact that they now have to bank solely on faith points to a failure in governance. For instance, in spite of all the efforts of medical professionals, many Indians have not been able to get vaccinated. If people’s faith in modern science is to be retained, the Centre must focus on building a stronger healthcare system. Soumi Mahapatra,Howrah Painful memory Sir — The truth about the atrocities unleashed by the colonial white settlers in Canada upon indigenous students came to light when a mass grave containing the remains of 215 children was discovered at the site of the Kamloops Indian Residential School by a specialist using ground penetrating radar (“Remains of 215 kids found in Canada”, May 30). There were 130 such schools in Canada where indigenous children were forcibly separated from their families and tortured in the name of education and assimilation into Canadian society. They were denied food and even killed, clearly with a motive to extirpate the aboriginal race. Forensic investigations are yet to ascertain the exact date of the incident. Through the ages, people of the same country have been pitted against one another across the world. Many have been denied the right to live in society and killed for merely hailing from aboriginal communities. It is unfortunate that the indigenous people were rendered helpless before the white settlers who used to lord over them by means of their wealth, education and political power, leaving no scope for equal opportunity. Any effort on their part to revolt against injustice was put down by the ruling class. From the 19th century until the 1970s, more than 1,50,000 children were required to attend State-run Christian schools in Canada. They were forced to convert to Christianity and not allowed to speak their native languages. Many were verbally, physically and sexually abused, and up to 6,000 are said to have been killed. The last one of these schools stopped functioning in 1996. Most would agree that the genocidal customs practised in the residential schools in colonial Canada comprised a disgraceful chapter in modern history. Few, however, feel outraged by the history of similar, caste-based atrocities in India. In this country, people from the so-called lower castes have been victims of injustice and oppression for thousands of years. The days of such horrors in Canada may be gone, but the abolition of the Indian caste system remains a far cry. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The incident uncovered at the site of the Kamloops Indian Residential School sent shock waves across the world. This school in British Colombia was closed in 1978. The report on the incident documents a number of instances of physical abuse, rape, malnutrition and other atrocities suffered by many of the 1,50,000 children who attended the schools, typically run by Christian churches on behalf of Ottawa from the 1840s to the 1990s. More than 4,100 students have died in such residential schools. At the Kamloops school, some of the 215 children whose remains have been found were three years old. This is, as the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, put it, a heartbreaking discovery. It is truly “a painful reminder of that dark and shameful chapter” of the country’s history. Aman Raghuvanshi,Ujjain Sir — The discovery of the mass grave of indigenous children in Canada is a horrifying reminder of colonial atrocities. However, racial discrimination or violence is far from an issue of the past — the native tribes of North America continue to suffer even today. Taking definitive action to afford equal opportunities to them is the only way to honour the memory of the victims whose bodies have been found. Tirtha Banerjee,Calcutta Grave mistake Sir — In a shocking violation of norms laid down under the coronavirus prevention programme, at least 20 residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Siddharthnagar district were reportedly administered a cocktail of two different Covid-19 vaccines — a group of villagers at a primary health centre were given Covishield for the first dose and Covaxin for the second. The rules strictly forbid the mixing of vaccines even though its impact is still under research. Admitting negligence, the chief medical officer of Siddharthnagar said that it was a clear deviation from norms. A thorough probe must be conducted and the guilty must be taken to task. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bitter fruit||Collaboration between the Centre and the states is an endangered species in this federal republic. That may not be a testament to the strength of New India’s federal architecture. But an adversarial Centre — this is yet another legacy of the Narendra Modi regime — cannot be expected to be mindful of the dangerous consequences of the weakening of federalism. There is another — equally worrying — aspect to the slugfest between the Centre and states, especially those that are ruled by Opposition parties. Senior administrative officials in the bureaucracy suffer needlessly as a result of this political tug-of-war. The indignities heaped upon Alapan Bandyopadhyay by the Centre is a case in point. The chief minister of Bengal had written to the prime minister, seeking an extension of Mr Bandyopadhyay’s term as state chief secretary; Mamata Banerjee’s request had been granted. Yet, weeks later, in an unprecedented step, the Centre revoked its decision, asking the state to relieve the then chief secretary and directing Mr Bandyopadhyay to report to the capital. Ms Banerjee’s request to rescind the order was not granted, resulting in Mr Bandyopadhyay rebuffing the Central directive, retiring from service, and opting to serve the Bengal administration in a special capacity. The immediate spark to the fiery flame may be attributed to Ms Banerjee’s decision not to attend a meeting on Cyclone Yaas that was presided by Mr Modi. But at the heart of the matter lie the bitter, fractious ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party — now Bengal’s principal Opposition — and the ruling Trinamul Congress. Mr Bandyopadhyay’s ignominy needs to be read in the context of the continuous attempts by the BJP — ever the sore loser — to needle Ms Banerjee’s government that was returned to power with a massive mandate. Mr Bandyopadhyay has been served a show-cause notice, but it seems that much like the assembly polls, this round, too, has gone in Ms Banerjee’s favour. Her unstinted support for an embattled public servant would certainly elicit a positive response from the bureaucratic fraternity, encouraging it to engage with her government’s welfare measures with greater vigour. There could be political costs for the BJP too. Bengal has a long tradition of nursing grudges — real and imagined — against an uncaring Centre. Mr Bandyopadhyay’s treatment by a bullish Centre would enable Ms Banerjee to portray Mr Modi and his government as adversarial towards the state and its personnel. The state BJP is apparently worried about this. This episode, by no means, would end the feuding. The real winner is partisan politics with the federal ethos emerging as the loser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Testing times for Mr Modi||The fourth and the first virtual edition of ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ — Narendra Modi’s interaction with students, teachers and parents ahead of the board examination season — attracted sharp criticism from the Opposition. The interaction took place even as India was grappling with acute shortages in beds, oxygen and vaccines during the second wave of Covid-19. ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’, Modi’s annual interaction with students aged 16-18 that addresses various aspects of student life, especially exam-related stress, seems to be a carefully crafted strategy to gain currency among young/first-time voters. But there is a paradox in Modi’s outreach towards this constituency that cannot be overlooked. Modi’s animosity towards India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and for everything that the latter stood for is not unknown. Ironically, Modi, a consistent and bitter critic of Nehru, seems keen on emulating Nehru’s image to build a brand for himself. Neither has Modi been reluctant to take a leaf or two out of Nehru’s book. His interactions with students are a case in point. The timing of the exercise — India is in the throes of a deadly second wave of the coronavirus — has reinforced the view that Modi and his government are perennially in campaign mode and have no qualms about turning a blind eye to governance. It also makes for bad optics for a government that is a past master in political optics. Then what explains the prime minister’s gamble of holding ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ at a time when it could become cannon fodder for the Opposition? To understand the political rationale behind the move, we have to revisit the electoral verdicts of 2014 and 2019. In 2014, in a young and restless India growing increasingly cynical of its politicians, especially those in power, Modi’s ability to connect with the hopes and the aspirations of the young, especially those of first-time voters, had powered his maiden victory. The Bharatiya Janata Party got twice as many votes as the Congress among first-time voters. It is an undisputed fact that young voters played a pivotal role in the twin victories of the BJP in 2014 and in 2019. As a scam tainted UPA-II government was on its last leg, Modi appeared on the national stage as ‘the right man at the right time with the right rhetoric’, capturing the youth vote lock, stock and barrel. Seven years and two general election victories later, the BJP faces an imminent threat of the tide turning against it as discontent among the youth simmers in the wake of rising unemployment, the mishandling of the pandemic and the shambolic state of the economy. The electoral constituency of young voters is too big to be ignored. There were 133 million first-time voters in 2019. In 2024, Gen Z, a colloquial term used to refer to those born after 1996, would become a potent electoral force. According to a survey by the Centre for Policy Research, as many as 46 per cent of Gen Z respondents are worried about the current state of the economy. Gen Z voters were also reported to be most likely to disagree with the current regime’s contentious ideological projects such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. Most of them (about 42 per cent) also disagreed with the clampdown on universities. Their views were in sharp contrast to those of older age groups that seem to be siding with the Modi regime. The BJP is slowly losing its sheen and novelty among India’s youth. Having reached adulthood during the Modi years, it is unlikely that Gen Z or the first-time voters of 2024 would buy the BJP’s theory of 60 years of Congress misrule and dynasty politics. This gives a huge opening for the Opposition. Realizing this, the Modi government appears to have adopted a two-pronged approach. To silence dissenting voices of students and young activists, the Modi government has adopted a heavy-handed approach by invoking sedition and the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The charges against a 21-year-old climate activist for sharing a ‘toolkit’ in support of the farm protests is symbolic of the brazenness with which the current dispensation plans to deal with the idealism of the politically informed young Indian. As for the ‘apolitical’ young Indian, the prime minister relies on such public relations initiatives as ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’. Whether this two-pronged strategy achieves success remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||A disaster foretold||Last year, Rahim Shekh of Englishbazar, Malda, was hawking pineapples. Divya and Mounika picked cotton in a Telangana village. Chand of Saharanpur sold samosas by the roadside. A year earlier, they had all been at school. Such stories cruelly authenticate the prime minister’s claim to “link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability” to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Certainly these children have learnt self-reliance — by dropping out of school. It is thus entirely logical that the school education budget should be reduced by Rs 5,000 crore this year. The pandemic is driving more and more children out of school. Last year, the proportion of permanent drop-outs was estimated at 20 per cent — a slide back to 2004. The enrolment gap in primary schools had trebled. We can only guess the outcome of a second year of closures. Vulnerable groups and regions will lose out disproportionately. There will also be a serious learning deficit among those resuming school: countless children are waiting around learning nothing, and forgetting what they have learnt. Add to this the digital divide and its novel refinement — the digital coaching divide. Among the few service sectors to blossom during the pandemic is the online coaching industry. The Indian school system has always been bedevilled by the gulf between private schools for the affluent and State-run schools for the janata. We now have divisions within each category: in the first, between students taking parallel online courses and those not doing so; in the second, at bedrock level, between those with access to a digital device and those without. The pandemic has added some daunting new challenges to the old ones. It is the worst of times to launch the new National Education Policy. Perhaps its most exciting innovation is to reinvent anganwadis as full-fledged pre-primary schools for all of India’s children aged three to six. This could indeed be a game-changer, giving every child an opportunity only the affluent now enjoy. It calls for detailed pedagogic planning and heavy investment without impairing the crucial agenda of nutrition and healthcare. The latter function is more crucial than ever. Between 2014 and 2020, India’s position in the Global Hunger Index plummeted from 55th to 94th, below Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The proportion of malnourished children in anganwadis rose from 15 per cent in 2015 to 25 per cent in 2017. Unsurprisingly, stunting, wasting and low weight increased between 2015 and 2020 in 14 of the 17 states covered as yet by the last National Family Health Survey. The pandemic has exacerbated the problem. South Asia is one of two zones (the other being sub-Saharan Africa) with the greatest post-Covid threat of aggravated hunger. Yet the Saksham scheme, covering anganwadis and three other programmes, has suffered an overall budget cut of nearly   Rs 4,500 crore. Clearly, anganwadi reform will proceed sporadically, if at all. The gap between privileged and underprivileged children will widen incrementally. Beneath its pious precepts and feel-good rhetoric, the NEP is intrinsically fissiparous. It consigns some children to open schooling, a fallback for dropouts and child labourers. This — astonishingly — is said to lay “special emphasis on Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups”. In ashramshalas for tribal children, as in “all formats of alternative schooling” (invariably for disadvantaged children), reforms will come “in a phased manner” — that is, without urgency, where the need for urgency is greatest. This provision, absent in the draft, was added by bureaucrats in the drastically truncated final document. Generally “to make it easier... to build schools”, there will be “less emphasis on input and greater emphasis on output potential concerning desired learning outcomes”. Exploiting this escape clause, the State can skimp on funds at its whim, especially with marginal groups. Through these few unobtrusive sentences, the report releases the State from its duty under the Right to Education Act to “provide infrastructure including school building, teaching staff and learning equipment”; moreover, to ensure that children from a “weaker section [or] disadvantaged group are not discriminated against”. Anganwadis fall under the women and child development ministry, ashramshalas under tribal affairs. The new Early Childhood Care and Education centres, when they materialize, will be run jointly by four ministries. One shudders to think of the bureaucratic deadlocks and turf battles. Above all, who will staff these centres, and on what terms? It is proposed to retrain grossly underpaid anganwadi workers (formally volunteers) as teachers “through digital/distance mode” with “minimal disruption to their current work”, which comprises 28 functions under five heads with no fixed hours. One may reasonably ask whether this can do justice to the children in their charge. The architects of the NEP seem unaware that the problem exists. But predictably, they propose to dilute the workforce with new categories of ‘volunteers’. There is also a hair-raising proposal for ‘peer tutoring’ of one 6-to-8-year-old child by another in foundational skills like literacy and numeracy. The NEP’s vision might turn into a slow nightmare where India’s most vulnerable children lose out even more than now on both education and general well-being. Such short-changing might subvert another innovation, a new stress on vocational education. From middle school onward, all students will learn at least one vocation, “emphasizing the dignity of labour”: a laudable agenda, but we may recall the fate of its predecessor, the ‘work education’ programme. In urban, upper-class schools, this has become a farce that, if anything, further alienates privileged children from labour and its dignity. The actual result might be to underscore the subaltern status of vocational education. As it is, a student’s curricular journey overwhelmingly follows his/her class identity and economic standing. If the vocational path now opens up in middle school, children from labouring and artisanal backgrounds would be steered even more in that direction, irrespective of ability and aptitude. A mason’s son would still be a mason by default, a domestic worker’s daughter another such worker, instead of pursuing more adventurous ‘vocations’ as doctor, lawyer or research scientist. No flight of fantasy can conceive the opposite situation where a doctor’s daughter trains as a mason, or a lawyer’s son as a cleaner. The new education order, just like the old, might strangle at birth most of the talent to enrich our knowledge economy, reinforcing the dominance of certain classes, castes and communities, reinventing varnashram in a twenty-first-century avatar. Almost without thought, we are hurtling towards a future where we will have squandered our demographic dividend by neglecting the proper educational groundwork at the right time. There will be dire consequences for the economy and, no less, for social harmony and well-being. We were blind to the latent fury of the pandemic. Let us work to avoid this still greater disaster. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city suicide helpline sees surge in distress calls||Steel city residents still seem to be living in impending fear even though Covid cases have dipped in East Singhbhum. The increase in the number of calls on the telephone numbers of Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre Jeevan, suggests that people are still in the grip of anxiety. "Most of the calls made to our volunteers are Covid-related stress. Over 15 distress calls are coming in daily," said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. Besides Covid-related stress, people with suicidal tendencies are also dialling Jeevan numbers. People are also concerned over unemployment, fear of job loss and loss in business. "Covid cases are now in control in the district but people are still unable to get out of anxiety related to the pandemic. It's very disturbing," Jain added. According to him, one reason for the increase in numbers of distress calls can also be attributed to publicity of Jeevan telephone numbers. "Our numbers are now also being publicised in radio programmes and publicity hoardings across the city. It's good that people are becoming aware of our numbers and reaching us for help," the Jeevan director said. Citing an example, Jain said a man called to inform that he was ending his life by jumping from the Subarnarekha Bridge. "Our volunteers counselled him and told him about the futility of ending his life prematurely. It's good that he did not take the fatal step. After all, it is our job to counsel and help people overcome depression," he added. A Jeevan volunteer said a wide section of the population is also stressed with thoughts of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic.  We try our best to make them understand not to fear the situation which has not come yet," he said on condition of anonymity. Positive thoughts, yoga and meditation can help people overcome the crisis, he added. A total of 113 Covid positive cases and three deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday and three deaths were reported. People can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499/9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (Call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||After CBSE, parents want Jharkhand govt to cancel state board exams||The Oppostion BJP joined parents of Class 10 and Class 12 students to demand on Wednesday that the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC)’s matric and intermediate exams be cancelled on the lines of the CBSE and CISCE that called off the exams citing the onging Covid-19 pandemic. President of Jharkhand Parents Association Ajay Rai hailed the CBSE decision. “The state must also cancel its board exams without any further delay as lakhs of students are battling with confusion and anxiety. Taking a cue from other states, Jharkhand government must also follow suit in the interest of students,” he said. Kailash Yadav, president of Abhibhavak Sangh Jharkhand, issued a similar demand. "However, there should be defined parameters of marking and evaluation of students," he said. Over seven lakh students are due to appear in JAC’s matric and intermediate exams that were originally scheduled to take place from May 4 at over 2,000 centres. However, due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in April, JAC postponed the exams till further orders, stating that it would take a call on June 1. JAC officials, however, said a meeting with the state education department was yet to happen. “Any decision can be taken after thorough deliberations with the state government. A meeting in this regard is still to take place,” said JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh. Sources in the state education department maintained they were waiting for clarity on the CBSE’s marking and promotion pattern. “We are keeping a tab on the situation. We are exploring ways of evaluation. In case of cancellation of exams, we should have a clear policy on the nature of marking and promotion,” said an official unwilling to be named. The Opposition BJP also demanded cancellation of the exams. State BJP president Deepak Prakash said, "We demand that the Soren government act promptly to announce cancellation of the exams as both students and parents are apprehensive of the Covid-19 situation." Following the announcements of the CBSE and CISCE , many states such like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have called off their state board examinations citing safety of students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IIT Kanpur students donate medical equipment||Hazaribagh: Former students of IIT Kanpur on Wednesday donated medical equipments, masks and PPE kits to the district administration. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand received the equipments in the presence of Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad. The equipments included five BiPAP machines, three oxygen concentrators, one ECG machine, one multi para monitor, nineteen oxygen flow meter, twenty six oxygen masks, four nebulizers and 200 N-95 masks. Prasad said the equipments will enhance the facilities for people in the area. Anand lauded the effort of Prasad and the former students. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Two dead bodies were found in two popular reservoirs on Wednesday, sparking fear among residents. The first body was found from Hazaribagh lake and second from Chhath Talab. In thefirst case, morning walkers spotted the dead body in Bada Jheel and informed Lohsigna police. The body was fished out by local fishermen. Police officials said they had confirmed the identity as 25-year-old Nikhil Kumar, a resident of Kasturikhap village. His father Sushil Kumar Singh is an employee of Hazaribagh civil court. Family members said Nikhil was working in a private company in Delhi and had returned during the lockdown. They said he left his house on Tuesday to go back to Delhi. In the second case, the body was found from Chhath talab situated close to Indrapuri Chowk along Main road. The body was fished out and identified as Mohammad Ramzan, (32), a fruit seller and resident of Kazi mohalla. His relatives suspect foul play in his death. Police have started investigations in both the cases but are waiting for post mortem reports to arrive at any conclusions. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh : Deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha has received Rs.2.27crore to develop state-of-the-art facilities in Huntergunj block’s health centre. Jha expressed happiness over this development and said with the co-operation of all, they can defeat Covid in the district. Sources said Jha has sent a proposal to the Rural Electrification Corporation for developing the centre. In his proposal, Jha said the centre required oxygen plant, oxygen supported beds, oxygen pipelines, ICU, mobile van for blood donation and an ambulance so as to upgrade the existing health facilities in Huntergunj. For this purpose, Jha demanded Rs.6crore. REC is a public infrastructure finance company in India's power sector. The company finances and promotes rural electrification projects across India. The REC has agreed to get the work done from its CSR fund. Sources said REC foundation has released Rs.2.27crore paving the way for best health facilities in a backward block like Huntergunj. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Residents of the industrial town Tandwa have charged NTPC of allegedly cutting trees in residential areas without following forest department regulations. NTPC is constructing an ambitious 1980 MW super thermal power plant in Tandwa. The company had planted saplings in the residential areas in 2018 under the leadership of its then executive director R.K Singh. “Even an NOC was not obtained and around 50 to 60 trees were axed few days ago,” said the protesting locals. Head of environmental monitoring group in Tandwa, R.B Mandal said they were not informed before cutting of the trees. Environmentalist Arvind Singh said permission is must to cut a tree and to plant more than the number razed. “I have demanded a probe by forest officials followed by action on the culprits,” he added. Public relations officer of NTPC, Gulshan Toppo told The Telegraph Online that charges related to axing of trees is false. “Preparations for Cyclone Yass included cleaning and cutting unwanted bushes and shrubs in residential areas,” he said. “NTPC is committed to develop green belt by planting more saplings to increase the greenery of this area,” he added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Katkamdag police confirmed solving the theft case at a 500-year-old Narsingha Sthan temple in Khapariawan village by arresting three minors. Thieves had barged into the temple cutting the locks of the sanctum sanctorum on May 30 and fleeing with Rs 50,000 from the donation box. Officer-in-charge Vipin Kumar Yadav said they recovered Rs.8469 from the trio’s possession. The minors admitted spending Rs.5000 on alchol and other commodities. Yadav said they were investigating as to how much amount they got from the donation box. He said they were sent to a  correctional centre. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: Two teams constituted by the East Singhbhum district administration on Wednesday carried out simultaneous raids in foodgrain godowns of Food Corporation of India and State Food Corporation at Burmamines and Sakchi over complaints of misappropriation of stock. Sources in the district food and civil supplies department said that there have been several complaints which claimed that the stock of foodgrains in FCI and SFC godowns were less than that on the records. "The raid was carried out following an order from the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar over complaints of alleged irregularities. We have sealed the FCI and SFC godowns at Burmamines, Sakchi and Karandih  for verification of stocks, " said the additional deputy commissioner after completion of simultaneous raids. The raid at the FCI's main godown at Burmamines was led by additional deputy commissioner NK Lal while city SP Subhas Chandra Jat headed the raid conducted at the SFC godown at Sakchi. "We are verifying the foodgrains stock in the godowns and hence they have been sealed while the inspection is on," said an official taking part in the raid at Sakchi adding that no FIR has been registered in this regard so far adding that a case would be lodged if the complaints are found true. (Pinaki Majumdar) District administration has initiated action against two private hospitals, Devansh Hospital and City Care Hospital, for the discrepancies in the allotted life-saving drug Remdesivir to them by the government. The state government has asked the district administration to take legal action against the two hospitals. Drug Inspector Vikas Kumar said he is waiting for some more instructions from his headquarter following which cases will be lodged under various section of Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940. Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Singh has ordered Civil Surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak to take necessary legal action against the two hospitals. Civil surgeon said that a few weeks ago allotment of Remdesivir's was done to private hospitals for treatment of corona patients. However, the state government later ordered drug inspectors of each district to check whether the private hospitals have genuinely utilised it or not. Here drug Inspector after examining it found discrepancies in Devansh Hospital situated at ITI Moad, Chas and City Care Hospital at Checkpost, Chas. The report was sent to state headquarter which now directed to take action against the two institutions. Drug inspector said that the record of Remdesivir in these hospitals was found much less than the number of allotments. City Care had an allotment of 90 remdesivir, but he showed the purchase order of 32 only. “We are investigating what happened to the remaining Remdesivir and will take appropriate legal action,” he said. However the concerned official in the two private hospitals said that they have genuinely administered remdesivir to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL warns subscribers about rising cybercrime ||The government-owned telecom service provider Bharat Sanchar Nigam has warned subscribers of fake customer care numbers that cyber criminals were using to siphon off money. The steel city is witnessing a rise in cybercrimes and fraudsters are using new ways and techniques to commit them, it noted on Wednesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, general manager of Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area Sanjeev Verma said,"Recently few cases have come to light that cyber thugs are sending messages to our subscribers from two personal numbers - 08697937328 and 9883547802 saying their SIM card would be blocked within 24 hours as the service has been expired." Verma went on to say that the two numbers mentioned as customer care numbers are fake and have no link with BSNL. "Sometimes cyber frauds call customers from personal mobile numbers for completing the KYC verification at the earliest to keep their mobile number active otherwise their mobile number would get deactivated," he added. He appealed to BSNL subscribers not to share any personal details like Aadhaar number, bank card details and not to install any app. "By installing apps, customers lose control over their mobile phones to cyber frauds. So subscribers are advised not to respond to these messages, never install any app and not to transfer any money, "he said adding that by transferring amount after installing apps like team viewer, quick support etc customers compromise their personal data. The senior BSNL official re-iterated that the telecom major never asks its subscribers for any Aadhaar number and other personal details over call or messages. BSNL has two customer care numbers -18001801503 or 1503. During office hours, BSNL subscribers in Jamshedpur can also contact  on 0657-2234633 and may send mail on sdemobile_jsr@bsnl.co.in. BSNL's Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area which covers three Kolhan districts- East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan has over four lakh mobile phone users including pre-paid and post-paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC plan environment awareness drive||The Jamshedpur FC, along with its players and support staff, has decided to raise awareness among its social media followers about the need to conserve the environment and promote a sustainable living in the run up to World Environment Day celebrated on June 5. The Tata Steel-owned club held a GoGreen contest on May 31 to promote the Green Week with entries allowed up to June 5, 12:30 pm. The participants were made to simply post a selfie with a plant/garden or of them watering plants or planting a sapling in their house/balcony to promote a green and fresh environment. "The objective was to start a sustainable living from their own homes and to showcase their love for the environment," a JFC functionary said. According to him, three lucky winners from the contest would receive an exclusive green training jersey of Jamshedpur FC. "So far we have received over 150 entries," he added. Jamshedpur FC is also looking to promote awareness in various other ways, including cycling and omitting plastic to save the environment via a sustainable and ecological lifestyle. Photos and videos can be uploaded on the following social media sites of JFC: Instagram link - https://www.instagram.com/p/CPhw7NoKdxg/?utm_medium=copy_link Twitter link - https://twitter.com/JamshedpurFC/status/1399256179482656774?s=19 Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/1993893687500253/posts/3038177116405233/ "We should do everything in our capacity to save the environment. Even a small step like planting a sapling at home can go a long way to ensure a good environment for our future generations," said JFC defender and former Tata Football Academy graduate Sandeep Mandi. The club's winger Bhupender Singh said he loves watering his plants in the morning and keeping them fresh. "I treat them (plants) as my friends and I think everyone should sow more plants at their homes and contribute to making the earth a better, healthier place to live in," he added. "I always had a deep connection with plants at my home. I take good care of them as they provide us with fresh and cleaner air. This World Environment Day, I encourage everyone to plant as many saplings as possible and contribute towards saving the environment for our future generations," said JFC assistant coach Noel Wilson. JFC winger Boris Singh said he makes sure to carry water in his steel bottle wherever he goes. “This helps me avoid plastic bottles, one of the biggest reasons for the constantly increasing pollution. I urge everyone to avoid using plastic as much as possible and switch to steel bottles or other eco-friendly options,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to start pneumonia jabs for infants ||The Jharkhand government will launch its maiden immunisation programme against pneumonia for infants in the second week of June for which over 77,000 doses of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) have been supplied to all 24 districts, officials of the health department said on Wednesday. From June onwards, PCV will be a part of the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) in Jharkhand under which infants in the age bracket of 45 days to nine months will be vaccinated, Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s IEC wing said. “This is the first time that Jharkhand will run an immunisation programme against pneumonia for children. At least three doses of the vaccine will be administered to children at the age of 45 days, three and-a-half months and nine months,” said Tripathi. As per data shared by the health department, as many as 77,200 doses of PCV have been distributed among the 24 districts to run the immunisation programme and training for the vaccination campaign started in all the districts on Wednesday. Jharkhand is currently conducting an Intensive Public Health Survey (IPHS), which will conclude on June 5, and the immunisation against pneumonia is likely to begin soon after, officials said. As per data with the government, around 81,000 babies are born every month in Jharkhand and the programme will target immunisation of the babies that were born in the month of April. The launch of the immunisation programme against pneumonia assumes significance as it is feared that a third wave of Covid-19 may affect children, said officials. In many cases, symptoms of pneumonia have been reported in children suffering from Covid-19 across the world and the immunisation may act as a protective shield for infants, sources said. On Tuesday, the Niti Ayog cautioned that Covid-19 led to pneumonia in infected children, which may cause fast deterioration of health, especially the respiratory system. As per the state health department, it is feared that Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand and about 45,000 of them may need hospitalization. While there was no data available on the number of deaths caused by pneumonia in Jharkhand, figures with the United Nations highlight that India reported the second highest number of pneumonia deaths among children globally in 2018. As per the UN data, at least 127,000 children died of pneumonia in India, which was more than double the number of deaths that occurred in neighbouring Pakistan. American vaccine manufacturer Pfizer has also started experimenting the effect of PCV along with Covid-19 booster jab in fully vaccinated adults, according to news reports.  The aim of the study is to understand if a combination of the vaccines is safe, and the immune response after adding the pneumonia vaccine to the existing COVID-19 vaccine, Pfizer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||WHO finds Latehar block 'most difficult' for vaccine drive||WHO officials have found Garu block in Latehar district to be the 'most difficult in Jharkhand ' in terms of Covid  vaccination. The internet connectivity is a great stumbling block for the online registration of people. This has hampered the pace of the vaccination. The WHO's Surveillance Medical Officer in Daltonganj Dr Valema Deogam said that Garu block is the most difficult site in the whole of Jharkhand in regard to the vaccination  where internet connectivity is the worst and it is unjust and impractical to ask people waiting for the vaccination to be digital. Garu is a tribal dominated block where hamlets are spread out over a vast area. She said there are many people here who are unaware of the digital methods but rely on their thumbs more. An official press note of the Latehar administration issued recently confirmed that internet connectivity is a major issue here in Garu and under order of the DC Abu Imran, officials have finally found out a few locations in areas like Sarju and Domakharn where a workable internet facility is available. WHO official Dr Valema Deogam has urged the Latehar administration to set up more cellular network service providers in the area instead of solely depending on the government’s BSNL. She asked officials to expand the upper limit of registrations from a single phone number. According to sources Dr. Deogam is a popular face of the Palamau commissionary under which she lookas after Palamau, Garhwa and Latehar districts. The WHO officer lauded deputy commissioner Abu Imran's efforts and functioning during the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Church to distribute nutrition packets for Covid patients at RIMS in Ranchi||The Archdiocese of Ranchi launched a service to distribute fruits and nutrition supplements to Covid-19 patients and their attendants at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Wednesday with Archbishop Felix Toppo SJ and Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas SFX dispatching a consignment of complimentary nutrition packets to over 300 patients. “Since the virus outbreak, the Archdiocese of Ranchi has been trying its best to help the poor and the marginalised. After launching endeavours of providing pre-packed non-vegetarian lunch packets outside the government hospital in Ranchi to attendants and relatives of hospitalised patients, we are now starting daily distribution of complementary nutrition packets,” said Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. He said RIMS, which is the biggest state-run hospital in Ranchi, is frequented by the poorest of the poor. Although meals are provided by the government, patients and their attendants would now also have the option of availing complementary food items like fruits, biscuits, juice, mineral water and beaten rice etc, he added. "The Ranchi Archdiocese, through its seminarians and Ranchi Catholic Youth, will take to the hospital over 300 packets everyday. Our efforts are to strengthen government initiatives and help the needy in this time of crisis,” he said. Bishop Mascarenhas citied that till now the Archdiocese, through the Ranchi Catholic Youth, have been distributing cooked packed food for over 800 needy people everyday for over a month. “The number of needy persons has been increasing and it's becoming difficult to maintain social distancing. Therefore,  the Archdiocese decided to alter its method of helping the poor by bringing supplementary food directly to patients,” he said. He said the Archdiocese would soon Launch a programme to distribute dry rations containing rice, dal (pulses), potato, cooking oil, salt, spices and onions in portions that would last two weeks for a family. “The Catholic church is able to serve the poor only because many religious congregations and benefactors belonging both to the Catholic Church as well as followers of other religions have been generously donating to the cause,” he emphasized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Survey bares wage pain for NREGA workers in Jharkhand||A survey conducted by a Delhi-based independent research group in April and May has found that the central government took at least 26 days instead of the stipulated 15 days to complete wage transfer to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in Jharkhand leading to a livelihood crisis for over 10 lakh beneficiaries. The survey conducted by Liberation Technology, a centre of the Collaborative Research and Dissemination (CORD), New Delhi, between April 1 and May 23 analysed 143,578 transactions in 26 blocks (10 per cent of the 260 blocks of Jharkhand) on the national job scheme portal (nrega.nic.in). “We found that the time taken only to complete stage two of payments is 26 days on an average. If the time taken for completion of stage one is added, it will be more. This itself is a violation of the (MGNREG) Act as payments must be made within 15 days. In fact, 54.3 per cent (of 3,14,710) transactions were not completed as of May 23,” said Sakina Dhorajiwala, a researcher with Liberation Technology. According to Section 3 of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the workers have to be paid within 15 days of the end of a particular phase of work. The payment process under the scheme broadly consists of two stages. After the work is completed, a fund transfer order (FTO) is generated by the state government in stage one and digitally sent to the Centre. The Centre then processes these orders and transfers wages directly to the accounts of the workers in stage two. According to guidelines under the MGNREGA, stage one must be completed in eight days and stage two must be completed within seven days. The two stages of payment should therefore be completed within 15 days of the closure of a muster roll. Until recently, payment of wages to workers under the scheme was not done based on their caste category. A single fund transfer order consists of multiple transactions for workers from any/all categories. On March 2 this year, the central government issued instructions to change the payment system so that the fund orders can be generated separately for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe workers. “At a time when rural India is ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic, the focus and emphasis of the central government must be to expedite the payment of wages. Not only should the payments be made on time, but experimenting without a justified rationale appears hard to comprehend. As our study demonstrates, not only has the experiment not yielded the desired results, but also that even in the beginning of the financial year when the programme should be flushed with funds, completion of stage two is taking three times more than it should. The delays also stand in contravention of the Supreme Court order of May 18, 2018, in the Swaraj Abhiyan vs Union of India case concerning drought. The Centre must calculate the delays and pay compensation to the workers for the full extent of delays (in both stages of the payment process),” said Sakina. Jharkhand rural development minister Alamgir Alam admitted the delay in payment of wages. “We have written umpteen times to the Centre to clear the wages but it seems they are not heeding our request. The payment for the equipment used by NREGA workers, which was to have been paid by the Centre, is also delayed. Just imagine if the projects are not completed before monsoon, then all the hard work would be washed away in the rain. People are also losing interest in NREGA work due to this delay,” the minister claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand weather update: Three cities set rain record||Three Jharkhand cities, including capital Ranchi, created records in rainfall received in a day in May, according to the Met office. Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Daltonganj received the highest ever rainfall in 24 hours in May, said a release of the Ranchi Meteorological Centre  on Tuesday afternoon. Ranchi received 151mm rain on May 27 that not only surpassed the highest 24-hour rainfall of 72.2mm recorded on May 17, 1990, but also equalled the amount of rain received in May 1959, which was the highest ever monthly rainfall. But the total rainfall of 325.5mm in Ranchi during May this year has created a new record, the release said. Similarly, Jamshedpur received 170.2mm rainfall on Monday (May 31), surpassing the highest 24-hour rainfall of 160mm on May 10, 1949. The total monthly rainfall of 546.1mm in Jamshedpur in May bettered the 434.9mm rainfall received by the steel city in 2017. In Daltonganj, the highest 24-hour rainfall of 62.2mm recorded on May 27, 1904, was bettered slightly by 62.5mm received on May 28 this year. The 184.8mm rainfall recorded during May was, however, significantly more than 138.5mm in May 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant criticises Centre's policy on procuring vaccines||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that the Centre’s decision to make states procure vaccines went “against the principle of co-operative federalism” and that it would be “extremely difficult” for his state to shoulder the burden at a time its resources had already been stretched by the pandemic. The letter, dated May 31 and made public by the chief minister’s office late on Monday night, urged Modi to provide vaccines for free to the state. Soren wrote: “The financial burden on the state for vaccination of the age cohort of 18-44 years is likely to be more than Rs 1,100 crore considering 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries. With vaccine being available for age cohort of 12-18 years and below, the mentioned financial burden will further increase by around Rs 1,000 crore. It will be extremely difficult to spare as much resources from the resource pool of the state which is already stressed during Covid times.” The letter added: “This is probably the first instance in the history of independent India that states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own.” “Such a mandate, under the ongoing challenging and unprecedented circumstances, where the entire nation is struggling for over a year, stands against the principle of co-operative federalism,” the letter said. The Jharkhand chief minister pointed out that so far all states had received vaccines free of cost from the Centre for all other immunisation programmes. Soren’s letter also referred to the differential pricing of vaccines for the Centre and the states. “It is pertinent to note that the rates specified by the central government for procurement of vaccines by the state for the age cohort of 18-44 years are significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the central government for beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above. This dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India,” the letter stated. Soren pointed to the inherent diversity of the country and the need to tweak vaccine administration accordingly. “The inherent diversity of India creates various peculiarities specific to the concerned states. Every state has its own high-risk groups depending on the geographical, cultural and traditional heterogeneity. As such, a common framework defined by the central government with regard to prioritising beneficiaries across the country is not desirable,” the letter said. “It is requested to provide to the state free vaccine for beneficiaries of all age groups and also give us the freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage. This would help us in achieving the target of full vaccination in a timely manner, which would go a long way in ensuring effective tackling of the anticipated third wave,” the chief minister added. In May, Soren had likened the Prime Minister’s call to him to his “Mann Ki Baat”, revealing that Modi only spoke his mind about the current Covid situation without allowing him to air his concerns about it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jumbo wrecks havoc at Palamau tiger reserve||Daltonganj: A lone male elephant said to be between 30 and 35 years has destroyed the check post of the famous Lodh Falls in the Palamau tiger reserve. Sources said the lone elephant has destroyed two houses one each at Mirgi and Medhari villages under the Mahuadarn range. The elephant made huge holes in the kachha walls of the houses of the victims namely Sandip Lohra and Madhnu Birjiya. Sources said the inmates of the two houses were asleep when the attack occurred. The distance between the Lodh Falls and Daltonganj based directorate office of the Palamu tiger project is 118 km. The incident occurred in the south division of the tiger reserve. Palamau tiger reserve’s south division deputy director, Mukesh Kumar said, “Today an adult male elephant has destroyed the check post of the famous Lodh Falls.” He said the tiger reserve is closed for visitors due to the Covid pandemic and there was no cash in the check post of the Lodh Falls when the elephant destroyed it. Mukesh Kumar said this elephant which comes from Chhatisgarh stays in the Mahuadarn range for two to three days and then retreats through the bordering village of Champa. The Mahuadarn range officer Brinda Pandey said the elephant has returned to Chhattisgarh. (Our correspondent) Vaccination of the 18 to 44 age group will resume in the district from June 3 and the prospective beneficiaries can carry out the slot booking for vaccination after 12 noon of June 2. Dhanbad Deputy Developement Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das said that the vaccination for 18+ will be carried out at altogether 27 centres, including 11 in Dhanbad Sadar; four at Jharia; three at Baliapur; two each at Topchanchi, Baghmara and Govindpur and one each at Nirsa, Purbi Tundi and Tundi. The vaccination drive was suspended in Dhanbad for a week due to lack of sufficient stock. (Our correspondent) Maithon Power Limited, a joint venture company of Tata Steel and Damodar Valley Corporation on Tuesday handed over 40 oxygen cylinders to Dhanbad district administration for usage in different hospitals and Covid treatment centres. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the cylinders had been provided as per the corporate social responsibility work by MPL and added some of these cylinders will be transported to different Covid Treatment centres through Sanjeevani vehicles. Hazaribagh: Two oxygen cylinders which were stolen from Hazaribagh medical college and hospital were found from the official residence of civil surgeon Sanjay Jaiswal on Tuesday. Oxygen cylinders were found missing from the health hub after which a special task force was constituted to nab the culprits. Police has recovered maximum of the cylinders. Sadar police arrested two drivers of the hospital. Superintendent of police Karthik S said they are very near to solve the case after the arrest of a few individuals involved in the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) The sub-zonal commander of Parasnath Zone, Nunuchand Mahto also known as Tiger surrendered before Giridih Police on Tuesday. Mahto was carrying a reward of Rs 5lakh on his head and was wanted in 72 naxal cases in Giridih, Dhanbad and Bokaro. SP Giridih Police Amit Renu said, “Anti-naxal search operations are being conducted regularly in Parasnath area as a joint effort with CRPF and SAP and has an important role in the surrender of Nunuchand.” Mahto was involved in an incident where a vehicle was blown up between Purnanagar and Pandidih under Pirtand police station area killing five SIS security persons. Bokaro: An employee of Bokaro Steel Plant and his son died on the spot as the motorbike which they were riding collided with a car near a railway crossing in Sector 11 under Harla Police Station on Tuesday. Police said the deceased have been identified as Babu Chand Mahto, 56, and his 32-year-old son Prakash Chand Mahto. They were residents of Umbratand village situated at Telmochu. Mahto was a senior operator in BSL plant while his son was in a private company that works inside the plant. A police officer said that Prakash was driving the motorbike when the Swift car collided with it. After the collision, Prakash fell on road while the car dragged the motorbike and Mahto by a few meters. They both died on the spot. However the car’s driver managed to flee from the spot, but its number plate was found lying. Their dead bodies were sent for post-mortem. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
02-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad railway records highest freight ||The Dhanbad Railway Division of East Central Railway carried out the highest freight loading of 26.29 million tonnes, among all the 68 divisions of the country during April and May of this year. The loading figure of the division grew by 66.46% during the same period last year. The division earned Rs 3,491crore from freight this year which is 120 % higher than the income of the same period last year. General Manager of East Central Railway Lalit Chandra Trivedi said,“The achievement shows the team’s dedication towards work led by Divisional Railway Manager Ashish Bansal who worked hard despite Covid constraints.” The division suffered a loss of around Rs 15crore during Cyclone Yaas on May 26 and May 27 due to obstruction in movement of trains and difficulties in loading coal in rakes because of the heavy rain. In order to avoid damages to the tracks and overhead equipment during monsoon, the railway division has launched a month-long operation to prepare for the monsoon. The month-long operation includes pruning tree branches, drain cutting, ballast cleaning and cess repair work in different parts of the division having jurisdiction over 140 stations and halts across, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh. Extensive patrolling in the vulnerable section of the division has also been launched like Choupan and Gurpa Ghazhandi that witnesses landslides on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
