03-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta gets vaccine bus that will travel to markets to inoculate priority groups||A bus was turned into a COVID vaccination centre, which will travel to different markets of Calcutta to vaccinate priority groups, including vegetable and fish sellers, who cannot go for inoculation leaving their businesses for hours. The 'vaccination on wheels' initiative was launched by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday in cooperation with the Health and Transport departments of the West Bengal government, minister Firhad Hakim said. An air-conditioned bus was provided by the Transport Department for vaccinating priority groups at the different markets. "Since these people cannot go to a vaccination centre leaving their business for several hours, we decided to bring the facility to their doorsteps," Hakim told reporters after the inauguration of the programme at Posta Bazaar, the largest wholesale market of vegetables and groceries in the city. He said that the number of buses used for the purpose will be increased soon. "There are several buses available and using these, we can vaccinate the people at the markets itself," he said. Minister for Women and Child Development and Social Welfare Shashi Panja said that the Posta Bazar Merchants' Association, transporters and porters had written to her, seeking vaccination of these people. "I am happy that the vaccination on wheels programme in the state was inaugurated from here," she said. Transport Secretary Rajesh Sinha, Municipal Commissioner Binod Kumar and WBTC Managing Director Rajanvir Singh Kapur were present at the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Three Calcutta colleges mull entry process shift following cancellation of board exams ||At least three city institutions are contemplating changes to their admission processes in the light of central school boards’ decision to scrap the Class XII board exams this year. All three said that meetings were under way to finalise the plan. St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) is “considering” some kind of “filtering process” and may conduct “online interviews” to make the final selection from the shortlisted candidates. Loreto College is hoping the government would allow online “entrance tests” to select its undergraduate students this year. The Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, has begun seeking opinion from its teachers on how undergraduate students may be selected for admission this year. Reverend Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, said: “Along with the final result marks (of the boards), some weightage — say, 25 per cent — may be given to an online interview, if conducted.” For a state-aided college like Loreto, the state government’s approval is mandatory if it has to make any changes to its admission process. Government and government-aided colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have not been able to conduct entrance tests for the past two years following a directive from the state higher education department to maintain “parity across institutions”. “In the light of board exams being scrapped, we are wondering whether the (state) government will allow the colleges to conduct online entrance tests,” an official of Loreto College said. The colleges are also waiting for a decision from the state higher secondary board, given the large number of students from the state board who seek admission to their courses. Father Savio said: “The college will wait for a few days to get more clarification regarding the format and calculation of Class XII results, to be published by the respective boards. As far as science departments are concerned, a substantial number of students apply from the state board. So, the college will wait for the decision of the state board.” He said if there’s no (state board) examination, the college might conduct interviews in the subjects applied for to determine whether a student “has a proper inclination and aptitude for the subject chosen”. If, for example, 50 seats are available in a particular subject, the college may prepare a shortlist of 100 candidates on the basis of the board marks. “A final list of 50 candidates may be finalised on the basis of 75 per cent weightage to the board marks and 25 per cent weightage to the interview,” Father Savio said. Alternatively, some departments may conduct a written online entrance test for the shortlisted candidates on a designated date and time, he said. Swami Ekachittananda, principal of the Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, said: “We will hold several rounds of deliberation before taking a decision in this regard so that the bright students can be screened.” Lady Brabourne College will admit students on the basis of board marks. “We have stopped holding entrance tests from 2019 and have been granting admission based on (board) marks alone. This year, boards like the CBSE and the ICSE council will prepare the results based on some mechanisms in the absence of exams. We will give weightage to the results alone,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. Both Jadavpur University and the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, are waiting for all the boards to make their announcements before taking a decision. An official of Presidency University said the institution admits students solely on the basis of admission tests. “Last year, the university could not conduct the admission test during the pandemic, and the teachers worked out a mechanism where weightage was given to Class X and XII board marks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Dismantling of Vivekananda flyover to start from the middle of June||The dismantling of the Vivekananda Road flyover will be done in four phases beginning from the middle of June, more than five years after a 41-metre portion of the flyover collapsed killing 26 people. In the first phase, the 250-metre stretch of the flyover on Strand Road will be pulled down. “This stretch runs in front of the Old Mint House on Strand Road, between the mouth of Howrah bridge and the intersection of Strand Road-Kali Krishna Tagore Street,” said an official of Rites, the railways subsidiary that is the technical consultant for the demolition work. The second phase, as of now, would be the 300-metre stretch between Ganesh Talkies crossing, where a 41-metre span of the flyover collapsed, and Girish Park. The third and fourth phases were yet to be decided. Even the second phase could be tweaked depending on the progress of the work. The plan was announced after a meeting among all stakeholders at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) headquarters. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, chaired the meeting. “The dismantling is suppose to begin from June 15. We have fixed a deadline of seven months to complete the work. Since this would be a very challenging job, it could take some more time,” said the Rites official. A Mumbai-based company, Edifice Engineering that specialises in demolition of built structures, will carry out the demolition. A police officer, aware of the developments, said police had wanted the Strand Road stretch to be pulled down first. “Because of the lockdown and Covid restrictions on travel, this stretch is relatively less crowded now. It would be easier if it is pulled down before the heavy crowd returns...,” said a police officer. Police will soon release a traffic diversion plan for vehicles when the demolition begins. Hakim met traders and shop owners in the area during Wednesday’s meeting where he sought their cooperation during the demolition. The Rites official said that the dismantling and demolition would be done using modern technology. “The spans, portions between two piers, would be brought down on the road and then demolished. The spans will not be demolished above the ground,” the official added. All the piers will also be pulled down. A committee appointed by the state government to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover had recommended its demolition in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: RKM launches relief work in affected areas||Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, has launched relief work in areas ravaged by Cyclone Yaas. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said they could not be a mute spectator to the tragedy and had decided to start relief operations in several blocks of South and North 24-Parganas. Monks have ventured out to affected areas to distribute cooked food and dry rations to those who have lost their livelihood. Monks and local volunteers have split into groups and are touring the affected areas. Swami Pravarananda, who is associated with Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, said they were distributing khichdi and packets containing puffed rice, milk powder and molasses in Najat and Kalinagar blocks in Sandeshkhali, in North 24-Parganas. Khichdi is being cooked at a community kitchen in the area. “Residents of inundated places are coming with containers to collect cooked food. In some cases, our volunteers are transporting cooked food to storm-hit areas on motor-fitted vans,” said Swami Pravarananda. Another group led by Swami Nirajananda - of Ramakrishna Mission Lokasiksha Parishad, an integrated rural and urban development unit of RKM Narendrapur — is running four community kitchens to feed the poor and destitute in the Mathurapur block of South 24-Parganas. Hundreds of people in the area are being given meals of rice, pulse, and soybeans. One of the volunteers said river water was still entering villages during high tide as embankments had breached under the impact of the cyclone. “It is impossible for these people to cook anything in their houses. Besides, there is the issue of hygiene. So we have opened community kitchens,” said Subrata Bhattacharya, who is associated with Jan Shikshan Sansthan, a unit of RKM Narendrapur. Before starting the community kitchen, the mission authorities carried out a survey on May 28 with the help of its branches to assess the loss. “Those who have been affected by the cyclone will be provided relief as much as possible,’’ said Swami Sarvalokananda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Belle Vue Clinic resumes vaccination after almost a month||Belle Vue Clinic resumed Covid vaccination on Tuesday after almost a month but this time from a different site. The vaccination started at a building on the La Martiniere for Boys campus and 453 people, including teachers of the school, received the shots on the first day. The clinic received 36,000 Covishield doses and plans to give 600 to 700 shots in a day. “Vaccination for the age group of above 18 years means there will be a huge crowd. But we have space (the school building)  to cater to a large number of recipients without  overcrowding,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle  Vue. Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India and the president of the board of governors of La Martiniere schools, and Tondon inaugurated the vaccination drive on Tuesday. The school has provided a hall and four classrooms in the junior department to the hospital for the purpose. “We gave our building with WiFi and air conditioning facilities because it is for a noble cause,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Tondon said many companies had approached him, including an IT firm, to get their employees vaccinated. AMRI Hospitals also started administering first doses to the above 18 age group from Tuesday at three of its hospitals  and one clinic on Southern Avenue. An official of the hospital said around 2,000 doses of Covishield were administered on the first day. St Paul's Mission School has started a safe home and oxygen centre on its campus. It was inaugurated by Reverend Paritosh Canning, bishop of the Calcutta diocese of Church of North India, on Wednesday. The safe home has been set up in collaboration with Quarantined Student Youth Network, a group formed by students from the universities of Bengal, which has been working in different districts of the state ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Since the school is located in Sealdah, it is close to both the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College and Hospital. The safe home-cum-oxygen centre at the school will reduce the queues in these hospitals,” said Sanchita Biswas, the principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Biker dies, another injured in two accidents ||Two motorcyclists met with accidents in separate incidents on Tuesday and Wednesday. While one of them died after crashing into a roadside railing in the Hastings area, another was injured with a kite string while passing through the Parama flyover. Nilendu Guha, 32, riding on AJC Bose Road near Turf View died after he apparently lost control and crashed into the roadside railing. Police said the resident of Sankrail in Howrah was taken to the SSKM Hospital on Tuesday evening after the accident. He succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning. The police said Guha was not wearing a helmet when the incident happened. “Prima facie it looks like a case of speeding. Had he been wearing a helmet, maybe he could have been alive,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic police. In another accident on Wednesday, Prabal Das, 31, a resident of Akshay Kanan Lane in Garden Reach, was riding his motorbike on the Parama flyover when a kite string slashed his nose and left him faltering on the flyover. Police took him to the SSKM Hospital. This was the second incident of a biker being injured by a kite string in the last four days. A part of the Parama flyover parapet had been covered with wired mesh to avert such incidents. However, a large part of the flyover parapet still remains unguarded. The police said they have approached the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to fence the other parts of the flyover. A private car hit three pedestrians and a bicyclist near the RK Chatterjee Road and Rashbehari connector early on Wednesday morning. The accused driver was arrested for rash and negligent driving and the vehicle was seized by the officers of Kasba police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Public health experts plea to widen vaccine coverage||Covid vaccines should be made accessible to and affordable for all and the governments should ensure that by working closely with organisations like neighbourhood clubs and NGOs, public health experts said. The vaccines should be made affordable so that the maximum number of people can be protected against Covid, the experts said. “The vaccines are now accessible to only a few because of supply issues. Also, some corporate hospitals are buying doses in bulk. The prices are varying, too. Accessibility and affordability are two areas of concern,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “Covid vaccination cannot be a source of profiteering and the government should come forward and fix the price, like it has done for the RT-PCR test and the rates for PPE kits at hospitals,” said Chowdhury, the chief advisor of Liver Foundation and mentor of Covid Care Network, which has as its members doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid. The two organisations, along with the state government, have launched a vaccine access initiative. They will try to provide doses to those who are unable to get them because of social, economic and other reasons. “With the help of local clubs, NGOs, community-based organisations and councillors, we are trying to hold off-site vaccination programmes in neighbourhoods. These organisations will be asked to bring those who are unable to queue up at vaccination centres to these camps. The state government will provide the doses for free,” said Chowdhury. The programme will start next week in districts and then in Calcutta. He urged the private healthcare sector to join the effort to provide vaccines to people at as low a price as possible. Liver Foundation, which runs a hospital in Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, is planning to ad-minister Covid vaccines and charge not more than Rs 100 over the procurement price. A private hospital in Calcutta — the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences — started administering Covishield at the procurement price on Wednesday. The hospital is charging each recipient Rs 630, which its officials said was the cost of procuring a Covishield dose from the manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India. “For the first few days after procuring the doses, we were charging Rs 750. But now we have decided to charge only the cost price to make it affordable for more people,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east. Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. He said the hospital would charge the procurement cost for Covaxin, too, once it got supplies of the indigenously developed vaccine. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the hospital vaccinated around 2,000 people each day. The association of private hospitals in Calcutta has requested its members not to charge more than Rs 220 for each dose and keep the rates uniform. “The amount was fixed to cover the infrastructure and human resource costs. Some of the hospitals are charging more but most members are adhering to it,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cycle bails out shop staff in the absence of buses||A growing number of employees of retail shops have been cycling to work since the state government allowed the stores to remain open between noon and 3pm. Most of the employees would usually travel by buses, autos or suburban trains to reach their workplace and return home. With public transport off the roads since the stricter Covid norms came into force on May 16, these employees have no option but to cycle to work. On Wednesday, cyclists were spotted on almost all major thoroughfares of the city. While the destination for most was the central business district, others were headed for Bangur, Lake Town, College Street, Vivekananda Road and BB Ganguly Street. “I couldn’t make it to our shop, on Bidhan Sarani, on Tuesday as no means of transport was available. I decided to cycle to work today,” said Arindam Das, a resident of Ghola in North 24-Parganas, around 17km from the heart of Calcutta. The father of two works in a sari shop. “Wedding season is round the corner…. If cycling for two-and-a-half hours fetches me some money, what’s the harm?” Das asked. The rules that came into force on May 16 allowed sari shops to remain open from noon to 3pm. But there were hardly any customers. Owners hope the footfall would improve as many other shops, too, are now allowed to open during the window. Traffic cops said there was a significant rise in the number of motorists and cyclists on thoroughfares across the city on Wednesday. People cycled down from as far as Baruipur and Sonarpur in the south and Titagarh and Khardah in the north to reach their place of work. “Some of the cyclists carried a copy of a challan or cash receipt of their stores, with their names, addresses and telephone numbers written on them, as proof of their employment,” said a police officer. “We asked them to avoid the main thoroughfares as much as possible during office hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Coronavirus lockdown: Stricter police vigil to enforce curbs||Police had a stronger presence on the roads on Wednesday and many more people were asked why they had stepped out. The step-up in vigil came after an assessment by the police that some people in the city were taking advantage of the relaxations between noon and 3pm that came into effect on Tuesday. Cops were seen stopping four-wheelers and two-wheelers on Central Avenue, SP Mukherjee Road, Red Road, Kalighat Road, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, Prince Anwar Shah Road and Beadon Street as well as at the Park Circus and Golpark crossings. “We have been instructed to ensure that no one without a valid reason is out on the road. Just because some shops are allowed to stay open between noon and 3pm does not mean anyone can step out during that period,” said an officer at the Golpark crossing. Several people who were stopped failed to justify why they were out. “If someone said he was going to hospital, we would ask for the patient’s medical history. If someone said he was returning from the market, we would ask him to show his purchases…. Many people were caught lying,” an officer said on Central Avenue. From 8am till noon on Wednesday, 666 people were prosecuted for loitering on the roads without any valid reasons, compared with 790 people prosecuted from Tuesday morning till evening. Traffic cops on Wednesday prosecuted another 606 motorists for disobedience of the order promulgated by a public servant, riding motorcycles without a helmet and other violations between 1.30pm and 3pm. Traffic department officers said they had prosecuted over 11,000 motorists for violation of traffic and lockdown rules between May 16 and 31. Officers said prosecuting more than 600 people within a span of one-and-a-half hours on Wednesday was “unusually high” and was an indicator of the number of people trying to violate rules after the government announced relaxations on retail shop timings. The latest government order has allowed retail shops to operate between noon and 3pm. However, there is no clarity yet on the nature of retail shops that may be open during the period. An officer at Lalbazar said Wednesday’s drive was supervised by officers of the rank of deputy commissioner and assistant commissioner and officers in charge of various police stations. “Those who are failing to justify why they have stepped out are being prosecuted under IPC Section 188,” the officer said. The police are focussing more on the 7am-10am and noon-3pm windows, when select shops are allowed to open. A number of grocery shops did not close between 10am and noon and remained open from 7am till 3pm. “It is difficult to close the shop and then open it within two hours,” said a grocery shop owner in Behala. “Several hawkers are approaching us seeking permission to open their stalls. Similar requests are being made by shopping malls, too. We have turned down all these requests for the time being. We have asked the hawkers to get vaccinated first,” said an officer in the southeast division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Assessment mode worry for ISC, CBSE examinees||After ISC and CBSE cancelled the Class XII exams, thousands of students are worried if their results would reflect the effort they put into preparing for a board exam. Many fear being “unfairly judged” on the basis of their performance in Class XI, when they might not have been as focused. Students are worried because some of them have missed school exams, some appeared for on-campus exams and schools have been stingy with awarding marks in a bid to harden them before the finale. Some of them feel they had put in the last-gasp effort to excel and that will not count anymore. Another grave concern is how well the schools have kept the records of all the tests and exams that students have taken in the last two years. The ICSE council has asked schools to submit the average marks of subjects scored by Class XII examinees in Classes XI and XII and has said that the “results will be processed on a mechanism which will also include the internal examinations conducted by the schools”. The CBSE has so far only said that assessment will be made as per “objective criteria in a time bound manner”. Schools had also devised their own ways of assessing students over the last year, which have made students and parents believe there is “no parity” in the method with different marking schemes and types of questions in the exams. The Telegraph spoke to students, parents and teachers about their concerns. Across schools there are students who missed a terminal exam or a test in the last two years. Some missed a test because they were unwell. The medical advice given to parents and students was to not take a risk or put others at risk and this was followed strictly. Even while the on-campus pre-boards were held, there were students who could not appear for exams because either they or their family members had been infected with Covid-19, school heads said. Students are anxious whether an “absent” in one paper or more would have a bearing on their final results. Several school heads said that they will be sending the marks of all the assessments that have been conducted in the school over the last two years. “We will send the marks of all the assessments including theory, practicals and projects conducted by the school in the last two years,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. Sarkar said that for those who have been absent for any reason, the school will consider the marks of the subjects they have appeared for. In the last 24 hours, teachers have been receiving frantic calls from students telling them about “one exam” where their marks were low or how they could have done better in a board exam. “Some of my students asked me whether there will be an option of another online exam where they could perform better,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. School heads, while computing the data to be sent to the council, have also been worried about the average students who could have done better in a board exam. “The academically strong students would not find it difficult because they usually maintain consistency. But we are concerned about the average students who might lose out because it is only the fright of an examination that makes students work harder and their board performance is much better,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Teachers also said that in Class XI, students usually take studies “lightly”. They are more serious when they enter Class XII. Many students are worried about whether the schools had been particular when keeping a record of the marks scored in all the tests and exams they wrote. “There could be schools who are particular about keeping all the records digitally. But there are smaller schools who enter their marks manually and that is also only for the terminal exams and not all the tests,” said the head of an ICSE School. To prepare examinees for the boards, many schools are particularly strict with their marking, something that can now go against their students. If a student scored in the 70s in the school exam, they would easily score above 90 in the boards, a school head said. In some schools, teachers deduct marks on language in English and if the “working” is not shown in mathematics. “The idea behind strict marking in school exams is  because we are preparing students for the boards. Teachers do not want them to become overconfident,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Parents, too, feel students would suffer because of this. “The question paper of my ward’s school was notches tougher than that of many other schools. But now they will be judged by the same criterion as many others despite facing stricter marking scheme and a tougher question paper,” said the mother of an ISC examinee. In several schools, the pre-boards were conducted on the campus and while some made attendance compulsory, others had given the students a choice. Teachers had told students it would benefit them to appear for the exams in-person for practice. Students had not attended in-person classes or written a paper in over a year and had to give the exams wearing masks. “I wrote the exam from the school because my parents wanted me to. But I know of my friends who wrote online exams and have scored better in the pre-boards,” said a student of a Christian missionary school. “Now, college admissions will depend on this. I am concerned whether I will be able to cross the cut-off set by colleges.” Some teachers and students are worried that there could be schools who inflate their childrens’ marks. “There could be schools who tamper with original marks. It is the integrity of schools that matter, too,” said a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Panel to suggest ways to evaluate HS pupils||A committee was set up on Wednesday with experts from various fields to find out how Bengal’s higher secondary candidates can be assessed, a day after the Delhi boards scrapped their school-leaving exams this year because of Covid-19. The six-member committee, which held its first meeting on Wednesday evening, has to work in a situation where schools hardly have any record of students’ academic performance in the form of marks over the past 15 months. The committee will “review and evaluate the current situation” and “submit its recommendation within 72 hours” to the school education department. Close to 10 lakh students, who are preparing for the HS exams, are looking forward to the decision of the committee. The committee includes the presidents of the secondary education board and the higher secondary council; Subhasankar Sarkar, the vice-chancellor of Netaji Subhas Open University; G.K. Dhali, a professor at SSKM Hospital; Pradeep Saha, the director of the Institute of Psychiatry; and Ananya Chatterjee Chakrovorty, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The tight deadline set for the committee suggests the government is keen to take a decision on the assessment of the school-leaving students at the earliest. Any delay would mean Bengal board students would miss the opportunity to enrol in colleges outside the state. Education department officials said the committee might consider the Kerala model — the Class X and XII board exams in the southern state were held on campus soon after the Assembly polls got over on April 6, in strict adherence to all safety protocols. Bengal’s HS candidates had last appeared in an exam before the schools were closed in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. They had written some of the papers of the Class XI annual exams in March last year. As the papers scheduled for March 23, 25 and 27 could not be held because of the pandemic, the students were promoted to Class XII based on the papers they had written. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said that while they held tests periodically over digital platforms before the resumption of in-person classes for two months from February 19, in most schools that was not possible because of lack of smartphones and Net connection among students. The six-member committee has also been asked to suggest how the 11 lakh-odd Madhyamik students could be assessed. For the HS examinees, whose academic future depends on marks obtained in the school-leaving exams, what lies ahead is far more crucial. An official of the state education department said the committee had been asked to work on a tight deadline because the Centre had announced on Tuesday evening that the CBSE Class XII results would be prepared on the basis of a “well-defined objective criteria in a time bound manner”. The  ICSE council has said the results will be prepared based on the internal assessments by the schools. “The committee has to first decide whether we need to cancel the exams because of the pandemic. And if that would be the case, they have to recommend the parame-ters for assessing the students. That is crucial because we do not possess records of internal assessment,” said the official. Sougata Basu, a teacher at Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said only the assessment details about practicals and project work of the plus-II students were available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Medical College creates panel to probe  drug theft||The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital has started an inquiry following allegations that many vials of tocilizumab, a medicine used to treat Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms, have been stolen. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at a news conference on Wednesday that the health department and the hospital would probe the matter. “The health department and the medical college have enough powers. They will look into the matter. I will not take any political stand. This is a legal thing,” she said. The allegations surfaced after two audio clips about alleged illegal removal of tocilizumab vials began circulating on social media. In one of the clips, two women, one of them identifying herself as “CCU (critical care unit) sister”, are heard talking about the removal of 26 tocilizumab injections. The “CCU sister” asks the other woman to issue receipts for the vials. The second clip, too, features two women. One of them tells the other that the matter has been discussed among the “opor mohol (upper echelons)”. The woman mentions the name of a Trinamul MLA, who she says knows about the removal of the drug. Metro has not verified the authenticity of the audio clips. “We have formed a committee to investigate the allegations. The committee will find out whether the injections were used to treat patients in the hospital or not,” Manju Banerjee, the principal of Calcutta Medical College, told Metro on Wednesday. Besides the audio clips, a number of “specimen examination forms” with names of patients and “tocilizumab” written on them are circulating on social media. The words “Department of Pathology, Medical College” are printed at the top of the forms. The Telegraph has not verified the authenticity of the forms. A vial of tocilizumab costs Rs 40,000. A Covid-19 patient with severe symptoms is administered the drug only once, said a doctor. The state health depart-ment has prohibited the sale of tocilizumab in the open market after many hospitals found it difficult to procure the drug in the early days of the second wave of Covid infections in Bengal. “The doctor who prescribes the drug has to sign a requisition form. A senior nurse and the medical superintendent or the principal have to sign it, too,” said a doctor at a state government-run Covid hospital. As for private hospitals, a doctor has to fill in a form with details of the patient and justify why the patient requires tocilizumab. “The requisition has to be approved by the drug controller,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
03-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty surge to record highs||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 383 points to close at a fresh record on Thursday, driven by gains in HDFC Bank, L&T and Titan despite a largely negative trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 382.95 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 52,232.43.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 114.15 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 15,690.35.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 7 per cent, followed by ONGC, L&T, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and HDFC Bank.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto, M&M and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  Domestic equities remained upbeat with benchmark indices recording fresh highs, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Rebound in heavyweight financial services supported the market once again, he said, adding that realty followed by FMCG and metals also witnessed sharp recovery.  IT, pharma and auto witnessed some amount of pressure. "Notably, midcap and small cap stocks continued to outperform broader indices as improved prospects of sustainable earnings recovery continue to attract investors towards this space," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul finished with gains.  Equities in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent lower at USD 71.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 350 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 350 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 361.24 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 52,210.72 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty jumped 100.25 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,676.45.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, HDFC, ONGC and Infosys.  On the other hand, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's, SBI and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 85.40 points or 0.16 per cent lower at 51,849.48, while Nifty inched up 1.35 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,576.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 921.10 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Increased optimism about economic recovery with continuous fall in daily caseload in second COVID wave and improvement in recovery rates has already led domestic equities to new highs, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Further, the beginning of gradual withdrawal of restrictions by states, which hints at improvement in economic indicators from the current month, also lifted market mood, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the positive territory in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Equities on Wall Street closed with gains in the overnight session.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent higher at USD 71.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Google claims immunity from India’s new IT rules||US-based Google LLC has contended that India’s new IT rules for digital media are not applicable to its search engine, and urged the Delhi high court on Wednesday to set aside its single-judge order which applied them on the company while dealing with an issue related to the removal of offending content from the internet. The single judge’s decision had come while dealing with a matter in which a woman’s photographs were uploaded on a pornographic website by some miscreants and despite court orders the content could not be removed in its entirety from the World Wide Web and “errant parties merrily continued” to repost and redirect it to other sites. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government, Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman, on whose plea the single judge’s ruling had come, and sought their responses to Google’s plea by July 25. The court said it was not going to issue any interim order at this stage after Google told the bench that it was an intermediary, but not a social media intermediary, and sought protection against any coercive action for non-compliance of the template or guidelines laid down by the single judge. The global technology giant had also sought removal of the observation by the single judge that it was a social media intermediary. Google contended that the single judge, in his April 20 judgement, “mischaracterised” its search engine as a “social media intermediary” or “significant social media intermediary” as provided under the new rules. “The single judge has misinterpreted and misapplied the New Rules 2021 to the appellant’s search engine. Additionally, the single judge has conflated various sections of the IT Act and has passed template orders combining all such offences and provisions, which is bad in law,” it has said in its appeal. According to the template framed by the single judge, when matters related to offending content come before a court and it is satisfied that an immediate redressal was required at the interim stage, it may issue a direction to the website where the objectional material is hosted to remove the same within 24 hours of receiving the judicial order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India to directly sell cars to customers||Mercedes Benz India is changing the way it will sell cars in India. It will directly sell its vehicles to customers with its dealerships facilitating the process with brand experience, displays in the showrooms, sales consultations and test drives. Mercedes will set a single price all over the country, own and provide inventory and do the sales invoice for customers. The new retail format will come into effect from the fourth quarter of 2021 and will be applicable for new cars, said Martin Schwenk, Mercedes Benz India CEO and managing director, at a digital press conference. The company will be moving away from the traditional business model where Mercedes Benz India entered into wholesale agreements with dealers and did stock transfers to them. The dealers would then enter into retail agreement with the customers and hand over the vehicles. With stocks being owned by Mercedes Benz India the company will have a centralised stock management with a decentralised vehicle storage at the dealers’ which are now “franchise partners”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Phoenix and GIC sets up $733-million investment platform in India||Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC and Phoenix Mills Ltd have partnered to set up a $733-million (Rs 5,362 crore) investment platform for retail-led mixed-use assets in India. GIC will acquire a significant minority stake in the portfolio of retail-led mixed use developments, located in the prime consumption centres of Mumbai and Pune. A PML statement said these assets total around 3.4 million sq ft of leasable retail and office space. In a separate regulatory filing, Phoenix Mills said GIC will initially acquire an equity stake of 26.4 per cent in its subsidiaries by investing an aggregate amount of around Rs 1,111 crore through a combination of primary infusion and secondary purchase of equity shares in these Phoenix Mills’ subsidiaries. “The platform is valued at a pre-money enterprise value of Rs 5,500 crore. GIC’s stake may further increase to 33-36 per cent in the subsidiaries through an additional infusion of up to Rs 400 crore within a 12-month period from closing,” the company added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Reliance Industries hopes to induct a strategic partner in O2C business||Reliance Industries (RIL) has kept its hopes alive to induct a strategic partner in its oils-to-chemicals (O2C) business with chief Mukesh Ambani stating in the company’s annual report that a proposed reorganisation will attract a dedicated pool of investor capital. Ambani has been pursuing a potential deal in O2C with Saudi Aramco for the past two years. RIL will hold its annual general meeting (AGM) on June 24 through video conferencing. With only 22 days left, it remains to be seen if Ambani provides any update or makes the much awaited announcement at the AGM. Ambani had first announced the deal in 2019 when he said the Saudi oil giant would pick up 20 per cent in the business for an enterprise value of $75 billion. While the pandemic delayed the deal, there have been recent reports of talks reviving between the two and that Aramco could pay for the stake in a stock-cum-cash deal with payments staggered over several years. In its annual report for 2020-21, RIL said it expects to complete the process of carving out its O2C business by the end of the calendar year. The O2C reorganisation will create an independent, global-scale growth engine for RIL, with a potential for good cash flow generation. “Recently, we initiated the process of reorganising our O2C business into a separate subsidiary. O2C’s goal is to maximise the crude to chemicals conversion and create a sustainable growth business,’’ Ambani said in the annual report. Pre-payment of $7.8bn Ambani said RIL now has a strong balance-sheet with high liquidity that will support the growth plans for telecom, retail and O2C. He said  during the year, RIL made pre-payment of $ 7.8 billion of long-term foreign currency debt, with requisite approvals from the RBI. “This is the highest ever pre-payment of debt undertaken by any corporate borrower.” During the fiscal, RIL raised Rs 2,60,074 crore ($ 36 billion), through rights issue and asset monetisation, which is the largest by an Indian company. The funds raised, along with capital commitments, exceeded net debt levels, helping the company to achieve a net debt free balance sheet ahead of the stated timeline of March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
03-06-2021||Business||Urban Company raises $255 million in funding||Urban Company, the on-demand home services provider, on Wednesday said it has raised $255 million (about Rs 1,857 crore) in funding, led by Prosus Ventures, Dragoneer and Wellington Management. This comes ahead of the start-up looking at an IPO over the next two years. The series F round — which also saw participation from Vy Capital, Tiger Global and Steadview — would take its valuation to $2.1 billion. The latest round includes a primary capital infusion of $188 million and a secondary sale of around $67 million by select angel and early investors. Urban Company, which was earlier known as UrbanClap, will use the fresh proceeds towards innovation, training, product development, enhanced quality control and safety measures for both partners and its consumers. It also plans to ramp up its geographic footprint by entering the top 100 cities in India by the end of the next calendar year apart from expanding in international markets, including  Southeast Asia. “With this funding, we plan to rapidly scale our business while continuing to invest further in the safety of our consumers and service partners, training of partners and product development,’’ Urban Company CEO and co-founder Abhiraj Singh Bhal. A PTI report quoting Bhal said the company was eyeing an IPO in the next 18 to 24 months and it had a clear path to break even in the short term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||Jute Commissioner of India to enforce Jute and Jute Textiles Control Order, 2016||An unabated increase in raw jute prices has prompted the Jute Commissioner of India to enforce the  Jute and Jute Textiles Control Order, 2016, to liquidate stocks and prevent any unaccounted accumulation of the fibre. The order dated June 1 directs traders, dealers and stockists of raw jute to liquidate their holdings by June 10. The mills have been asked to take physical delivery of raw jute by June 25. The order also directs that there will be no fresh contracts from any source between June 11 and July 20. Those who fail to comply with the provisions of this order, will be punished under “clause 11 of the Jute and Jute Textiles Order, 2016 read with section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 which provides for imprisonment and/or fine”, Jute Commissioner Moloy Chandan Chakrabortty said in the order which comes a few days after a meeting between industry and state government officials. The average price of monthly raw jute, which was around Rs 4,700 per quintal in July 2020, has shot up to Rs 8,047.06 per quintal as of May 22. Traders said Wednesday’s quoted price is around Rs 8,800 per quintal and there is a likelihood that prices could breach Rs 10,000 per quintal. The price rise has been consistent despite earlier orders from the commissioner limiting the maximum quantity of raw jute that mills and trade can hold. According to jute traders, the increase in prices is because of the trailing effects of cyclone Amphan last year that had damaged 30-40 per cent of the crop. Crop yield also declined around 1 quintal per bigha of cultivated land. A section of the industry is also engaging in speculation that is having an inflationary effect on the crop price. According to members of the Indian Jute Mills Association, 16 mills have already closed down because of raw jute scarcity affecting the employment of around 50,000 workers. “Those mills who can afford are in a rat race to buy raw jute even at high prices,” a jute mill owner said. Raw jute prices, however,  are expected to ease once the new crop comes next month onwards. “If the weather conditions are favourable, we are expecting a good crop next year. Definitely the price situation will improve,” said Jute Balers’ Association secretary A. K. Palit. Differing opinions There are also differences over the quantum of stock that can be liquidated under the latest order. While traders estimate that a little over 1 lakh bales can be squeezed out through the order, government officials estimate the number to be at 3-5 lakh bales. There are also differences over jute supply figures. Ijma has estimated a total jute supply for crop year 2020-21 at 74.5 lakh bales with no surplus stock. A committee chaired by the Jute Commissioner has forecast a supply of 80 lakh bales with a surplus stock of 5 lakh bales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves Model Tenancy Act||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the Model Tenancy Act, which will bring about wide-ranging reforms, including setting up of separate rent authorities, courts and tribunals in every district to protect the interests of both the owner and the tenant. Under the Act, for residential premises, tenants will have to submit a security deposit of maximum two months’ rent, while in case of commercial properties, six months rent will have to be deposited. States and Union territories can adopt the Model Tenancy Act (MTA) by enacting fresh legislation or they can amend their existing rental laws suitably. The government said that it is expected to give a fillip to private participation in rental housing as a business model to address the huge housing shortage in the country. The Act calls for a written agreement for all new tenancies, which will have to be submitted to the concerned district ‘rent authority’. The government said that the MTA will be applicable prospectively and will not affect existing tenancies. Rent and duration of tenancy will be fixed by mutual consent between owner and tenant through a written agreement. According to the Act, if a tenant fails to vacate the premises let out on rent in accordance with the tenancy agreement, he or she will be liable to pay the landlord twice the monthly rent for the first two months and then four times till the latter continues to occupy the said premises. “If the landlord fails to make any refund, he shall be liable to pay simple interest to the tenant at such rate as may be prescribed from time to time on the amount which he has omitted or failed to refund,” it stated. If any dispute emerges between the owner and tenant, they will have to first approach ‘Rent Authority’. If any party is not satisfied with the Rent Authority's order, ‘Rent Court’ can be approached and then 'Rent Tribunal’. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the move will help overhaul the legal framework with respect to rental housing across the country. During a press conference, Puri said that according to the Census 2011, more than 1 crore houses were lying vacant in urban areas across the country. Making the 1 crore vacant houses available on rent will complement the vision of ‘housing for all by 2022’, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee begins its three-day meeting ||The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI began its three-day meeting on Wednesday with consensus building around a pause in interest rates and the continuation of the apex bank’s accommodative policy. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to reiterate its commitment towards ample liquidity in the system, traders are expecting more aggressive bond purchases under its G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0), apart from any revisions to its growth and inflation forecasts. In its April policy, the MPC had projected the Indian economy to grow 10.5 per cent in  2020-21 and retail inflation at 5.2 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, 5.2 per cent in the second quarter, 4.4 per cent in the third and 5.1 per cent in the final quarter, with risks broadly balanced. The latest meeting of the interest rate setting panel comes at a time the second wave of the coronavirus is showing signs of slowing down with several states reporting a drop in daily cases, though the number of fatalities still remain a concern. With signs the second wave is receding, states are expected to gradually lift their restrictions over the next few weeks. At its last meeting, the RBI had retained the policy repo rate at 4 per cent and the reverse repo rate at 3.35 per cent. On Monday, official data showed the economy growing at 1.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2002-21, while the contraction for the year at 7.3 per cent was less than the earlier projection of 8 per cent contraction. “The better-than-expected GDP numbers provide much needed comfort to the MPC on the growth outlook. However, the lockdowns have intensified the downside risks to recovery. Hence, the RBI is likely to continue with its accommodative monetary policy stance,’’ said M. Govinda Rao, chief economic advisor of Brickwork Ratings. However, considering the risks of inflation from the rising commodity prices and input costs, Brickwork Ratings expects the RBI to hold the repo rate at 4 per cent. Yet, the focus will continue to be on liquidity and experts are not ruling out the possibility of the RBI coming out with more measures to support the bond markets. “While markets will be expecting re-assurance on liquidity and awaiting the quantum of G-SAP for the next quarter, one should not be surprised if RBI governor Shaktikanta Das announces yet another innovative tool,” Anand Nevatia, fund manager at Trust Mutual Fund, told Reuters. The RBI had announced the G-SAP 1.0 at its April meet to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve and provide comfortable liquidity conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-32
03-06-2021||India||Kerala retains top spot in Niti Aayog’s sustainable development index||Kerala has retained the top rank in Niti Aayog's SDG India Index 2020-21, while Bihar has been adjudged as the worst performer, according to a report released on Thursday. The Index for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) evaluates progress of states and union territories on social, economic and environmental parameters. The country's overall SDG score improved by 6 points -- from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2020-21. This positive stride towards achieving the targets is largely driven by exemplary country-wide performance in clean water and sanitation, and affordable and clean energy, the Niti Aayog said in a statement. Kerala retained its rank as the top state with a score of 75. Both Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu took the second spot with a score of 74. Bihar, Jharkhand and Assam were the worst performing states in this year's index. The third rendition of India's SDG Index was launched by Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar. Further, Chandigarh maintained its top spot among the union territories (UTs) with a score of 79, followed by Delhi (68). Mizoram, Haryana and Uttarakhand were the top gainers in 2020-21 in terms of improvement in score from 2019, with an increase of 12, 10 and 8 points, respectively. While in 2019, 10 states/UTs belonged to the category of front-runners (score in the range 65-99, both inclusive), 12 more states/UTs find themselves in this category in 2020-21. Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Punjab, Haryana, Tripura, Delhi, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh graduated to the category of front-runners. Under the health sector goals, Gujarat and Delhi were the top performers among the states and the UTs, respectively. Twenty-one states and all UTs bagged a position in the category of front-runners, while no state/UT was in the category of aspirants (with index score less than 50). Under the goal of quality education, Kerala and Chandigarh were the top performers among the states and UTs, respectively. Five states and three UTs bagged a position in the category of front-runners. Under the goal of no poverty, Tamil Nadu and Delhi were the best performers among the states and UTs, respectively. Seventeen states and seven UTs bagged a position in the category of front-runners. Under the goal of reduced inequalities, Meghalaya and Chandigarh (Achiever, with Index score of 100) emerged as the best performers among the states and UTs. Twenty states and six UTs bagged a position in the category of front-runners. However, four states fell behind to the aspirants category. "Our effort of monitoring SDGs through the SDG India Index and Dashboard continues to be widely noticed and applauded around the world. It remains a rare data-driven initiative to rank our states and union territories by computing a composite index on the SDGs," Kumar said. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, "The report reflects on the partnerships we have built and strengthened during our SDG efforts. The narrative throws light on how collaborative initiatives can result in better outcomes and greater impacts." On the theme of partnerships, Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said, "It is clear that by working together we can build a more resilient and sustainable future, where no one is left behind." First launched in December 2018, the index has become the primary tool for monitoring progress on the SDGs in the country and has simultaneously fostered competition among the states and union territories by ranking them on the global goals. The index, developed in collaboration with the United Nations in India, measures the progress at the national and sub-national level in the country's journey towards meeting the global goals and targets. It has been successful as an advocacy tool to propagate the messages of sustainability, resilience and partnerships as well. From covering 13 goals, 39 targets, and 62 indicators in the first edition in 2018-19 to 17 goals, 54 targets and 100 indicators in the second; this third edition of the index covers 17 goals, 70 targets, and 115 indicators. The SDGs, constituted through an unprecedented consultative process, have 17 goals and 169 related targets to be achieved by 2030. The goals are an ambitious commitment by world leaders which set out a universal and an unprecedented agenda which embraces economic, environmental and social aspects of the wellbeing of societies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
03-06-2021||India||Google apologises after showing Kannada as ‘ugliest language’||Kannada as answer to a query in Google on the ugliest language in India sparked an outrage on Thursday and the Karnataka government said it would issue a legal notice to the tech leader, while that reply appeared to be a gaffe. With people expressing their indignation and leaders cutting across party lines slamming Google, it quickly removed Kannada "as the ugliest language in India" and apologised to the people saying the search result did not reflect its opinion. Karnataka Minister for Kannada, Culture and Forest, Aravind Limbavali told reporters that a legal notice would be served to Google for showing such an answer to that question. Later, he took to Twitter to express his outrage and demanded an apology from Google to Kannada and Kannadigas. Kannada language has a history of its own, having come into existence as many as 2,500 years ago, the minister said and added that the language has been the pride of Kannadigas through the ages. Showing Kannada in poor light "...is merely an attempt by Google to insult this pride of Kannadigas. I demand an apology from @Google ASAP to Kannada, Kannadigas. Legal action will be taken against Google for maligning the image of our beautiful language!" Limbavali tweeted. When contacted, a Google spokesperson said, "Search isn't always perfect. Sometimes, the way content is described on the internet can yield surprising results to specific queries." "We know this is not ideal, but we take swift corrective action when we are made aware of an issue and are continually working to improve our algorithms. Naturally, these are not reflective of the opinions of Google, and we apologise for the misunderstanding and hurting any sentiments." Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy denounced Google in a series of tweets for the outrageous answer to the language question. He sought to know why Google "behaves in an irresponsible manner" in terms of language. Others including the BJP's Bengaluru Central MP, P C Mohan slammed Google and asked it to apologise. Sharing the screenshot of the search on his Twitter handle, Mohan said Karnataka is home to the great Vijayanagara empire and the Kannada language has a rich heritage, a glorious legacy and a unique culture. "One of the worlds oldest languages, Kannada had great scholars who wrote epics much before Geoffrey Chaucer was born in the 14th century. Apologise @GoogleIndia."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
03-06-2021||India||No relaxation of lockdown-like curbs yet, clarifies Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Thursday evening clarified that the existing restrictions on account of Covid-19 have not been lifted anywhere, contrary to the announcement made by minister Vijay Wadettiwar. Relaxation of restrictions as per the situation in different areas is only under consideration and no decision has been taken, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Wadettiwar, minister for Disaster Management, later said only "in principle" approval to phasing out of restrictions was given, but no decision has been taken. He had told reporters in the afternoon that restrictions would be lifted in 18 out of 36 districts in the state where the positivity rate is five per cent or less and the occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals is less than 25 percent from Friday. He had held a press conference after a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority in Mumbai. The CMO statement that followed said the government has not lifted lockdown-like curbs as Covid-19 has not been controlled completely yet. "The coronavirus spread is serious in some rural areas....The curbs have not been completely lifted in the state," the statement added. Last week the government had announced that the restrictions, imposed in April this year, would continue till June 15. The CMO statement said that the Disaster Management department has decided five levels of severity of the pandemic based on the positivity rate and availability of oxygen beds. The degree of relaxation will be decided as per the level of severity and guidelines on whether to relax the curbs or further strengthen them will be announced soon, the CMO said. After the CMO issued the clarification, Wadettiwar told reporters that "in principle approval was given to phased lifting of lockdown curbs on the basis of positivity rate and availability of oxygen beds", but no final decision was taken. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar were present at the meeting, he added. "No `unlock' is happening in the state. Even though in principle approval has been given, final decision will be taken by the chief minister," the Congress leader said. Maharashtra had on Wednesday recorded 15,169 new Covid-19 cases and 285 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Utilise time in productive & creative manner, Modi tells students in surprise interaction||In a surprise interaction with class-12 students and their parents, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked them to utilise their time in a productive and creative manner following the cancellation of their exams and said they should never feel stressed about any examination. Joining the online interaction organised by the Education Ministry, Modi asked them how they are feeling following the cancellation of the board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and what they are planning to do now. The prime minister asked the students whether they will watch IPL, Champions League, or wait for the Olympics. He also told students that they should always remember the mantra of 'health is wealth' and enquired what they do to remain physically fit. Several students shared their experiences with the prime minister about how the announcement brought relief for them and ended a long spell of uncertainty. Modi told the students that the decision to cancel exams was taken in their interest Some parents also shared their thoughts about how students can focus now on their college admissions. The government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country with Modi asserting that the decision was taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students according to a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Gautam Gambhir guilty of storing, distributing Covid medicine, claims drug controller||The Gautam Gambhir Foundation has been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking, procuring and distributing Fabiflu medicine to Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government's drug controller informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday which said the BJP MP did a lot of charity but caused a lot of shortage of drug and inconvenience to the society. The high court deprecated the manner in which a huge quantity of the drug was procured and said genuine patients who needed the medicine at that particular time could not get it as the bulk stock was taken away by cricketer-turned-politician Gambhir. “This was certainly not the way. In this pandemic, it should not be done just because people have means to do it. It should not be that I will do it for one class or for my constituency people and it should not be for popularity. “Firstly, you do charity for charity. Doing charity for some other reason is no charity. We want to curb this practice and for this, we want you (drug controller) to take action,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The drug controller also submitted that action will be taken without delay against the foundation, drug dealers as also in other such cases which would be brought to its notice. AAP MLA Praveen Kumar has also been found guilty for similar offences under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and action will also be taken against him, the court was informed. The counsel for the drug controller also said that show cause notices have been issued to licensees under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act as well as those who were found to have breached the law and their responses are awaited. The court asked the drug controller to file status reports on further progress in these cases within six weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 29. The high court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians are able to procure and distribute in huge quantities the Covid-19 medicines even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. An application was also filed in the pending petition making allegations against Kumar. The bench said, “We are again mentioning that Gambhir did it with a good intention and has also spent a lot of money and procured the medicines in a public spirit but at what cost?” He did a lot of charity no doubt but he caused a lot of shortage of the drug and inconvenience to the patients, it said. Regarding individuals who had to purchase medicines or oxygen cylinders or concentrators in black market at exorbitant rates, the bench said it does not want to go after them even though it constitutes an offence as people were driven to breach the law due to unavailability of resources. “We are of the view that looking into the acute shortage of medical oxygen during the current wave of the pandemic and acute shortage of oxygen beds in hospitals, though procurement of medical oxygen cylinders for personal use would also tantamount to breach of law, such cases need not be pursued and the endeavour of the drug controller should be on such violators whose actions resulted in choking of the system, including medical oxygen, for bona fide use in the treatment of Covid-19,” the bench said. The court, which on earlier occasions had pulled up the drug controller for not conducting a proper enquiry as to how Gambhir got the huge quantities of Fabiflu, said it is good that this aspect has been now enquired. “Whatever breach has been done under the Act, you are bound to take action and continue the inquiry. Everyone should be painted in the same colour and adopt the same yardstick for everyone,” the bench said, asking the drug controller to also examine other instances and take action. The court was told that in the recent past Gambhir and Kumar were questioned and also the dealers who had sold an oxygen cylinder to unlicensed firm GGF. It is established that GGF do not hold a requisite drug licence for purchase or stock or distribute drugs. It has been found that GGF was unauthorisedly procuring, stocking and distributing drug Fabiflu under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act in a manner which was not permissible under the law. GGF has committed an offence punishable under the Act, advocate Nandita Rao, representing the drug controller, said while reading out the status report. The court had earlier said that the drug controller cannot take it for a ride if it thought that the court was so gullible, so naive, it was not. The court had taken strong exception to the drug controller's report, which concluded that the dealers had ample stock to supply to others, and said everyone knows that the medicine was in short supply and while Gambhir bought thousands of strips of the medicine, other people who needed it could not get it on that day. It had questioned how could such a large stock of drug, that is, 2,628 strips of Fabiflu be given to a foundation which was neither a medical practitioner nor has a licence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||India remains steadfast to bring back fraudsters like Choksi, says MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said India remains steadfast in its resolve that fugitives of the country are brought back and all efforts would continue to bring back Mehul Choksi, who is wanted in a major banking fraud here. "He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica where some legal proceedings are underway. We will continue to ensure that he is brought back to India," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters here at an online press briefing. He was replying to a batch of questions regarding Choksi, who had fled to Antigua but was recently found in Dominica. To another question regarding Palestine foreign minister Riad Malki writing to Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to protest against India's decision to abstain from voting at UNHRC on Gaza violence, the MEA spokesperson said the position that India took was not new and the country has abstained on the previous occasions also. He also said Palestine has written similar letters to all countries that abstained. Palestine has called out India’s abstention during the vote on the resolution, “Ensuring respect for international human rights law and humanitarian law in Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel”, at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva last week. In the letter to the external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, the Palestinian foreign minister, Riad Malki, said: “Republic of India missed an opportunity to join the international community at this turning point, both crucial and long overdue, on the path to accountability, justice and peace”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Maharashtra: 5-level unlock process to be implemented||Coronavirus-induced restrictions will be lifted from Friday in 18 out of 36 Maharashtra districts where the positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy have dipped considerably, the state government said. The state, which remains worst-hit by Covid-19, has decided to implement a five-level unlock process as cases have started to come down. Disaster ManagementMinister Vijay Wadettiwar made the announcement after a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority here on Thursday. The lockdown-like restrictions, imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified, would be lifted in 18 districts where the positivity rate is 5 percent or less and the occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals is less than 25 percent, he said. These districts have been categorised as Level-1 districts. These 18 districts are Aurangabad, Bhandara, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nagpur, Nanded, Nashik, Yavatmal, Washim, Wardha, Parbhani and Thane. All restrictions would be lifted in these districts, he said. Restrictions in Mumbai would be relaxed partially, but the travel by local trains, the state capital's lifeline, would not be open to the general public as of now, the minister said. Mumbai has been categorised as a Level-2 district. The government on Sunday had allowed essential shops to remain open in Mumbai and in districts that had less than 10 per cent Covid positivity rate and where occupancy of oxygen beds was less than 40 per cent, as per a report by ndtv.com. Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 15,169 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 57,76,184, and 285 fresh deaths and also added 268 previously unreported fatalities, the state health department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Southwest Monsoon makes onset over Kerala||After a delay of two days, the Southwest Monsoon made an onset over Kerala on Thursday, marking the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Southwest Monsoon has made an onset over southern parts of Kerala, said IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra. The normal onset date for Southwest Monsoon over Kerala is June 1. Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance into remaining parts of south Arabian Sea and some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala, Lakshadweep, some parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema, and south and central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, the IMD said. This is the third time in the last six years that monsoon arrived late. In 2016 and 2019, Southwest Monsoon made an onset over Kerala on June 8. The IMD had earlier forecast that monsoon would make an onset over Kerala around May 31. Skymet, a private weather forecasting station, said Southwest Monsoon made an onset over Kerala on May 30. However, the IMD said conditions were not ripe for declaring the onset of monsoon. According to IMD, three parameters need to fulfilled for declaring the onset of the Southwest Monsoon over Kerala -- If after May 10, 60 per cent of the 14 stations including Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore report rainfall of 2.5 millimetres or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala can be declared on the second day, provided other two criteria are also in concurrence. This has to be supplemented by the wind speed. The depth of westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hectopascal (hPa), in the box equator to Latitude 10-degrees north and Longitude 55 degrees to 80-degrees east. The zonal wind speed over the area bounded by Latitude 5 to 10-degrees north, Longitude 70-80-degrees east should be of the order of 15-20 knots at 925 hPa, the IMD said. The Outgoing Longwave Radiation (OLR) should be below 200 watt per square meter (wm-2) in the box confined by Latitude 5-10 degrees north and Longitude 70-75 degrees east, it added. The IMD said these parameters were fulfilled on Thursday, it said. The Southwest Monsoon is likely to be normal in north and south India, above-normal in central India and below-normal in east and northeast India, the Met department had said in its second-long range forecast for Southwest Monsoon 2021 on Tuesday. A good monsoon is critical to the Indian economy which is still largely based on agriculture and its allied activities. Most parts of the country are expected to receive normal to above normal rainfall during the season, the IMD said. However, there are some regions in east and northeast India like eastern parts of Bihar, some parts of West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, adjoining Himachal Pradesh, southwest peninsular India, specifically some parts of Kerala, coastal Karnataka and parts of interior Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu where the probability of below normal activity is predicted, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Modi reviews India's preparations for Tokyo Olympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Thursday that every need of our sportspersons, from vaccination to training facilities, must be fulfilled as a top priority as he chaired a meeting to review India's preparations for the Tokyo Olympics, which will start in 50 days. Modi said sports is at the heart of our national character and that our youths are creating a strong and vibrant culture of sports, adding that he would be connecting with India's Olympics contingent through a video conference in July to encourage them and wish them on behalf of all Indians, according to a statement. He said wishes of 135 crore Indians will be with our youngsters participating in the Olympics, noting that for every sportsperson shining on the global stage, a thousand more will be inspired to take up sports. Modi was briefed that a total of 100 athletes have qualified for Tokyo Olympics across 11 sports disciplines and about 25 more athletes are likely to qualify, the PMO statement said. While a total of 19 Indian athletes had participated at the last paralympics in 2016 at Rio de Janeiro, 26 para athletes have qualified and 16 more are likely to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics, it said. Officials said special attention will also be given towards motivating athletes and boosting their morale while they participate in the Olympics. Therefore, regular video conferences will be organised with their parents and family members back in India through the course of the competition, they said. Tokyo Olympics is scheduled to begin from July 23. In the review meeting, a presentation was made by officials on various aspects of operational readiness for the upcoming games. Modi was apprised about various steps taken towards ensuring uninterrupted training for athletes amid the pandemic, participation in international competitions to win Olympic quota, vaccination of athletes, and customised support being provided to them. He directed that every qualified and probable athlete, support staff and officials travelling to the Tokyo for the mega sporting event must be vaccinated as soon as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Delhi HC raps doctors’ association over petition against Ramdev’s comments||The Delhi High Court Thursday issued summons to yoga guru Ramdev on a plea accusing him of making statements against allopathic medicines and claiming Patanjali's Coronil kit is a cure for Covid-19 but refused to restrain him at this stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. The high court however orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements. "Mr Rajiv Nayar is a very respectable senior (advocate). I am sure his client will listen to him," Justice C Hari Shankar said. The high court issued summons to Ramdev on the suit filed by Delhi Medical Association (DMA) and asked him to file a response in three weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 13. “Considerable time has passed since the passing of allegedly injurious statements. The counsel says defendant no. 1 (Ramdev) continues to make statements. No injunctive order can be given without giving an opportunity to the plaintiff, especially in view of the objections. Issue summons on the suit,” Justice Shankar said. The court also issued summons to social media platforms Twitter and Facebook and Astha channel, who are made parties to the petition. DMA, on behalf of its doctor members, submitted before the court that Ramdev's statement affects as Coronil medicine does not cure coronavirus and it is misleading. It has claimed a token damage of Rs 1 from him. On being asked by the court as to how did this statement affect the association, senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, representing DMA, said it affects because this medicine does not cure coronavirus and this was a suit for civil rights of doctors. The court said it cannot say as to whether Coronil is a cure or not and that it was something to be decided by medical experts. The judge said he was "least concerned" with the association's argument that Ramdev was a powerful person having a large number of followers. “Ramdev is a person who doesn't have faith in allopathy. He believes everything can be cured by Yoga and Ayurveda. He may be right or wrong," he said. He added, “The court can understand it is argued his statements are affecting the public but here you say oh my God Ramdev has done something. You people should be spending time to find a cure for the pandemic instead of wasting the court's time.” On the point of locus of DMA to file the suit, Dutta said it was affecting the public and also the members of the association as the statements made in open affects and that Ramdev was calling this science fake. To this, the judge said, “If I feel some science is fake. Tomorrow I will feel homeopathy is fake. Do you mean they will file a suit against me? I put it on twitter. You will say take down the Twitter account. It is a public opinion. I do not think your allopathic profession is so fragile,” and added that it has to be tested on the touchstone of free speech. The court said someone has a view that it is because of inefficacy of allopathic medicines that so many people have died and it was of the view that it comes under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, raised preliminary objection on the maintainability of the plea and argued that prima facie the suit was not maintainable as they are asking for an injunction and raising the ground of public good. Dutta also said that Ayush Ministry had made a statement that Coronil was not a cure for Covid-19 and could not be advertised as such and had also asked Patanjali to give details after which Ramdev had clarified that it was an immunity booster. The court noted that Ramdev has clarified and said with this clarification the entire grievance of DMA should have gone. If this was mandatory on Patanjali (to give details and not to advertise) and if he acts in violation, it is for the Ayush Ministry to look into, Why are you carrying the torch, the court said. DMA's counsel further claimed that Patanjali had made Rs 25 crore from Coronil sales, after it was touted as a cure for Covid-19 and that he has a vast following in the country. The court said, "Is he to be blamed for people buying Coronil?" and suggested the association to file a public interest litigation instead of pursuing the suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Extra-marital affair no reason to deny child’s custody, rules High Court||A woman's extra-marital affair is not a ground to deny the custody of her child in a matrimonial dispute as it cannot be concluded that she will not be a good mother, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held. The court also noted that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman and more often than not these allegations are made without any basis. The order came following a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman from Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib district, seeking custody of her four-and half-year-old daughter from her estranged husband who is an Australian citizen. Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, while allowing the petition of the woman, directed that the custody of the girl be handed over to her mother who is presently residing in Australia. The petitioner's estranged husband had alleged that the woman was in an extra-marital relationship with a relative. “Aside from the bold assertion in the petition, no supporting material has been brought before this court. It would be worthwhile to note that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman. More often than not these allegations are made without any basis or foundation," the court said. "Even assuming a woman is or has been in an extramarital relationship, the same by itself cannot lead to the conclusion that she would not be a good mother to deny her the custody of her child,” said the judge in a May 10 order. However, in this case, these allegations against the petitioner being wholly unsubstantiated are not considered relevant to adjudicate the issue of custody of the minor child, as per the order. “The child would require love, care and affection of the mother for her development in the formative years. The support and guidance of the mother would also be imperative during adolescence. The mother is the natural guardian of the child till the age of five years in terms of Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956,” the judge wrote in his order. In the petition, the woman had submitted that she had got married in 2013. Her husband was an Australian citizen and she later joined him in Australia. The couple had a daughter in June 2017. They later developed matrimonial differences. The petitioner had alleged that when they arrived in India in January 2020, her husband took away their daughter. The father of child contended that the minor was residing with him and his parents in a cordial family environment for almost a year and the change of custody at this stage would not be in the interest of the child especially when the petitioner was living alone and thus, would not be in a position to take care of the child.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Will continue to send reminders to accept privacy policy: WhatsApp||WhatsApp on Thursday said it will not limit the functionality of the messaging app for users not agreeing to its new privacy policy, but will continue to send reminders about the update. WhatsApp said its recent policy update does not change the privacy of people's personal messages, and it has already written to the government seeking to assure them that the privacy of users remains its highest priority. On Thursday, the Centre has told the Delhi High Court that the messaging platform was trying to "force" its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes the law by bombarding them with notifications daily to obtain their consent. "We reiterate that we have already responded to the Government of India and assured them that the privacy of users remains our highest priority, a WhatsApp spokesperson said in an emailed statement. A raging debate had ensued earlier this year after WhatsApp said it will update its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. The Facebook-owned company has insisted that its contentious privacy policy will not limit the functionality of how WhatsApp works in the coming weeks. Instead, we will continue to remind users from time to time about the update as well as when people choose to use relevant optional features, like communicating with a business that is receiving support from Facebook, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson further noted that the recent update does not change the privacy of people's personal messages and that its purpose is to provide additional information about how people can interact with businesses if they choose to do so. We hope this approach reinforces the choice that all users have whether or not they want to interact with a business. We will maintain this approach until at least the forthcoming PDP law comes into effect, the spokesperson said. Terming WhatsApp's bombarding of notifications on its customers as an "anti-user practice" for obtaining "trick consent", the central government on Thursday urged the court to direct the messaging platform to desist from pushing notifications onto its existing users with regard to the new privacy policy. The Centre's claim has been made in an additional affidavit filed in response to several pleas challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. WhatsApp -- which has 53 crore users in India as per the government data -- had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook. Interestingly, the new rules for social media companies have also come into effect from the last month that mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. The rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. The new IT rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc. The Centre had said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
03-06-2021||India||Teachers Eligibility Test certificate validity extended from 7 years to lifetime||The validity of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) qualifying certificates has been extended from seven years to lifetime, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" announced on Thursday. "The government has decided to extend the validity period of the Teachers Eligibility Test qualifying certificates from seven years to lifetime with a retrospective effect from 2011," the minister said in a statement. "The respective state governments and UTs will take necessary action to revalidate and issue fresh TET certificates to those candidates whose period of seven years has already lapsed," he added. Pokhriyal said this will be a positive step to boost employment opportunities for the candidates aspiring to make a career in the field of teaching. "This will be a positive step in increasing the employment opportunities for candidates aspiring to make a career in the teaching field," he said. Possessing the TET qualifying certificate is one of the essential qualifications for a person to be eligible for appointment as a school teacher. The guidelines dated February 11, 2011 of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) laid down that TET would be conducted by the state governments and the validity of the TET certificates was seven years from the date of passing TET.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||India under Modi successfully fought Covid battle, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi successfully fought the battle against COVID-19 and managed to bring disease curve down with the help of 135 crore citizens. "Now, the cases are dipping, the number of patients is decreasing. The oxygen requirement has come down to 3,500 MT from 10,000 MT. This indicates that the COVID-19 curve is going down," Shah said. He also said the speed of India's vaccination drive is the fastest in the world and it will further gain momentum in future to cover maximum number of people in the shortest possible time, as envisioned by the PM. Shah was speaking via video conference after virtually inaugurating nine medical oxygen plants set up at government- run hospitals in different parts of Gujarat. The plants have been set up by an NGO - Vallabh Youth Organisation - at government-run hospitals in Tilakvada, Sagbara, Ahmedabad (Sola civil), Daskroi in Ahmedabad district, Kalavad, Kapadvanj, Bhanwad, Mehsana and Porbandar. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual event from Gandhinagar. Shah said the government succeeded in controlling the spread of the virus and bringing the curve down through collective efforts. "As you might have seen in media (reports), even highly developed countries struggled to tackle the pandemic. On the other side, we fought the battle with patience and planning," he said. He said in other countries, only governments were fighting against the coronavirus. "In India, along with the government, 135 crore citizens also fought this battle under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. This is the reason for our success," said Shah. He paid tributes to all those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus. The minister also thanked frontline workers, doctors, nurses, NGOs and volunteers for helping the people in their hour of need. "Non-governmental organisations helped people in all possible ways. When migrants were going back home (last year), NGOs provided them food, water, shelter and helped them reach their destinations. The government could not have done it all alone," he said. As the new COVID-19 cases (per day) are coming down, Shah said the demand for medical oxygen is also decreasing. As against the daily demand of 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen in the country earlier, the demand suddenly shot up to 10,000 MT during the second wave of COVID-19, he said. Currently, the demand stands at 3,500 MT, he added. The Centre pressed into service trains and defence aircraft to transport medical oxygen and cryogenic tankers across the country to save the lives of COVID-19 patients when the demand for the life-saving gas was very high, he noted. "While 15,000 MT of oxygen was transported through trains, cryogenic tankers for oxygen storage were transported using Army aircraft," he said. Shah further said that while 162 PSA oxygen plants were approved under the PM Cares Fund after the first wave of COVID-19, another 1,051 were approved this year. Centre purchased one lakh oxygen concentrators through the PM Cares Fund, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||WhatsApp forcing users to consent to new privacy policy, claims Centre||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that social messaging platform WhatsApp was trying to "force" its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection Bill becomes the law by bombarding them with notifications daily to obtain their consent. Terming WhatsApp's bombarding of notifications on its customers as an "anti-user practice" for obtaining "trick consent", the central government has urged the court to direct the messaging platform to desist from pushing notifications onto its existing users with regard to the new privacy policy. The Centre's claim has been made in an additional affidavit filed in response to several pleas challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. One of the pleas, which was the first one to be filed, was moved by Chaitanya Rohilla, a lawyer, in January this year. Rohilla, represented by advocate Manohar Lal, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users' right to privacy under the Constitution and they can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government. In its additional affidavit, which supports the petitioners claims, the Centre has said the privacy policy violates the rules as it fails to specify types of sensitive personal data being collected and also fails to notify users about details of the sensitive personal information which is collected. Besides, the policy also does not provide an option to users to review or amend the information, does not provide an option to withdraw consent retrospectively and also fails to guarantee further nondisclosure by third parties, the affidavit has said. It has also stated that WhatsApp was "indulging in anti-users practices by obtaining 'trick consent' from the users for its updated privacy policy". "It is submitted that millions of WhatsApp existing users, those who have not accepted the updated 2021 privacy policy are being bombarded with notifications on an everyday basis," it has said. The government has said that WhatsApp "has unleashed its digital prowess to the unsuspecting existing users and would like to force them to accept the updated 2021 privacy policy by flashing such notifications at a regular intervals". "The game plan is very clear, i.e., to transfer the entire existing user base committed to the updated 2021 privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes the law," the government has said in its affidavit. The government has sought directions to WhatsApp to place on record the number of times such notifications have been sent out till date on daily basis and what was the conversion rate -- that is how many have accepted the updated 2021 privacy policy vis-a-vis the number of notifications. The central government has further said that WhatsApp "is currently having access to personal, sensitive and business data of hundreds of millions of Indian users and has also acquired role of an 'essential digital service' during Covid-19 pandemic", and thus, it was imperative that it privacy policy and terms of service "should be examined on the touchstone of privacy principles as laid down in K S Puttaswamy" judgement of the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||Centre to procure 30 crore doses of second made-in-India vaccine||The Union Health Ministry has finalised arrangements with Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Biological-E to reserve 30 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses for which it will be making an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore. These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by Biological-E from August to December this year, a ministry statement said on Thursday. The Covid-19 vaccine of Biological-E is currently undergoing phase-3 clinical trials after showing promising results in phase 1 and 2 trials. The vaccine being developed by Biological-E is a RBD protein sub-unit vaccine and is likely to be available in the next few months. The proposal of Biological-E was examined and recommended for approval after due diligence by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), the statement said. The arrangement with Biological-E is part of the wider endeavour of the Centre to encourage indigenous vaccine manufacturers by providing them support in research and development and also financial support, it said. The Biological-E Covid vaccine candidate has been supported by the Centre from preclinical stage to phase-3 studies. The Department of Biotechnology has not only provided financial assistance in terms of grant-in-aid of over Rs 100 crore but has also partnered with Biological-E to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies through its Research Institute Translational Health Science Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad. This has been undertaken as part of the government's 'Mission Covid Suraksha, the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission,' which was launched to reinforce and accelerate Covid-19 vaccine development efforts as part of the third stimulus package, Atmanirbhar 3.0, the statement said. The mission aims to bring to the citizens a safe, efficacious, affordable and accessible Covid-19 vaccine. The mission is supporting development of 5-6 Covid-19 vaccine candidates. Some of these are now closer to licensure and introduction in public health systems. It has not just accelerated Covid-19 vaccine development efforts, but also fostered a robust end-to-end vaccine development ecosystem in the country that will be available for other ongoing and future research and developmental activities for other vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||Serum seeks DCGI nod to manufacture Sputnik V in India||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in the country, sources said on Thursday. The Pune-based firm has also sought approval for test analysis and examination. Russia's Sputnik V vaccine is currently being manufactured in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories. "The Serum Institute of India (SII) put up an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Wednesday seeking permission to manufacture the Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in India," a source said. The SII has already told the government that it will be able to manufacture and supply 10 crore Covishield doses in June, while it is also manufacturing the Novavax vaccine, the regulatory clearance for which is awaited from the United States. The vaccine was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the DCGI in April. A consignment of 30 lakh doses of Sputnik V landed in Hyderabad on Tuesday. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is currently in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V in India. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. Dr Reddys, which had earlier received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||SC happy with govt's decision to cancel board exams||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that it is happy to note that the government has taken a decision to cancel the class 12 board exams, and directed the CBSE and CICSE to place on record objective criteria for assessment of marks in two weeks. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked Attorney General K K Venugopal and advocate JK Das, appearing for the CISCE to place on record the parameters in two weeks. "We are happy to note that government has taken decision to cancel class 12 board exams but we want that the objective criteria fixed for assessment of marks be placed before us," the bench said. The bench clarified that it will not give more time for placement of objective criteria as many students will be taking admissions in colleges in India and abroad. The top court said that it will go through the objective parameters for assessment of marks, so that if any one has any objections it can be dealt with. This is equally important as the relief sought by the petitioners seeking cancellation of board exams, the bench observed. The government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the COVID-19 pandemic with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and that the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||India logs over 1.34 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,887 casualties in a day||With 1,34,154 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 2,84,41,986 out of which 2,63,90,584 people have recuperated, while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 6.21 per cent, the health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 3,37,989 with 2,887 more people succumbing to it, while the number of active COVID-19 cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. Also, 21,59,873 tests were conducted on Wednesday to detect COVID-19, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 35,37,82,648, while the daily positivity was recorded at 6.21 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 10 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 7.66 per cent. The number of active cases has reduced to 17,13,413, accounting for 6.02 per cent of the total number of cases, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.79 per cent. A net decline of 80,232 cases was recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. Recoveries continued to outnumber the fresh cases for the 21st day in a row. While the case fatality rate has gone up to 1.19 per cent, the data showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 this year. The 2,887 fresh fatalities include 553 from Maharashtra, 483 from Tamil Nadu, 463 from Karnataka, 213 from Kerala, 135 from West Bengal, 115 from Uttar Pradesh and 103 from Delhi. The total number of 3,37,989 deaths reported so far in the country includes 96,751 from Maharashtra, 30,017 from Karnataka, 25,205 from Tamil Nadu, 24,402 from Delhi, 20,787 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,813 from West Bengal, 14,748 from Punjab and 13,117 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Vinod Dua for sedition over his YouTube show||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a sedition case against veteran scribe Vinod Dua for his alleged comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his YouTube show last year, saying a 1962 verdict entitles every journalist to protection. A bench comprising Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran, however, declined the prayer of Dua that no FIR should be registered against any media personnel with 10 years' experience unless cleared by a committee, saying it would amount to an encroachment into the domain of the executive. On the issue of protection of freedom of speech and expression of media personnel, it said, Every journalist is entitled to protection under the Kedar Nath Singh judgment (the famous verdict of 1962 on the scope and ambit of offence of sedition in the IPC)." While upholding validity of section 124A (sedition) of the IPC, the top court in 1962 had ruled the sedition charges could not be invoked against a citizen for criticism of government actions as it would be in conformity with the freedom of speech and expression. The bench on October 6 last year had reserved the verdict on the petition after hearing arguments for Dua, the Himachal Pradesh government and the complainant, a local BJP leader, in the case. On July 20 last year, the top court had extended till further orders the protection granted to Dua from any coercive action in the case. The top court had earlier said that Dua need not answer any other supplementary questions asked by the Himachal Pradesh police in connection with the case. An FIR against Dua under provisions of the Indian Penal Code for alleged offences of sedition, public nuisance, printing defamatory materials and public mischief was lodged by BJP leader Shyam at Kumarsain police station in Shimla district on May 6 last year and the journalist was asked to join the probe. Shyam has alleged that Dua, in his YouTube show, had made certain allegations against the prime minister. Earlier, in an unprecedented hearing conducted on a Sunday on June 14 last year, the top court had granted protection from arrest to Dua till further orders. However, it had refused to stay the ongoing probe against him. Besides seeking quashing of the FIR, Dua, in the plea, has sought "exemplary damages" for "harassment". He has also sought direction from the apex court that "henceforth FIRs against persons belonging to the media with at least 10 years' standing be not registered unless cleared by a committee to be constituted by every state government, the composition of which should comprise of the Chief Justice of the High Court or a judge designated by him, the leader of the Opposition and the Home Minister of the State." Dua has said freedom of the press is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The plea has said the top court has been "emphasising for distancing the police from the ruling party in the state" but "none of the major political parties which are in power in various states are ready to give up their control over the police". "There is a recent trend against the media where state governments which do not find a particular telecast to be in sync with their political ideologies register FIRs against persons of the media primarily to harass them and to intimidate them so that they succumb to the line of the state or else face the music at the hands of the police," the plea has claimed. It claimed there is a concerted approach of authorities "to silence the media which is not palatable to them". It alleged that the FIR registered against Dua is "politically motivated" and is "purely to settle scores for critically evaluating the functioning of the central government at the present time of Covid".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi denied bail by Dominica magistrate||A Dominica magistrate has denied bail to absconding diamond tycoon Mehul Choksi, who was arrested on May 23 for alleged illegal entry to the Caribbean island country, the local media reported. Choksi, wanted here in connection with a Rs 13,500-crore fraud in the Punjab National Bank (PNB), pleaded before the magistrate that he was abducted and forcibly brought to Dominica from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, about 100 nautical miles away, Dominica News Online reported. The 62-year-old wheelchair-bound diamantaire, who has a pending Interpol Red Corner Notice (RCN) against him, arrived before the presiding Roseau Magistrate Court in a black pair of shorts and a blue T-shirt from the Dominica China Friendship Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. The Dominica High Court, which was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Choksi, had ordered him to be presented before the magistrate to face charges of illegal entry. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. "Our stand that Mehul Choksi is in illegal detention as he was required to be produced within 72 hours before the magistrate and was not so produced has been vindicated. In order to remedy this, he has been asked to be produced before the magistrate. This establishes the illegal detention of Choksi as pleaded by the defence. Contrary to numerous media reports, there was no discussion regarding the Government of India," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said here. During the hearing before Magistrate Candia Carrette-George, the Dominica prosecution cited two main arguments to keep Choksi under detention -- theN against him and the ongoing extradition proceedings in the courts of Antigua and Barbuda, where he is staying since 2018 after leaving India. Prosecutor Sherma Dalrymple told the court that Choksi is a "flight risk" and does not have any ties in Dominica that prevent him from fleeing the country if bail is granted. Defence counsel Wayne Norde said Choksi was not a flight risk considering his health and the pending extradition proceedings in Antigua and Barbuda were also a reason for him not to leave Dominica. Offering to pay a bail amount of ECD 10,000, double the fine amount for illegal entry to Dominica, Norde said Choksi did not have any criminal case in Antigua and Barbuda and the proceedings against him were civil in nature, which shows that he is a a man of good character. The lawyer said the new bail act says a defendant is entitled to the relief as a right unless the offence is of a serious nature. In her order, the magistrate said considering the "severity" of the matter, she is not convinced that Choksi will stay in the country to face legal proceedings and adjourned the matter till June 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||Covid: Trial and test waiver for foreign vaccines ||India has waived clinical trials and batch-by-batch testing on foreign Covid-19 vaccines approved by select foreign regulatory authorities, easing the possible entry of vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and a vaccine from China into the country. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has said it would waive the requirements of post-approval bridging clinical trials and testing of every batch of Covid-19 vaccines already approved by authorities in the US, UK, Europe, Japan and the World Health Organisation. In an order issued on Tuesday, the CDSCO said the waiver decision had been taken “in the light of the huge vaccination requirements in India … and the need for increased availability of imported vaccines to meet the national needs”. The order amends an April 15 decision by the CDSCO to grant restricted emergency use approval to foreign vaccines approved by select regulatory authorities but on the condition that the companies would post-approval conduct bridging clinical trials within 30 days. The CDSCO had also said that the first 100 recipients of such imported vaccines would be assessed for safety for seven days before such vaccines are rolled out into the vaccination campaign. The CDSCO’s June 1 order retains the condition that require safety observations on the first 100 recipients but has exempted such imported vaccines from bridging clinical trials and from the need to test every batch at India’s Central Drugs Laboratory. Health officials have asserted that the Indian government has been in talks with Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, but the companies are unable to immediately supply their vaccines to India because they are supplying to other countries that had signed advance purchase pacts. Pfizer has indicated that it can supply 50 million doses to India in 2021 but will deal only with the central government. The company has also asked for indemnification from the Centre just as it had sought from the governments of over 100 other countries, including the US. The CDSCO waiver would in principle allow China’s Sinovac vaccine to enter the country as the vaccine received emergency use listing approval from the World Health Organisation on Tuesday. Public health experts have welcomed the waiver but some said it is belated. “This decision should have been taken over six months ago when it was clear that India would need imported vaccines,” said a public health specialist who requested anonymity. “We’re learning late, learning the hard way.” Pfizer had earlier this year sought emergency use approval for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country and had offered to provide logistical support for the vaccine’s transportation that requires temperatures lower than those demanded by Covishield and Covaxin — the current vaccines used in India. But a CDSCO expert panel had denied the approval in February amid what many health experts, including at least two members of India’s Covid-19 national task force, believe was high emphasis on domestically-produced vaccines. One top government medical researcher in early January had described Covishield — the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute — as “make in India” and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech as “made in India” vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
03-06-2021||India||Covid: A range of data suggests uncertain recovery for economy as jobs are lost in pandemic||Expectations for India’s economic growth are being revised sharply lower as a surge in people losing jobs and defaulting on debt suggest a more uncertain recovery from the financial shock of the Covid-19 pandemic. Economists are downgrading their estimates as a range of data from the rate of cheques bouncing to the amount of mortgaged gold jewellery up for sale — shows the extent of the economic damage from a devastating second wave of the disease. Some observers also fear the psychological blow from the virus disaster that ripped through India this year killing tens of thousands of people will leave consumers reluctant to spend. The Indian government is sticking with a forecast that the economy will grow 10.5 per cent in the fiscal year that started on April 1, but on Tuesday the State Bank of India — the country’s largest lender — slashed its growth forecast to 7.9 per cent from 10.4 per cent. Several international banks such as Barclays and UBS have also cut back their predictions. After a -7.3 per cent contraction in 2020-21 — the sharpest ever recorded by India — the relatively muted recovery puts India at odds with countries like the US and China that are seeing a swift rebound as they emerge from the pandemic. It suggests deeper damage has been done to an economy worth around $2.9 trillion before the crisis hit. The knock-on effects of sub-par growth on a rapidly developing economy like India could be significant. “GDP growth of less than 10 per cent will be a — I won’t use the word disaster, but it will not be very beautiful,” SBI’s chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh told Reuters after lowering his forecast. The situation has exacerbated unemployment that touched a 12-month high of 11.9 per cent in May from 7.97 per cent in April, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. Rural unemployment that normally hovers around 6-7 per cent also hit double digit levels in May, according to the privately owned firm. Last year, India announced a $266 billion package to support the economy during a strict nationwide lockdown to contain the first coronavirus wave. But this was largely liquidity support given to banks to boost company credit, with less than a tenth of the sum used for welfare programmes for the poorest in the country. India did not launch job support schemes on the scale of those seen in some developed economies and the government has not announced a major stimulus package since the second wave hit. Surging unemployment coupled with state lockdowns, a large increase in hospitalisations and fatalities amid the second wave and fear of a third wave, are prompting many people to cut spending. Sales of goods including grocery, footwear, apparel and beauty products fell 49 per cent in April, according to the Retail Association of India, whose head Kumar Rajagopalan anticipates a bigger decline in May. Meanwhile, sales of cars and motorcycles fell 30 per cent in April over March and are expected to slump by over 60 per cent in May as automakers including Maruti Suzuki and Hero MotoCorp halted production for several days amid rising infections. Dealerships remain closed. While car sales bounced back after the first wave last year it was not on a scale seen elsewhere and the recovery was brief. In many other economies demand for big-ticket purchases soared when pent-up demand was released, with new car sales in Europe jumping 256 per cent year-on-year in April. Shashank Srivastava, executive director at Maruti Suzuki, India’s biggest carmaker, pointed to a deep psychological impact from the second virus wave as the surge in deaths and hospitalisations caused distress and fear among people. “Cars are a discretionary purchase that require people to be in a good frame of mind,” he said. One of India’s largest gold-financing companies, Manappuram Finance, auctioned gold worth about $55 million in the January-March quarter compared with $1.1 million in the preceding three quarters combined. The sales are being driven by rising defaults on mortgages secured on families’ gold jewellery which is typically passed on from generation to generation, a sign of long-term economic stress, experts say. Another warning sign is a rise in cheque bounces, which typically occur when there are insufficient funds in an individual’s account to meet deductions for loan payments or settlement of credit card bills. In May, the cheque bounce rate for loan payments doubled to 21 per cent from a year ago, while for credit cards it rose to 18 per cent from 10 per cent, according to data from Creditas Solutions, a fintech company involved in digital loan collections and recoveries. HDFC Bank, the country’s largest private bank, warned of further delinquencies in the coming months in the retail segment, which includes loans given to individuals for personal use. Highlighting the level of uncertainty in the financial sector, HDFC Bank’s CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan said on an investor call that for the “first time in so many years we may not have a grip of what is happening”. According to a survey conducted by Indian polling agency CVOTER, living standards of a large number of people have sharply fallen and most people do not see “any ray of hope in the coming 12 months”. CVOTER’s head Yashwant Deshmukh told Reuters people are going to hold back on buying a plethora of goods including cars and instead spend on insurance products and online skill development courses to make themselves more employable. “Nobody’s going to splurge,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Payoff scandal in Kerala, southern state BJP chief silent||Female voice: “She said she had taken some money from some people when we were with the CPM. So they might create problems if she comes (to the NDA) without returning that money. That’s why she (now) wants Rs 10 lakh. “I have no role in this. If that can be given, she will be present at Amit Shah’s programme on the seventh…. So you can give the cash directly to her….” Male voice: “We can give it when she comes in person on the seventh.” Female voice: “She said it would be better if you could give it before that.” Male voice: “Let her come on the sixth, I shall give it. A money deal during election time — it’s not possible to carry it out.” If Union home minister and BJP leader Amit Shah does not order a probe into the content of the leaked phone conversation in which his name is mentioned and clear the air immediately, it will gift his opponents a chance to claim that this is the “toolkit” fine-tuned by his party to whip up favourable optics ahead of elections in states. Consider the information and versions available so far: ○ Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) in Kerala, has acknowledged that the female voice in the leaked audio conversation in Malayalam is hers. ○ Praseetha said on Wednesday she was referring to C.K. Janu, one of the most popular Adivasi rights leaders in Kerala before she became an ideology-agnostic player adept at choosing fair-weather political friends. On Wednesday, Janu, who has been suspended from the JRP that she had founded, denied any payoff and contested Praseetha’s claims. ○ Praseetha said the person she was speaking to over the phone was K. Surendran, president of the Kerala BJP. Usually never at a loss for words, Surendran had neither denied nor confirmed Praseetha’s charge till 10pm on Wednesday, by when several hours had passed since the audiotape hit the air waves. The state unit of the BJP is apparently ordering an “internal” probe. ○ On March 7 (presumably the “seventh” in the phone conversation), Union home minister Shah visited the Kerala capital to address the valedictory function of Surendran’s Vijay Yatra, an event organised in the run-up to the Assembly elections that took place almost a month later. Janu was present on the dais and Surendran, the state BJP chief, introduced her, a BJP video of the event shows. Such pre-poll yatras are a familiar fixture in Kerala, intended at galvanising the rank and file and showcasing recent converts. The issue goes far beyond Kerala because the BJP had been relying on a tactic of parading a galaxy of turncoats in most states, including Bengal, to create an impression, especially among parachute journalists, that the party enjoys a groundswell of support. In Bengal, the BJP had adopted such a “parade-and-pulverise” plan that gave some traction in the national media for Shah’s 200-plus boast although the party ended up as a distant runner-up in the eastern state. A longer version of the purported conversation (translated version reproduced at the end of this report) between Praseetha and Surendran suggests the initial amount demanded was Rs 10 crore, which was subsequently lowered to Rs 10 lakh and other benefits, for Janu to return to the NDA and share the platform with Shah. Formed in 2016, the JRP had in 2019 dumped the NDA for the Left Democratic Front but returned to the BJP fold ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls this year. The BJP drew a blank in the latest state elections. The payoff controversy could not have come at a worse time for the demoralised BJP that is already battling charges and bitter internal feuding in a money-laundering case in Kerala. On Wednesday, as Surendran remained silent, BJP veteran P.P. Mukundan said the “guilty must be punished”. “The party will conduct an internal investigation. Talks are on with the leaders concerned,” Mukundan told a TV channel in the evening. JRP treasurer Praseetha’s remarks came on Wednesday after the audio clip was leaked, reportedly by a faction in her party. Praseetha told reporters that the phone conversation had taken place ahead of the JRP’s return to the NDA on March 7 and that the money transaction took place at a hotel in Thiruvananthapuram. “She (Janu) demanded that money (Rs 10 crore). But Surendran was not ready to accept it (the demand). She then softened her stand by seeking some money in exchange for supporting the BJP,” Praseetha said. In the audio clip, the female voice seems to make a pitch for some money for herself: “Then I need to say something about myself. I have been running around for this for so many days. I don’t have any money left.” On Wednesday, Praseetha told a TV channel she did not ask for anything for herself but for the party. Janu had contested as an NDA candidate from Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad, losing to her Congress rival. The JRP last week suspended her from the party for six months for allegedly trading votes. The NDA had polled about 15,000 fewer votes in Sulthan Bathery compared with its 2016 tally. Janu denied the payoff charge. “I wouldn’t need an intermediary like Praseetha if I really wanted to have a monetary deal with Surendran,” she told a TV channel on Tuesday. “I have good relations with everyone in Kerala; I even have connections with Union minister Amit Shah. Why should I go through an intermediary when I have such connections?” The audio clip The audio begins with a female voice saying: “We know that you can’t agree to the Rs 10 crore she had asked for.” Male voice: “So what is she saying now?” Female voice: “She said she had taken some money from some people when we were with the CPM. So they might create problems if she comes (to the NDA) without returning that money. That’s why she (now) wants Rs 10 lakh. “I have no role in this. If that can be given, she will be present at Amit Shah’s programme on the seventh (understood to be March 7). That apart she wants the (Sultan) Bathery seat for herself. We don’t need any other seats. Then the post (not clear what post) you spoke about… after the election. So you can give the cash directly to her. “Then I need to say something about myself. I have been running around for this for so many days. I don’t have any money left.” Male voice: “Speak on, speak on, don’t waste time.” Female voice: “So you should give us some more money because this is for party work, not for personal use.” Male voice: “Understood. How and where?” Female voice: “Sirji, you can say where we should come.” Male voice: “We can give it when she comes in person on the seventh.” Female voice: “She said it would be better if you could give it before that.” Male voice: “Let her come on the sixth, I shall give it. A money deal during election time — it’s not possible to carry it out.” (This seems an allusion to the stringent checks on carrying cash during election time.) The female voice says she plans to call a news conference on the sixth, presumably to announce the shift to the NDA. Male voice: “Come on the sixth morning, I shall give the money. You can come to Thiruvananthapuram on the sixth and can stay there for a day. We will all be in Thiruvananthapuram on the sixth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Centre’s amendment to pension rules is a ‘gag’ on security officials||The Centre’s latest amendment to the pension rules for officials who had worked for the intelligence or security establishment is a “gag order” aimed at pre-empting criticism and dissent, several retired IPS officers and security officials have told The Telegraph. Under the amended rules, notified on Monday, no government servant who has worked in intelligence or security can publish anything related to these organisations after retirement without permission. They will now have to sign such an undertaking on retirement, and failure to comply can lead to pension being withheld or withdrawn. The amendment is likely to impact retired police chiefs and officials of security-related organisations who regularly write columns for newspapers or news portals, pen their memoirs or write books on their former organisations. A former Intelligence Bureau director, who requested anonymity, told this newspaper: “The rules have been amended only to control the narrative and any expression of dissent. This is nothing but a clear attempt to browbeat retired IPS officials not to express views contrary to government policy.” Others who spoke to this newspaper too were unwilling to go on record. A former director-general of Uttar Pradesh police said the amendment was meant to create a sense of fear among retired officials from security organisations. “Several of them appear on TV to express their opinions on government policies and write newspaper columns defending the founding principles of the republic,” he said. The former DG said: “The Centre wants to crush any dissent. By amending the rules the government has sent a warning to its critics.” The May 31 gazette notification says that “no government servant who has worked in any intelligence or security-related organisation included in the Second Schedule of the Right to Information Act, 2005, shall, without prior clearance from the head of the organisation, make any publication after retirement of any material relating to and including domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organisation”. It forbids officials from sharing sensitive information “the disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, or relation with a foreign State or which would lead to incitement of an offence”. Among the 18 organisations covered by the new rules are the Research and Analysis Wing, Intelligence Bureau, Enforcement Directorate, Central Bureau of Investigation, Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force and the National Security Guard. A former BSF director-general said the amendment was a “gag order”. He said the UPA government had in 2008 asked retired officers to seek permission from the heads of their departments before publishing material “the disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India”. “The new rule has widened the scope to any information whatsoever. Now you cannot write anything,” he said. The 2008 rule was not tied to pensions, either. Monday’s gazette notification was issued by the department of personnel and training, which reports to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Wednesday, government sources issued a semi-official clarification, alleging a wrong and misleading narrative was being created around the amended rules. They said the amendment was aimed at removing any confusion about the existing restrictions. “The intention is always to safeguard national interest. In the past, a few intelligence and government officials, who have worked in intelligence or security-related organisations, have publicly expressed themselves, by means of writing or speaking, revealing specific knowledge and sensitive information gained by virtue of having worked in that organisation,” the clarification said. “In order to bring clarity, these rules were issued. By no means do these rules deny any such former official from expressing his/ her views. In fact, it makes it easier for them to do so, given that they can now contact the head of their former employer organisation and seek clarification on whether the proposed material is sensitive or non-sensitive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Justice Arun Kumar Mishra takes charge as chairperson of National Human Rights Commission||Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, who retired last year as Supreme Court judge, took charge on Wednesday as the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Justice Mishra, a judge known for his hard work who had retired from the Supreme Court on September 2 last year, had hit the headlines earlier when he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a “versatile genius, who thinks globally and acts locally”. The chairperson and members of the NHRC are appointed by the President on the basis of the recommendations of a committee headed by the Prime Minister. The committee’s other members are the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, the Union home minister, the leaders of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. Under the original 1993 Human Rights Act, the chairperson has to be a former Chief Justice of India. However, in July 2019, the act was amended by inserting in Section 3 a sub clause 2(i) that used the expression “Chief Justice of India or a judge…” in the context of appointment as the chairperson. Until now, only acting chairpersons had been non-CJIs. Under Section 4(i) of the amended legislation, the original five-year tenure of the chairperson was reduced to three years or until the incumbent reached the age of 70, whichever was earlier. After the amendment, this is the first time that a judge of the Supreme Court is being appointed chairperson of the commission, following the superannuation of the incumbent chairperson, Justice H.L. Dattu, former Chief Justice of India. Justice Mishra, while extending his vote of thanks at a global jurists’ conference in the capital on February 23, 2020, had praised Modi effusively. The serving judge had complimented Modi and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for doing away with 1,500 obsolete laws. Justice Mishra had said that India had been a responsible and most friendly member of the international community under the “stewardship” of Modi. The comments did not go down well with the Bar. The then Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president, Dushyant Dave, had said the comments were unbecoming of the judiciary. Dave, in turn, faced the wrath of a section of the SCBA with some members convening a meeting on May 11 to try and remove Dave from his post of president and from the SCBA’s primary membership over his critical remarks against Justice Mishra. However, Dave managed to checkmate his detractor and critic Ashok Arora by removing the latter as SCBA secretary. Justice Mishra had handled several high-profile cases since his elevation to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014, from Calcutta High Court where he was the Chief Justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid-19: SC raises serious doubts about govt’s 'liberalised' jab policy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday raised “serious doubts” about the Narendra Modi government’s “liberalised” vaccine policy of “fixing higher prices as a competitive measure” and said it’s the responsibility of the Centre and not the states to provide free vaccination. If the Centre’s bulk buying of Covid vaccines is why it’s charged a lower price than the states and private hospitals, it’s all the more reason the Union government should use its “unique” position as a “monopolistic buyer” to procure all the doses and provide them free to all Indians, the court said. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said the Centre’s policy of allowing vaccine manufacturers to charge the states higher rates violated the fundamental right to equality, as did its policy of providing free vaccination only to those aged 45 and above. The court underlined that this year’s annual budget had set aside Rs 35,000 crore exclusively for vaccine procurement. “The central government is directed to clarify how these funds have been spent so far and why they cannot be utilised for vaccinating persons aged 18-44 years,” the court said. If the states are forced to provide free vaccines by spending their own money, it would affect their development schemes and efforts to improve their health infrastructure, the bench said. The court’s rebuke comes at a time several states, including Bengal, have demanded that the Centre provide free vaccination to all and underlined the country’s policy of free universal immunisation since Independence. The Centre is buying — at Rs 150 a dose — half the vaccines produced in India and providing these free to the states to inoculate those aged 45 or above free of cost at government facilities. The rest is to be bought by the states and private hospitals themselves directly from the vaccine makers. The states are charged Rs 300 per Covishield dose and Rs 400 per Covaxin dose while the private hospitals pay Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,250 for Covaxin. Some state governments are nevertheless offering free vaccines also to those aged between 18 and 45 at their facilities while everybody has to pay for the jabs at private hospitals. The court questioned the Centre’s argument that having the states and private hospitals buy half the vaccines would “attract more private manufacturers that could eventually drive down prices”, highlighting that the Union government had pre-fixed the prices. “Prima facie, the only room for negotiation with the two vaccine manufacturers was on price and quantity, both of which have been pre-fixed by the central government,” the bench said. “This casts serious doubts on UoI’s (Union of India’s) justification for enabling higher prices as a competitive measure. Furthermore, the central government justifying its lower prices on account of its ability to place large purchase orders for vaccines raises the issue as to why this rationale is not being employed for acquiring 100 per cent of the monthly doses.” Risk query The court rejected the argument that the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech (BBIL) — the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin, respectively — deserved to charge higher prices to the states because they had borne the risk of manufacturing the vaccines with their own money. The bench stressed that this year’s budget had earmarked Rs 46 crore as initial payment to the two manufacturers under the private-public partnership model. “Since the central government has financed (officially, Rs 35 crore to BBIL and Rs 11 crore to SII for phase 3 clinical trials) and facilitated the production (or augmentation of production) of these vaccines through concessions or otherwise, it may not be accurate to state that the private entities have alone borne the risk and cost of manufacture,” the bench said. “Additionally, the central government would have minimised the risks of the manufacturers by granting emergency use authorisation to the vaccines, which should (be) factor(ed) into its pricing.” The court questioned the Centre’s policy of “intervening in pre-fixing procurement prices and quantities for states/ UTs and private hospitals, but not imposing statutory price ceilings”. The bench said the Centre’s policy of ensuring free vaccines at government facilities only for the 45-plus and frontline workers ran counter to the fundamental right to equality guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution. Also, in the context of the Centre “receiving vaccines at a much lower rate from manufacturers, it is important for us to examine the rationality of the existing liberalised vaccination policy against Article 14 of the Constitution, since it could place severe burdens, particularly on states/ UTs (Union Territories) suffering from financial distress”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court query on jabs at doorstep ||Bombay High Court on Wednesday said when Covid-19 vaccination drives are now being held in several housing societies, why can authorities not take a step further and go to the homes of senior citizens, disabled and bedridden people to inoculate them. The court was hearing a PIL filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking a direction to the Union and state governments to start door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled, bedridden and wheelchair-bound people. The petition said such people would not be in a position to step out of their homes and travel to vaccination centres. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni on Wednesday noted that several housing societies are now tying up with private hospitals and holding vaccination drives in the society premises itself. “If this is being done, then you (government and other authorities) can take a step further and go to the homes |of such people (who are not able to go to vaccination centres),” Chief Justice Datta said. The Centre sought further time, following which the court posted the matter for next hearing on June 8. Singh told the high court that by Julyend, the availability of vaccines, both Covishield and Covaxin, will increase. “Currently, there are 90 lakh Covaxin doses available. By the end of July, the number will increase to 5.5 crore. Similarly, the supply of Covishield vaccine will also increase to approximately two crore each month by July,” he said. The court then asked Singh by when does the Union government expect the entire population of the country to be administered the first dose of the Covid19 vaccine. Singh said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said it would be done by December 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid vaccine policy 'arbitrary and irrational': Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday described as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Centre’s policy of leaving adults aged below 45 to pay for their Covid-19 jabs while providing for free vaccination of those aged 45 or above. While the Centre is not bearing the cost of the jabs for those aged between 18 and 45, some state governments are offering them free vaccination at their own expense. The apex court also asked the Centre to explain its preparedness to meet children’s possible needs if there’s a third wave that affects them. It agreed with its amici (friends) — senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora — that the central government’s current vaccination policy was flawed. It highlighted that during the second wave of the pandemic, many people aged between 18 and 45 had not just been infected but suffered severe illness, sometimes leading to death. “Due to the changing nature of the pandemic, we are now faced with a situation where the 18-44 age group also needs to be vaccinated, although priority may be retained between different age groups on a scientific basis,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said. “Hence, due to the importance of vaccinating individuals in the 18-44 age group, the policy of the central government for conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first 2 phases, and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/UT (Union Territory) governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is, prima facie, arbitrary and irrational.” The court agreed with the amici that the states had been left in the lurch because of the Centre’s refusal to procure for them their entire vaccine requirement. It noted that many states and municipal bodies had floated tenders and tried to negotiate with foreign vaccine manufacturers, but largely without success as overseas companies prefer negotiating with Union governments. The bench asked the Centre to provide clarifications on several issues, such as: ⚫ The Centre must place on record a projection of vaccine availability till December 31, and give details of vaccination trials and regulatory approvals. ⚫ The Centre should clarify whether its policy allows the states or local bodies to import vaccines. ⚫ The Centre should provide the number of crematorium workers vaccinated in Phase 1. A targeted drive can be conducted to vaccinate the remaining crematorium workers. ⚫ Reports say some states are vaccinating over-45s with doses they have bought from manufacturers for younger adults, all because of a shortage of supply from the Centre. How will the Centre factor this in while deciding subsequent allocations to the states? ⚫ The Centre must disclose the nature of its intervention with respect to the final, end-user price that is being charged by private hospitals. ⚫ How will the Centre monitor the disbursal of vaccines by private hospitals, specifically those that have pan-India hospital chains? ⚫ Are private hospitals (that are part of interstate chains) bound to administer a quantity of vaccines in a state in proportion to its population? What is the mechanism to ascertain whether private players are indeed administering a state’s quota of vaccines solely to its residents? ⚫ The Centre must place on record any written policy in relation to this: whether it conducted a “means-test” of the demographic of a state or Union Territory to assert that half the population aged between 18 and 45 would be able to afford the vaccine. If not, what is the rationale for private hospitals being provided an equal quota for procurement as the states? ⚫ The Centre must explain the manner in which it and the states will ensure an equitable distribution of vaccines across sections of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Bar Council of India constitutes a committee to evaluate pattern of LLB exams ||The Bar Council of India (BCI) which regulates legal education and lawyers, on Wednesday constituted a 12-member expert committee to evaluate the pattern of LLB exams in view of requests from various quarters. The committee is headed by Justice Govind Mathur, former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court. According to the BCI chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra, the council had initially been against interfering with the present system since earlier guidelines issued by it had been quashed by Karnataka High Court on February 8. However, the BCI said, students of several centres of legal education, including 273 students of law at Delhi University, had sent emails requesting that the LLB intermediate semester exams and promotions be held as per UGC guidelines that recommend 50 per cent weightage to internal assessment and 50 per cent to performance in exams. Also, Prof. Vandana, the dean of the faculty of law at Delhi University, had written to the BCI saying DU had asked her to find out if there were any instructions on LLB exams in the open-book blended (internal assessment and practical exams) mode. The exams are to begin on June 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid: Central universities await admission signal after cancellation of board exams||Central universities are awaiting a decision from the government on the college admission process after the CBSE and the CISCE cancelled this year’s Class XII board exams on Tuesday in view of the pandemic. The Centre is to decide whether to hold two sets of common entrance tests for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The plan for common admission tests is part of the new National Education Policy. However, the education ministry is yet to take a final call. If a common entrance exam is not introduced this year, the colleges and universities will have to fall back on the usual practice of taking in students on the basis of board exam marks. However, there is no clarity yet on how Class XII students will be evaluated this year, now that the board exams have been cancelled. “We will go by the decision of the government on admissions. If a common entrance exam is held, students will be assessed on a common platform and rankings will be transparent. In case it is not held, we will follow our usual selection process based on board marks (for most courses),” said Delhi University registrar Vikash Gupta. DU has about 70 colleges offering undergraduate courses. Students from across the country apply for admission to the DU colleges. The DU admission process usually begins on June 1. Gupta said the process might be delayed this year because of the pandemic but promised that students would not suffer. The subjects will be covered by making up for lost time over the three-year course period, the DU registrar said. For the Class X exams, which too have been cancelled, students will be graded on the basis of internal assessments and school exams, including the pre-board tests. Former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said the universities should take decisions on academic affairs without waiting for the government’s signal. “In recent years, we are seeing that the central government and the UGC have been taking decisions on behalf of central universities. Such a practice is weakening the institutions,” Jha said. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) conducts its own entrance exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. In a statement, vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar has said the exams will be conducted whenever it is safe for the students to appear for them. The exams are to be held at designated centres and will be computer-based. Most universities are likely to hold their end-semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses for award of degrees online. DU has decided to hold online open-book exams (OBE) like last year. The exam is likely to start on June 7. The test pattern will be a bit different this time. While last year students had to answer four out of eight questions, this year they will have to attempt three out of four questions. Other central universities are also planning online exams. “Many students are in favour of online exams. They want their degrees,” said a faculty member of Assam University in Silchar. Academics have suggested that end-semester results can be announced based on the marks of the previous five semesters. However, Prof. Sri Prakash Singh of DU has argued against such a mode. “These students are likely to pursue further studies. They should not face any questions over their degrees,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid: BJP applauds Yogi on managing pandemic 'effectively'||Bodies floating in rivers, corpses buried under riverbeds, crematoriums overflowing, people crying for oxygen and hospital beds, a government twisting the knife into the gaping wound by threatening sufferers into silence, but Yogi Adityanath has managed the pandemic “quite effectively”. The assessment of performance has been made by a central BJP leader who had been sent to Uttar Pradesh to gauge the organisational preparedness before the Assembly elections due early next year. The unequivocal praise from B.L. Santhosh, the BJP national general secretary in charge of organisation, suggested that the party’s top leadership had reposed faith in Hindutva poster boy Adityanath. “In five weeks, @myogiadityanath’s Uttar Pradesh reduced the new daily case count by 93%.… Remember it’s a state with a 20+ crore population. When municipality CMs couldn’t manage a city of 1.5 cr population, Yogiji managed quite effectively,” Santhosh tweeted late on Tuesday night. There was more applause in store for Adityanath. Santhosh tweeted on Wednesday: “UP govt led by CM Sri @myogiadityanath decides to vaccinate parents of children below 12 years. A wise move considering the logic that if at all third wave comes it may affect children more. Parents will be around to look after more safely.” Besides conveniently sweeping under the carpet the glaring evidence of gross mismanagement of the pandemic, Santhosh’s tweets also meant the central leadership had no intention of bringing about a change of leadership in the sprawling heartland state despite widespread discontent among the BJP rank and file over Adityanath’s autocratic ways and the handling of Covid. Santhosh reviewed over two days the Uttar Pradesh government’s and the BJP’s preparedness for the Assembly elections along with former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh, the party’s minder for the state. BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh said that during the meetings held over Monday and Tuesday, Santhosh indirectly made it clear that the party would go to the polls under the leadership of Adityanath and asked everyone to ensure better coordination between the government and the party to win the trust of the people. Ironically, it had been reports of despair and helplessness and widespread criticism of the Adityanath government over its tackling of the pandemic that had apparently prompted the central leadership to rush Santhosh and Singh to Uttar Pradesh for the stock-taking exercise. Several of the BJP’s own ministers and MLAs have been resentful of the administration’s handling of the situation. “What stature do MLAs have? If I speak too much, sedition charges could be slapped on me,” BJP MLA Rakesh Rathore had told reporters in May when asked what he had done to operationalise a trauma centre in his constituency, Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh. Union labour minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, too had written to Adityanath, complaining that officials had been unresponsive to the woes of Covid-affected people. Many other BJP leaders have publicly aired their views on how the state government had been missing in action when Covid cases surged. The certificate of excellence from Santhosh, who is said to enjoy the confidence of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, has glossed over the many apparent failings of Adityanath, the saffron-robed temple mahant known for his vitriolic and communally charged utterances and iron-fisted rule. Attacks on Muslims, who make up over 20 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s population, and their systematic targeting have become a routine affair in the state. The assault has continued even during the pandemic and Muslims fear it could intensify in the run-up to the polls to polarise voters. The administration of Barabanki district recently razed a mosque, terming it an illegal construction despite a court order to keep in abeyance any demolition during the pandemic. A Muslim meat trader was beaten up by a cow vigilante group in Moradabad and a vegetable vendor in Unnao died recently after the police thrashed him. Adityanath, however, appears to have gone from strength to strength within the party. Prime Minister Modi often addresses him as “yashashwi aur lokpriya mukhyamantri (glorious and popular chief minister)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
03-06-2021||India||Covid: No jab, no salary in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district ||The May salaries of state government employees in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district will be withheld if they don’t get at least one dose of coronavirus vaccine in the next three days, the administration has decreed. The anti-Covid vaccination drive is not compulsory anywhere in the country. Charchit Gaur, the chief development officer of the district, told reporters on Wednesday the decision was taken after it was found that many employees were not getting vaccinated. He said district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh had issued an oral order as enough vaccine doses were available in government hospitals. “We noticed that employees of many government departments had not got themselves vaccinated. So the DM ordered that the department heads of Firozabad take action against those employees who were not taking interest in vaccination. The HoDs will ensure that such employees don’t receive their salaries for May till they get the first dose of vaccine,” Gaur said. The employees have been asked to submit proof of vaccination within three days. Gaur said a positive message would be sent across to the society if government employees got themselves inoculated, and people in general would take vaccines in large numbers. An education department employee in the district said his office had received a vaccination notice signed by the district probation officer. “I will go to the nearest vaccination centre on Thursday,” the employee said. Anil Kumar, a block development officer who visited a vaccination centre in Firozabad city on Wednesday, said: “I didn’t take the vaccine earlier because I was on medication for an illness. Today, I am here for the vaccine. I believe our bosses have taken a good decision to make the country corona-free.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
03-06-2021||India||Covid: Congress fires volley of vaccine questions ||The Congress on Wednesday bombarded Prime Minister Narendra Modi with withering questions on vaccines, arguing that failure to plan in advance, a wrong approach and lack of vision had botched up the most critical exercise of fighting the pandemic. Raising a Twitter storm in favour of free universal vaccination, hundreds of Congress leaders posted videos and messages highlighting the shortcomings in the inoculation drive. The issues ranged from the failure to draw up a comprehensive plan to cover a significant section of the population within a reasonable time frame to placing orders for vaccines in time and the deficiencies in the modes of procurement and distribution. The majority of the Congress leaders insisted that it had been a saga of confusion and failures from the very start of the battle against the coronavirus. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the Prime Minister had run away, abdicating his responsibilities as the crisis deepened during the second wave. “We are one of the biggest vaccine manufacturers in the world. Yet only 3.4% of our population is fully vaccinated. Who is responsible for India’s confused and dithering vaccination programme? #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination,” she tweeted. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, wondered what happened to the comprehensive plan that Modi had talked about from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2020. Congress veteran from Uttar Pradesh Pramod Tewari said Modi had done nothing right — from delaying a ban on international flights when Covid cases had been rising across the world to planning the vaccination campaign. Tewari insisted that villagers would not be able to take vaccines if they were not offered free, demanding that the Centre fund the entire exercise. Young leader from Gujarat Hardik Patel pointed out that the Modi government was not realising that vaccinating every citizen was its duty. “(As much as) Rs 1,000 is being charged for one dose in Ahmedabad. This is not the time to make money,” Patel said. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta asked the Prime Minister to spend a portion of the lakhs of crores his government had earned by taxing petroleum products on vaccinating the poor. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India was the only country where states had been made to negotiate with global firms. This proved to be a futile exercise as foreign vaccine manufacturers had refused to deal with the states as their policy allowed them to do business with sovereign governments only. The RSS-BJP ecosystem had tried to blame the Opposition-ruled states for this policy, questionably tying it to the states’ demand for flexibility and decentralisation. Congress leaders, however, said no state had ever sought to directly deal with global firms and buy vaccines with their own money. The Congress said the states had called for consultations with them, apart from flexibility and decentralisation in carrying out the vaccination drive. The leaders said the states were badly stressed for finances due to welfare measures during lockdowns and non-payment of GST dues by the Centre. The Congress politicians argued that vaccination should be free of cost for the citizens. The states undertook the responsibility for free vaccination only after the Modi government asked them to share the burden for people in the 18-44 age group. Shrinate alleged that this was a betrayal of citizens by the central government. “Why are there six rates for vaccines? Which country is carrying out vaccination like this? Why didn’t the government procure vaccines on time? Why didn’t they invoke compulsory licensing to ramp up production? Why didn’t the government approve vaccines by foreign manufacturers?” she asked. Another spokesperson, Ragini Nayak, said: “The RSS always talks of ‘Ek Vidhan-Ek Samidhan (One law-one Constitution). Why didn’t it speak for one-price for vaccines?” Former Gujarat Congress president Arjun Modhwadia recalled how previous governments ran successful vaccination drives against 12 diseases, including small pox, tuberculosis and polio, which resulted in life expectancy rising from 35 to 70 and not even a paisa ever being charged from any citizen. “Modi has introduced a new practice of charging the poor for vaccines. There are different rates — one for the Centre, one for states and one for private hospitals. This has hampered the vaccination drive,” Modhwadia said. Many leaders expressed shock and outrage at the Centre’s decision to allow the two Indian manufacturers to sell vaccines to states at a higher price. They wondered why couldn’t the Centre procure all the vaccines and distribute them among states as they had a better-negotiated price. Many leaders described this as abdication of responsibility and deliberately allowing the manufacturers to indulge in profiteering at a time of unprecedented humanitarian distress. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas wondered where from the private hospitals were getting vaccines when government facilities had to close down because of shortages. He said: “The government has promised to the Supreme Court that the entire population will be vaccinated by December 2021…. The poor have no money to eat. Where from will they pay Rs 1,000 for vaccines? The government should ensure they get vaccinated without registration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
03-06-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre for Covid vaccine data ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre for data on the number of people vaccinated, volume of vaccines procured and ordered, and the timeline for inoculating the remaining population, directing that all relevant “file notings” be attached with the affidavit. It also directed the states and Union Territories to file affidavits explaining their stand on providing free vaccination to their people at the cost of the exchequer. This directive came in the light of the Centre’s argument that its refusal to fund the states’ entire vaccine requirement would not hurt citizens since a large number of states had announced free vaccination anyway. The court, however, clarified that it believed it was the Centre’s responsibility and not the states’ to ensure free vaccination for all Indians. “We direct the UoI (Union of India) to file an affidavit, which shall address the issues and questions raised, wherein it shall ensure that each issue is responded to individually and no issue is missed out,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said. “While filing its affidavit, UoI shall also ensure that copies of all the relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking and culminating in the vaccination policy are also annexed (to) the vaccination policy. Hence, we direct the UoI to file its affidavit within two weeks.” Some of the information the bench sought: ⚫ Data on the percentage of population vaccinated, with one or both doses, so far against the population of eligible people. This should include separate data on the rural and urban populations. ⚫ Complete data on the Centre’s purchase of all the Covid-19 vaccines (Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V). The data should clarify: (a) the dates of all the procurement orders placed by the central government for all three vaccines; (b) the quantity of vaccines ordered on each date; and (c) the projected date of supply and an outline of how and when the Centre seeks to vaccinate the remaining population. ⚫ The steps being taken by the Centre to ensure drug availability for mucormycosis. “We also note that UoI’s stated position in its affidavit dated 9 May 2021 is that every state/UT government shall provide vaccination free of cost to its population,” the bench said. “It is important that individual state/UT governments confirm/deny this position before this court. Further, if they have decided to vaccinate their population for free then, as a matter of principle, it is important that this policy is annexed to their affidavit, so that the population within their territories can be assured of their right to be vaccinated for free at a state vaccination centre. “Hence, we direct each of the state/ UT governments to also file an affidavit within two weeks, where they shall clarify their position and put on record their individual policies.” The next hearing will be on June 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
03-06-2021||India||Covid: Naveen Patnaik seeks cooperation from states’ to reach consensus on jabs||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday sought cooperation from his counterparts in other states to reach a consensus on procurement of Covid-19 vaccines at the central level in view of the challenges being faced by them in direct purchase from manufacturing companies. Odisha had floated a global tender for procurement of vaccines from national and international companies but the response has been lukewarm with leading manufacturers not participating in the bid process. In his letter to other chief ministers, Naveen stressed the need for central purchase of vaccines. He pointed out that there was a great demand from citizens for jabs after the Centre announced the third phase of its vaccination drive, which allowed inoculation of people above 18 years and opened procurement options to state governments and to private sectors. “Many states have floated global tenders for vaccine procurement. However, it is quite clear that the global vaccine manufacturers are looking forward to the Union government for clearances and assurances. They are unwilling to get into supply contracts with the state governments, while the domestic vaccine manufacturers are having supply constraints and are not able to commit required supplies. Under the above circumstances, the best option available is for the Government of India to centrally procure the vaccines and distribute it among the states so that our citizens are vaccinated at the earliest,” said Naveen. He added: “The only way to protect our people against future waves (of the pandemic) and provide them with a hope of survival is vaccination. Countries which have focused on vaccination programmes have seen remarkable improvement in their Covid situation. We have to provide this healing  touch to our people.” Underscoring the need to take up vaccination on a war footing, Naveen said: “No state is safe unless all the states adopt vaccination as the top priority and execute it on war footing. But, this cannot be a battle among the states to compete against each other to procure vaccines.” Naveen also made it clear that the execution of the vaccination programme has to be centralised and states allowed the flexibility to determine their own mechanism to ensure universal vaccination. “Many hilly areas can not access the Internet and therefore online registration has to be flexible. Vulnerable tribes can be given priority by the states,” the chief minister said. He said: “We have written to the Union government in this regard. However, I would respectfully suggest that all the state governments should come to a consensus on this issue for early resolution of this problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
03-06-2021||India||Kharge condemns Modi govt’s refusal to appoint a member of SC, ST, OBC or minority community to NHRC||The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, on Wednesday condemned the Narendra Modi government’s refusal to accept his suggestion to appoint a member of the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Class or minority community to the National Human Rights Commission. Without naming retired Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra who has been chosen the NHRC chairman, Kharge tweeted: “In my letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I had raised concerns regarding the manner in which the NHRC appointments were made. “The BJP government refused to consider any SCs, STs, OBCs or minorities. Further, the appointments smack of partisanship & quid pro quo. I strongly condemn this.” Kharge had said in a statement on May 31 after a meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office where the NHRC chairperson was selected: “I reiterated at today’s meeting my concern over the rise in the cases of atrocities on Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities and proposed that at least one person belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities be recommended for the appointment either to the post of chairperson under Section 3(2)(a) or a member under section 3(2)(c) or a member under Section 3(2)(d) to the National Human Rights Commission from amongst the existing list of candidates.” Kharge had added: “I also pointed out that appointment of the chairperson or a member of the NHRC cannot simply be ignored on the pretext that there is no specific provision to this effect in the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, and amendments made thereto. Obviously, there cannot be any bar to appoint either the chairperson or a member to the NHRC on this ground.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
03-06-2021||West Bengal|| Alapan replies to Centre, says he had to go to survey cyclone-hit Digha||Former chief secretary of Bengal Alapan Bandyopdhayay on Thursday replied to the Centre's show-cause notice served to him under the Disaster Management Act to explain his absence from the cyclone review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 28, an official said. In his reply, Bandyopadhyay said that "as per the directive of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee," he left the meeting for a review of Cyclone Yaas-ravaged Digha, a popular sea resort town in Purba Medinipur district, according to the highly-placed official in the secretariat. Bandyopadhyay was set to retire as the chief secretary on May 31, but the state recently sought and received permission for an extension of his tenure for three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the Centre, shortly after a row broke out over the prime minister's post-cyclone review meeting at Kalaikunda airbase, which the CM and state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire and was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser for the next three years. Mamata, along with the chief secretary, met the prime minister for around 15 minutes at Kalaikunda and left after handing over a report on the devastation caused by the cyclone in the state. Her decision to not stay and attend the meeting was partly linked to the presence of her former aide-turned-BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari at the meeting as Leader of Opposition. The CM has since reiterated that she had other meetings to attend and left only with the Prime Minister's permission. The Union Home Ministry then served the show-cause notice to Bandyopadhyay on May 31 under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment up to two years. The notice accused him of making PM Modi and other members of his entourage wait for nearly 15 minutes. "In view of the absence, the Chief Secretary (Mr Bandyopadhay) was called by an official as to whether they wanted to participate in the review meeting or not. Thereafter, Chief Secretary arrived along with Chief Minister of West Bengal inside the meeting room and left thereafter immediately," the Centre noted. Government sources defended its actions on Tuesday, saying the Chief Secretary, as an All India Services officer, "chose to ignore his constitutional duties", NDTV reported. Government sources said his retirement showed that Mamata was on the backfoot. "She knows that facts of the matter are against the Chief Secretary and his behaviour was such that it will invite strict disciplinary action... All India officers are not expected to be part of politics. Mamata knows all this and his retirement is a last bid to save him," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata eases curbs, appeals to industry to fund vaccine drive||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee relaxed some of the Covid restrictions imposed across the state on Thursday and held out the promise of more in the coming fortnight, but her announcement raised concerns whether Bengal was opening up too soon when a deadly summer had already claimed around 5,000 lives between April and June. Retail shops, which were allowed to remain open between 12pm-3pm, will now get an extra hour and close at 4pm. On an appeal from the IT sector, Mamata granted it permission for double shifts with 10 per cent staff. “You can run your offices from 8am till 12 noon and the next shift till 5pm,” she said at a meeting held at Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters. “To keep the chain broken, it is important that the restrictions on social interactions remain. We have just gone below the 50 per cent mark since the highest number of cases about a month ago. Third wave has already started in South Africa. Since our vaccination rate is extremely low, it is important that people stay indoor for a some more time,” said a critical care expert in a South Calcutta hospital. The government has also decided to allow restaurants to stay open between 5pm to 8pm on the condition that all employees are vaccinated following an appeal from Suresh Poddar, the president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India. Poddar had shared the concerns of  the restaurant industry’s plummeting income and threats to livelihood of those involved. When the chief minister told him about online operations, Poddar said, “Online sales amount to two to five per cent of our sales. That is not enough to run the business,” he said. After June 16, the last day of the exisiting restrictions, the chief minister indicated that the state government might allow opening of shopping malls with limits on the number of staff and operational hours. Between Monday and Wednesday, Bengal has seen a steady decline in the number of new cases which fell to below 10,000 for the first time since April after the restrictions were imposed. On Monday, the number of new cases was 11,514 which fell to 9,424 and 8,923 on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. While the Covid figures are encouraging for the state government, the same cannot be said about its finances. The chief minister was heard telling representatives of various industries and chambers of commerce to donate to the chief minister's relief fund, which would be utilised for procuring vaccines. “You give funds to the chief minister’s relief fund, we will get the vaccines,” said Mamata. Later, during the meeting, she told  business representatives that if they could get the vaccines, then the state government would make arrangements for administering the doses. During the Assembly elections, Mamata had promised free vaccines for everyone above 18 in Bengal though the programme was later deferred. Bengal’s population is around 10 crore and Mamata admitted on Thursday that so far, the government had managed to arrange for 1.4 crore vaccine doses. Bengal has effectively been under a lockdown since April 30 when shopping malls, restaurants, liquor shops and places of public gatherings were shut. A complete shutdown of the transport sector was announced on May 15 and that still continues. The brakes on the transport sector plugged one of the major sources of income for the state government _ taxes on fuel. Fuel sales dipped to the lowest in a year’s time last month, with average sales falling by around fifth of the previous month as state after state went on imposing restrictions on vehicular movement. Bengal too is no different. Excise and fuel are the two available sources of revenue generation. Both have been hit since April, adding to the strains of a cash-strapped government. Liquor shops in the state have been allowed to open for three hours from Tuesday. On the GST front, too, officials are worried that the gains made in April would not be replicated and that would have an impact on the state’s earnings. In April this year, the Centre had announced record high GST collections at Rs 1,41,384 crore. The corresponding figures for May are yet to be released. In this scenario, while Mamata is pushing for opening up certain sectors after due precautions like vaccination, the availability of vaccines itself is under question. “We hope the situation will improve further since vehicular movement and public gatherings are still not allowed. Gradually businesses will have to be opened. We can’t stall them indefinitely,” said a government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal eateries allowed to open for 3 hours with vaccinated employees||With the Covid-19 situation improving in West Bengal, the state government on Thursday decided to allow restaurants to open for three hours in the evening, provided people working there are vaccinated, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. The government is also thinking of allowing shopping malls to open with 25 per cent workforce after the ongoing Covid related restrictions come to an end on June 15, she said at a meeting with representatives of various chambers of commerce at the state secretariat. "Covid-19 contagion is declining in West Bengal following the imposition of restrictions. Restaurants can be open for three hours in the evening from 5 pm to 8 pm provided the people working there are vaccinated," Banerjee said. However, it is not immediately clear from which date the eateries can start operating. The CM said that her government was mulling the option of vaccinating domestic helps in the same way it has planned to inoculate hawkers, bus conductors, vendors and others. Altogether 1.4 crore of people in West Bengal have been inoculated so far, she said. At the meeting, Banerjee also urged representatives of the chambers to help the government in vaccinating the population of the state. "The government cannot single-handedly vaccinate everyone. I will urge you to come forward and help us to inoculate the people," she said. Banerjee also sought their help in relief works in districts ravaged by Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Mom murders her differently-abled daughter||A 30-year-old homemaker killed her differently-abled daughter on Wednesday in East Midnapore’s Khejuri by slitting the five-year-old's throat with a kitchen knife. Bystanders at the Vidyapeeth Minimarket area heard Sagarika Patra screaming that she had killed her daughter as she could not bear to hear her child crying for food. Sagarika lived alone with her daughter after informally separating from her husband last year. They lived in an enclosed room next to a vegetable stall owned by her husband, Biswajit, in the mini market area. Sources familiar with the couple said Biswajit had stopped living there and had even stopped sending money following last year's lockdown. "The poor mother had to kill her own daughter because the girl would cry out for food all day. Even a few weeks ago Sagarika was asking friends and neighbours for help, but she had stopped doing that recently," said a source. Following Sagarika's cries, residents of the market area kept her in their watch till police arrived and arrested her. "Prima facie it seems this woman had been deprived and abused. We have launched a search for the absconding husband, Biswajit," said officer-in-charge Khejuri, Krishnendu Pradhan. "This was Biswajit's second marriage. After noticing their troubles last year, we tried and failed to exhort Biswajit to tend to his responsibilities," said Janka panchayat pradhan Samar Sankar Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Alcoholic son arrested for beating his mother to death||A 40-year-old woman at Raipur tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town was beaten to death by her son, in his early 20s, on Tuesday night. Police sources said Kishan Chik Baraik, the accused, is a habitual drunk and would torture his mother Sundar Mani for money for his addiction. On Tuesday night, Kishan came to his relatives to say his mother somehow hurt her head and died. As people rushed to their hutment in Bhagat Line of Raipur, they found her body and a blood-smeared wooden plank nearby. They caught him and informed Kotwali police station. Soon, police reached the spot and arrested the son. Pradhan Hembram, the chief of Patkata panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block under which the garden is located, said Kishan was earlier arrested for hacking to death his father over money to buy liquor. He was put behind bars for some time but came out on bail. “But his habits had not changed,” said Hembram. Arrested with gun Madarihat police in Alipurduar arrested four persons for illegal trade of firearms and have seized from one of them an improvised firearm along with a round of live cartridge. Sources said acting on a tip-off, the police first arrested Sanjay Saha from Rabindranagar of Madarihat and made the seizure. During his interrogation, police came to know Rustam Biswakarma, a blacksmith from Totopara, made the firearm. Police picked up Rustam and from him learnt about Bikash Rai of Lankapara and Meghraj Lama of North Khayerbari. They were also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Coming soon: A Bailey bridge at Darjeeling More to ease traffic||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) have jointly with the state PWD decided on carrying out a number of infrastructure projects related to Siliguri, north Bengal’s largest urban hub. A Bailey bridge will be built at Darjeeling More, the main entry point to the city in its north-end, to ease traffic. Talks have been held to work on proposals of building an alternative road parallel to the busy Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road with multi-layer parking in different locations of the civic area. “A proposal was sent to the state PWD for a Bailey bridge near Darjeeling More to ease traffic. This is a longstanding demand of people here as they face traffic snarls daily,” Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of SMC, told the media after a virtual meeting with officials of state urban development and municipal affairs department, and north Bengal development department. Sources said couple of years back, when Deb was the state tourism minister, he had requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take necessary initiatives and communicate with the Union ministry of road transport and NHAI to sort out the traffic problem at Darjeeling More, which is located on the junction of NH-31 and NH-55. He had also suggested constructing a Bailey bridge at the spot then. “After assuming the office of the chairperson of the BoA of SMC, he (Deb) had discussed the issue with the chief minister during his visit to Calcutta on last month,” a source in the civic body confirmed. Deb, after holding the meeting with the officials of various departments and agencies of state, also told SJDA officials to identify a number of areas of the city for multilayer parking arenas. “We will build a number of parking plots across the city. An under-construction building adjacent to Kanchenjunga Stadium will be completed soon with the private group. Elaborate plans will be taken for refurbishing Bidhan Market, the largest marketplace of the city,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha requests for allocation for jabs for tea garden workers||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp has requested the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration to allocate Covid-19 vaccines to tea garden workers and teachers and non-teaching staff of private educational institutions. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, said it was difficult for labourers to abide by Covid-19 protocol while working in tea gardens. “I request your good office to initiate steps to vaccinate the tea garden workers,” Pokhrel said in a letter sent to the principal secretary, GTA. The request comes at a time cinchona plantation labourers across the Darjeeling hills, most of whom are not attending to work because of the ongoing “restrictions”, are being inoculated. But the tea garden hands who are reporting for work in the present situation are finding it difficult to manage jabs. The paradox stems from a government order that has identified priority groups for vaccination. The Directorate of Cinchona & Other Medicinal Plants, which employs around 5,000 workers, is a public service undertaking. Tea gardens which employ nearly 3 lakh workers across north Bengal are private entities. “The state government has identified 20-odd categories as priority groups. One such group is government employees. The cinchona plantation is a government entity,” Darjeeling district magistrate S. Poonambalam said. While vaccination is currently open for people aged only above 45 years, those listed in the priority group can get vaccinated if one has attained the age of 18 years. Sources in the cinchona plantation said vaccination of workers had started a few days back. Samuel Rai, director, cinchona plantations, did not answer calls from this newspaper but sources said apart from emergency and office staff, most cinchona workers were staying off work after some Covid-19 cases were detected in the plantation. “Workers stopped attending to work, two three days into the restriction announced by the state government,” said a source. When the state government announced the restriction from May 16 onwards, it allowed tea gardens to operate with 50 per cent of the workforce in each shift. There was no such mention regarding cinchona plantations. Most of the 87 tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills are open. “Some divisions of tea gardens did enforce localised lockdowns when cases were detected but by and large, the estates are open,” said an industry source. The source also said “some” tea groups were ready to buy vaccines at their own cost and not wait for free doses from the government. A tea garden worker earns Rs 217 a day, while the wage of a cinchona plantation labourer is Rs 260. “In fact, we had started the process to procure vials from private hospitals during the start of the second wave of the pandemic. But the government then restricted the availability of vaccines to private hospitals,” said a source. Now that vaccines are being made available to private hospitals, some tea gardens are trying for tie-ups. “Even though we are still hopeful, we have not managed to secure the vaccines (for the workers) till now,” said a source. The tea estates in the hills employ around 55,000 permanent workers and 15,000 temporary labourers. “It will definitely be difficult to get vaccines in such large numbers at this moment,” admitted a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek visits TMC turncoat Mukul’s wife at a city hospital||Trinamul’s de facto number 2 Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday evening paid a visit to a private hospital off the EM Bypass, to check on the health of party turncoat Mukul Roy’s wife Krishna, who has Covid-19. The development is deemed significant as Roy, formerly Trinamul’s number 2, is now a national vice-president of the BJP. Roy left Trinamul in 2017, largely on account of testy ties with Abhishek, Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and political heir-apparent. Abhishek’s gesture prompted a visit hours later, in a first since Krishna fell so ill, from the BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek and Roy did not come face to face on Wednesday evening. Nor could he meet Krishna. But he spoke to their son Subhranshu at the hospital. “Krishnadi tested positive, along with Mukulda, over two weeks ago. But she was hospitalised with complications and is deemed critical, on ventilation …. That’s why Abhishek paid a visit. Officially a courtesy visit, it has political significance,” said a Trinamul MP. “Clearly, she (Mamata) encouraged Abhishek to do this. But had Abhishek not been willing and had Prashant Kishor not recommended it, he would not have gone,” he added. On Ghosh’s visit, the Trinamul MP said: “This is absurdly tragicomic....The BJP is now going to go all out to retain the Roys.” Subhranshu, Trinamul’s former Bijpur MLA, followed his father to the BJP and lost from the same seat this time. His recent post on social media, which did not name any party but advised introspection instead of criticism of a state government elected by the people, caused a stir. Roy won the first election of his life from Krishnagar North, as one of the BJP’s 77 MLAs. Asked if frosty ties between Roy and Abhishek would thaw, a Trinamul vice-president said there were no permanent friends or enemies in politics. “A lot of this is being engineered by Subhranshu, who has a long political career ahead of him. It certainly isn’t unreciprocated, as this evening showed,” he said. Roy, whom Mamata had repeatedly spoken fondly of in her otherwise all-out aggressive campaign against the BJP, has been conspicuously “disinterested” in the party’s activities for a while. Sources in the BJP state unit have said that in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Roy had been placed at the helm of the election committee of BJP. In both the elections, he had enabled unprecedented successes for the party. In 2021, the central leadership spearheaded by Amit Shah commandeered the state unit, and Roy was left with little to do. His diminished role, despite his reputation as a master strategist with the ability to deliver electoral triumphs, upset him. A state unit functionary of the BJP said that Roy had been issuing warnings, identifying crucial inflection points for months before the elections, but his advice went unheeded. “For instance, he had advised against banking so heavily on polarisation in the campaign, he had been saying it would not produce the desired results in a state like Bengal. Now we know he was correct, but nobody paid heed to him then,” said the source. After the results, Roy has largely been silent on the BJP’s electoral debacle in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records drop in Covid cases||Bengal on Wednesday recorded a drop, by 8,598, in its total of active Covid-19 cases, aided by besides 17,386 recoveries, 8,923 new infections and 135 deaths. The total of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 70,015 now. “We are looking at lowering the daily total of new infections detected to less than 5,000 in a week,” said a minister. Bengal now has 4.07 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases.The state now has a total of 13.94 lakh cases, which includes 13.08 lakh recoveries, besides 15,813 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 32nd consecutive day, rising by nearly 9 percentage points to 93.85 per cent on Wednesday. The national rate now is 92.72. “From the 33 per cent peak of the second wave, the daily positive confirmation rate has fallen to 11.87. We are close to getting it back to less than 10, which will be a huge morale boost,” said the minister. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. Black fungus For the first time in north Bengal, two persons with mucormycosis (black fungus) died on Tuesday night at the NBMCH in Siliguri. Both were middle-aged women with a number of ailments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim Firhad meets bereaved kin of migrant workers who died in Varanasi mishap||State municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim arrived in Malda on Wednesday and met the bereaved families of the two migrant workers who died in the Varanasi mishap on Tuesday. He handed over cheques of compensation to the families, a job to the wife of one of the deceased and cheques to families of six injured workers. The workers were serving under a Gujarat-based private firm carrying out the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in the temple town of Uttar Pradesh. While the kin of the deceased Aminul Momin, 40, and Ebadul Momin, 30, got Rs 2 lakh each, the kin of the injured received Rs 50,000 each. The bodies reached Malda. When some people told Hakim that the bodies were “not packed properly”, the Trinamul minister took a dig at the Yogi government and said in Uttar Pradesh bodies of many Covid patients were dumped in the Ganga or on its banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Two workers die of carbon monoxide poisoning at Burnpur’s IISCO steel plant||Two contract workers died reportedly after inhaling carbon monoxide that leaked at the coke oven unit of SAIL’s IISCO Steel Plant in West Burdwan’s Burnpur on Wednesday. Sources at the central public sector unit said the gas had leaked after a glitch at battery 11. Three workers were doing cleaning jobs at the battery chamber shut for maintenance around 3.30pm when the incident occurred. “All three had breathing problems and were rushed to the plant hospital with oxygen. Doctors declared two workers dead on arrival. The third was released after treatment,” said an IISCO official. Deceased workers Suman Biswas, 38, and Babun Sarkar, 43, stayed in Burnpur. The bodies were sent for autopsy. The survivor, Shyamapada De, 35, had managed to escape from the chamber a little earlier, an IISCO source said. Relatives of the deceased and other workers reached the hospital to demand compensation. Trade union leaders blamed steel plant authorities. “Workers don’t get minimum protection and forced to work in life-threatening situations. We demand permanent jobs for the kin of the deceased,” said Harjit Singh, general secretary of INTUC-affiliated Asansol Iron and Steel Workers’ Union. The agitation was withdrawn after IISCO agreed to give jobs to a relative of both victims. Singh later confirmed that the IISCO management had promised to provide compensation, including a job to one family member of each of the deceased workers. The steel plant, which is now running with less than half the regular manpower in each shift following the ongoing restrictions put in place by the state government because of Covid-19, has around 4,750 permanent employees, including executives and around 8,000 contractor workers. IISCO authorities have ordered a probe into the incident. However, they said the incident did not affect production at the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Yaas aftermath: Floodwater disrupts rural health services||Floodwater accumulated in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas at several villages in coastal districts of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, including those located in and around Gosaba and Sagar Island, has led to disruption of grassroots health services. Sources said over a few hundred ground-level health workers were unable to provide their services as their homes had either been damaged in the cyclone or remain inundated in the floodwater. On the other hand, nearly 100 health centres in rural areas of the two cyclone-hit districts remained submerged in saline floodwater for almost a week. Gita Samanta, 45, an accredited social health activist (ASHA), from Sagar’s Ghoramara island was left homeless when Cyclone Yaas blew away her home’s tin roof and caused irreparable cracks in the wall leading to its collapse. “Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, I was the one extending whatever little help I could to infected people. Now I am in the biggest need of help,” Gita said on Tuesday, standing under a tarpaulin she erected a few metres from the ruins of her former home. Both the districts have seen a steady rise in Covid cases in tandem with the second wave last month. On Wednesday, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas logged 1,860 and 606 new cases, respectively. Alluding to the severity of the situation, Gita asked: “How can I do anything now? What if someone needs my help.” Gita is one of a handful of accredited rural health workers in the Sagar area, all of whom are reportedly now either battling Covid-19 or the cyclone’s aftermath. “It is really a difficult situation,” said auxiliary nurse Rituparna Ghati. Sudha Maity, another Asha worker from Kuemari in South 24-Parganas, said she had to take shelter in the house of a neighbour as her home had gone underwater. “Everything in my house was washed away by saline flood water. Now I am struggling for my livelihood. If the government stands by us, we will be able to provide better services. Even in such adverse conditions, I am trying to provide whatever service is possible,” said Maity. The only glimmer of hope has come in the form of block medical officer Indranil Bargi who visited the homes of health workers on a boat and delivered medicines. “If I don’t take care of them now, then who will help us later when we will need it,” he said. Sources said diarrhoea had become an increasing problem in the area following Cyclone Yaas. “We need to appreciate all volunteers and villagers who have come forward to help us notwithstanding their own troubles,” Bargi said. “A lot of people have been affected in South 24-Parganas but accumulation of water for almost a week is making it difficult to deliver health services. Our workers are working hard even though they are in a very critical situation,” said Somnath Mukhopadhyay, the South 24-Parganas chief medical officer of health. Sources in the South 24-Parganas district administration claimed at least 50 health sub-centres remained underwater even on Tuesday. The number of health centres that remain underwater in North 24 Parganas is almost 20. The disruption caused by non-functioning health centres has become a matter of concern for the state health directorate. A senior health official in South 24-Parganas said: “Water entered health sub-centres because of high tides. Huge stocks of medicines kept at the centres were damaged.” “We are still not in a position to access those centres to provide service to the people who are themselves inundated and are suffering from water-borne diseases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Chief Minister seeks liability period in embankment repair||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday forwarded a proposal to the irrigation department to insert a provision of liability period for agencies that would henceforth be engaged to repair an embankment. Mamata’s proposal during a meeting at Nabanna is significant as it was found that 100-odd km of embankments were either damaged or breached during Cyclone Yaas though some of these stretches were repaired after Cyclone Amphan had struck last year in May. A displeased Mamata had then wondered how embankments with repairs less than a year old were damaged and questioned the quality of the work done. “You can consider inserting a liability period of 10 years or so. This will ensure that embankments are repaired properly,” said the chief minister on Wednesday during the meeting to fix a road map to repair the damaged embankments after the cyclone. Sources in the state government said that the proposal is timely particularly when the state government is trying to make embankments stand for a longer period so that people in low-lying areas do not face inundation every year. The PWD has gained after inserting a liability period clause while floating tenders for repairing major roads, a source said. The PWD fixed a liability period of five years for an agency that repairs or constructs a road. That means the agency has to repair the road if it is damaged within the liability period. This has improved the condition of roads across the state, said sources. “If the same initiative is taken for embankments, it would also benefit the government as agencies have to repair damages within the liability period,” said an official. The irrigation department told Mamata there are 3,500kms of embankments in the Sunderbans, which have to be strengthened to ensure that the areas get rid of regular inundation from breaching of embankments. “Some 150km of embankments needs to be strengthened with concrete brick blocks. Remaining 3,350km of embankments have to be strengthened by raising their heights,” said an official. Experts from IIT-Kharagpur, IIT-Madras and Jadavpur University had submitted a report to irrigation authorities after Amphan that the height of existing earthen embankments would have to be raised by 1.5 to 2 metres. “Moreover, it was also proposed that mangroves (trees) have to be planted along embankments to strengthen the base of the earthen ones,” said another official. The chief minister said the state government would plant 15 crore mangroves in the Sunderbans areas to ensure that cyclones leave a lesser impact on the embankments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan chapter closed with his retirement: Chief Minister||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday refused to comment on the tug of war between the Bengal government and the Centre over Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now the chief advisor to the chief minister, saying the chapter was over with the 1987-batch officer retiring on May 31. “The Alapan Bandyopadhyay chapter is over…. He has retired,” said the chief minister during a news conference at Nabanna on Wednesday. “The state government will give full support to whatever is going on with him,” she said, making it clear that she would stand by the bureaucrat, whom the Centre targeted since Mamata, along with him, skipped a Cyclone Yaas review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda last Friday. Bandyopadhyay was showcaused by the Union home ministry asking him to explain why action would not be taken against him under Disaster Management Act, 2005, for not attending the review meeting of the Prime Minister in Kalaikunda. The Union government had earlier asked him to join on central deputation by June 1. But as he retired on May 31, the home ministry issued the showcause under the Disaster Management Act. Sources at Nabanna consider the chief minister’s latest approach to the episode to be smart as the state government cannot remain busy with one issue. “The state has to take care of so many things, including Covid-19 and post-Yaas rehabilitation. At the same time, the chief minister also made it clear that her government would stand by the former chief secretary in case he faces any trouble,” said a source. The sources have also said Mamata’s move could be a calculated one as she knows that if the focus is shifted from the issue, it could die a natural death. “This had happened in the case of three IPS officers who had been asked to join central deputation after the attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy. There had been a tug of war between the state and the Centre over the issue for the first few days. Once the issue was out of the limelight, it had a natural death and the officers are still working with the state government,” said a bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay did not send his reply to the showcase under Disaster Management Act, 2005. “He will send his reply on Thursday. As he was given three days of time to send his reply, he took his time and would send the letter on the last day,” said a bureaucrat aware of the developments. Sources close to Bandyopadhyay think he has a strong case in his favour as he was present when the chief minister handed over a list of damage that had taken place in the state because of Yaas. “Technically, he cannot be held responsible for giving the Prime Minister’s review meeting a miss. It is another fact that he had to obey the chief minister’s instructions and followed her to Digha by taking permission to leave the meeting early. No one can deny that the chief minister was his immediate boss and no bureaucrat can disobey his or her immediate boss,” said a retired bureaucrat. The sources also said the former chief secretary’s reply would be in those lines. Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday met several officers and attended a meeting of the chief minister at Nabanna where issues like repair and construction of damaged embankments were discussed. A number of river embankments had been damaged in the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||North East||Covid: 24 held for doctor assault in Assam’s Hojai district following patient's death ||Assam Police have arrested 24 persons allegedly involved in the brutal assault on a young doctor at a Covid care centre in Hojai district following the death of a patient on Tuesday afternoon. The arrested mostly include relatives of the deceased. The assault had not only left the medical fraternity shocked, hurt and angry but also the general public, reviving memories of the 2019 Dr Deben Dutta lynching case in Jorhat district. One of the convicted was sentenced to death while 24 others received life term in October 2020 for the death of the tea garden doctor. Social media was abuzz with calls for exemplary punishment to the accused as video of the attack on Dr Seuj Kumar Senapati went viral. The mob could be seen thrashing the doctor with whatever they could lay their hands on. A nurse was also attacked in the attack. The Hojai police have booked all the accused, including a woman, under the stringent sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy,  Disaster Management Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Assam Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2011. “We have arrested all of them. They are mostly relatives of the deceased. They hail from nearby areas under the Udali Covid Centre such as Bamun Gaon and Phultoli. An inspector is looking after the case while a senior CID official will be guiding Hojai police in the investigation,” a senior police official said. The Hojai sessions court on Wednesday remanded seven of the accused in police custody for three days while 14 accused in judicial custody. The court has given police two days to inquire whether three of the accused are minors. The patient, Giasuddin, who was rushed to the hospital in a critical condition, died around 2pm. His relatives had told the doctor that he was not being able to pass urine since morning. “I reached the hospital around 1.30pm for my shift. When I went to attend to him after donning my PPE kit, he was already dead,” Dr Senapati said to reporters on Tuesday night. The attack ensued soon after the attendants accused the medical staff of negligence. The doctor bore the brunt of the attack. The injured nurse had hid herself in a room. It was Senapati’s second day at the Covid centre. A fresh MBBS graduate, Udali was Senapati’s first posting under the compulsory one-year rural service. He was first admitted to Nagaon Civil Hospital and then referred to the Gauhati Medical College And Hospital. “He has suffered soft tissue damage and fracture in the nose area. He is stable but yet to come out of the trauma,” a senior IMA said. The Assam chapter of the IMA held a stock-taking meeting on Wednesday evening and decided to suspend their decision to boycott non-emergency services from Thursday because of the “satisfactory action” taken by the police. “We have adopted a wait and watch police to see how the investigation progresses. In the interim, we will meet the chief minister and apprise him about our concerns and steps to check a repeat,” the IMA member said. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is in Delhi on an official tour, health minister Keshab Mahanta, Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta condemned the incident as intolerable and warned of strong action against those who attack frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
03-06-2021||North East||No border talks between Assam and Nagaland now||The border talks between Assam and Nagaland to defuse tension along Mokokchung-Jorhat will take place only after the Covid-19 situation in Nagaland is under control. Official sources said the Nagaland home department has directed the Mokokchung DC, L. Jamir, to hold talks with his Jorhat counterpart, A. Barman, after the Covid situation normalises. Soaring Covid-19 cases had seen the Nagaland government extend lockdown till June 11. On Monday, Nagaland had 4,923 active cases with 315 deaths. Though Assam has not imposed lockdown, it has barred inter-district travel and extended curfew hours from 12 noon to 5am to break the chain of transmission. On Monday, Assam had 51,694 active cases with 3365 deaths. Assam’s Special DGP G.P. Singh, after a stock-taking visit to the border on Friday, had revealed about the proposed “DC/SP level meeting within 3 days followed immediately by IG Border level meeting”. Talks have become inevitable to defuse tension triggered by the alleged firing from the Nagaland side on senior Assam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, when he had visited the border area in the Dessoi Valley Reserve Forest — claimed by both states on Thursday afternoon. Both states have also accused each other of breaking the Supreme Court-imposed status quo. A senior official said besides the home department directive, the Mokokchung administration too is in a spot. “The Mokokchung SP is in isolation and the DC is awaiting his Covid test report because he was in contact with him. Under the circumstances, it will not be appropriate on part of the DC to attend the border talks. Participants from both districts could be at risk given the Covid situation,” one of the official said. Though the situation in Jorhat is getting back to normal, it is still clocking over 200 cases a day, an official said. Official data reveals the Northeast is facing a tough time containing the spread of the virus in the second wave. This is reflected in the death and recovery rates. Northeast’s recovery rate is below the national average of 91.60 per cent. Nagaland’s recovery rate is 74.90 per cent while that of Assam is slightly better at 81.41 per cent. Tripura has the best recovery rate in the region at 86.17 per cent. The region’s death ratio is also worrying with Nagaland leading the way at 1.68 per cent while Mizoram has the lowest at 0.31 per cent followed by Assam at 0.81 per cent. As part of its measures to contain the pandemic, the Assam health department on Tuesday launched the third phase of the community surveillance through which medical teams will visit every village household in the state to track, isolate and treat Covid cases to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
03-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Winter is coming||Is this the dawn of a demographic nightmare? All over the world, countries are now confronting population stagnation and a fertility bust. Falling fertility rates — 83 nations comprising 46 per cent of the global population, including every single country in Europe, now have a replacement fertility rate below 2.1 births per woman — combined with the death and devastation caused by the pandemic threaten to upend how societies are organized. Demographers predict a ‘demographic winter’ wherein by the latter half of the century, or even earlier, the global population will enter a sustained decline for the first time. Arguably, a planet with fewer people could ease the pressure on resources and slow down the destructive impact of climate change. But the census announcements from China and the United States of America, which showed the slowest rates of population growth in decades, point to difficult adjustments ahead. In a world where the median age of the population would rise over time, with fewer young people available to work relative to the increasing number of retirees, wealth would be generated at a slower rate and poverty would grow. Those economic struggles would fuel social unrest and further discourage people from having children. To counter this looming crisis, Russia and Italy are offering financial incentives to improve fertility rates; China, in a radical u-turn, has instituted a three-child policy. In Japan, where adult diapers now outsell the ones for babies, municipalities are shrinking on account of falling populations. In Sweden, some cities have shifted resources from schools to elderly care. These strategies are undoubtedly a response to the changes in global demography. That bit is fairly evident. But what get obfuscated quite often are the tensions arising out of these transitions. For instance, a chasm seems to be opening up between individual choice and collective responsibility, between autonomy and altruism. Nation states are announcing incentives to increase birth rates at a time when young parents are increasingly unwilling to shoulder the responsibilities of large families on account of economic, social and climatic challenges. If history is any guide, individual choice usually wins: no country with a serious slowdown in population growth has managed to significantly raise its fertility rate even with the lure of lucre and social benefits. This insularity could mean greater strain on the ethics of collective responsibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
03-06-2021||Opinion||Endless fight: Alapan Bandyopadhyay vs Centre||Sir — The sudden recalling of the former chief secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, after the Centre had granted the state’s request for the extension of his service for another three months in view of the pandemic, exposes the Union government’s utter lack of respect for the federal structure of the country (“Bitter fruit”, June 2). It is obvious that the decision was a knee-jerk reaction on the part of the Narendra Modi government, and points to a political vendetta. In a functioning federal democracy, the Centre does not impose arbitrary and unilateral decisions, such as the one taken in the case of Bandyopadhyay, on state governments. It is a pity that the continuing political acrimony between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress has escalated to such an extent that senior bureaucrats are now being involved in the face-off. It is unfortunate that the government of West Bengal has to deal with an insensitive Centre at the time of an unprecedented health crisis. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the prime minister, Narendra Modi, is hell-bent on making the situation difficult for Mamata Banerjee. This time the Centre’s directive to the former West Bengal chief secretary to report to Delhi, weeks after his extension had been granted, came as a shock. Alapan Bandyopadhyay has since chosen to hand in his resignation and has decided to serve the chief minister of West Bengal in a special capacity. It is obvious to all that the move was motivated by the intention to weaken Banerjee’s government which is not only battling the coronavirus pandemic but is also in the midst of rehabilitating those affected by the Cyclone Yaas. Thus, Bandyopadhyay’s decision to refuse the Centre’s directive in favour of Banerjee must come as a rude shock to the Union government. It is shameful that the Centre sought to use a senior bureaucrat as a pawn in this tussle between itself and the state. There is no doubt that this move has displeased officials serving in the civil services. This misstep will cost the Modi government dearly in the near future. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The resignation of the chief secretary of Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and his subsequent appointment as chief adviser to Mamata Banerjee for a period of three years draws attention to the deteriorating condition between the Centre and the states. This episode further underlines how bitter political fights such as this one could dent an already weakened bureaucracy and hamper its functioning. It is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to uphold the federal structure enshrined in the Constitution and ensure that a consultative process is maintained. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Take note Sir — Bhaswati Chakravorty has rightly highlighted that the classroom is much more than just a space for textbooks and grading (“Crossed lines”, May 28). In schools, pupils learn in a systematic way under the physical guidance of teachers. Moreover, children learn crucial life lessons in their interactions with peers which shape them as well-rounded individuals. But it seems that the government does not agree with this notion and has continued to push for online teaching. It must recognize that education requires more than what can be taught through screens. Ghana Duarah,Duliajan, Assam Safety first Sir — Recently, Nestlé came under fire when an internal document revealed that a majority of its products failed to meet the ‘recognized definition of health’. Since then, the company has stated that it is working to update its health strategy to ensure that its products meet nutritional needs. This is, however, not the first time the company has failed to uphold food safety standards — in 2015, Maggi was banned in India after it tested positive for high lead content. Belated apologies mean little when it comes to people’s health. It is high time that Nestlé is held accountable for its missteps. Rohan Mehta, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Under cover||There may be an admirable National Education Policy, but that seems to be no guarantee that the Narendra Modi-led government would bend over backwards to encourage education. Almost half of the Central universities in the country — 20 out of 45 — have been without regular vice-chancellors for months. These institutions are being run either by the outgoing vice-chancellors on extension or senior-most professors given temporary charge. Their powers are limited in any case — they cannot recruit staff, for instance — while they are unable to take decisive action when the pandemic is throwing up extraordinary problems of administration and the NEP is expected to be implemented. Institutions such as Delhi University or Banaras Hindu University and others in various states are being forced into inefficiency, as are the four Indian Institutes of Technology waiting almost a year for their directors. Yet there should have been no such delay, since most of these universities sent in the names selected by search committees to the education ministry months ago. The lists are meant to go to the president of India, who makes the final selection. It is a brief process. But now, bypassing the law in this matter, the lists have to be sent, unofficially, to the Prime Minister’s Office, which informs the education ministry of its choice that is then verbally communicated to the president. This is frank political intervention that neatly sabotages the autonomy of educational institutions. If the PMO is too busy to choose vice-chancellors — something it should not be doing in the first place — it can leave appointments pending for months. The government is obviously least interested in the smooth functioning of universities. This government seems to be willing to erode all systems in order to implement the ruling party’s agenda. It is no secret that earlier governments, too, preferred favourable vice-chancellors, whether the institution was under the Centre or the state. But this is perhaps the first government to introduce full control through ‘unofficial’ means. This is the inevitable culmination of political interference in education, something that governments dominated by other parties are also guilty of. Now the damage is spreading: administration and even day-to-day decisions — adjusting students’ fees during the pandemic, for example — must wait till the government has the leisure to scrutinize, unofficially, the names of potential vice-chancellors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||Chinks in the NREGA armour||The current unprecedented humanitarian crisis has exposed the country’s health system as well as its administrative capacities to address a challenge of this scale. The second wave of the coronavirus has created a catastrophe wherein both life and livelihoods are at stake. The government’s short-sightedness and lack of vision have damaged the ecosystem of governance pertaining to health and livelihood. When it had the time and the opportunity to rejuvenate the health system, the Centre did not heed the suggestions made by civil society and experts. It was more interested in winning elections than saving lives. The Union government should take lessons from the past for the sake of the future. While battling Covid-19, it should simultaneously focus on a long-term plan to generate sustained employment for citizens and create robust universal social security for the marginalized. Unlike last year, the virus has spread to the rural areas. The health hazards are expected to create massive chaos and ruckus in village communities. Districts and block headquarters are short of resources to respond to the medical needs of the people. Many states have imposed strict lockdowns, causing loss in employment and income for rural citizens. The losses for daily wage workers, livestock rearing communities and marginal farming households will cause economic distress and increased indebtedness. The food crisis will intensify in the coming months on account of income losses, restricted movements, and reduced market capacities due to full or partial lockdowns. It is thus important to ensure access to basic services and security in terms of shelter, food and a regular source of income. The expansion and the strengthening of the National Food Security Act and the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act can play a vital role in preventing people from slipping into abject poverty. The Centre announced five kilogrammes of free grain for individuals enlisted under the NFSA through the public distribution system for May and June. This will be done under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Earlier, the Centre had allocated Rs 73,000 crore for the NREGA; this was about Rs 38,500 crore less than that of the revised estimate of last year. The Centre had also notified an annual increment of about 4 per cent in NREGA wages. This approach is rather conservative. Instead of short-term support, the government should look to do the following that can have a larger impact on the rural masses. The public distribution system must be expanded. India reportedly produced record amounts of rice and wheat last year. Procurement through mandis was, therefore, significantly higher. As of April 30, in the rabi marketing season, 280.39 lakh tonnes of wheat had been procured which is 137.39 lakh tonnes more than last year. Similarly, the procurement of rice has broken all past records (465. 47 lakh tonnes) in the last kharif marketing season. It is perfectly possible to expand the safety net of the NFSA to include more families under PMGKAY. The NREGA needs to be strengthened. Data for official work demand for April 2021-22 shows that 22 per cent more households have demanded work under the NREGA than that of April 2019-20. Reverse migration will only increase in the coming months as the states start to impose stricter periodic lockdowns. Total households demanding NREGA work in the next two months would be somewhere around 30 per cent more than that of 2019-20 during the same period: six crore households are expected to be working in the NREGA into 2021-22. Now, let us examine the picture emerging from 2020-21 to understand the actual requirement for 2021-22. Out of the 7.56 crore households that worked in the NREGA in 2020-21, even if one crore households were to opt out this year, around 6.5 crore households are expected to still work in 2021-22. The Centre should budget for 75-80 days of employment per household given the scale of the economic distress. By this logic, at the current rate of Rs 268 per day per person, at least Rs1.3 lakh crore would need to be budgeted. The government should also hike NREGA wages by 10 per cent. Another Rs 10, 000 crore would be needed under the assumption that 6.5 crore households would need at least 75 days of employment. Even at a conservative estimate, no less than Rs 1.4 lakh crore will be required to match the ground requirements. Additionally, the Centre should consider the following recommendations — instead of covering only ration card holders under the PMGKAY, the coverage should be extended to non-card holders as well; extend the free food grain programme under PMGKAY for a year instead of two months; expand the scope of the NREGA and allocate at least Rs.1.4 lakh crore for the scheme by approving a greater labour budget and a further increment in wage rates. We are paying a heavy price for the Union government’s unpreparedness to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. It should now act in a concerted manner to tackle the upcoming economic stress in the country, especially among unorganized workers in the informal sectors. India needs to be better prepared to avert hunger and joblessness among the poor and the marginalized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||A broken republic||This is a historic time, a time frothing over with never befores like never before. We are lodged in a thicket voluptuous with unprecedented things. It is too soon to tell how the future will reckon this period in the lives of the Indian peoples, but what we inhabit is already a critical mass of time, what historians often call an epoch. We have been written into the first chapter of the prophecy of fifty or so years. It may only be just to title it Avoidable Circumstances. We began with the joyous consecrations of ‘achchhe din’ upon which we acquired herd immunity to good sense and judgment in incremental bouts. Such that when our sacred rivers and banks began to eddy with our discarded dead, we sanctified it as ‘parampara’ and were quickly able to calculate what a minuscule fraction of our multitudes — our ‘demographic dividend’ — had been consigned to the latest hiccup of dereliction and uncaring. And be consoled, you disconsolate few; burnt or buried or floated, the departed all went the way of ‘mukti’, the eternal song of liberation. In a 1987 essay titled “Kapuscinski’s Angola”, Salman Rushdie briefly regarded the insufficiencies of language in accurately describing what was becoming of our world and its condition. “What kinds of life should we call ‘ordinary’, here in the late twentieth century? What is ‘normal’ in these abnormal days? For many of us, any definition of the quotidian would still include notions of peace and stability. We would still, perhaps, wish to picture everyday life as rhythmic, based on settled and repeating social patterns. Ryszard Kapuscinski’s work seems to be based on his knowledge that such conventional descriptions of actuality are now so limited in application that they have become, in a way, fictions.” How is one to describe what happened — and has been happening a whole year — in our territories of eastern Ladakh? The Leader says nobody intruded, no alien is sitting there, there is no violation. He uses, consistently, indefinite pronouns, he refrains from identifying who that nobody is, he makes an ingenuous abstraction of it. That nobody killed many of our soldiers about this time last summer. That nobody is who our generals have been talking to with the deep disadvantage of heights, both physical and metaphorical. Why did our soldiers die? What are our generals negotiating? What’s the problem with this place where nobody came and squatted? Where is this nowhere place called eastern Ladakh where nobody is doing nothing? There’s a line drawn along there called the Line of Actual Control. It is a line nobody can see. If there is a problem with the line, we know where we need to sort it out; we shall take the battle to cartographers and printers, we shall emboss rogue maps trying to enter our territory with disclaimer stamps at customs. What words may come to describe such hyper-reality? With hindsight and distance, and probably a degree of detachment, some future historian would probably find the right tools and narrative to portray the arrival and playing out of Avoidable Circumstances. Here are just a few footnotes, in no particular chronology, that may help lend it tendon, bone and flesh. All it will require are keywords fed into a search engine, and the chronicle will reveal itself. It began, like many avoidable things do, with an infusion of mindless ecstasy, a triumphal parade whose soldiery did not know what to do next with what had been achieved. They went out and lynched a person for what he might have eaten. Then another for what he wore. Then another for what he traded in. Yet another for who he bowed in obeisance to. There are going to be no names or dates or places here, mind you, just keywords; the task of recounting Avoidable Circumstances is the future historian’s. We toppled our crown. Having taken hold of it in the stealth of night, we dragged it to the public square and quartered it to the applause of medieval hangings. We sent the mangled thing to the smelters. We fashioned, overnight, the largest prison house known to us, far bigger than the Gulag. We made an indefinite abeyance of the writ of habeas corpus. We upturned the principle of bail before jail. We deemed it sedition to stand under the Tricolour and demand rights in the name of the Constitution. We deemed it anti-national to call the chief public servant anti-people. It was okay to riot and rampage and issue calls to death if you were on the Leader’s side. The Leader sent a crony to the courts to bay at the truth. The chief judge posed on a Harley-Davidson when multiple thousands of our unfortunate ones were hoofing across the subcontinent on a scorched summer’s odyssey. A few lay slain by a train, and then we gave them trains. Many of them lost their way in the intractable maze of this geography; India is vast and India is incredible, what’s to be done? We had ourselves temporarily robbed, our currency pronounced garbage, our access to earned and required cash severely restricted, our faith in institutions that afforded us sleep torpedoed. We had ourselves and our plight merrily mocked at from high rostrums. The Leader roamed and romped on a nature film-shoot, then ordered serial devastation of what he swore childhood love to. He also divined, sometime shortly after the shoot, that there can be nothing as clandestine as the cover of clouds, nor anything as effective as a straight-faced lie. How it worked. It gave him another, more luxurious, lease. The Leader walked imperially among the peacocks, his minions routinely dispatched hounds to addresses that may one day ruffle peacock feathers. We called our neighbours termites, and our own we called worse things, things that need to be exterminated one by one, or, at any rate, externed. If not by law, then by executive fiat, in the name of the people. The Constitution is to be ceremonially kissed, it is no thing to invoke. There was a global viral pandemic. We appointed a paediatrician as brigadier and a profiteer druid as inventor of remedial potions. We took resort to our arcane wisdoms in astral concatenation and we banged pots and pans. We became the first ones to overpower the demon. We pronounced the Leader vishwaguru. When the virulence came stinging back, we called it a dark conspiracy hatched to disrupt the mansions the Leader was building on the debris of the ripped monuments to our bygone slavery. We are in the throes of the seventh anniversary observances of Avoidable Circumstances. Very soon, we are also going to turn seventy-five. From where and how we began and carried forth, we could have deserved better. But we get to decide what we deserve. Do we still want Coronil? sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad resumes vaccine drive for 18+||Vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group, suspended for over a week due to lack of sufficient doses, was resumed on Thursday at 27 centres across the district including 11 at Dhanbad Sadar, four at Jharia, three at Baliapur, two each at Baghmara, Tundi, Topchanchi, Govindpur and 1 centre of Nirsa. The centres administered Covaxin as the district received around 6500 doses of the vaccine. Vaccination for 45 and above age group also continued at 40 sites across the district including 11 sites at Baghmara; six at Nirsa; five at Dhanbad Sadar; four at Baliapur; three each at Baliapur, Jharia and different government centres besides two centres each at Tundi, Govindpur and mobile vaccination van. Talking to Telegraph Online on Thursday, 20-year-old Raksha Rani, a student of P.K. Roy Memorial College, said, “I was enthusiastic after learning on June 1 that vaccination for 18+ will begin again from June and booked the slot yesterday after which I took the vaccine during the first slot at around 11 am.” “The entire process of vaccination was quite good as there were sufficient seating arrangements at the centre and personally I felt no side effects after taking the vaccine,” said Rani who was accompanied by her mother. “The only message that I want to give is that everybody should come forward to take the vaccine as early as possible in order to maintain our safety as well as that of our family members,” she said. “I felt quite relaxed after taking the dose as after registering on April 29, I could book the slot yesterday and took the first dose today,” said 21-year-old Gaurav Dey, a resident of Chiragora in Dhanbad who took the jab at Jagjivan Nagar centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro police arrest uranium smuggling gang||Bokaro police have arrested seven persons with 6kg of uranium after conducting raids at different places across the district. The accused were suppliers and were searching for potential customers to sell the highly radioactive and explosive material at a price Rs 50lakh per kilogram. It is illegal to possess uranium in India without a license. A violation of the Atomic Energy Act of 1962 in this regard can attract stringent punishment. The arrested individuals are said to be a part of an inter-state gang with a country wide network in dealing with Uranium. The special police team is conducting an investigation to find the link from whom the accused received the material. SP Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha said, “We have seized the "yellow coloured substance" and will send it to experts for testing. Uranium is a highly radioactive substance that is used in nuclear facilities.” Jha said that they received information that some criminal elements are preparing to sell uranium, following which a special police team was formed and raids were conducted. Those arrested have been identified as Bapi Da also known as Bapi Chandra, Anil Singh, Deepak Kumar, Krishna Kant, Hare Ram Sharma, Mahavir Mahto and Pankaj Mahto. All are residents of the district. Of those arrested Deepak and Bapi have a criminal history. “It is still unclear how they get their hands on the radioactive metal. During police interrogation, they are saying they got it from someone from West Bengal and sometimes say they got it from Giridih and other places,” said the SP. “Apart from Uranium packets, seven mobile phones and Passion X Pro motorcycles were also seized,” he added. Investigation is being carried on to nab those who buy this radioactive material in the district and to ascertain the purpose of the purchase. An FIR has been lodged with Harla Police Station under section 414/120B/34 IPC and 24 1 (a) atomic energy act has been registered on Thursday, said SP. Sources said that police are trying to ascertain whether the arrested have any link with the racket busted by the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad on May 5, in which two men were arrested and a total of 7.1 kg of natural uranium worth Rs 21.3crore was seized. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the probe after the arrest. The experts at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre confirmed that the substance seized was natural uranium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tops in supply of liquid medical oxygen in Covid times||Jharkhand has provided over 8,000 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen, which is 35 per cent of the total transported across the country via Oxygen Express trains, making it the highest contributor among states as the nation goes throuhgh a vicious second wave of the pandemic. As per figures provied by the Indian Railways, out of over 23,741 metric tonne LMO transported in Oxygen Express trains till date,Jharkhand contributed 8,297 metric tonnes, which works out to around 35 per cent. The state government came up with an advertisement in this regard with a picture of a beaming chief minister Hemant Soren. Earlier on May 26, the state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur had tweeted about Jharkhand's feat.  Hemant retweeted it to indicate his appreciation. As per the information in the ad, which was compiled with inputs from the railways and the state control room, Jharkhand was at the top with 35 per cent contribution followed by neighbouring Odisha (27%),  Gujarat (20%), West Bengal (8%), Madhya Pradesh (5%) and others (5%). Oxygen Express trains were run in from Jharkhand in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 since April 23. These trains were fed by two major loading points in the state - Tatanagar (Jamshedpur) and Bokaro _ with the two stations having so far delivered 6,207 metric tonne and 2,090 metric tonn liquid medical oxygen respectively to various locations in the country. In Jamshedpur, two plants of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of industrial gases, supplied the LMO while Inox Air took care of requirements at Bokaro. "On an average per day, we are supplying 550 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen on the basis of requirements which we get from various state governments," said Santosh Bhagat, in-charge of Linde India's liquid oxygen plant at Burmamines in Jamshedpur. He, however said that the demand of LMO is gradually reducing with improvement in the Covid situation across the country. In addition to Jamshedpur and Bokaro, Rourkela in neighbouring Odisha is another major loading point of liquid medical oxygen. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh confirmed that till the afternoon of Thursday (June 3), Rourkela dispatched 4,765 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen while South Eastern Railway zone as a whole dispatched 13,000 metric tonne of liquid oxygen. Among the states and Union territories that have been served with liquid medical oxygen by South Eastern Railway so far are New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and  Assam. "Despite several contraints including challenges posed by the two recent cyclones, Tauktae and Yaas, the railways continued its oxygen movement in the same manner with the help of its committed employees who are trained to work round the clock even during adversities to ensure fastest transportation of oxygen Express trains," said Ghosh adding that oxygen relief by Oxygen Express trains reached to as many as  15 states across the country. In order to ensure that Oxygen Express trains reach their destantions on time these are run on high-priority green corridors, said the PRO. "All this is done in a manner that other freight operations aren't hampered," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to conduct mega vaccination drive from Friday||Jharkhand is all set to launch a mega vaccination drive across the state from this weekend and has set a target of inoculating at least 18 lakh people in the age group of 45 and above by this month. Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of health department’s IEC wing told the media at a  virtual press conference that the mega vaccination drive will begin from Friday.  “We aim to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people per day during the mega vaccination camp. To improve the coverage, the state government has decided to run special camps on weekends (Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays) this month in addition to the routine immunisation drives,” he said. Additional chief secretary of the state health department Arun Kumar Singh has dispatched letters to all deputy commissioners along with district-wise vaccinaion targets to be met in the next four weeks an has directed them to ensure proper facilitation. Tripathi said the focus of the special drive was mainly on those above 45. Currently, Jharkhand has 10,37,950 doses of vaccines for this age group,  7,57,860 doses of Covidhield and rest Covaxin. There is , however, a massive shortage of doses for the 18-plus group as with the health department saying that it has only 55,350 doses left with them. In terms of coverage, out of a target of 83,86,677 people in the 45-plus age category, only 24,32,856 have got their first dose so far. This works out to about 29 per cent. For the second dose, out a target of 4,87,162, only 3,82,122 or 78 per cent, have received theirs. The Ranchi district administration has already begun preparations for the mega vaccination drive. It has zeroed in on Birsa Munda football stadium as the venue of the drive with deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan visited the place to oversee arrangements. “The giant stadium with a capacity of accommodating over 30,000 people will be easy for us to maintain vaccine protocols  and maintain proper social distancing. A walk-in system with spot registration has been planned for the weekend special drive. People will be given tokens after registration and asked to await their turn,” said an official who was at the stadium. Positivity rate Jharkhand on Wednesday reported a Covid-19 positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the first time since March as only 532 of the 59,510 people tested were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The positivity rate in the state on Wednesday was 0.89 per cent. As per records with the state health department, the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate in Jharkhand was close to 10 per cent in April, but it dropped to around 2 per cent in the last week of the month. Vaccine count The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 28,711 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,842 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get its first paediatric hospital||A 50-bed paediatric hospital is going to be set up at Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital at Bistupur. The proposed paediatric hospital will be set up by the district administration for Covid patients, thus aimed at giving relief to the children who are falling victim to the infection. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said the district administration has taken up the KGMH for combating Covid among children. "We are going to set up the pediatric hospital at the KGMH keeping in view of the Covid pandemic. Once the pandemic is over, we will hand over the hospital to the KGMH trust, "said Lal to The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon stated that work for setting up the hospital will begin soon. The KGMH located at South Park in Bistupur, was earlier taken over by Calcutta-based Medica in 2014. But after Medica wound up its operation in May 2020, the hospital was lying idle. After the re-emerging of the pandemic, the KGMH was turned into a Covid-designated hospital. The paediatric hospital will come up alongside the existing Covid treatment facility there. After the pandemic re-emerged in March this year and several children were getting infected, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar took up the decision to take over the hospital to set up a pediatric hospital. At present, there is no exclusive paediatric hospital in the district. Covid cases among children till 14 years are increasing exponentially. District disease surveillance officer, Sahir Paul said during the first phase of pandemic in 2020, 843 children were infected with Covid. "But in the second phase which began from March this year, the number of Covid-infected children has gone up to 1,290," said Paul to The Telegraph Online. According to health department sources, two paediatric hospitals having 20 beds each will also be set up at Sadar Hospital in Khaasmahal and at the Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital in Ghatsila shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Teachers and social workers cycle 100km for Covid awareness||Teachers from the Jharia based social organisation Samadhan on Thursday took out a 100 km cycle ride to spread Covid awareness on the occasion of World Bicycle Day. The organisation provides free education to children from economically deprived families. The awareness drive was taken out by Samadhan founder Chandan Singh and his two colleagues Ravindra Kumar and Bittu Singh. They cycled from Sai Mandir of Sindri to Govindur Kisan Chowk and other places like Nawadih and Bank More. The drive also coincided with the partial relaxation of the state-wide lockdown and thus also aimed at cautioning people against any over enthusiasm during the time. Talking to the Telegraph Online, Singh who completed his march at around 1 pm at Jharia said, “Any slackness at this crucial point of time of the second wave of Covid may lead to return of the previous situation so we need to be very cautious and observe all the laid protocols in the strictest sense.” “We stopped at several places in between our march like at Thana More in Jharia, Kisan Chowk in Barwaddah and Bank More in Dhanbad Sadar and appealed to people to get vaccinated as early as possible in order to ensure safety for themselves and their family members as our cycle march also coincided with relaunching of vaccination drive for 18+ which began in Dhanbad since today after a gap of eight days,” said Singh. “Working with IIT (ISM) administration as part of Covid awareness and medicine and other kit distribution drive in around 29 villages and slums in the surrounding villages of the institute since May 15 we realised that more awareness is required among rural populace about vaccination as well as Covid protocol observance etc so we carried out awareness in villages also as part of our march,” said Ravindra Kumar, a resident of Lodna More in Jharia who besides imparting  free education to children of economically deprived families is preparing for recruitment exams of Railway Recruitment Board, Banking  services etc. Bittu Singh, a resident of Polytechnic road in Dhanbad said,“Interacting with the students their parents during online classes we realised that there is a need to create more awareness among people about the different measures like strict observance of Covid protocols and benefits of vaccination so we took out the March today.” “We also apprised people about other health benefits of cycling like increased cardiovascular strength, muscle strength and fitness,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure outfit lines up wellness programme for 50+||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has introduced a virtual wellness programme for adults above 50 beginning on June 5. The month-long programme has been lined up considering the fitness and wellness needs of the 50-plus age group which differs a lot from others. It aims to help people lead an active lifestyle. "The programme not only includes physical fitness focused on age related problems but also focusses on the need for a social life," said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. "The month-long programme is open not just for employees but also their parents and friends,” he added. According to Gupta, an Everester, they have been conducting virtual programmes, also for school students, with the aim to motivate and keep everyone engaged in the time of Covid. "We believe in the importance of keeping society occupied during the pandemic when most people are confined indoors. We are getting good response from school children," he added. Registration for the programme can be done through the link: https://forms.office.com/r/PW8gH69TCW. Those interested can call  Varun (9599675676) for further queries. The premier steel city-based adventure outfit, in association with Tata Education Excellence Program (TEEP), had organised a webinar titled,  “Parvatarohan- Ek Charcha” for school students on May 15. The invited speakers were mountaineers who had conquered Mount Everest. More than 200 students from classes VIII to XII from "Basic" and "Saral" assessment schools attended the webinar. Gupta and fellow Everester Swarnalata Dalai addressed students. Students got an opportunity to appreciate the need for leadership, team building, planning, self-discipline and hard-work. The annual outdoor leadership programme at Garhwal Himalayas in Uttarakhand and surrounding areas of Jamshedpur have been put off owing to the pandemic. “We’ll resume our activities once the situation improves,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners on the brink of starvation||A large number of people, including construction workers, street vendors, rickshaw pullers, road side restaurant staff who are deprived of ration cards are facing the double blow of loss of income due to lockdown and lack of PDS foodgrains. Many of these families like that of Raju Sao of Koiri Bandh locality and Shankar Sao of Jharia Sabji Bagan are on the verge of starvation. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Raju Sao said, “Our family income of five, including three sons, was dependent on chaat stalls put up at  fairs or exhibitions but with no permission of fairs since March 20 last year we are penniless and somehow living on food grains provided by some social worker or other people including neighbours.” “All of my three children have left studies and are sitting idle at home,” said Sao. He said the former councillor of his ward helps him liaison with social organisations that arrange food grains for his family. “We have applied for ration cards several times earlier but not received the same and though received the foodgrains during the last year from PDS shop for three months as per government scheme but were deprived of the same this year,” said Sao. Echoing his sentiments, Shankar Sao, a 68-year-old fruit seller of Sabji Bagan locality of Jharia said, “My children have deserted me after the death of my wife three years ago and I somehow eke out my living by selling fruit at Bata More in Jharia but due to ill health as this age I could not go out daily and thus  have to sleep empty stomach sometimes” “At this age I am wary of my ill health and also keen on getting an Ayushman Card but without a card, I can’t get a ration card also” said Sao. Former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said,“Not only daily wage earners of coal pickers but such is situation that many private schools schools whose schools are lying closed since over 15 months and they are deprived of salary are also facing foodgrain crisis due to lack of ration cards” Activist Shyamal Mazumdar, who is also the district convenor of Path vikreta samanvaya Samiti  said, “Only 20% out of total 5000 street vendors are having the ration cards and rest are facing great difficulty in managing their life and many have left to their native places to carry out work in agricultural field etc. District Supply officer, Bhogendra Thakur, said, “ the entire process of ration card allotment is on line and as per our records there is no pending application for ration cards” “If any person has not received the ration card despite applying he can send the receipt or any other print out on my whatsapp number-7739407684 and we will ensure early allotment of ration card to them,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS named centre of excellence for tacking third wave of Covid-19||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will function as a centre of excellence to help the state combat a possible third wave of Covid-19 with three of its key departments working in tandem to monitor paediatric cases reported frm across the state, health officials said on Thursday. In a letter addressed to RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh stated that the  department of neonatology, department of paediatrics and Centre of Excellence for Management of SAM (Severely Acute Malnourished) Children would provide technical guidance for combatting Covid-19 cases among children and prepare protocols and guidelines. “As the premiere medical institution in Jharkhand, RIMS will also assist all private hospitals, public hospitals and child specialists working across the state,” the letter stated, adding that RIMS will provide daily updates to the department of health about the situation of Covid-19 among children during the third wave. RIMS has had to deal with lack of infrastructure and resources during the first and the second wave of Covid-19. Yet, it was  selected as the centre of excellence because of its position as the premiere healthcare facility in the state and its pool of experienced doctors, a health official explained. The health secretary had earlier stated that a third wave of Covid-19 may affect around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand and about 45,000 of them might need hospitalisation. The state, however, is dealing with a shortage of child specialists and has only 125 doctors with expertise in treating ailments in children. The state government has also asked administrations of all 24 districts to prepare a six-member team of doctors and nurses to manage intensive care units (ICUs) for children. The teams comprise two medical officers, two doctors and two staff nurses. These teams would be imparted special training in managing neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) and paediatrics intensive care u nits (PICUs), officials said. While the active caseload of Covid-19 has dropped in Jharkhand after enforcement of strict restrictions, doctors fear that any complacency at this stage could cause a surge in cases again. In the wake of the growing concern about a third wave, the government has set up special ICUs for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind the possibility that it could have an impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid positivity rate drops below 1 per cent after two months||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported a Covid-19 positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the first time since March as only 532 of the 59,510 people tested were found infected by Coronavirus on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The positivity rate in the state on Wednesday was 0.89 per cent. As per records with the state health department, the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate in Jharkhand was close to 10 per cent in April, but it dropped to around 2 per cent in the last week of the month. The state also reported 1272 Covid recoveries on Wednesday, which brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 7307, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of infection also dropped to 0.18 per cent in Jharkhand on the day against the national average of 0.39 per cent, while the recovery rate jumped to 96.36 per cent in the state against the national average of 92.50 per cent. While the active caseload and the growth rate dipped in the state, the Covid mortality rate continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Wednesday reported as many as 11 Covid casualties and at least seven of the victims died in Ranchi, the district which accounts for highest number of Covid casualties and cases in Jharkhand. So far, as many as 5011 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and at least 1564 of them breathed their last in Ranchi. Health officials said that several critical patients from across the state were referred to Ranchi for better health facilities and their deaths also contributed to the Covid toll here. While Ranchi reported 60 cases of Covid-19 against 198 recoveries, East Singhbhum reported 52 cases against 189 recoveries. As per NHM data, the active caseload in Ranchi stood at 2,126 and that in East Singhbhum was only 30. East Singhbhum also reported two Covid casualties on the day which took the toll there to 1012. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 27 cases against 75 recoveries while Hazaribag reported 46 cases against 107 recoveries. At least 49 people were found infected in Simdega while 46 Covid patients recovered there. As per government data, Ranchi was the only Jharkhand district with more than 1000 active cases of Covid-19. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 28,711 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,842 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
03-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand Congress carries out drive for free jabs ||After Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to provide vaccines for free to states on Monday, the state unit of the Congress carried out a social media campaign demanding free universal vaccination on Wednesday. “This is a part of our national campaign on social media, ‘Speak Up for Free Universal Vaccination’, demanding the Prime Minister to ensure free vaccination for all,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey. He said the campaign is being propagated through social media platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. “Since Independence, we have seen vaccination programme was carried out by the Union government by providing free vaccines to all,” said state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, adding that this was the first time the states were being asked to buy vaccines for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. All governments across the world give free vaccines, the minister further said, demanding that the Union government must provide them to all in India as well. Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who is also the chairman of the vaccination committee of the party, went to Bapu Batika at Morabadi grounds in Ranchi along with party colleagues Lal Kishore Nath Shahdeo, Rajesh Gupta and Dubey to take part in a Facebook Live programme on vaccination. “The Union government must declare a universal vaccination policy for providing free vaccines to all within a time frame,” Patralekh said. “When other countries were buying vaccines for their citizens, our country kept quiet and allowed our manufacturers to sell their vaccines abroad,” he alleged, adding that everyone should be vaccinated by the end of this year. If the vaccination programme continues at the current pace, it will take a few years to be completed, Shahdeo said, demanding that jabs for all be expedited. “The government that favours ‘one nation, one taxation’ policy should also follow ‘one nation, one vaccination’ policy and ensure free universal vaccination,” he further said, criticising the Centre for asking the states to buy Covid vaccines for the 18 to 44 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
