04-06-2021||Calcutta||Final journey in a Covid world||Death is hard on the families of the deceased in the best of times. Amid a pandemic, it is proving to be an ordeal. The passing of their loved one sets them off on a trail beginning with countless calls to the corporation, crematorium, morgue or burial ground and continues with search for a priest, more so if the family members are quarantined and are unable to perform last rites in person. With a spike in fatalities brought about by the second wave of Covid-19, it is a challenge even for the administration, what with long queues at the crematories under neighbouring municipal areas and burial grounds filling up fast. Hapless families Last week, the family members of an AC Block resident, who passed away late at night, had to run from pillar to post to perform the last rites. The family called up the corporation helpline numbers but nobody responded, even as the body remained in their house for several hours. They then got in touch with a family friend who in turn contacted a resident of EE Block, Partha Chakraborty. “Since no doctor was sent by the civic body, I requested a doctor from our block to come along and issue a death certificate,” said Chakraborty. They kept calling the corporation numbers for the hearse but there was no response. “I then called the Sreebhumi Sporting Club for their hearse and finally the family members could set out for the last rites well after 3.30am,” said Chakraborty. There is also the extreme case of an 85-year-old Covid patient’s body that remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate for at least 19 hours before the Corporation removed it for cremation. Other problems also crop up. A software professional working in New Town, who was down with Covid when his father expired at CNCI on May 6, is being asked to collect the cremation certificate from Baduria Municipality. “My office is a stone’s throw away from NKDA which will finally issue the death certificate but I have to drive 60km from home with only Google map to guide me as I have no idea where Baduria is,” said the man, requesting anonymity. He is one of many paying the price of far-away cremation. “Another person, whose relative too had died at CNCI was directed to Basirhat Municipality in my presence,” he said. Queue at burning ghat The last journey of residents who succumb to Covid-19 is being handled by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) in Salt Lake and parts of Rajarhat, and by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in New Town, in co-ordination with the state health department. But mounting pressure at different burning ghats over the last several weeks is leading to hearses having to wait for hours in queue. Around early May, the BMC had to deal with about 24-25 deaths daily in its area, including those in hospitals. An official recalled that the casualty count had touched 30 on a day just before stricter state-wide curbs were introduced. Kusum Adhikary, a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department, said that bodies of people, especially those who pass away at home, are being removed by the civic body upon intimation by the family members. “We are using two hearses of the civic body and have also roped in private operators to do the same,” he said. With neither BMC nor NKDA having a cremation facility, the bodies are being taken to different burning ghats across the city as well as its fringes, including Nimtala, Dhapa, Khardah, Gobardanga and Naihati. “There are huge delays as most of these crematories are getting bodies from all across the city as well as the fringes. On most days, hearses are forced to queue up in front of these facilities and family members get stuck for hours before they can perform the last rites,” Adhikary said. “Barring Nimtala and Dhapa, most of the burning ghats are quite far off and it takes at least an hour to just get there for the hearses. Once there, most crematories have waiting lists and despite our best efforts in finding slots it is sometimes taking nearly eight hours for a hearse to get back,” said Adhikary. Burial space filling up The Bagmari Muslim Burial Ground, a stone’s throw from Salt Lake, is working overtime to give a final resting place to the deceased. “A portion of the ground has been set aside and cordoned off for Covid bodies,” said Fazlur Kabir, the person in charge who has only gone home once since March last year. The earmarked space, he says, can accommodate about 1,500 but about 1,350 have already been buried here — some 850 last year and 500 this year. “If this space is used up, new arrangements have to be made. Burial space is usually reused after some years but the rules for Covid cases is unclear. The bodies need to be buried at a depth of 10ft, a few feet deeper than normal deaths, to reduce the chance of infection. In the pre-Covid era, Kabir says they would get 150 to 200 bodies a month, which boils down to an average of about six bodies a day. “Now we are getting seven or eight daily Covid bodies alone. This is still less than the nightmare of March-April, when we were getting about 22 Covid bodies a day,” said Kabir. Drivers in despair Shyamal Jana, a Covid-hearse driver said he starts his day at around 8am and on most days reaches his Duttabad home after 11pm. “Once the corporation officials get a call, they scramble to find a slot in a burning ghat. If they find one, we drive over to the house and pick up the body. In Dhapa and Nimtala, the wait time is comparatively lower but if we are sent to the other burning ghats we never know when we'll be back,” said Jana. Apart from the wait at the crematories, wrapping up the body in plastic also takes time and the fact that the hearse drivers cannot take off their PPE suits makes the wait stifling. “It feels like sitting in a pressure cooker. We sweat profusely but can’t take the suits off. On most days, I have oral rehydration salts (ORS) once I’m back home,” said Jana, who packed off his wife and family to his in-laws’ place since last year itself. An NKDA official recalled how hearse drivers had been up in arms in the recent past, having to wait for hours or travel from one burning ghat to the other while getting paid a fixed amount for one trip, irrespective of the distance covered or time taken. Morgues full Another civic official cited instances when bodies could not be picked up from their houses for more than 12 hours. “Several cases have taken place in Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Kaikhali and Baguiati. We try our best but can do little as we have a limited number of hearses that on most days are being able to complete only a couple of trips,” he said. In the event a body cannot be cremated, it is again a mad scramble to find a morgue. “We then try to find the nearest morgue in government hospitals but they are usually full too so we have to send the hearse to a morgue anywhere in the city where there is space.” It is turning into a logistical nightmare, the official added. Long drive to Kamarhati With Calcutta Municipal Corporation crematories unable to take extra load from areas outside its premises, two burning ghats were officially assigned by the government at the start of the second wave to handle the cremation of the deceased in Bidhannagar and New Town — Ariadaha Shibtala Smashan Ghat, under Kamarhati Municipality, and Nathupal Smashan Ghat in Khardah. Of the two, the Kamarhati one is closer. But the ghat has just one electric furnace. “There are 17-18 Covid bodies coming daily. On top of that, there is an equal number or more of non-Covid deaths in our area. We have to accommodate the dead from Sagar Dutta Hospital and ESI Hospital, which are treating Covid patients. Often we are tagged to hospitals under North Dum Dum Municipality and in New Town and Bidhannagar as well. We try to split the time between Covid and non-Covid cremations as Covid bodies, being infectious, come wrapped in plastic and need to be handled carefully,” Tushar Chatterjee, member of the Board of Administrators and former vice-chairman of Kamarhati Municipality told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Sanitisation has to take place for half an hour before the cremation of the non-Covid bodies can start, which have relatives accompanying them. “Usually the night hours are reserved for the Covid dead,” he added. A maximum of five are allowed at Covid cremations but few or none come when the family is under quarantine. When the queue gets too long at Shibtala Ghat, the authorities offer the relatives of the deceased the option of wooden pyres at Pituri Ghat, about 4-5km away. “We have taken permission from the government to run two pyres and can also add a third if needed. This way, six-seven bodies can be cremated here in a day,” Tushar said. Once the number of Covid deaths increased in recent months, the district nodal officer started collecting the information from hospitals and municipal nodal officers, and allocated the bodies among the available crematories, including Baranagar, Halisahar and Panihati. The system is continuing even now. In case of non-Covid deaths, a BMC official pointed out, the families are free to take them to any non-Covid crematorium across the city. “For the Covid deaths at home, we try to allocate them to Dhapa and Nimtala as these handle Covid bodies round the clock. Otherwise, the families would have to wait till evening which is when the other burning ghats allow Covid cremations. A hospital can preserve a body for five or six hours, not a family at home,” the official pointed out. More deaths, more furnaces The number of new infections has gradually dipped after stricter restrictions were imposed on May 15, so has the number of deaths. The BMC area is reporting 15-16 Covid deaths on an average now every day, which is about half of what it was having to tackle earlier. The start of the week saw zero fatalities on two consecutive days. But the authorities are gearing up, what with a third wave of Covid-19 being predicted. A proposal to build three electric furnaces at Pituri Ghat has been accepted. “KMDA officials have completed the inspection and a DPR (Detailed Project Report) has been drawn up. We plan to run two furnaces and keep one on stand by,” the former Kamarhati Municipality vice-chairman said. The plan of the standby furnace is a lesson learnt from experience. Furnaces are being run round the clock due to the spike in death toll. A month ago, the sole furnace at Shibtala Ghat malfunctioned while two months ago, one of the two furnaces broke down at neighbouring Panihati. “It takes three to four days for a furnace to cool down to normal temperature after being shut. Repairs can take place only after that. So a broken furnace means at least a week’s stoppage of service,” Tushar explained. Other factors can also impede the process like an agitation in Panihati where residents were unhappy with the rise in Covid bodies reaching the local crematory from distant areas. The recently elected Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee had pledged to build a crematorium in his constituency. “It will be a Rs 2.5crore project. I will build it from my own resources,” he said. The Hajratola burning ghat in Golashia, on four bighas of land by a canal donated by a private donor, does exist but it is a primitive one, using wooden logs. Before the pandemic, therefore, most locals preferred to go to the Nimtala burning ghat in north Calcutta. The ghat has ample space to accommodate electric furnaces, the legislator said. Now Nimtala is overwhelmed with Calcutta’s Covid deaths. “It took a lot of persuasion for KMC to agree to take a maximum of four bodies from us after we pointed out that hospitals in our area also have casualties from Calcutta whose family would prefer cremation closer home rather than in North 24-Parganas,” said an NKDA official. Now the NKDA’s four-tiered hearse makes a single trip to a KMC burning ghat in the evening. NKDA has been trying to build a crematorium in New Town. “We had earmarked a plot near the Hanuman Temple behind Eco Park about four months ago but local villagers got wind from the placard put up on the plot and protested. We had to back out,” recalled an official. Now with the rise in deaths and residents facing harassment in the absence of a local crematorium, the plan is being fast tracked, with a plot identified behind the New Town campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, which is functioning as a Covid hospital. It is supposed to have four electric furnaces. “It will be a state-of-the-art facility with zero pollution. The 7.5acre land, close to a Muslim burial ground, is not part of the township but is connected to it. It was acquired years ago for the Asian Highway project which did not materialise. It will also have a mortuary in case the number of bodies in queue exceeds the number of furnaces,” the official said. But some residents of Action Area 1D are upset even with that location and have met NKDA officials protesting the move. Online funeral Families are also struggling to give the deceased a decent farewell. Not only are priests finding it difficult to travel in the lockdown but they are also scared to visit homes of the Covid dead since the rest of the family is usually still positive. “I’m not going over anymore,” says Samsundar Chakraborty, a priest who used to frequent the township before the pandemic. “I’m asking families to head to maths or the ghats where priests usually linger around. They are doing a bare minimum puja and then I’m performing an elaborate one 45 days later or for the batsorik a year. By then, the family has tested negative and it is safe to go over.” Joydeb Bhattacharjee used to perform lots of pujas in AA Block, Karunamoyee, Kwality More and Kestopur but ever since the pandemic peaked he has left his local accommodation and returned to his hometown near Kolaghat. “I had fixed a car rental from here to take me for my work but now that Calcutta is a hotbed of Covid, they have refused to go over,” he says. The priest can only visit homes now if the families send a car and if they assure him they are Covid-negative. “I had conducted a virtual funeral a while back but it wasn’t easy. They couldn’t hear or see me properly, we were getting logged out halfway through mantras... It was no way to conduct last rites but there was no option,” Bhattacharjee sighs. Rabindranath Bhattacharya has become a master of online funerals now, having conducted about 10 of them. “It’s difficult to explain every step to the families and it takes much longer than usual — about five hours. But it’s better than not having a funeral at all. The families are finding some sort of closure, even if with the bare minimum rituals,” says the priest who is still going over to conduct in-person funerals for non-Covid deaths. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Trees shifted, not felled, for Metro project in New Town||For days in the middle of May, people passing by the New Town bus stand were taken aback by the sight of full-grown trees being uprooted. Many expressed discontent, while some assumed it to be a precautionary measure for Cyclone Yaas, that was scheduled to hit the state on May 26. It turns out that it was done to clear the Island for construction work of the New Garia-Airport Metro. The station, now called Bidhannagar and proposed to be renamed as Nazrul Tirtha, is located adjacent to the spot, across the Major Arterial Road. “The approach to the station will be from both sides of the road. The stairs and the elevator will come up from the Island. A similar construction will take place on the other side too. Since the eight trees were in the way we had to shift them,” said Subhas Basu, joint general manager, civil, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL). The Cafe Ekante stall is also being shifted. According to Metro sources, trimming of the branches started on May 13 but the shifting was delayed due to the restrictions imposed on May 15. The exercise was finally undertaken on May 23. The trees, in accordance with Hidco rules, have been relocated. “We kept the root system intact and replanted them in the central business district, behind The Westin Kolkata Rajarhat, after preparing the soil pits with growth hormones. Bamboo pole reinforcements were also put in place to guard against the trees falling in storms,” the official said. Such re-plantations have taken place earlier also, a Metro official said. About 25 other full-grown trees which had to make way for Metro work have been shifted behind the CRPF camp to the right of the Akhankha crossing. Some have found space in Eco Park too. Pictures courtesy: RVNL and by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents no longer need to queue up at hospitals for vaccine ||The long wait for the vaccine is over. Residents no longer need to queue up at hospitals from 2am as blocks and associations have started tying up with private healthcare facilities to arrange for vaccination camps at community halls. Perhaps the first such in Salt Lake was at AJ Block on May 30. “We had tied up with Techno India Dama hospital, on EM Bypass, as it wasn’t possible for our residents to queue up for jabs from the crack of dawn,” said block president Tapan Kumar Ghosh. “Our youths did the legwork and made this camp possible in a matter of two days.” The hospital required a minimum of 100 people to register but the Google Form floated among residents ended with double the number. Residents were called to the community hall in different time slots and after their Covishield jabs, were handed printed certificates of the same. Registration process Blocks like AJ and CD figured online registration would be the easiest and formed volunteer groups to help out anyone who was not Net savvy. Blocks like BE went with in-person registrations at the community hall. “We held our registrations over the weekend, where people came over, made payments and got their doubts cleared,” said secretary, Salt Lake BE Block Nagarik Sangha, Narottam Dutta. “We began with a target of 250 people but ended with double the figure. We still had to refuse many from other blocks, Lake Town, Beleghata etc.” Their camp on Thursday provided people the first jab. GC Block had floated online forms too but, given the panic around, realised that registered people would get the jab from elsewhere if it happened sooner than their camp. “That would put us in a spot with the hospital. So we held a two-day registration camp at the community hall over the weekend and took the payment in advance,” said executive committee member Jhumpa Ghosh. GC Block community hall has also set up an oxygen parlour, complete with beds and cylinders, but since no patients have come in yet, the setup was rearranged to make space for the vaccination camp on Thursday. FE Block, which held its camp on Thursday, had booked 500 jabs with Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals but exceeded the number. “We had to book an extra 100 jabs later,” an organiser said. They put out an online form on their block app and also had in-person registration, collecting Rs 1000 in advance. Those who could neither register online nor come had volunteers go over to their doorstep. Those with mobility problems were offered transportation to the inoculation site. Quota for free jabs While most camps are charging around Rs 1,000 per jab, depending on the sum quoted by the hospital, Thursday’s camp at CB Block community hall provided 300 jabs free of cost. “About 750 people had registered for this camp, mainly from the local ward 39 but also from elsewhere,” said Rajesh Chirimar, local ward co-ordinator of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. He is also associated with the two bodies that jointly organised the camp — Siddhartha Shankar Ray Foundation and Nandlal Chirimar Memorial Trust. “Out of these 750, we identified 300 people who are needy, from added areas like Duttabad. The government is inoculating super spreaders like hawkers so we focussed on their families and ensured they get jabs for free,” added Chirimar. BE Block had some free slots for domestic helps too. About a dozen elderly residents of FE Block who could not pay in full had the rest of the amount subsidised by the organisers. The residents are relieved to get the jabs. Parikshit Munsi was first in line at the AJ Block camp on Sunday. “My parents have got both their jabs but I could never book myself a slot on the Cowin app. I’m lucky to live in a block that was proactive enough to organise this camp and doubly lucky to be the first one to get it,” he said. Health workers too approve of the decentralisation. “Since hospitals are treating Covid patients, residents are scared to come over for jabs fearing infection. So camps like these, at their doorsteps, are a great alternative,” said Satabddi Mukherjee, assistant professor of Techno India University’s School of Nursing. She was at AJ Block and this was her first vaccination drive out of the hospital. More camps on the anvil Since hundreds of residents are getting their first shot at the community halls around this time, the associations are contemplating repeat camps for their second dose 90 days later. And since enquiries are still coming in, blocks may take a call on holding more drives for the first dose too. Most hospitals need a minimum of 100 people to sign up and when GC Block announced their camp, they were not sure if they could meet the target. “But then block residents, their relatives and friends from all over came up and we couldn’t refuse them. We ended up with 400 names,” says Jhumpa. “We shall decide whether another camp is needed.” AA Block When: June 5 Tie-up with: AMRI Hospitals Which dose: Both first and second Bookings: Have closed. They were done through phone calls and a form that had to be filled up. Jabs for: 500 people Open to: All. ‘We took registrations on a first come first serve basis. Everyone needs the vaccine and it wouldn’t be right to deprive someone just because they don’t live in our block,’ says AA Block secretary Partha Chakraborty. Which vaccine: Covishiled for Rs 1,200. “Many residents are asking for Covaxin too but the hospital is unable to provide the option,” says Chakraborty. CD Block When: June 5, 6 Tie-up with: Millennium Health Care for May 5 and Apollo Hospitals for May 6. “We had initially tied up with another hospital but after signing up and even collecting money from residents, the hospital backed out saying they were out of vaccines,” said executive committee member Arunabha Hazra. “We scouted numerous hospitals to bail us out and finally local ward co-ordinator Tulsi Sinha Roy helped us seal the deal with Millennium on Tuesday night. The next morning Apollo came on board too.” Which dose: Both first and second Jabs for: Millennium Health Care will inoculate 400 people, Apollo Hospitals 300 people Bookings: Have closed. “We collected data over Google Forms and formed a group of volunteers to help out anyone who wasn’t net savvy,” said Hazra. Open to: Residents and friends of the block. Domestic helps and drivers were eligible too. Which vaccine: Covishield at about Rs 1,000 CJ Block When: June 6 Tie-up with: AMRI Hospitals Which dose: First Jabs for: 210 people. “There are more who want jabs but we don’t want to crowd the palce. We may hold another camp for others soon,” said secretary Raj Kumar Ghosh. Bookings: Have closed. Payment and Cowin registrations have also been completed to speed up the process on Sunday. “We have requested Amri to send enough staff to allow three people to be vaccinated at a time,” said Ghosh. Open to: First preference was block residents, including domestic helps, drivers etc. “But we got many people from CG, BJ, AL blocks and Karunamoyee and couldn’t refuse them. It’s not enough that those in my house are safe. Neighbours need to be safe too. We accommodated as many as possible from other blocks,” said Ghosh. Which vaccine: Covishield at Rs 950 HA Block When: June 11, 15 Tie-up with: Techno India Dama hospital Which dose: Both first and second Bookings: Will be open at HA Block community hall on June 6 and 7, 6 to 8pm. Payment and Cowin registration are to be done then. Jabs for: 800 people Open to: All. “Response has been overwhelming,” said executive committee member Tarasankar Chatterjee. “People are tired of waiting for hours to get their jabs. This is why we have decided to keep the service open to everyone, not just block residents.” Which vaccine: Covishield at Rs 1,200 An egg curry, a potato dish and dal served with rice is being offered for Rs 5 at the NKDA Market opposite Greenwood Park in Action Area 1 from Wednesday. Those wanting to partake of this lunch would have to collect a token from Ma Canteen between 9am and 10am. Lunch will be served there from 1pm to 3pm. “Our country’s unemployment index has risen from eight to 14 per cent. The minister had directed us to start a canteen in our first meeting on May 11. We are giving out 100 tokens daily. The district magistrate and the food department has given us 1.5 metric tonne rice as a month’s supply,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Twenty people were served lunch at the inauguration on Tuesday. Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||A smashing success||It was high-energy, competitive and lots of fun. Weeks before the current lockdown, residents of Uniworld City took part in a volleyball league that was its fifth edition and the first time women took part too. Uniworld Volleyball League had five teams in the women’s category and eight teams in the men’s. The women’s teams had seven players in all — six on-field players and a substitute. Their matches consisted of three sets in which, the first two sets were of 25 points and the last set was of 15 points. The men’s teams had six on-field players and seven substitutes. Their games had five sets of 21 points each. Women on top The final in the women’s category was between Net Assassins and Blitz. Net Assassins comprised players from diverse age groups whereas Blitz comprised of the veterans, most of whom were above 40 years of age. The game started with Net Assassins picking up two points from the first two serves. The setters and smashers did not have much to do as the ball could not be received by anyone from Blitz. Two time-outs were allowed per set and that was when players from Blitz were making changes in strategy to counter the opposition. The tactics did not help much as Net Assassins won the first set with a score line of 25-16. Blitz had to win this set to be in the game and that was when the server Poonam Yadav was making long serves to make it difficult for players from Net Assassins to make the returns. The setter from Net Assassins, Aarushi Sarda played a big role in lifting the shots up high so her teammates could return with smashes or placements. A methodical change to control the pace of the game helped Net Assassins as they won the second set 25-15 to further win the game. “We were playing against a very young team. For us, making it to the final was an achievement in itself and our aim was to fight till the end. We lost but ,” said Laiza Boney, captain of Blitz. The players from Net Assassins were delighted to win the match through two sets instead of three. “We had been winning the league games and won all matches till the final. The change in weather did come with its challenges but in the end we as a team did overcome all the odds and win the game,” said Meera Joseph, captain of Net Assassins. Men fight it out The men’s final was between Raiders and Team X. Both the teams had very high expectations from the respective servers and smashers. With Baljeet Singh, server of Team X, serving towards the sides of the mid-zone, it was tough for Jayanta Shaw, the setter of Raiders, to go out of court and lift the ball for his teammates to smash or return. The close range blocks from either team helped on not giving away points but it was Raiders who won the first set 21-17. The second set started with aggressive shots from Team X and there was a huge dependency on the smasher and captain, Anshuman Singh, to score points for the team. Team X was scoring points through this strategy but in one of the shots returned by Raiders, Anshuman jumped high only to sprain a muscle. This would prevent him from playing effectively for the rest of the game. Raiders won the second set with a better scoreline of 21-15. The third set was intense for both sides as a win for Team X would keep them in the game but a loss would crown the Raiders. Players from Raiders got more defensive in this particular set and ensured that the long balls were returned short. This led to points coming in which ultimately led them to win the set with a scoreline of 21-17 and further win the match. “Initially we didn’t have a setter during the first few league matches and didn’t perform too well in the group stage. But once we got a setter we could score points as the returns were lifted up for smashes,” said Anshuman, captain of Team X. “We expected the same to happen today but my injury turned against us.” The captain of Raiders, Trinanjan Maity, credited the bonding of his teammates for the win. “We have been featuring in the finals for the last three years and this is our second consecutive win in Uniworld Volleyball League,” he smiled. “We had a balanced performance in the group stage with four three-set wins and the co-ordination between our server, setter and smasher was fantastic.” The closing ceremony was preceded by a dance performance where women shook a leg to Bollywood songs. Finally, there were trophies for emerging players, best setters, individual awards for runners-up and winners along with the team trophies. Jayanta, who was the setter from Raiders as well as an organiser, won the best setter for the third consecutive year. “We are overwhelmed with the kind of participation we got. No doubt we had fantastic games in both the categories and going forward, we would like to see more women take part in this tournament,” said Shaw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
04-06-2021||Calcutta||How I got my pet dogs ||January 6 is a red letter day for the Shahs. Not only is it the birthday of their first dog Kutkut but it is while planning her birthday in 2017 that they met their second dog Zoya. Both dogs came into their lives unexpectedly and chose them rather than the other way round. “A neighbour had to leave town for a week and was wondering if we would keep his three-month-old German Shepherd Dog. While I was speaking to the neighbour the puppy came and started nibbling at my feet. ‘Kya kutkut kar raho ho?’ I asked and she was christened,” smiles Bhawna Shah. In seven days, Kutkut bonded so well with Bhawna that she refused to return to her original owner once he came back. She became family. Then a few years later when the family was planning Kutkut’s birthday party on January 6, they heard of a neighbour who had lots of dogs. “We went over to invite them for the party and got to meet and play with his many dogs, including a friendly St Bernard puppy,” she says. Sadly, the owner of those dogs abandoned them some months later and again, the Shahs were delighted to take the St Bernard Zoya in. Bhawna’s daughter Yukta named her Zoya, and Kutkut, despite being possessive of Bhawna, welcomed the puppy like an elder sister. “Zoya would be beaten, abused and starved by her old owner. When she came to us you could count her ribs,” Bhawna says. Now Kutkut is the disciplined dog and Zoya the spoilt brat. Kutkut likes her space and Zoya cannot be away from people. “She’s especially attached to my husband Sandeep and follows him even if he steps out of the room for a minute. If he goes to the washroom she’ll lie outside with her nose against the door,” Bhawna laughs. Her daughter Yukta loves the dogs so much that she hand feeds them every meal. The dogs are enjoying the lockdown as they have the whole family around all day. The Shahs have also been feeding some 35 dogs in Vedic Village since March last year. “Out of these, six now live in our garden and have become play mates of Kutkut and Zoya,” says Bhawna. “In fact, they are almost our pets too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Showtime after a break||In the brief period between the first and second waves of Covid, when things had begun to normalise, a pet show was hosted at AB-AC Park. This would be the ninth and 10th shows for Bidhannagar New Town Rajarhat Dog Lovers’ Association, along with a hound specialty show. “It was a challenge holding a meet like this amidst a pandemic but then we got more participants than usual – nearly 100 dogs,” said secretary Subhankar Basu. “One reason could be that pointed dog shows were all cancelled this year and so dog owners got their pets here to keep them in practice.” Sanghita Ghosh’s Dobermann took home the best in show prize in both the rings but there were many more canines to look out for — Name game Not Pasta, not Pesto, this adorable Beagle answered to the call of Posto! “My sister had wanted to name him Pesto derived from her favourite food Pasta, but our grandma would have none of that,” smiled college student Satwik Sen. “Since he belongs to a Bengali family, she said our dog would be called Posto, Bengali for poppy.” Posto is a pandemic puppy and though naughty, his family is glad they have been home to pet and pamper him this last one year. All in the eyes First, visitors got transfixed seeing two beautiful Siberian Huskies – Zara and Jojo. Then upon a closer look, they got transfixed seeing Jojo’s two eyes. His right eye was a shade of brown that matched his coat and his left eye was the colour of the clear blue sky. Owner Madhumita Sengupta said the dogs were not just magnificent but also mischievous. “So mischievous that they even have to be trained separately,” she laughed. “The dogs love people and so enjoy coming to shows.” Tiny terror Choco may look as cute as a button but give him a chance and he’ll reveal the Doberman inside him. “We had got a Miniature Pinscher as we needed a guard dog to watch over my mom and grandmom. But his size would have to be compact enough for the ladies to take on walks,” said Agniva Gupta, a PhD student who also has a female Miniature Pinscher at home. Indian legacy Few could guess that Rangabati was a Caravan Hound but owner Sukanta Thakur gladly educated everyone about the breed. “These dogs were originally companions of gypsies in the Maharashtra region. They are used to running miles in the heat and hence prefer summer to winter. Which other breed can be better suited for India?” asked the resident of Konnagar. “Today foreigners are beginning to take interest in Indian hounds but sadly these dogs are mostly bred by farmers along with cows and buffaloes and they aren’t savvy enough to market them in the dog circuit,” said Thakur, who is looking for a mate for Rangabati. Big guy The largest dog at the show, perhaps, was James, a year-old Great Dane who had made the journey all the way from Asansol. “We have huge space there and 26 dogs, who run and play to their heart’s content,” said Aparup Acharya. Kids dared one another to go close to James or click selfies with him. James calmly obliged everyone and even posed for awe-struck visitors by resting his front legs on his Acharya’s shoulders to display his height and might. Love bites CJ was a handsome Golden Retriever of AC Block who went to everyone who called out to him. “Don’t worry, he’s friendly,” said owner Rahul Chopra. “He only bites me!” CJ was a name decided by Chopra’s son but ever since the young man left for Dubai, Chopra and the Retriever give each other company. “He takes great care of me, but play-bites me a lot,” Chopra laughed, showing scars on his hands. Fond and familiar Another dog that had everyone guessing his breed was Cassius. The two-year-old bundle of energy was a Jack Russell Terrier, rare in Calcutta but familiar to all. It is dogs of this breed we have seen on the HMV logo, playing the role of Jim Carrey’s pet Milo in The Mask and walking the red carpet at the Oscars for the 2011 film The Artist. For Manoj Kamath, however, it’s not celebrity status but nature that mattered. “I got a female Jack Russell Terrier as a gift some time back. She is so loving and lovable that I got a male next — Cassius.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Speech Bubble contest result||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Queue for food grows longer, shows depth of distress||The queues for food are growing longer in and around the city. Many people waiting in the queues had a fixed income — drivers, office attendants, housekeeping personnel, guards and ayahs. They have been put out of work — most of them temporarily — by the stringent Covid-19 curbs imposed to combat the second surge. The loss of that income and the fear of an uncertain future has brought these people together in queues with daily wage earners, for the second time in two years. Most of them had never survived on free food before the lockdown last year. “I was extremely embarrassed to stand in a queue last year. I had gone to the club that had organised the free ration drive in the evening with my token. But I stood in the queue with everyone else this time,” said a 37-year-old man, who lives in Taratala. The man, who did not want to be named, drove private cars for a living. He was enrolled in a driver centre in Behala and got at least one assignment every day before March 2020. As the Covid curbs were relaxed last year, he started getting calls from the same centre. But the second wave and the subsequent curbs put him out of work again. His late father was a peon in a government office and his mother still gets a family pension. But that is barely enough for the family of four, including the driver’s wife and younger sister, a Class VIII student. “I have not stood in queues for cooked food but for dry ration — rice, daal, potato and soybean,” said the man. Amit Das, who lives in Gobindapur Railway Colony near Tollygunge railway station, has taken cooked food as well as dry ration since May 16, the day the stringent curbs came into force. The 39-year-old works as an “office attendant” at a financial consultancy in Poddar Court. His job includes upkeep of the office and visiting banks. He gets a salary of Rs 8,500 but no work means no pay. His employer has been “kind enough” to give him 15 days’ salary for May. He is not out of cash yet but still stands in queues for food because he is not sure of the future. “Who knows what’s in store? What if the curbs get extended? People are already talking about a third wave. I am trying to save whatever little money I can,” he said. When he was out of work for months last year, Das sold vegetables at a local market. If the curbs this year get extended beyond June, he plans to do the same thing. People at the helm of food distribution drives said that during the lockdown last year, a large number of those who received food were migrant labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand, who were stranded in Calcutta. “That segment has declined this time. Most migrant labourers have gone home. But along with muityas (people who load and unload goods in markets) van-pullers, labourers and ragpickers, the number of lower-middle class people taking the help has been on the rise this time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of IHA Foundation, which has been providing cooked food and dry ration to hundreds of people every day. Ahluwalia said people who had a fixed income preferred taking dry rations than cooked meals. One such recipient is Manish Sharma, a 36-year-old resident of Bally in Howrah. Sharma used to work with a courier company’s office in Uttarpara as an office attendant on a no-work-no-pay basis. He has been sitting at home since May 16. His salary of Rs 8,000 was not enough for his family, which includes his parents, wife and two sons. His family has a house. Sharma’s father had some provident fund savings but almost all of it got spent during the lockdown last year. “July last year was the first time I stood in a queue for ration. But this time, I took the help I got right from the beginning,” said Sharma, who has been running errands to earn whatever he can for the past fortnight. Zeeshan Majeed of the Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation has been providing dry ration as well as cooked meals in and around Calcutta. A few weeks ago, he received a call on a helpline number. The caller, who lived in a standalone apartment near the Technicians’ Studio in Kudghat, said he had “lost his job with a private company”. In a WhatsApp message that Majeed shared with this newspaper, the caller requested for dry ration which was delivered in a couple of days. “I keep getting requests from such people, who have either lost their jobs or don’t earn anything if they don’t go to work,” said Majeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||No Covid jabs in vaccine centres run by Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation||The majority of vaccine centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation have not been administering Covid-19 shots over the past couple of weeks, an official of the civic body said. The corporation runs nine vaccine centres across 41 wards covering Salt Lake, Duttabad, Baguiati, Ashwininagar, Narayanpur, Deshbandhunagar and other areas. On Thursday, only a primary health centre in Duttabad administered around 100. The rest turned away hundreds of people. “We had to suspend vaccination at eight of our centres, including three hospitals — Matri Sadan in Salt Lake, Matri Sadan in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matri Sadan in Deshbandhunagar — as there were no supplies,” said an official of the BMC’s health department. The official said most vaccine centres of the civic body had not been vaccinating over the past two weeks because of shortage of doses. However, the civic body has not put up any signage on the gates of the centres or issued any notice that eight of the nine centres would not administer doses on Thursday. Biswajit Ganguly, 67, a resident of Salt Lake’s EE Block, went to Vidyasagar Matri Sadan at 9am to queue up for his second shot. He returned home at 4pm after the hospital authorities said no doses had arrived. “There were at least 70 people in the queue. Most were elderly residents. The hospital authorities initially said they were waiting for the supplies. Around 3.30pm, a man came out and said that no one would be vaccinated today,” Ganguly said. As soon as the authorities made the announcement, people in the queue started arguing with the officials. “After making us wait for hours, they suddenly announced that vaccination had been suspended for the day. They could have informed us earlier. Many in the queue were senior citizens like me who were waiting for the second shot for days,” said Abhishek Naskar, 76, a resident of Rajarhat. An official of the BMC’s health department said they were not being able to put up signage or tell people earlier that they would not be vaccinated on Thursday because they were in the dark about supplies. “We were not getting any information. What if doses came after we had announced that we were suspending operations,” the official said. An official of the state health department said he would enquire with the North 24-Parganas administration why the BMC was not stepping up vaccination. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, on the other hand, is administering doses from around 140 centres across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel meets second time, no decision on higher secondary grades||The committee formed to suggest ways to assess Bengal’s higher secondary candidates met for the second time on Thursday but failed to arrive at a decision on the way forward. Set up on Wednesday, the committee held its first meeting the same day. Sources in the education department said there was “no unanimity” at Thursday’s meeting. One opinion was to hold the school-leaving exams on a smaller scale on digital platforms. The other was to avoid them altogether. The overriding medical opinion was that full-scale Class XII exams, which around 10 lakh students are expected to write, should be avoided. Those opposed to holding any exam on campus, even of a reduced duration, argued that this would amount to exposing the children, who have yet to be vaccinated against Covid, to infection. According to sources, a member said many examinees were below 18 years and, therefore, fell outside the ambit of vaccination. Exposing an examinee, who is unvaccinated and, hence, unprotected, would heighten the health risk, the member is said to have contended. According to the member, ensuring sanitisation of all the exam venues amid the second wave would be impossible. “Although the member could not suggest what could be the alternative model, he advised against holding tests on the campus,” said an official of the education department. Sources in the education department said that in April, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das, had proposed to the education department to take steps to get the examinees vaccinated so they could write the test in June. However, the schedule of the exam was pushed back to July last week. Another opinion that emerged at the meeting was to let the candidates take the test on digital platforms from their homes following the model being applied at the colleges and the universities. The member, who gave the proposal, said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in December transferred Rs 10,000 to the account of each of the 9.5 lakh Class XII students of government or government-aided schools to buy tablets or smartphones for online classes. The member said students could be asked to write a test with the help of the device, said an official of the school education department. The Telegraph had reported on December 23 that as companies expressed inability to supply such a large number of devices on time, a decision was taken to transfer the funds. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said it would be difficult to find out whether all students had procured the devices as the chief minister desired. “Besides, it is not only about having tabs. One has to have data packs as well. Only last week, the houses of thousands of people were ravaged across the coastal belts in Bengal following Cyclone Yaas. The families include some of the examinees.” During Thursday’s meeting, it was also proposed that the HS students could be assessed based on the performance over the past two years. These students had last appeared for any assessment on the campus in March 2021, when they had written Class XI annual exams in a truncated way because of the pandemic. Class XII students returned to the campuses when the schools reopened on February 12 for a period of two months, to attend practical classes for the lab-based subjects and projects for the non-lab based subjects. Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers association, said: “If the committee is deliberating on the proposal, we would say this is not a feasible idea. The syllabus has long been bifurcated. The syllabuses of Classes XI and XII are absolutely compartmentalised. You cannot assess a Class XII student based on the performance of Class XI.” The committee is supposed to submit its report to the school education department on Friday. An official of the department said the report would be shared with the chief minister before taking any call on the way forward. This Wednesday, a committee was set up on how higher secondary candidates can be assessed, a day after the Delhi boards scrapped their school-leaving exams this year because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Demand for non-Covid ICU beds on the rise in city hospitals ||The non-Covid critical care units at most private hospitals are filling up fast at a time when the demand for Covid beds is going down, said officials. Doctors and officials of several private hospitals said apart from people suffering from cardiac problems, strokes and other conditions, many patients suffering from post-Covid complications are coming back to hospital and some of them are in need of critical care beds. Also, some people suffering from Covid need critical care even after testing negative for the disease and they are being shifted from the Covid ICU to the non-Covid ICU. Most hospitals have not resumed elective surgeries but emergency procedures like angioplasty (performed to remove blocks in coronary arteries), or orthopedic and neurosurgery are taking place along with cancer surgeries. For the last couple of months, when Covid cases were surging across the country, there were only a few non-Covid patients as many were scared to get admitted to hospital. But now, they have started coming back, and many need critical care because of the delay, said doctors. Some hospitals are planning to switch some Covid critical care beds to non-Covid beds but others said they would not be able to do so because the CCUs in both sections were full. Peerless Hospital has 41 critical care beds for Covid patients. On Thursday night, 38 were occupied. All 14 non-Covid critical care beds at the hospital were occupied. “We have to either refuse critical non-Covid patients or admit and treat them in the high dependency units, which are one level lower than the ICU. Even 10 days back, the non-Covid critical care unit would have four to five empty beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. At AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, there are 55 Covid and 21 non-Covid critical care beds. On Thursday evening, all were occupied. “The demand for non-Covid critical care beds has been rising over the past week. But we are unable to switch Covid CCU beds to non-Covid CCU beds because those are still occupied. This time, most Covid patients in need of critical care are having to stay in the ICU for a longer duration than during the first wave,” said an official of the hospital. According to the hospital, many Covid beds in the general ward were empty. A doctor said this time more people were coming back to the hospital with post-Covid complications compared to last year. “The number of Covid patients this time is much more than last year and so are the number of people coming back with post-Covid complications. Some of those people need critical care beds,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases at Peerless Hospital. “Also, because of a prolonged ICU stay, some Covid patients are testing negative and so have to be shifted to the non-Covid ICU. This way, their relatives can meet them,” said Bhattacharya. The hospitals where a few Covid ICU beds are vac-ant are planning to convert some of the beds to non-Covid ones. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 130 Covid ICU beds, out of which only 80 were occupied on Thursday evening. The hospital has 120 non-Covid ICUs, all of which were occupied, said an official. “We are planning to turn two Covid ICU wards with 30 beds and one general ward with 20 beds to non-Covid units from next week. It's becoming impossible to cope with the rising number of critical non-Covid patients,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “The condition was not so for the last couple of months when we had only a few critical patients in the non-Covid units,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Uncertainty looms over college admission after cancellation of Class XII board exams||Students across schools who have consistently scored well feel they have a better chance of getting admission if colleges conduct entrance tests. If boards exercise moderation in deciding the final marks, “competition could be more severe this year”, many students said. Middle-rung students are equally worried that they could be edged out of the competition. Both CBSE and ICSE have cancelled the Class XII board exams. While the decision gave some closure to students, uncertainty regarding college admissions remains. “The board exam is a standard examination where everyone is tested on the same parameters and since that could not be held this year, we expect colleges to conduct a common test that will test everyone on the same standards,” said Sumit Agarwal of The Heritage School, who is aspiring for Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi and Narsee Monjee College of Commerce and Economics in Mumbai. Sumit is a high performer but he fears that the cut-off in colleges of Delhi University could be higher if admission is only based on board marks. “If I score below 98 per cent, perhaps I won’t stand a chance but an entrance test will help prove my merit,” he said. Students have been raising their concerns about the results and the criteria that will be taken into account to calculate the marks. “There will be more competition for a seat in a college this year, which is worrying students. Moderation makes the final outcome uncertain,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. The ICSE council has called a meeting with principals of ISC schools on Friday to discuss issues related to the circular asking for the average marks of ISC examinees in Classes XI and XII and other matters concerning the ISC exam. Several schools are hoping that many of the questions around calculation of marks will be addressed. On Thursday, the ICSE council sent two circulars to heads of ISC schools. The council has said that they are in the process of formulating “alternative objective criteria for assessment of students” who were to appear for the ISC. The council has asked schools to submit the marks by June 7 but said that only a “handful of schools have till date” submitted the required information. The “gravity and urgency” of the situation cannot be stressed enough and the council needs to devise objective criteria and collate, declare and publish the results in a timely manner, one circular said. The circular also says that the council needs to devise the criteria for assessment within two weeks, that is by June 17. Teachers have no definite answers to questions posed by students. “We can only counsel them that the board will not put them at a disadvantage,” said Anil Jha, a senior coordinator at a city school. Sister Sherly Sebastian, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions Salt Lake, said “the real struggle is to get into colleges”. “Even those who score 90 per cent in other years struggle to get a college of their choice. This year could be worse,” said Sister Sebastian. Hundreds of students from the city apply to colleges under Delhi University and in other parts of the country. “Colleges should understand that marks do not tell the whole story and under the present circumstances they should rethink and reevaluate the process of transition from school to undergraduate studies,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. “Children have learnt from various sources and with the digital world, they have also done independent study. They have acquired certain skills that are not captured in their marks alone and that needs to be acknowledged by colleges.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Alumni of IIEST Shibpur to pay annual tuition fees of nine students||The alumni of the IIEST, Shibpur, will pay the annual tuition fees of nine students who could not clear their dues because of financial constraints amid the pandemic. The tuition fees at the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology and Technology (IIEST) stands at Rs 1.25 lakh a year. The students, most of whom study the dual degree (integrated BTech and MTech) programme, had appealed to the institute for a waiver and the institute approached the alumni to help these students. The IIEST director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, had appealed to the institution’s former students for tuition fee assistance during a virtual global alumni meet on December 27. Anjana Ganguly Roy, the president of the global alumni association, last week informed the institute authorities that they would pay the tuition fees. “Our association pays scholarships to students throughout the year. Director Chakrbarti had appealed for the assistance in view of the Covid-induced financial hardship these students are facing. Amid the pandemic, there have been cases of job loss all over. The funds will soon be transferred to the students,’’ said Ganguly Roy. The director decided to approach the alumni — Global Alumni Association of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, (known as GABESU) — after the education ministry had struck down Chakrabarti’s prayer for a fee waiver, said an official of the institute. The official said eight students of the dual degree programme who were promoted to the fifth and final year (MTech) last year faced trouble when they were asked to pay the tuition fees.“They enjoyed a tuition fee waiver under a scheme in the first four years(BTech level),” he said.As part of the scheme, the institute allows full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay one-third part of the amount. Of the eight students, three enjoyed full waiver and five two-thirds waiver. “But the central government does not allow the scheme at the MTech level. So when the students were asked to pay the tuition fee last year, they cited financial distress. This prompted the director to knock on the door of the alumni,’’ he said.The alumni will now pay the full tuition fee of the three students and two-third tuition fees of the five students. The lone student of the MSc programme will get Rs 35,000 as tuition fee assistance.. “We are trying to help students in distress in as many ways as possible. The alumni are helping us in a big way in this endeavour,’’ said director Chakrabarti. IIEST, last month had decided to recharge the data packs of students as some are struggling to bear the costs. Some students wrote to the authorities, highlighting how financial distress was coming in the way of attending classes on the digital platforms. The institute has also decided to give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Residents of housing complex protest after car ransack in Phoolbagan||A car belonging to a resident of a Phoolbagan housing complex was ransacked by a group of men, resulting in unrest in the area on Wednesday evening. Office bearers of Prasad Exotica, the housing complex on Canal Circular Road, lodged a complaint against unidentified persons. “One of the residents who was entering the complex in his car was intercepted outside the main gate and his car was damaged by a group of men, apparently from the adjoining slum. A case has been drawn and efforts are on to identify the accused,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division. The incident that happened around 5.30pm snowballed into a collective protest by the residents who called the local police station and complained against the people residing in the adjoining slum. Officers of Phoolbagan police station rushed to the spot and pacified the crowd. Senior officers of the division including divisional commissioner Priyabrata Roy went to the spot. Cops used loudhailers to make announcements and assure residents that the accused would be booked. A senior officer said CCTV footage had been collected. Some of the faces of those involved in the attack have been identified, he said. “Most of the suspects have fled their homes. We will catch them soon,” said the officer. The reason behind the attack is not clear, the police said. A case under sections of voluntarily causing hurt with weapons, mischief and common intention has been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
04-06-2021||Calcutta||London tie-up for international science travelling exhibition on vaccine hunt||Vaccines, humankind’s best bet to tame a contagious disease, will be the subject of an international travelling exhibition next year. Titled Hunt for the Vaccine, it will be a collaboration between the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Calcutta, and Science Museum Group, London. The exhibition will trace the evolution of vaccines down the ages, starting with the smallpox one, the first vaccine against a contagious disease, which was developed by Britain’s Edward Jenner in 1796. It will include several other success stories, like vaccines against polio, hepatitis etc. “We want to raise awareness among the masses about the importance of vaccines, which have assumed great importance because of the current pandemic. We would also like to highlight India’s contribution to the fight against Covid-19,” said Arijit Dutta Choudhury, the director- general of the NCSM. While some sections of the exhibition, like on how vaccines work and the global hunt for an effective vaccine, are expected to be developed together, the teams in both countries are working to develop locally relevant content. “In the UK, they have collected the vial of the first Covid-19 vaccine that was administered. We are trying to do the same by contacting the cities where vaccination started. We are also talking to various institutes where vaccine research is going on silently, like the Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing in Mumbai. We are also on the lookout for old instruments used in early vaccination drives besides highlighting how technology has speeded up the development of vaccines,” said Samarendra Kumar, director (headquarters), NCSM, who is heading the project in India. Not just the development of Covaxin and Covishield, the logistical challenges of distributing them across India would also be a part of the show. The exhibition will be held simultaneously in India, the UK and China. It is scheduled to be inaugurated in November 2022 in Delhi and will travel to Mumbai, Bangalore and Calcutta by September 2025. In between, it will go to Nagpur, Lucknow or Patna. A mobile science exhibition bus will travel out of Calcutta to reach out to towns and villages where vaccine hesitancy is more, the organisers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
04-06-2021||Calcutta||Police rescue slow loris, macaws and turkeys in North 24-Parganas||A police team rescued a slow loris, an endangered primate species, eight macaws and three turkeys from a village in Hasnabad in North 24-Parganas on Thursday. The seized animal and the birds have been handed over to the forest department. “Forest officials identified the rescued loris as a member of the Bengal slow loris group,” a police officer said. None of the suspected smugglers could be arrested till Thursday evening. “It appears the animal and the birds were brought to India from Bangladesh and were to be dispatched to other destinations. With Covid curbs in place, the smugglers could not move the animals,” said Deraj Roy, the sub-divisional police officer of Hasnabad. An officer of the state wildlife department in Calcutta said that until a few years ago, smuggling of slow lorises was rare. “Since 2018, three attempts at smuggling slow lorises have come to light,” the officer said. On June 29, 2018, the wildlife crime control bureau had rescued a slow loris from a home in Maniktala, in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
04-06-2021||Business||How Does a Forex Card Work?||Soon, the wrath of COVID-19 will reduce, and many of us will be able to travel to all international destinations. When we do, carrying funds abroad may be a noteworthy consideration, for which a forex card is the most reliable solution. Gone are the days when carrying bundles of cash or traveller’s cheques was the norm. Thanks to technology, a forex card is all you need to make payments on an international trip. What Is a Forex Card? A forex card allows you to load a specific amount of money in any foreign currency. Once you begin your international travels, this card works like an international debit card. You can swipe it at PoS for shopping, use it to buy things online or withdraw cash from ATM. Types of Forex Cards The two most common types of forex cards are: Multi-Currency – After recharging, you can use this card to make payments in multiple currencies. IndusInd Bank offers Indus Multicurrency Forex Card in 14 currencies- ranging from the usual Great Britain Pound (GBP), United States Dollar (USD) to Thai Baht (THB) and Japanese Yen (JPY). Single Currency – If you are travelling to a single country, you can get a forex card that allows you to pay in only one currency. How Does a Forex Card Work? Think of a forex card as nothing more than a debit card crafted purely for international travels. Therefore, it works seamlessly whenever you swipe it at an international destination. It is a globally accepted alternative and is far safer than cash. Even if you lose your card or someone steals it, you can quickly inform your bank, and they can block it and issue a new one domestically. What's more, these days, you can apply for a forex card online with banks like IndusInd Bank. They have a user-friendly IndusForex, online retail forex portal where you apply for a forex card instantly. The documentation required to apply for this card is minimal, and you can pay the funds via various means electronically to recharge and activate your card on IndusForex. Once your application process is complete, the bank can courier you the card, or you can pick it up from a branch of your choice. You will receive your card and the pin along with it. Make sure to change the pin as soon as possible by visiting an ATM. Now, you are all set! Every time you make a payment using your foreign exchange card, you will receive an alert or an SMS notification of the transaction. Why Use a Forex Card? There are wealth of benefits associated with using a preloaded forex card, when travelling internationally. These include: Final Thoughts If you are looking for a multi or single currency reliable forex card, look no further than IndusInd Bank. Its Indus Multicurrency Forex Card is a convenient, safe and cashless way to carry money on your international travels. This is a sponsored article and provided by the agency. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Sensex drops 132 points after RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 132 points on Friday, led by profit-booking in banking stocks after the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy announcements. The 30-share BSE index ended 132.38 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 52,100.05, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 20.10 points or 0.13 per cent to 15,670.25.  Nestle India was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, HUL and Dr Reddy's.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, L&T, Bajaj Finance and HDFC were among the gainers.  According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmarks corrected marginally led by contraction in financials, especially in banks.  "A moderate increase in inflation forecast by the RBI in its policy meeting outcome led G-sec yields increasing by 3 bps, which resulted in profit-booking in banks," he noted.  The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left the key interest rates unchanged at record lows as it reiterated its commitment to keep its monetary policy accommodative to help the economy recover from the world's worst outbreak of COVID-19 infections.  It also lowered its forecast for the country's economic growth to 9.5 per cent for the current financial year ending March 31, 2022, from the previous estimate of 10.5 per cent.  "MPC meeting outcome today was mostly in-line with expectations as RBI, in addition to maintaining status quo about policy rates, focused upon ensuring sufficient liquidity in the system and supported MSMEs and corporate hit in second wave.  "An improved prospect of economic recovery led by sharp drop in daily caseload, ramping up vaccination process and gradual withdrawal of restrictions imposed by states has already led markets to witness fresh high in this week," he said.  Barring metals and realty, most key sectoral indices traded in red today. However, midcap and smallcap stocks continued to outperform led by improved earnings visibility.  Weak global cues also weighed on sentiments.  Bourses in Shanghai ended with gains, while Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red.  Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.38 per cent higher at USD 71.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for 6th time in a row||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to leave benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance as the economy faces heat of the second COVID wave. This is the sixth time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to maintain status quo, that is keeping benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review on Friday. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. The central bank lowered its estimate for economic growth to 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal from earlier projection of 10.5 per cent due to the impact of the second COVID wave. This is the first MPC meeting after official data showed that Indian economy contracted 7.3 per cent in the last fiscal, weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. With regard to inflation, the governor said that retail inflation is likely to be 5.1 per cent during the current fiscal. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on positive note ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened marginally higher on Friday ahead of the Reserve Bank's policy outcome. After opening on a flat note, the 30-share BSE index was trading 59.24 points or 0.11 per cent higher at 52,291.67 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 16.85 points or 0.11 per cent to 15,707.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, M&M, Bajaj Finance and HDFC. On the other hand, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's, HUL, Titan and ITC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 382.95 points or 0.70 per cent higher at record 52,232.43, and Nifty soared 114.15 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 15,690.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,079.20 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to analysts, all eyes would be on RBI monetary policy, wherein the majority expect a status quo on key rates. However, commentary on growth and inflation would be closely watched by market participants. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains. Equities on Wall Street closed with losses in the overnight session. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.11 per cent lower at USD 71.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Dominica denies bail to absconding diamond tycoon Mehul Choksi||A Dominica magistrate has denied bail to absconding diamond tycoon Mehul Choksi, who was arrested on May 23 for alleged illegal entry to the Caribbean island country, the local media reported. Choksi, wanted in India in connection with a Rs 13,500-crore fraud in the Punjab National Bank (PNB), pleaded before the magistrate that he was abducted and forcibly brought to Dominica from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, about 100 nautical miles away, Dominica News Online reported. Dominica High Court on Thursday adjourned the hearing on a habeas corpus petition filed on behalf of Choksi. Judge Bernie Stephenson will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides, Antigua News Room said. The court had ordered Choksi to be presented before the magistrate to face charges of illegal entry. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. “Our stand that Mehul Choksi is in illegal detention as he was required to be produced within 72 hours before the magistrate and was not so produced has been vindicated. Contrary to media reports, there was no discussion regarding the government of India,” Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. Meanwhile, Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, on Thursday told reporters: “He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica where some legal proceedings are underway. We will continue to ensure that he is brought back to India,” MEA spokesperson told reporters. The cabinet of Antigua prefers that Choksi be repatriated from Dominica to India directly. Mallya assets Armed with a court order, a consortium of lenders led by SBI can now sell certain real estate properties and securities belonging to fugitive Vijay Mallya to recover loans turned bad with failure of Kingfisher Airlines. A consortium of 11 banks that gave Mallya loans had approached a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court seeking restoration of his properties seized by the Enforcement Directorate. The special PMLA court in Mumbai on Tuesday allowed the restoration of properties worth Rs 5,646.54 crore to banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Airlines expected to incur consolidated loss of $4.1 billion in current financial year ||The airlines in the country are expected to incur a consolidated loss of $4.1 billion in the current financial year — similar to fiscal 2021 — because of the  Covid-19 pandemic, aviation consultancy firm Capa India said on Thursday. This will take total losses over two years to around $8 billion as a result of the two Covid waves. “The full service carriers are expected to contribute $2.1 billion of losses while low cost carriers would account for $2.0 billion. The projected losses could rise further if necessary recapitalisation comes in the form of debt, for which borrowing costs will need to be included. “At this stage it is not known how a recapitalisation will be funded. Air India and IndiGo combined will represent around $4.5 billion of the approximately $8 billion in losses,” Capa India said in its FY2022 Airline Outlook. Airlines are expected to need close to $5 billion of recapitalisation in FY2022 just to survive, the report said. “Of this, around $1.1 billion is in the pipeline in the form of IPOs (initial public offering), QIPs (qualified institutional placement) and other (financial) instruments. This does not include additional funding required to achieve solvency,” the report said. “In the light of the known recapitalisation plans of Indian carriers, the incremental requirement could be reduced to $3.5 billion. However, it is not currently possible to determine whether the $1.5 billion of planned recapitalisation will materialise,” it added. Rating agency Icra has said the Indian aviation industry is expected to report a net loss of Rs 21,000 crore in 2020-21 against a net loss of Rs 12,700 crore in 2019-20 because of lower revenues and high fixed costs. The industry’s debt level will increase to Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22 and the industry will require an additional funding of Rs 35,000 crore to 37,000 crore over 2021-2023, it added. Capa estimates that domestic airline traffic is expected to stand at 80-95 million during FY2022, up from 52.5 million registered during FY2021, but well below the  140 million registered during FY2020. “This projection does not take into account a third wave.... After a massive slump in April and May, we expect to see a moderate recovery in June as activity returns, with an acceleration in traffic from Q2 (July-September 2021 period),” it said. “As was the case in the second half of FY2021, we expect to see rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year," it added. Capa India expects international airline traffic to remain at 16-21 million during FY2022 due to border restrictions. "However, international traffic will be particularly sensitive to discrete decisions taken by governments on such matters, which cannot be predicted," the agency said in the report. “As with domestic traffic, the second half of the year is expected to be far more positive,” it added. Domestic air passenger traffic slumped to about 20 lakh passengers in May, down 67 per cent sequentially, due to the vicious second surge in covid-19 infections in the country, Icra said. The May passenger traffic was also lower than the numbers registered during June-July 2020, when a two-month nationwide stringent lockdown was lifted by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business|| IDBI Bank has secured $239 million judgment||IDBI Bank has secured a $239 million judgment in the commercial division of the High Court of London against a Cypriot subsidiary of India-based Essar Shipping Group, among one of the largest debt judgments obtained by an Indian bank in the English courts. IDH International Drilling Holdco Ltd (IDH), the Cypriot-registered parent company of the borrowers, is disappointed with the judgment and is considering its position with regard to an appeal of this judgement, a spokesman for the Essar Group said. Mumbai-based IDBI had lent $148 million to two Singapore-registered companies — Varada Drilling One Pte Ltd and Varada Drilling Two Pte Ltd — for the construction of two jack up drilling rigs in March 2013. IDH gave a corporate guarantee in respect of the loan. The loan and guarantee were governed by English law and were, therefore, subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Domestic steel makers hike prices of hot-rolled coils and cold-rolled coils||Leading domestic steel makers have hiked the prices of hot-rolled coils (HRC) and cold-rolled coils (CRC) by up to Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,900 per tonne, respectively, industry sources said on Thursday. After the price revision, a tonne of HRC will cost Rs 70,000-71,000, while buyers will get CRC at Rs 83,000-84,000 per tonne. The price revision has been made in the last two days, the sources said. HRC and CRC are flat steel used in the auto, appliances and construction industries. Hence, any rise in the prices will impact the prices of vehicles, consumer goods and cost of construction as steel is a raw material for these sectors. A SAIL official said “it is market-driven”. While JSW Steel declined to comment, a JSPL official said “Global steel prices have moved up owing to a spike in the cost of raw materials. Indian iron ore has gone up by Rs 4,000/tonne which is also pushing up steel prices higher.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||TML Holdings Pte Ltd raises $425 million in unsecured notes||Tata Motors on Thursday said that its wholly owned subsidiary, TML Holdings Pte Ltd (TMLH), has raised $425 million (over Rs 3,100 crore) in unsecured notes, the proceeds of which will be used to refinance loan and other general corporate purposes. TMLH is the holding company of JLR Automotive Plc (JLR), Tata Daewoo, Korea and a few other international operations of Tata Motors. “On June 2, TMLH priced a $425-million 5NC2.5 year (a 5-year fixed-income security, non-callable for the first 2.5 years) fixed rate senior unsecured notes due in 2026,” the homegrown auto firm said in a communication to the stock exchanges on Thursday. The company added that these notes will be issued at a coupon rate of 4.35 per cent on June 9 with a maturity date of June 9, 2026. According to Tata Motors, the transaction received significant interest from investors across Asia and Europe with the  final order book in excess of $2.2 billion, a subscription of over 5.1 times. Britannia move Britannia Industries’ board has approved a proposal to raise Rs 698.51 crore by issuing bonus debentures to eligible equity shareholders. The debentures will be redeemed after three years from the date of allotment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||WhatsApp to not limit functionality for users not agreeing to new privacy policy||WhatsApp on Thursday said it will not limit the functionality of the messaging app for users not agreeing to its new privacy policy, but will continue to send reminders about the update. WhatsApp said its recent policy update does not change the privacy of people’s personal messages, and it has already written to the government seeking to assure them that the privacy of users remains its highest priority. On Thursday, the Centre  told the Delhi high court that the messaging platform was trying to “force” its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes the law by bombarding them with notifications daily. “We reiterate that we have already responded to the Government of India and assured them that the privacy of users remains our highest priority,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said in an emailed statement. A raging debate had ensued earlier this year after WhatsApp said it would update its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. The Centre’s claim has been made in an additional affidavit filed in response to several pleas challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. WhatsApp has 53 crore users in India, according to government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
04-06-2021||Business||Serum Institute of India seeks indemnity protection against lawsuits||Serum Institute of India (SII) has sought indemnity protection against prosecution or lawsuits arising from any adverse effects for people taking its Covishield vaccine. Its demand comes at a time the Union government is considering giving such a relief to Pfizer as it looks to quicken the vaccination process in the country. The Centre, which has come under severe criticism for the slow progress of inoculation, expects to vaccinate one billion people by the end of this calendar year. Mumbai-based firm Cipla, which is looking to bring Moderna’s vaccine, has also sought such an indemnity. An ANI report quoting SII sources said that not just the company but all vaccine makers should get indemnity protection against liabilities if it is granted to overseas firms. Niti Aayog member (health) V. K. Paul had recently said that Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available in India from July. The pharma giant could supply around 5 crore doses between July and October, but it has harped on indemnity as a major requirement. Though the Centre has not yet announced whether it will give such a protection to the vaccine makers, observers expect it to grant the relief given the current demand supply gap in vaccines. Countries such as the US, Japan, the European Union and Canada have also granted an indemnity. SII has recently communicated to the government that it will be able to supply 10 crore doses of Covishield in June, up from the earlier capacity of around 6.5 crore in May. Meanwhile, the company has also sought the approval of the Drug Controller General of India to manufacture the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||Discord over US proposal to fix a uniform global corporate tax||Global negotiators have continued to wrangle over a US proposal to fix a minimum threshold for the levy of a uniform global corporate tax that is designed to ensure that technology giants like Amazon and Facebook pay legitimate taxes on the revenues they earn in the jurisdictions in which they operate. On Wednesday, the Biden administration announced retaliatory tariffs against six countries, including India, that intend to slap a so-called digital tax. But the US delayed the imposition of the levies by 180 days to allow global negotiators to hammer out an agreement in the discussions that are being held under the aegis of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The US has proposed that the global tax should be imposed only on multinational corporations that have revenues in excess of $20 billion — a threshold that negotiators from Europe and India are refusing to accept as it will limit the scope of the levy to just 100 companies. A bigger flashpoint is another proposal to bring companies only above a profitability threshold within the tax net, meaning low-margin players such as Amazon may be let off the hook. All this means the ongoing tax talks in Paris among the 140-nation Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development may stretch for a longer period than the six-month window provided by the US on Wednesday to India, Austria, Italy, Spain, Turkey and the UK to suspend the retaliatory tariffs. US President Jo Biden is pushing for a global minimum corporate tax of at least 15 per cent, although key aspects such as the actual rate as well as the threshold for companies to come under the tax net remain to be decided. The tax talks in Paris focus on two pillars: One is a global minimum to prevent multinationals from using complex legal and accounting schemes to move profits to low-tax countries where they do little or no business. The second is finding a way to tax companies — particularly Internet-based ones — that may reap profits in countries where they have no physical presence and thus pay no tax. On the suspension of the retaliatory tariffs, trade economist Biswajit Dhar of JNU said the US was sending a clearsignal that it wants to engage in the global forum, which it had quit twice in the past. “The move by Washington should be seen in the context of G-7 also taking up the digital services tax (DST). Retaliatory action by the US in the past did not deter many nations from going ahead with the DST. It seems that Washington plans to engage in a global forum and protect the interest of tech firms, most of which are based in America.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank shares fall over 6 per cent during intra-day trade||Shares of IndusInd Bank on Thursday fell over 6 per cent during intra-day trade after year-old reports of the Cayman Island Monetary Authority (CIMA) cancelling the permit of Hinduja Bank resurfaced. A year after the Cayman regulator’s move, a media report has drawn a link between Hinduja Bank and IndusInd Bank by saying that IndusInd is a subsidiary of the Geneva-based bank. The report cites a May 27 notification issued last year that said the Cayman regulator had cancelled the banking licence of Hinduja Bank over charges of money laundering and governance lapses. As the stock reacted in a knee-jerk manner, IndusInd Bank put out a statement denying that it is a subsidiary of Hinduja Bank. The stock managed to recover some of its ground after the clarification. “IndusInd Bank denies the said media report and considers it to be malicious, untrue, and baseless. IndusInd Bank desires to clarify that it is not a subsidiary of any entity. “The bank wishes to further clarify that it is promoted by IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL) and its subsidiaries. IIHL is a Mauritius-based company set up by overseas Indians and no ‘one’ shareholder is in control of IIHL,” the lender said. IndusInd shares plunged to a low of Rs 964.75 on the BSE — a fall of 6.15 per cent as investors were spooked by the fresh report. The scrip settled at Rs 1,005.85, a loss of 2.15 per cent over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||Business||IHS Services Business Activity Index contracts to 46.4 in May||The Indian economy has started to heave as it is buffeted by the second Covid wave. On Thursday, there was more bad news for the Modi government when a closely-watched gauge of economic activity — the IHS Services Business Activity Index — contracted for the first time in eight months. The index stood at 46.4 in May compared with 54 in April — a sudden, alarming slide — sending grave signals to the country’s policy makers who had turned gung-ho after the NSO said that the economy had shown a 1.6 per cent real GDP growth in the January-March quarter. Worse, the composite PMI index — manufacturing plus services — also sank to 48.1 from 55.4 in April. A print above 50 means expansion, while below 50 denotes contraction. The services sector activities slumped amid renewed decline in new work intakes because of the escalation of the pandemic and the reintroduction of restrictions. “The intensification of the Covid-19 crisis and associated restrictions suppressed domestic and international demand for Indian services. Total sales decreased for the first time in eight months, while the fall in external orders was the most pronounced since last November,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. “The PMI reading for May adds to evidence elsewhere that the damage from the second virus wave has not been as severe as when the pandemic first struck last year. But with restrictions likely to be lifted slowly this time around, the recovery beyond the current outbreak looks set to be more gradual,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. The international demand for Indian services also worsened, with new export business falling at the quickest rate in six months. The drop was attributed to international travel restrictions and business closures. On the job front, pandemic-related worries and falling sales led services companies to reduce workforce numbers again during May. “Amid efforts to keep a lid on expenses given the deterioration in new business, services companies reduced payroll numbers to the greatest extent in seven months. Concerns towards the outlook, evidenced by a dip in sentiment, could prevent job creation in near-term,” Lima noted. On the inflation front, amid reports of higher prices for a wide range of inputs and fuel, operating expenses at services firms continued to increase in May. “The overall rise in cost burdens was historically sharp as prices for a wide range of inputs and fuel continued to surge. Only a small proportion of firms shared additional cost burdens with their clients, resulting in only a marginal increase in service fees,” Lima said. The composite PMI output index, which measures combined services and manufacturing output, was down from 55.4 in April to 48.1 in May, pointing to a renewed decline in private sector activity across India. Aggregate new orders decreased for the first time in nine months and private sector jobs fell for the 15th month in succession. The next bi-monthly monetary policy review of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is scheduled to be announced on Friday. Experts believe, with the economic outlook remaining uncertain in light of the continuing pandemic, the monetary policy stance of the RBI is likely to remain accommodative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-31
04-06-2021||India||More Indians got their first jabs than Americans: Centre||India has overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the government on Friday said and noted that the vaccination campaign will be further intensified in the coming days. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said 43 per cent of the 60 plus population has been covered with at least one dose and over 45 years, 37 per cent of the population has been covered. Citing the ourworldindata updated on Thursday, India, in terms of number of people who received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, has administered 17.2 crore doses and the US which was leading the pack is 16.9 crore. "We have overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. It is reassuring that we are steadily improving and intensifying the vaccine campaign and it will be intensified so much more in the days to come," Paul said. "I want to appeal to enhance the pace of their vaccination and I want to appeal to senior citizens to get themselves vaccinated. Let us hope to make it to 50 per cent in the coming few weeks," he said. Paul said while the second wave is declining in the context of global data it may be worth mentioning that Covid cases per 10 lakh population in India are 20,519, while the world average is still higher at 22,181. "So even with the second wave the overall burden experienced, adjusted for population, is relatively modest. Covid deaths per million in India are 245 per million population, while the world average is 477," he said. Noting that this situation was achieved due to strong action by the people of India, states, UTs, municipalities, districts, villages, panchayats and families, Paul asked the people to maintain discipline even when the restrictions are lifted. "What is working is we are not back to wearing masks more diligently, what is working is now the testing is more generous. What is working is we have imposed restrictions in many many districts and that is making it difficult for the virus to reach other people. "It is not the wish of the virus to forget us but we are making it difficult for the virus to travel. The connotation is when we reverse this process the situation can again become unacceptable and that is something we need to keep in mind," he said. He said if containment measures, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour or vaccination pace slackens, the situation can again go into a difficult phase. "...if we suddenly get into the same behaviour that we were doing in January and February as a society, it (peak) will come back again in a certain way," he said. Paul underscored the need to buy time to achieve high vaccination coverage. "We have to buy time and we have to buy time particularly to ensure that we achieve a high coverage of our vaccination and that is the duration of intense discipline that we want to exercise. "So remember the journey is still tough and we have to be responsible. This situation is a result of efforts and these efforts need to be continued in a calibrated way for us to open up but not to allow the virus to overtake us," he said. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there has been a continuous decline in the daily new Covid-19 cases. "Almost 68 per cent decline in Covid cases has been noted since the highest reported peak of cases on May 7," he said. He said there has been a decrease in active cases by more than 21 lakh since the peak of active cases on May 10. Registering a decline of 56 per cent after around 50 days, active cases have been recorded at 16,35,993. "The number of districts reporting more than 100 average daily new Covid-19 cases have decreased from 53`8 (between April 29 to May 5) to 257 (between May 27 to June 2)," he said. Agarwal said there has been a steady decline in weekly case positivity even while testing increased multifold since the last four weeks. "The number of districts reporting less than 5 per cent case positivity has increased from 92 (on week ending May 7) to 377 (on week ending June 3)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||NIOS cancels Class 12 exams in view of Covid||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled its Class 12 examination in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Friday. "Keeping the safety and security of our students on priority, NIOS cancels class 12 examinations. Students will be evaluated based on objective criteria to be announced soon. This will benefit around 1.75 lakhs students," the minister tweeted. According to S K Prasad, Director (Evaluation, NIOS), students who are not satisfied with the assessment will be given the option to appear in a public examination or an On-Demand Examination (ODE) when the situation becomes conducive. "In such circumstances, the result of the concerned learner in public examinations or ODE will be treated as final," he said. Earlier, the CBSE board cancelled Class XII board exams after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was decided that the national board would come out with “well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner” to assess the students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Delhi HC dismisses lawsuit filed by Juhi Chawla against 5G network technology ||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed with a cost of Rs 20 lakh actress Juhi Chawla's lawsuit challenging 5G wireless network technology and said the plea was defective and filed for gaining publicity. Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs -- Chawla and two others -- have abused and misused the process of law and wasted the court's time. The court said the suit was filed to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in repeated interruptions by unknown persons. The court also issued contempt notices against unknown persons and asked the Delhi Police to identify them. After pronouncement of order, Chawla's counsel sought a stay on the verdict which was outrightly denied by the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Punjab govt under scanner over allegations of selling vaccines to private hospitals||Punjab's Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said he has ordered a probe into the Oppositions' allegations that the state government has been diverting Covid vaccines to private hospitals. Sidhu made the statement when he was specifically asked about the Oppositions' allegation. “What I have learnt through media, I have already ordered for a probe and we will order a proper inquiry. We will keep the issue before the chief minister,” he said. Without going into the specifics of the allegations, he said he will first wait for the entire picture to emerge. On the Opposition allegations, Sidhu, at the outset, said the vaccine programme is not concerned with his department. “The vaccine programme is not concerned with my Health Department and is under the control of Chief Secretary and Vikas Garg, who is the state's nodal officer for the vaccination drive,” said Sidhu. He said his department conducts testing, treatment and administering vaccines. As much as the supply of vaccines is made available to our department, we have been administering them free of cost in our hospitals and in the health camps which the department conducts, he said. Punjab's Opposition party SAD had on Thursday accused the state's Congress government of diverting Covid vaccines to private hospitals at hefty margins . Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, in a statement here, had alleged that vaccine doses were not available in the state but they were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man. He claimed that a Covaxin dose costing Rs 400 to the state was being sold to private institutions at Rs 1,060. He said the private hospitals are further charging people Rs 1,560 for each dose. This amounts to a cost of Rs 6,000 to Rs 9,000 per family for a single dose . Badal had alleged that in Mohali alone, 35,000 doses were sold to private institutions to earn a profit of nearly Rs 2 crore in a single day. He said it was immoral for the Congress government to make a profit from the sale of vaccines. The government was also punishing people by forcing them to cough up Rs 1,560 per dose during a time of economic slowdown, he alleged. Badal had demanded a high court-monitored probe into how the Congress government was allegedly creating an artificial shortage of vaccines for the common man by selling its doses at a hefty profit to private hospitals, the SAD said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Visas of stranded foreigners extended till August 31||The visas of foreign nationals, stranded in India due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been extended by the government till August 31 on gratis basis or free of charge. The Union Home Ministry said that due to the non-availability of normal commercial flight operations on account of the pandemic since March, 2020, a number of foreign nationals who came to India prior to that date on valid Indian visas got stranded in the country. Keeping in view the difficulties being faced by such foreign nationals in getting their visas extended due to the lockdown, the Home Ministry had issued an order on June 29, 2020 conveying that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals expiring post June 30, 2020 shall be deemed to be valid until 30 more days from the date of resumption of normal international flight operations, on gratis basis. However, such foreign nationals have been applying for extension of their visas or stay stipulation period on a monthly basis, the Home Ministry said in a statement. The matter has now been reconsidered by the ministry in the light of non-resumption of normal commercial flight operations, and it has accordingly been decided that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals stranded in India will be considered as deemed to be valid till August 31, 2021 on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty, the statement said. These foreign nationals will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO or FRO concerned for extension of their visas. Such foreign nationals may apply for an exit permission to the FRRO or FRO concerned before exiting the country, which would be granted on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Allow us to open IOA office for Olympic-related work, Batra appeals to Kejriwal||Indian Olympic Association (IOA) President Narinder Batra has requested Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to allow them to operate from their office premises for completing administrative work linked to the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. Due to the COVID-19 surge in the national capital, the Delhi government had ordered shutting down of all premises that don't fall under the essential category. However, the number of cases has reduced in recent days and the capital is inching towards easing of restrictions. "We request and appeal to You Sir to allow the office of Indian Olympic Association to function from Monday 7th June 2021 to enable IOA to upload the mandatory required data," Batra wrote in his letter to Kejriwal. Batra had announced on Thursday that India will have a 190-member contingent with around 125 to 135 athletes in Tokyo. The administrative work which includes filling up forms and other operational work isn't always possible to be completed from home, Batra wrote. "The Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics has to go to Tokyo in July 2021. A lot of exhaustive data is to be filled online for approximately 240 athletes and officials going to Tokyo," he stated. "This work requires tremendous amount of time and we are now running out of time due to lockdown and will make it difficult to complete uploading the data by working from home," he further wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Doctors need protection from Covid, Centre's callousness, says Rahul Gandhi||Critical of the government's handling of Covid, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said doctors need protection from coronavirus and the BJP dispensation's callousness as he made an appeal to save them. Gandhi has criticised the government's policies to check the spread of the pandemic and the vaccination drive. "Doctors need protection from coronavirus as well as BJP governments' callousness. Save the saviours," he said on Twitter. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also attacked Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy for asking all states to speak in one voice on vaccines. "All I ask Jagan is: who made the vaccine issue Union vs States? Who unilaterally decided the Union government will abdicate vaccinating 18-44 year olds? Why weren't states consulted before this policy was rolled out? Why don't you ask the PM these questions," Ramesh questioned him. Reddy had said that in a "states versus Union" situation, the chief ministers should should "speak in a single voice" on vaccines and urged them not to indulge in politics by pointing fingers at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik wrote a letter to all chief ministers for a consensus on centralised procurement of vaccines by Government of India in view of the challenges faced by states. "Spoke to some CMs who shared my views. No state is safe unless all states adopt vaccination as a top priority and execute it on war-footing," he had said. Some non-NDA ruled chief ministers have criticised the Centre over its vaccination policy and urged the central government to procure vaccines for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Delhi man calls PCR, threatens to kill Modi||A 22-year-old man was arrested from northeast Delhi's Khajuri Khas area after he called the Police Control Room (PCR) and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said on Friday. The accused, who has been identified as Salman alias Arman, told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. He is addicted to drugs and was sent to a juvenile correction home in 2018 in a murder case, they said. The accused called the PCR on 112 around Thursday midnight and threatened to kill PM Modi, the police said. The number from which the call was received was immediately traced and shared with the district police unit, which then located him to Khajuri Khas, a senior police officer said. According to preliminary investigation, Salman was under the influence of drugs at the time of making the call. He was scolded by his father around 10 pm. During interrogation, the senior officer said, the man told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. When asked why he wanted to go to jail, he said, "Wahin mann lagta hai mera (I like being there)." Salman also told police that he is addicted to drugs and that he took some smack around 7 pm on Thursday, he said. Senior officers of the Delhi Police will further interrogate him with Intelligence Bureau officials in accordance with the protocol before taking any legal action, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Modi hails Indian scientists for developing Covid vaccine ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded Indian scientists developing made-in-India vaccine against Covid and boosting other measures to fight the pandemic within a year of its outbreak. Addressing a meeting of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society via video conferencing, he cited India's experience in the previous century to say that it used to wait for years to lay its hands on innovations achieved abroad, but its scientists are now working shoulder to shoulder with their counterparts outside. They are working at the same quick pace, he said. Noting that the world is grappling with the biggest challenge in a century, the prime minister praised the scientific community, saying it is perhaps unprecedented that vaccines were prepared within a year. On the occasion, Modi reiterated his call for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (Self-reliant) and strong India, saying the COVID-19 crisis may have slowed its pace but our resolve remains the same. India wants to be self-reliant in a number of sectors, ranging from agriculture to astronomy, disaster management to defence technology, vaccine to virtual reality, and biotechnology to battery technology, he asserted. He said India is now showing the way to the world in sustainable development and clean energy, and is playing an important role in progress in other countries with its role in software and satellite development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||India logs over 1.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,713 casualties in a day||India reported 1,32,364 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,85,74,350, while the recovery rate crossed 93 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,40,702 with 2,713 fresh deaths, while the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the fourth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 20,75,428 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 35,74,33,846. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.38 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 7.27 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 16,35,993 comprising 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent. A net decline of 77,420 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 22 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,65,97,655, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,713 new fatalities include 643 from Maharashtra, 514 from Karnataka, 460 from Tamil Nadu, 153 from Kerala, 108 each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 3,40,702 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 97,394 from Maharashtra, 30,531 from Karnataka, 25,665 from Tamil Nadu, 24,447 from Delhi, 20,895 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,921 from West Bengal, 14,840 from Punjab and 13,139 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Jab order for Delhi teachers||Delhi government schoolteachers who have been working as frontline workers during the pandemic must be vaccinated immediately, the directorate of education (DoE) has said. In a letter to district education officers and school principals, DoE director Udit Prakash Rai has asked that vaccination be facilitated for the teachers at the earliest. “Government schoolteachers have been spearheading the Covid response of the Delhi government. Teachers have been deployed on several fronts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Teachers have gone beyond the call of duty in management of containment zones, airports, vaccination drives, ration distribution, oxygen management, etc,” the letter stated. “The teachers of the DoE who are the frontline workers for the Delhi government have led the efforts of the government in containing the infection and breaking the transmission. They have also spared no efforts in managing the second wave of the Covid-19 crisis which unfolded in the months of April and May,” it added. Rai has pointed out that it is imperative that the DoE ensures that all government schoolteachers get vaccinated immediately. The DoE directed that “all necessary steps towards vaccination of all the government schoolteachers” are taken at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Taunted Congress feels vindicated with Supreme Court decision ||The Congress on Thursday said it felt vindicated after the Supreme Court accorded legitimacy to the questions its leaders have asked over the past few months that attracted sarcasm, taunt, contempt and insult from the Narendra Modi government. The Supreme Court has asked similar questions on vaccine procurement and protocol, demanding answers from the government in the form of an affidavit, encouraging the Congress to declare that the country would have been in a much better shape had Prime Minister Modi paid heed to the constructive suggestions by Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The use of harsh words — arbitrary and irrational — about the vaccine policy by the apex court echoed the sentiments expressed by the party. Drawing parallel between the views of the court and the Congress on vaccine procurement, pricing and the need for free universal vaccination, party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “We are not interested in singing ‘we told you so’. But we want to say the country would have been better placed today had the government accepted our suggestions. Precious time has been lost. The arrogant Modi government offered us — through two ministers and the BJP president — sarcasm, contempt, taunt, insult…” Singhvi added: “What pains us is that an eminent person like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was insulted. India would have benefited if his specific, pointed suggestions made on April 18 were accepted. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul also made suggestions on transparency, procurement, differential vaccine pricing, expansion of production of vaccines, etc… Now the court has asked for data, plan, purchase history. What crime Sonia Gandhi committed by making the same arguments except being the president of the Opposition party? The Prime Minister’s hubris inflicted countless wounds on the country.” The Congress was branded anti-national and accused of spreading negativity for doing what the Supreme Court is doing now, he said. “The Supreme Court asking questions, sitting during vacation, doesn’t answer the core questions. Why didn’t you plan, why did you fail, why didn’t you accept good advice after your strategy failed? Even now there is time to change your attitude. Make fun of us, attack us but act on our good suggestions. It is not a political matter, the country will be benefited.” The Congress also broached the topic of consensual politics, at least during this unprecedented national crisis, by refreshing its demand for an all-party meeting. Many chief ministers have also objected to the Centre’s vaccination policy and accused the Prime Minister of sermonising instead of creating space for a meaningful conversation. Singhvi lamented that the government’s approach was not to take the suggestions on merit as it presumed there was no point in paying heed to what the Opposition said. There is not one point in the Supreme Court’s queries which has not been already in public discourse. The government has also been repeatedly accused of ignoring specific suggestions from its own empowered group on Covid and the parliamentary standing committee on health on issues like oxygen shortage and vaccination policy. While the BJP passed a resolution to hail the Prime Minister’s role in handling the pandemic, Modi had boasted how India proved the experts wrong and saved the world by defeating coronavirus. The Congress also caught the government on the delay in giving clearance to foreign-manufactured vaccines. Citing a government order issued on June 1, former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “Our suspicion that the government  had not approved any vaccine other than Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik has been proved correct. Why did the government go through the charade of negotiating quantities with Pfizer and Moderna without first giving emergency use approval (EUA) to their vaccines? Why has it taken eight-nine months for the government to decide to give approval when the US and other countries had granted approval? Remember, Manmohan Singh had made this specific suggestion in his letter which got a rude reply from the Union health minister!” The order by the Directorate General of Health Services modified the earlier directive, relaxing the conditions for approval of foreign-manufactured vaccines. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh also posted that order and tweeted: “Hope law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will now gracefully withdraw his unwarranted remarks, where he accused Rahul Gandhi and others of lobbying for foreign pharma companies. The same decision if taken months ago, would have saved many more Indian lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Unease over appointment of poet Imran Pratapgarhi as chairman of Congress minority department||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday appointed poet Imran Pratapgarhi as chairman of the party’s minority department. Pratapgarhi, who has gained popularity among Muslim youths because of his strident anti-Narendra Modi stand at mushairas (poetry sessions), joined the Congress in 2019 and unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary elections from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. Although believed to be in the good books of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Pratapgarhi’s appointment generated unease in the party, with both Hindu and Muslim leaders expressing shock at the choice. A veteran leader summed up the mood in the party, saying: “We are afraid both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have not understood that the nature of politics has changed in the last decade. They still think charisma will do the magic whereas the need of the hour is building the organisation brick-by-brick in towns and villages. “The party should have created a mature Muslim leadership over the past decade who can rebuild the bridge with the society and offer intellectual resistance to the lure of the likes of (AIMIM chief and Hyderabad MP) Asaduddin Owaisi.” Even younger Muslim leaders of the Congress felt Patrapgarhi’s popularity should rather have been used in campaigning, and that an experienced hand was required to head the organisation. “Probably the party leadership now believes politics is all about thrill; they have greater faith in the likes of Raj Babbar, Mohd Azharuddin, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Govinda and Imran Pratapgarhi. They also think youth is needed in the organisation, deciding on the basis of age, not merit,” a Muslim leader who rose through the ranks of Congress students’ wing NSUI and Youth Congress said. Pratapgarhi, who has more than 1.55 million subscribers to his YouTube channel, also draws crowds at rallies where people lap up his aggressive formulations based on the bitter experience of Muslims during Modi rule. He has replaced Nadeem Javed, another young leader from Uttar Pradesh, whose performance as minority department chief had not been satisfactory. There had been resentment over Javed’s appointment too, with the dominant view being a senior leader should have mentored him for a couple of years before being given full charge of the department. But the Congress has been preferring younger leaders for bigger roles. The mantle of the Mahila Congress was given to Sushmita Dev at the risk of attracting allegations of inexperience||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Message on dead man’s phone: 2nd Covid jab done||A 65-year-old man, who had died on April 25 after getting his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, received a message on his mobile phone on May 14 confirming the successful administration of the second dose. Lalit Mohan Garg’s family members said they noticed in his mobile on May 14 a message that read: “You have been administered the second dose of vaccine successfully.” Lalit’s son Manoj, a grocer like his father, said: “This message came as another shock to us at a time we were yet to overcome the shock of my father’s death.” A resident of Subhas Nagar, Manoj said his father had developed complications after taking the first dose of vaccine in the second week of April. “His condition deteriorated on April 24. A doctor said he needed to be put on a ventilator. We searched all over the city for a hospital bed with ventilator but failed. He passed away at home the next day,” he said. “On May 14, a message came on his phone that he had received the second dose of vaccine at 5.04pm and can download his certificate,” Manoj said. Sudhir Kumar Garg, chief medical officer of Bareilly, said: “There is some technical problem in the portal through which the vaccine slot is booked. We are trying to correct it.” The Yogi Adityanath government has claimed in a media release that 18,679,320 people have been vaccinated in Uttar Pradesh till June 2. “Is this how they increase the number of vaccinated people? Manoj asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Five people, including two women, die after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh||Five people, including two women, died on Wednesday night after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh days after another hooch tragedy killed at least 87 in the district. The five deceased, who used to work in a brick kiln in Jawan area, are residents of Jehanabad and Gaya districts in Bihar. “Some people came to Rohera village in a truck on Wednesday evening and threw hundreds of liquor pouches and bottles near a canal. There were some brick kiln workers from Bihar who were living near the canal. They picked up the pouches and bottles and drank the liquor,” said Ranjit Singh, sub-divisional magistrate of the area. Singh said that around 10pm on Wednesday, he came to know that some people had taken ill after consuming the liquor. “A woman was already dead when we reached Rohera. There were 22 people who complained of vomiting, nausea and blindness. We admitted them to different hospitals in Aligarh city where four more died after a few hours. Currently, there are 18 people under treatment. The majority of them are on dialysis,” he added. The deceased have been identified as Usha Devi and Chotelal Singh from Jehananbad and Sharda Devi, Suresh Kumar and Kailash Kumar from Gaya. The death toll in the previous hooch tragedy in Aligarh’s Gonda-Lodha area reached 87 on Thursday. On May 29, the villagers had alleged that some local people involved in the manufacturing and sale of hooch had distributed it to them free of cost the previous evening. “In the previous incident, we have performed the post-mortem of 87 people till date. The autopsy of the new bodies would also be done,” said Dr B.D. Kalyani, chief medical officer of Aligarh district. He said 29 victims of the previous incident were still under treatment. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, said: “We are trying to identify the people who brought the liquor in the truck to Rohera village. In the previous case, we have arrested 35 people till date. We will also start the process of confiscating their properties.” Chandra Bhushan Singh, district magistrate of Aligarh, said: “Out of the arrested accused in the previous case, seven are hooch mafias. We have decided to ban the sale of country liquor in bottles and pouches except tetra packs.” The DM said it was easy for the criminals to manufacture bottles and wrappers or fill illegal liquor in empty bottles collected from model shops. No arrest has been made in the latest case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Kerala BJP payoff scandal salvos||Kerala BJP president K. Surendran on Thursday accepted he had received a call from a person who pointed fingers at him in a payoff scandal but denied paying a rival to join the NDA. “I’m not saying I did not get that call. But in today’s world audio clips can be edited,” Surendran said, breaking his silence a day after the controversy broke. He sought a probe into the audiotape. However, a BJP veteran, P.P. Mukundan, called for the leadership to “reveal what really happened and remove confusion”, and sought an investigation on the ground that “the voice recording we heard is about agreeing to give money”. Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), who had on Wednesday accused Surendran of agreeing to pay Rs 10 lakh to her now-suspended party leader C.K. Janu to get her to return to the NDA, denied the tape was “edited”. In the audio, leaked on Wednesday, a woman tells a man that another woman who had sought Rs 10 crore was ready to accept Rs 10 lakh and “the Bathery seat” to abandon the CPM and be present “at Amit Shah’s programme on the seventh”. The man says “we can give it when she comes in person on the seventh” and later says: “Let her come on the sixth, I shall give it.” Praseetha had on Wednesday said hers was the female voice and Surendran’s the male voice, and that the tape was leaked by a group within her party. The JRP had switched allegiance from Left Democratic Front and returned to the NDA before the April 6 Assembly polls, and Janu had unsuccessfully contested from Sultan Bathery. Janu was on the dais during Shah’s March 7 event in Thiruvananthapuram. She was suspended by her party on the suspicion of trading votes after she polled far fewer votes than expected. Janu has denied Praseetha’s allegations and threatened to lodge a police complaint. Surendran on Thursday tried to portray the controversy as an attack on an Adivasi leader, alluding to Janu’s career as a tribal rights activist before she turned to electoral politics. “You have all the freedom to accuse me. (But) based on someone’s audio clip, you are accusing a social worker who has fought for Kerala’s Adivasis and Dalits,” he said. “You can accuse the BJP of anything but a person like Janu — why is Janu being attacked so often? Is it because she is an Adivasi leader?” He said the BJP had taken care of Janu’s campaign expenses since she was an NDA candidate. “But that was purely legal,” he said. Surendran called for a detailed investigation, implying the charge was absurd: “Think about it, from Rs 10 crore the amount falls to Rs 10 lakh....” Praseetha threw a dare: “Let him go and complain. Janu said yesterday that she would lodge a complaint, now Surendran is saying it’s fake.” She added: “It was not edited at all. If I had wanted to edit it, I could have removed the portion where I asked for money.” While the female voice is heard seeking money for herself too in the audio, Praseetha said on Wednesday she had sought the money for party work. Praseetha said Surendran had visited Horizon Hotel in Thiruvananthapuram where she, Janu and other JRP leaders were staying on March 7. “Janu was at the hotel on the seventh. But when Surendran came in we were asked to stay outside (the room). They (Janu and Surendran) settled everything,” she said. “Janu admitted to me she did collect the money.” Mukundan had been the only BJP leader to speak on the audio controversy on Wednesday, suggesting an “internal probe” and punishment for the “guilty”. On Thursday, Mukundan said it was time the party’s core committee met and discussed the payoff and money-laundering scandals haunting the BJP following its rout in the state polls. Kerala police recently questioned several BJP leaders after carjackers robbed an RSS worker of what police sources believe was Rs 3.5 crore in unaccounted cash, although the FIR mentions only Rs 25 lakh. Surendran on Thursday iterated that the BJP had nothing to do with the money or the robbery. “I feel the BJP core committee should reveal what really happened and remove the confusion in the minds of party workers,” Mukundan said. A leader from the old school who is against splurging money on elections and disapproved of Surendran’s chopper rides during the campaign, Mukundan suggested the audio clip should be investigated. “The state president is saying there are no links with the hawala money. But the voice recording we heard is about agreeing to give money (to Janu),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Rs 1,500-crore advance purchase pact with Biological E for 300 million jabs||The Union health ministry on Thursday announced a Rs 1,500-crore advance purchase pact with Hyderabad-based vaccine-maker Biological E to procure 300 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine currently under global clinical trials. The ministry said the vaccine was “currently undergoing” a phase-3 clinical trial after showing promising results in phase-1 and phase-2 trials and the Rs 1,500 crore advance payment was for doses expected to be produced between August and December 2021. This is the ministry’s first advance purchase pact for a large quantum of doses of a candidate Covid-19 vaccine still under evaluation through a clinical trial, health experts familiar with vaccine development efforts and vaccine industry executives said. “Had a similar decision been taken during the second half of last year with other Covid-19 vaccines that were under clinical trials then and are now in use, India would have had access to more vaccines now,” a health expert who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. Biological E had announced on April 24 that the company had received approval for phase-3 clinical trial that would assess the candidate vaccine for protective efficacy against Covid-19 in 1,268 healthy volunteers at 15 sites across India. But company executives on Thursday declined to say whether phase-3 clinical trials have started in India or specify the locations of the sites. They also declined to say how many doses per month the company expects to produce starting August. “We cannot say now. We will provide details later,” one executive told The Telegraph. The company has said the phase-3 trial in India will be part of a larger global phase-3 study. Biological E has developed the vaccine through technology procured from US-based institutions, BCM Ventures, the Baylor College of Medicines commercialisation team, and Dynavax, a biopharmaceuticals corporation. The vaccine’s phase-1/2 clinical trials conducted in 360 health volunteers in eight hospitals across the country have shown it to be safe, well tolerated by recipients and capable of generating a promising immune response. “This vaccine could one day fill the gaps and vaccine supply shortages in Africa, Latin America and low-income Asian countries,” Peter Hotez, professor and dean at the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor had said in April after the phase-1/2 results. India’s health officials have included 300 million doses of Biological E’s vaccine into a projected inventory of doses through which they say the country will acquire a cumulative two billion doses between August and December 2021 — sufficient for 900-950 million eligible recipients. The country is currently relying on 65 million doses per month of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 20 million doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, the production capacities as stated by the health ministry in an affidavit in the Supreme Court last month. The health ministry has said it expects 750 million Covishield doses, 550 million Covaxin doses and 150 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V in addition to other vaccines still under development during the five months from August to December. Health experts and industry executives have attributed India’s current vaccine shortages to what some have described as the policymakers’ failure to anticipate the number of doses India would require and take steps to secure them. Many countries, including Brazil, the UK and the US, had signed advance purchase pacts with vaccine makers before December 2020 to secure doses when the vaccines become available. “The Indian government did not invest in at-risk production, even after October last year when early clinical trial results from Covishield and Covaxin had arrived,” said an industry executive. “But what is the point discussing that now?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Rights activists question Justice Mishra’s NHRC appointment||Several civil rights activists have criticised the appointment of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra as the National Human Rights Commission chairperson. The activists alleged that the appointment reflected the systematic stifling of Opposition voices by dismantling the independence granted to institutions like the NHRC, Reserve Bank of India, National Investigation Agency, Central Bureau of Investigation and the Election Commission. Contacted on Thursday evening, Justice Mishra told The Telegraph he did not want to join issue with the activists. “Why should I comment on their statements or justify my appointment?” Justice Mishra asked. Justice Mishra said he had not seen the statements made by the activists. In response to a question, he said he was not privy to any decision of the selection panel that picked the names for the NHRC. In a joint statement issued on Wednesday night, 67 activists led by People’s Union for Civil Liberties president Kavita Srivastava deplored the appointment. In a separate statement, the Campaign for Judicial Accountability (CJAR), an NGO, on Thursday added its voice to the outcry against the appointment. The 67 activists said Justice Mishra’s appointment had been made in spite of a suggestion by the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, that a person representing Dalits, Adivasis, minorities or other marginalised sections be appointed the chairperson considering that most victims of State abuse come from these communities. The joint statement said: “The suggestion was ignored and no reasons for discarding the same have been placed on record by the government. Very clearly, the decision shows open contempt for the mandate of the NHRC…. What exposes the deliberateness of choosing someone close to the government is exposed by the fact that reportedly within the zone of consideration for the post of chairperson, NHRC, were 3 former CJIs. “This was an opportunity to nominate a retired CJI or retired justice, with a proven track record of a concern for human rights, thereby augmenting the reputation of the NHRC as an institution serious about redressing human rights violations. The public have a right to know the basis for the decision of the selection committee.” The statement added: “By appointing Justice Arun Mishra, whose tenure as a former Supreme Court judge was very controversial, the (Narendra) Modi government has demonstrated once again that the basis for their selection is not guided by the requirements of a head of the NHRC….” “Instead, what matters is whether the person selected was close to the ruling dispensation,” the statement alleged, while referring to Justice Mishra’s remarks at a global judicial conference on February 20 last year, at which the Prime Minister was the chief guest, that Modi was “an internationally acclaimed visionary… a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally….” “It is, therefore, not strange that throwing democratic proprieties to the wind, the government has appointed Justice Arun Mishra as the chairperson of NHRC. Through such arbitrary and partial action, the government has demonstrated their scant respect for the foundational principles of good governance and constitutional rule — which requires independent institutions which remain autonomous from the control of the executive; impartial institutional leaders who exhibit allegiance not to a leader but to the Constitution of India; and whose working ethos embodies the principles of transparency, accountability and responsibility,” the statement said. In the separate statement, the CJAR, which includes activists like Shanti Bhushan, Prashant Bhushan, Arundhati Roy, Kamini Jaiswal, Manoj Mitta and Cheryl D’souza (secretary), said the government had again demonstrated its disregard for human rights and its desire to subvert independent regulatory institutions of the country. “…It cannot be said that there were no better people available for the choice of chairman, NHRC. Several judges recently retired from the Supreme Court, with outstanding human rights records, which include Justice Madan Lokur, Justice Deepak Gupta, Justice Kurien Joseph, etc, were not considered,” it said. According to the CJAR, Justice Mishra’s appointment to this crucial institution at a time when there is an unprecedented onslaught on human and democratic rights, is designed to make the NHRC into a totally moribund institution, which has been the government’s design with several other democratic institutions that have been systematically dismantled or misused for political purposes by hounding the Opposition, civil society and dissenting voices. “His appointment signals the death knell for the protection and promotion of human rights, for which purpose the National Human Rights Commission was set up in India,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE to lay down 'objective criteria' for assessing Class XII students||National school boards CBSE and CISCE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class XII students, now that the board exams had been cancelled in view of the pandemic. Before attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the CBSE, made the submission, the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari had granted two weeks to the two boards to come up with guidelines based on the “objective criteria” to be adopted. On Tuesday, a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided that this year’s Class XII CBSE exams would be cancelled in the interest of the students. The CISCE too scrapped the ISC exam the same day. The Class X board exams had been cancelled earlier. The court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by counsel K. Das, appearing for the CISCE, seeking four weeks’ time to place the details before the bench. The court said a decision ought to be taken within two weeks as any further delay would affect the future prospects of students both within and outside the country. “You (the CISCE) can do it overnight. Four weeks’ time is a little longer. We cannot give you three-four weeks’ time. You please place it before us in two weeks as students will have to take admission in colleges. Nowadays all communication is happening virtually,” the court told Das. The court asked Venugopal: “What’s the objective principle you are going to apply?” The attorney-general replied that it would be determined by the CBSE and the CISCE. “We are happy to note that the government has taken the decision to cancel the Class XII board exams but we want that the objective criteria fixed for assessment of marks be placed before us,” Justice Khanwilkar said. The court told Venugopal: “There’s apprehension over getting admission to higher courses and courses outside the country…. Please impress upon your client that this is an urgent issue on which a decision has to be taken. You can have a virtual meeting.” The top court said it would go through the objective parameters for assessment of marks so that if anyone has objections, it can be dealt with. The bench, however, refrained from passing directions on the plea of the petitioner, advocate Mamta Sharma, that all state education boards be asked to cancel this year’s Class X and XII exams. The court said it would consider the plea at the next hearing. “You should have patience and not rush things like this. You have only asked for cancellation of board exams by the CBSE and now you are saying state boards. You are asking for the heavens. First let the CBSE place on record the objective criteria and then we will see about other boards,” the court told Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||SC quashes sedition FIR registered against journalist Vinod Dua||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a sedition FIR registered against veteran journalist Vinod Dua in Himachal Pradesh for his criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of Covid and the use of the Pulwama attack and Balakot airstrike to seek votes. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran upheld citizens’ “right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries” and said Dua’s March 30, 2020, statements had neither incited people to violence against the government nor created disorder. His comments were at best an “expression of disapprobation of actions of the government and its functionaries so that the prevailing situation could be addressed quickly and efficiently”, the court said. It virtually endorsed Dua’s comment about a lack of testing facilities and protective equipment at the time, rejecting the Himachal government’s charge that these were false claims and had spread panic among migrants. The court underlined that the migrants’ painful journeys had already begun in a situation that was “alarming” and that Dua may have as a “journalist... showed some concern”. Dua was accused of saying in a video show that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and of creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid. In the video, Dua did not explicitly say Modi “has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes”. He had said the Pathankot and Pulwama terror attacks and the Balakot airstrike had been “politicised” to seek votes. He had also said the government lacked enough testing facilities and had made false statements about the availability of PPE kits. He had added that ventilator and sanitiser exports had been stopped only on March 24, 2020. An FIR was registered on a local BJP politician’s complaint 37 days after the show — on May 6, 2020 — at Kumarsain police station in Shimla. Dua later petitioned the Supreme Court to quash the FIR, which invoked several Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections such as 501 (printing matter known to be defamatory) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief) apart from 124A (sedition). To quash the FIR, the apex court relied on a series of past decisions, particularly the 1962 five-judge constitution bench ruling in the Kedar Nath Singh case that sedition charges can be invoked only if the accused incites people to violence against the State and creates public disorder through his or her statements. “A citizen has a right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder; and that it is only when the words or expressions have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of law and order that Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must step in,” Justice Lalit, who authored the judgment, said. “In our view, the statements by the petitioner... can at best be termed as expression of disapprobation of actions of the government and its functionaries so that the prevailing situation could be addressed quickly and efficiently.” The court said Dua’s statements were not defamatory and could therefore not attract IPC Section 501. It said the allegation that Dua had violated the restrictions imposed under the Disaster Management Act and IPC Section 188 (disobedience to public authority) could not be entertained. “We are, therefore, of the firm view that the prosecution of the petitioner for the offences punishable under Sections 124A and 505(1)(b) of the IPC would be unjust,” the judgment said. Section 505(1)(b) punishes those aiming to or likely to cause fear or alarm among the public, thereby inducing someone to commit an offence against the State or public tranquillity. “Thus, all the offences set out in the FIR, in our considered view, are not made out at all,” the court said. “Considering the size of the population of this country, the testing facilities to gauge and check the spread and effect of the pandemic, at least in the initial stages of the surge, were not exactly adequate,” the court said. “If in that light, the petitioner made any comments about testing facilities or PPE suits, N95 masks and masks… those comments in first two statements, cannot be anything other than appraisal of the situation then obtaining. It was not even the case of the respondents (the Himachal government) that these two statements were factually incorrect.” The bench noted that when Dua made the statements, migrant workers were moving towards their hometowns and villages in huge numbers. “In the circumstances, there would naturally be some apprehension about the shelter and food to be provided to them en route.... He (Dua) would be within his rights to say that as a journalist he was touching upon issues of great concern so that adequate attention could be bestowed on the prevailing problems,” it added. “It cannot be said that the petitioner was spreading any false information or rumours. It is not the case of the respondents that the migrant workers started moving towards their hometowns/ villages purely as a result of the statements made by the petitioner. Such movement of migrant workers had begun long before.” So, Dua’s statements cannot be taken as an attempt to incite the migrant workers to start moving towards their hometowns or villages, nor can they be taken as an incitement to cause food riots, the bench said. “The situation was definitely alarming around 30.03.2020 and as a journalist if the petitioner showed some concern, could it be said that he committed offences as alleged?” the court asked. The court, however, dismissed Dua’s plea that any FIR for sedition against a journalist with over 10 years’ experience should be vetted in each state by a committee headed by the high court chief justice or a judge nominated by him or her. The bench said such a provision could be enacted only by Parliament. But it added a rider: “It must however be clarified that every journalist will be entitled to protection in terms of Kedar Nath Singh, as every prosecution under Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must be in strict conformity with the scope and ambit of said sections as explained in, and completely in tune with the law laid down in Kedar Nath Singh.” Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh, who successfully defended Dua, told The Telegraph that Delhi High Court had last year stayed an FIR registered against the journalist in the capital over the same set of comments. Since the Supreme Court was hearing the Himachal case, the high court had refrained from passing any directions. Singh said that with the apex court giving its decision, the decks were now clear for the high court to pass its verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Govt guidelines for care and protection of affected children||The government has come out with guidelines for the care and protection of children affected by Covid-19 and fixed responsibilities for the states, district magistrates, police, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. In a letter to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories, women and child development ministry secretary Ram Mohan Mishra on Wednesday said that to streamline and facilitate the actions being taken, the major responsibilities of the primary duty holders had been enlisted to ensure the best interest of children during the pandemic. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), in an affidavit to the Supreme Court, had said 9,346 children had lost at least one parent to the virus, including over 1,700 who had lost both parents, according to data received from the states. Defining the roles of the states, district magistrates (DMs), police, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies, Mishra issued detailed guidelines. The states need to identify the children in distress through outreach and surveys and prepare a database with a profile of each child, along with the details of their specific needs and requirements, and ensure that the data are uploaded on the Track Child portal. Mishra told the states and Union Territories to temporarily allocate child care institutions (CCIs) to house those children whose parents had been unwell due to Covid-19 and provide necessary support to them in case the extended family was not available to take care of them. The women and child development ministry has asked the states to issue directions to hospitals to collect the contact details of trustworthy persons known to the patients in the admission form to be contacted for taking care of children in case of any eventuality. “Immediate temporary rehabilitation of children through the existing child care facilities supported under the child protection services scheme must be ensured,” Mishra said. The states have also been asked to make suitable arrangements for isolation facilities within the CCIs to take care of children suffering from Covid and prepare a roster of child psychologists or counsellors to visit the facilities and interact with them. Mishra further asked the states to launch a local helpline manned by experts to offer psychosocial care or support to children in distress. On the role of the DMs, he said they should be the guardians of the vulnerable children impacted by Covid. “The DM shall make efforts that such children are rehabilitated in the following order of preference, in the manner as prescribed under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” he said. The DMs need to create a district-level multi-departmental task force to map the needs, monitor the progress and ensure that all benefits reach the affected children and all civil society organisations may be asked to positively inform the child welfare committee or the district child protection unit about any vulnerable child noticed by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Kashmir’s fight, without and with Internet ||As the coronavirus pandemic began to spread last year, charities in Kashmir lacked a key tool that was available to most others in the country — high-speed mobile Internet. The Centre had instituted an Internet shutdown after its decision on August 5, 2019, to end Kashmir’s semi-autonomous status. The Internet blackout eased in some places last year and by the time high-speed mobile Internet was restored statewide on February 5, it was the longest shutdown in India’s history. “Even sending a message on WhatsApp was impossible, not to mention uploading photos or videos on social media,” said Bilal Khan, a senior staff member of Athrout, a Kashmir-based non-profit that provides medical help and food to Covid-19-hit families. “Our volunteers were not able to identify those who needed help,” said Khan, adding that the organisation was unable to use social media for creating awareness of the pandemic or raising funds. This time around, as the state struggles with a deadly second wave of the pandemic along with the rest of the country, the scenario is totally different, Khan told Reuters. “Now, we are using social media effectively,” he said. “We post at least four or five times a day, sending out videos which get a lot of traction,” he said, adding that YouTube, Twitter and Instagram are particularly useful. Besides affecting health services and contact tracing last year, the shutdown hampered the efforts of non-profit groups such as Khan’s, even as charities and citizens nationwide turned to social media for everything from oxygen cylinders to drugs. “We couldn’t have done what we are doing if we were not able to utilise social media,” said Mohammad Afaaq Sayeed, director of the charity Social Reforms Organisation-Kashmir, which has helped more than 10,000 Covid-19 patients so far. “This year, our job became much easier because of 4G mobile Internet. Otherwise, we would have to use more laborious methods like going to peoples’ homes, which would have consumed a lot of time,” he said. The organisation, which helped supply oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, ventilation machines and ambulances, as well as food kits with essentials such as lentils and oil, was also able to raise funds through social media, he said. Some charities, including Athrout, found the especially helpful in raising funds during the holy month of Ramadan this year, said Bashir Nadvi, the charity’s chairman. “Muslims like to do charity during Ramazan,” he said. “When they saw the videos of our work on social media and which were shared by other people as well, it motivated them — including overseas Kashmiris — to donate.” Access to social media has also helped small businesses thrive — and help those affected by the coronavirus. Rayees Ahmad Dar, who started his small food business Tiffin Aaw in February last year, said he began delivering food to Covid-19 patients and quarantined families at reduced rates after high-speed was restored. “When word spread on social media, people started coming forward to support me — with donations and also as volunteers — and we are able to supply an average of 700 food packets a day,” he said. Organisations like Mehram, a non-profit started by three Kashmiri women last year, say they are also better able to help women deal with domestic violence during the pandemic. Mehram has offered legal and other assistance to an average of three women per week during the Covid-19 lockdowns, as cases of domestic violence against women surged worldwide. Mehram started a WhatsApp group to reach out to and support women suffering from domestic violence, said staff member Arshie Qureshi. “Recently, one of the most satisfying things for us was rescuing a woman who was locked up at her in-laws’ home and was being subjected to repeated violence,” she said. “One of her close relatives got in touch with Mehram through WhatsApp — which would not have been possible before.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Centre: Teachers Eligibility Test certificate valid for life ||The validity of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) qualifying certificates has been extended from seven years to lifetime, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced on Thursday. “The government has decided to extend the validity period of the Teachers Eligibility Test qualifying certificates from seven years to lifetime with a retrospective effect from 2011,” the minister said. “The respective state governments and UTs (Union Territories) will take necessary action to revalidate and issue fresh TET certificates to those candidates whose period of seven years has already lapsed,” the statement added. Pokhriyal said this would help boost employment opportunities for aspiring teachers. A TET qualifying certificate is one of the essential qualifications for eligibility for appointment as a schoolteacher. Guidelines dated February 11, 2011, of the National Council for Teacher Education had laid down that TET would be conducted by the state governments and the validity of the certificates would be seven years from the date of passing the exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid claims 17 Air India, IndiGo and Vistara pilots in May||Seventeen pilots of Air India, IndiGo and Vistara died due to Covid-19 in May when the country saw the peak of the coronavirus pandemic’s second wave, sources said on Thursday. IndiGo lost 10 pilots and Vistara two, aviation industry sources said. Air India officials said five senior pilots — captains Harsh Tiwary, G.P.S. Gill, Prasad Karmakar, Sandeep Rana and Amitesh Prasad — of the national carrier had died of Covid. Air India and Vistara did not respond to queries sent by PTI on the deaths. While IndiGo did not comment about the pilots’ deaths, the carrier said it had given the first vaccine dose to around 20,000 of its 35,000 employees and those of its ground-handling subsidiary Agile. “We are committed to covering our entire workforce by mid-June,” said Raj Raghavan, senior vice-president and head of human resources, IndiGo, in a statement. IndiGo has a “robust” welfare scheme and a “benevolent policy” under which the family of every deceased pilot would receive Rs 5 crore, sources said. They added that around 450 IndiGo pilots had tested positive for Covid-19 during the second wave. Private carriers such as Vistara and AirAsia India have given at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to around 99 per cent and 96 per cent of their eligible employees, respectively. Those who are being treated for Covid-19 or have recently recovered from the disease are not considered eligible for vaccination. Air India had on May 4 said it would vaccinate all its employees against Covid-19 by the month-end as a pilots’ body had demanded inoculation of the flying crew on a priority basis, citing risk to their lives from the deadly infection. Six days later, the carrier had to tell its employees that it would not be able to hold vaccination camps for them at the Delhi airport on May 11 and May 13 due to “non-availability” of vaccines. It is not clear by when Air India would be able to complete the first dose of vaccination of all its employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Monsoon arrives in Kerala, officially||The southwest monsoon made an onset over Kerala on Thursday after a delay of two days, marking the commencement of the four-month rainy season in the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “The southwest monsoon has made an onset over the southern parts of Kerala,” said IMD director-general Mrutunjay Mohapatra. The normal onset date for the southwest monsoon over Kerala is June 1. The southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of south Arabian Sea and some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala, Lakshadweep, some parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema, and south and central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, the IMD said. This is the third time in the last six years that the monsoon has arrived late. In 2016 and 2019, the southwest monsoon had made its onset over Kerala on June 8. The IMD had earlier forecast that the monsoon would arrive in Kerala around May 31. The southwest monsoon is likely to be normal in north and south India, above-normal in central India and below-normal in east and northeast India, the Met department had said in its second long-range forecast for the southwest monsoon on Tuesday. A good monsoon is critical to the Indian economy, which is still largely based on agriculture and its allied activities. Most parts of the country are expected to receive normal to above-normal rainfall during the season, the IMD said. Skymet, a private weather forecasting station, had said the southwest monsoon entered Kerala on May 30. However, the IMD had said the conditions were not ripe for declaring the onset of monsoon. Many places in Kerala  received rain on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Delhi High Court summons Ramdev but no gag now||Delhi High Court on Thursday issued summons to yoga televangelist Ramdev on a plea accusing him of making statements against allopathic medicines and at one point claiming Patanjali’s Coronil kit was a cure for Covid-19. The court, however, refused to restrain him at this stage, saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. The high court orally asked Ramdev’s counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements. “Mr Rajiv Nayar is a very respectable senior (advocate). I am sure his client will listen to him,” Justice C. Hari Shankar said. The high court issued summons to Ramdev on a suit filed by the Delhi Medical Association (DMA) and asked him to submit his response in three weeks, listing the matter for hearing on July 13. Ramdev had been seen in a widely circulated video saying that allopathy was a “stupid science” and claiming that lakhs of people had died after taking allopathic medicines. He had also claimed that drugs such as remdesivir and Fabiflu had failed to treat Covid. In response to calls for action against him, Ramdev had said “nobody’s father” would be able to arrest him. He has also been seen in videos ridiculing doctors, engineers and other professionals. Justice Shankar said on Thursday: “Considerable time has passed since the passing of allegedly injurious statements. The counsel says defendant No. 1 (Ramdev) continues to make statements. No injunctive order can be given without giving an opportunity to the plaint, especially in view of the objections. Issue summons on the suit,” Justice Shankar said. The court also issued summons to social media platforms Twitter and Facebook and Astha channel, which have been made parties to the petition. The DMA, on behalf of its doctor members, submitted before the court that Ramdev’s statement were misleading as Coronil does not cure Covid. The DMA has claimed a token damage of Rs 1 from him. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, representing the DMA, said the claim had affected doctors as Coronil does not cure the coronavirus disease and this was a suit for the civil rights of doctors. The court said it could not say as to whether Coronil was a cure or not and that it was something to be decided by medical experts. The judge said he was “least concerned” with the association’s argument that Ramdev was a powerful person having a large number of followers. “Ramdev is a person who doesn’t have faith is allopathy. He believes everything can be cured by yoga and ayurveda. He may be right or wrong,” Justice Shankar said. He added that the court could understand the argument that Ramdev’s statements were affecting the public but here “you say oh my God, Ramdev has done something. You people should be spending time to find a cure for the pandemic instead of wasting the court’s time”. On the point of the locus of the DMA to file the suit, Dutta said Ramdev’s public statements against allopathy were affecting the public and also the members of the DMA. The judge replied: “If I feel some science is fake; tomorrow I will feel homeopathy is fake. Do you mean they will file a suit against me? I put it on Twitter. You will say take down the Twitter account. It is a public opinion. I do not think your allopathic profession is so fragile.” Justice Shankar said Ramdev’s comments had to be tested on the touchstone of free speech. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, argued that prima facie the DMA suit was not maintainable as the association was asking for an injunction and raising the ground of public good. Dutta said the Ayush ministry had stated that Coronil was not a cure for Covid-19 and could not be advertised as such and had also asked Patanjali to give details, after which Ramdev had clarified that it was an immunity booster. The court noted that Ramdev had issued a clarification and the DMA should no longer have a grievance on this count. The DMA’s counsel further claimed that Patanjali had made Rs 25 crore from Coronil sales after it had been touted as a cure for Covid-19 and that Ramdev had a vast following in the country. The court said: “Is he to be blamed for people buying Coronil?” It suggested that the DMA file a public interest litigation instead of pursuing the suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Order to CBSE on corrections in certificates ||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the CBSE to process, without creating impediments, the applications for correction or change in name or other particulars in certificates issued by the board, saying it was intrinsic to identity. The top court ordered the Central Board of Secondary Education to take immediate steps to amend its relevant by-laws to incorporate a mechanism for recording corrections or changes in certificates that have already been issued or are to be issued. It held that the CBSE cannot impose the precondition of applying for correction consistent with the school records only before publication of results as such a rider will be “unreasonable” and “excessive”. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said there was no reason for the CBSE to turn down such requests or attach any precondition except a reasonable period of limitation and keeping in mind the time frame for which the board had to maintain its records under the regulations. “…We direct the CBSE to process the applications for correction or change, as the case may be, in the certificate issued by it in the respective cases under consideration,” the bench said, while disposing of a batch of 22 petitions led by a student, Jigya Yadav, related to corrections or changes in particulars of students in certificates. The court said the board can insist that the students comply with other conditions, such as filing a sworn affidavit making necessary declarations and indemnifying the CBSE from any claim. The bench said the CBSE would be justified in insisting for surrender or return of the original certificate or the duplicate original certificate issued by it for replacing it with the fresh certificate to be handed out after carrying out necessary corrections with captions and annotations against the changes carried out and the date of such corrections. “It may retain the original entries as it is except in respect of correction of name effected in exercise of the right to be forgotten. The fresh certificate may also contain the disclaimer that the CBSE cannot be held responsible for the genuineness of the school records produced by the incumbent in support of the request to record corrections in the original CBSE certificate,” the court said. The bench, however, said that if the request for recording a change was based on altered school records after the publication of results and the issue of certificate by the CBSE, the candidate would be entitled to apply for recording such a change within the reasonable limitation period prescribed by the CBSE. “In this situation, the candidate cannot claim that she had no knowledge about the change recorded in the school records because such a change would occur obviously at her instance. If she makes such application for correction of the school records, she is expected to apply to the CBSE immediately after the school records are modified and which ought to be done within a reasonable time,” the court said. Dealing with the request for “change” of particulars in certificates, the bench said this could be done in two scenarios — on the basis of public documents like birth certificate, Aadhaar card/voter card and when the request for change is due to the acquired name by choice at a later date. The court said that in the first category, such public documents cannot be ignored by the CBSE. In the second scenario, the request may be entertained after insisting on prior permission or declaration by a court and publication in the Official Gazette.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Algae shadow on river water near Varanasi||Fish and other aquatic animals are in danger as a thick layer of algae has spread over the river water along Varanasi’s ghats, not an alluring advertisement for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet “Clean Ganga” project in his own constituency. Scientists have said that while the oxygen level in the water was decreasing fast because of the growth of algae, the concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorous were increasing, posing a threat to aquatic life and disturbing the ecosystem of the river in the holy town located 300km east of Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow. “A thin layer of algae had been spreading over the surface of the river for the past few days. But it has suddenly become thick over the past 24 hours,” said an employee involved in the Namami Gange programme of the central government who didn’t want to be named. The river water needs to be cleaned regularly and the water must not be allowed to stagnate to prevent the growth of algae. A member of the Union water ministry committee monitoring the Namami Gange project said on the condition of anonymity that the algae had come floating from Allahabad and had not bloomed in Varanasi. He said it would be cleaned soon. B.D. Tripathi, a scientist in Varanasi, said: “Normally, the temperature under the river during this time of the year is 25 degrees Celsius. But it has increased to 35 degrees Celsius because of the algae. The algae should be removed immediately to save the fish and other aquatic animals.” Kripa Ram, a scientist at the Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development of Banaras Hindu University, told reporters in Varanasi: “Algae bloom forms in water when eutrophication happens. The enhancement of nutrients exceptionally catalyses the growth of plant life and adversely affects the oxygen level in the water.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Mayawati sacks one-time loyalists over panchayat polls||Mayawati on Thursday suspended two senior Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs, who had once been among her most trusted lieutenants, on the charge of “anti-party activities” during the recent panchayat elections. Lalji Verma, MLA from Katehri, and Ram Achal Rajbhar, the legislator of Akbarpur, both in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkarnagar district, had allegedly been hobnobbing with BJP and Samajwadi Party leaders over the past few weeks, BSP sources said. A statement issued from the state headquarters of the BSP said: “Two MLAs who had been elected on BSP tickets have been suspended from the party with immediate effect following their anti-party activities during the panchayat elections.” “The office-bearers of the party have been directed not to call these leaders to its programmes. They will not be fielded in any election in future from the BSP,” the statement added. The BSP’s strength in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly has now come down to 16 from 18. Verma had also been the leader of the BSP legislative party. Rajbhar had been the BSP’s Madhya Pradesh unit in-charge. The BSP said Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali, the MLA from Mubarakpur in Azamgarh, would replace Verma as legislative party leader. Verma and Rajbhar had been cabinet ministers in Mayawati’s government between 2007 and 2012 and were considered her most trusted followers. “Out of power since 2012, these leaders were concerned about their future. Being a BSP MLA no longer appeared attractive for them. We had been receiving reports that they were meeting BJP as well as SP leaders over the past few weeks,” said a BSP leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Centre sets up expert group to recommend a minimum wage ||The Centre has set up an expert group to recommend a minimum wage and given it three years to submit its report, prompting allegations of apathy and intentional delay from trade unions and labour policy researchers. An earlier committee had recommended a minimum wage of Rs 375 a day and the constitution of a new panel suggests that the government has not accepted the proposal, they said. The country does not have a stipulated national minimum wage, only an advisory that suggests an amount of Rs 176. The unions and experts questioned the rationale behind forming a new committee at a time no fresh data, which would be needed to calculate a minimum wage, had been generated since the previous panel submitted its report. The new committee formed by the labour ministry will be chaired by Prof. Ajit Mishra, the director of the Institute of Economic Growth. The mandate is “to provide technical inputs and recommendations on fixation of minimum wages and national floor minimum wages”. “The group has been constituted for a period of three years…,” said a media release from the Press Information Bureau. Other members of the committee are Prof. Tarika Chakraborty of IIM Calcutta; Anushree Sinha, Senior Fellow, National Council of Applied Economic Research; Vibha Bhalla, joint secretary in the labour ministry; and H. Srinivas, director-general of the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute. “To arrive at the wage rates, the group will look into the international best practices on the wages and evolve a scientific criteria and methodology for fixation of wages,” the media release said. Under the new Code on Wages Act, the Centre has the power to notify a “floor wage” keeping in mind the minimum living standards. The floor wage will serve as the threshold below which no state can prescribe a rate. The previous committee had calculated the minimum wage rate of Rs 375 based on the July 2018 price level. It had worked out an evidence-based formula that took into account a balanced diet of 2,400 calories, 50 grams of protein and 30 grams of fat per day per person. The panel had also accounted for expenditure towards clothing, education and housing, and multiplied the cost by 3.6 to include the spouse, two children and elderly parents. A researcher on labour policies said, requesting anonymity: “There is no new evidence or data since the earlier committee gave its report in 2018. This exercise (of forming a new panel) has no relevance and rationale.” The minimum wage notified by most states is around Rs 200 a day. The Centre has been notifying every second year a National Minimum Floor-Level Wage (NMFLW) that is not binding on the states. The NFLMW notified in July 2017 was Rs 176. A revision is due since July 2019.“The economy has to be revived now. If the government is serious about the economy, it has to increase wages, which is very low compared with the rates in comparable economies,” the researcher said. He said giving three years to the expert group made no sense. “By the time the report comes, it will be June 2024, when a new government would possibly have come. That government will decide on implementation. This work should not take more than six months since reports are already available for reference,” he added.Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar pointed out that no representatives from trade unions and employers had been included in the panel. Another labour economist alleged that the government had set up the panel under pressure from corporates, who do not want any increase in wages. Senior labour and employment adviser to the government and member secretary of the committee, D.P.S. Negi said: “The tenure of the committee is three years but it will submit its report at the earliest. The members will look into all related issues and it is wrong to say there are no experts on wage in the committee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Pandemic exposes critical importance of data||Even if we didn’t know that her official motto since 1956 is “In God We Trust”, those readers who have visited the US would be familiar with this phrase since it appears on many American currency notes and coins. William Edwards Deming, a statistician and electrical engineer from the US, visited the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, in 1946-47, 1951 and 1971, on invitation from Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, the doyen of statistical science in India. Deming was one of the architects of the post-war economic miracle of Japan. Between 1950 and 1960, Japan became one of the leading economies of the world after suffering from near-complete devastation. Deming emphasised the pivotal role of data and statistics in enhancing quality and productivity in industry and ensured the implementation of statistical quality control. He also helped initiate these systems in the Indian industry. For his seminal contributions, Deming was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Ronald Reagan in 1987 and, in the following year, the Distinguished Career in Science award by the US National Academy of Sciences. Deming is also known for his famous statement “In God we trust, all others must bring data”. He emphasised the importance of data in development. This pandemic has exposed the critical importance of data. However, data is not knowledge. Data have to be transformed into knowledge to provide a basis for action. In pandemic times, data have to be analysed rapidly for actionable inferences. This requires data to be shared openly in real-time, to enable many scientists to analyse and provide to policy makers the knowledge thus gained. Data are collected through public funds. Therefore, citizens have a right to data access. To deny them this right is to deny them health security during the pandemic. In many countries, data pertaining to the spread of SARS-CoV-2, nature of clinical outcomes of infection by the coronavirus, reinfection after vaccination, new variants arising and their local spread are publicly available. The knowledge gained from analyses of these data has influenced policy on implementation of restrictions such as lockdowns, estimation of logistical requirements such as oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and ventilators in local areas, and have also impacted public health systems. Open rapid data-sharing enhances transparency to citizens on reasons for decisions taken by the government. RNA sequence data of a large number of coronavirus specimens are being generated everyday and made publicly available very rapidly in many countries. The volume of sequence data being generated in India is very small. Further, viral sequence data that have been collected from India are being sparingly shared in the public domain. The time lag between data collection and data sharing is about an order of magnitude higher than that of many other countries, thereby rendering such data of little immediate public health utility in India. If a dangerous variant of the coronavirus arises somewhere in our country, it will have spread rather widely before we can identify it based on sequence data. Data must be at the core of any public health system. All public health decisions must be evidence-based. Data collection must be done systematically with a statistical design so that the collected data can inform a national public health system without bias. Possibly, none of us has ever encountered a pandemic. And, each of us is hoping that we don’t encounter another. To make this hope come true, a high level of preparedness is essential. Preparedness to identify a local outbreak without delay. Preparedness to monitor and contain spread. Preparedness to care for the infected. Preparedness to identify new variants. And much more. We need to establish an unbiased, systematic and wide method of data collection. We need to build a robust system for rapid data-sharing, analysis and dissemination of results. Only then can our preparedness be sound. As Deming had said, we must bring data to the table to enable preparedness. In a country such as ours, systematic and wide data collection is of even greater importance because we are a group of people with varied ancestries that has resulted in a heterogeneous gene pool. This genomic diversity among the people of India implies that we may not be equally susceptible to an infection, we may not display the same set of symptoms if we are infected, we may not respond equally to a vaccine. This imposes a heavy burden of data collection on us, because we need to be inclusive of the various ethnic groups in our country. One size does not fit all!. Frustrated that data collection was not being systematically done during the pandemic and the inability to obtain access to data collected, on April 29, 2021, a group of about 200 scientists wrote an open appeal to the Prime Minister “for systematic data collection and timely data release”. The number of signatories to the appeal snowballed to over 900 within a couple of days, indicating how widespread the concern of scientists in India is. The appeal evoked a supportive response from the principal scientific adviser to the Prime Minister. He stated: “Wide and correct access to data and information and wide collaboration are important at any time and most urgent now.” He also promised to take “proactive measures” and provided details of contact persons for “specific questions, concerns, and suggestions about data access”. I, and many others, had immediately contacted them to gain access to specific data. As we were then told, we also submitted “concept notes” explaining why we needed access to the data and how we planned to utilise these. That was over a month ago. We are still waiting for data access. Unfortunately, in our country, time is never the essence. Data-hungry scientists wished to find patterns in the data in a bid to help the government curb the disastrous course of the disease. But alas! It’s time for the scientists to go to bed hungry, with frustration that they were unable to use their expertise for societal benefit. The author is a National Science Chair, Government of India, and an Emeritus Professor of Indian Statistical Institute||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Covid vaccine hesitancy hits drive in rural Bihar||People across rural areas in Bihar are reluctant to take the Covid-19 vaccine despite all efforts by the health department and district officials. Around 89 per cent of the over 12 crore population of Bihar live in villages. Unlike several other states, vaccine shots are available in the state for those aged 45 and above, but there are no takers. Mobile vaccination vans are being allegedly attacked in villages in different districts. People are not turning up at the primary health centres and temporary vaccination camps set up at different locations and the vaccination drive has been severely hit. “A mobile vaccination van was moving towards villages in Rangra block to inoculate people with the Covid-19 vaccine. A group of people stopped and attacked it. Our team was forced to flee from there. They (vaccination team) are now apprehensive about their safety while on duty. Vans are still going around but people are refusing to take the shots. This is also leading to a wastage of public money,” Bhagalpur  district civil surgeon Umesh Sharma told The Telegraph. Sharma blamed rumours like death, illness and infertility after vaccination were doing the rounds among the people. This has led to an aversion in taking the shots that could help save them from Covid-19, he added. “Each mobile van tagged with the 16 primary health centres here has to inoculate 200 people each every day. Each stationary team at the hospitals also has the same target. However, we are managing to achieve only around 20 per cent of the figure. You can imagine the gravity of the situation,” Sharma said. The same story is repeated in Hasanpur block of Samastipur district. The health workers and officials just keep waiting in vain for people to turn up to take vaccine shots. “This was not the case in the beginning when vaccination started here around two months ago. People were eagerly coming initially to take the shots, but have now stopped coming due to various rumours. This has nothing to do with religion because nobody is turning up,” said Hasanpur PHC health manager Wahab Alam. Bihar has vaccinated 1.04 crore people, including 20 lakh people who have received both the doses since January 16 this year when the vaccination campaign started. Among them 74 lakh are in the age group of 45 and above. However, the figures have slipped drastically with only 46,000 people of all age groups taking vaccine on Monday (May 31). Among them around 30,000 were in the age group of 45 and above who turned up for their first dose of the vaccine, which just around a third of the numbers that used to flock to the vaccination centres in March and April. Unnerved by the development, the state government is now considering starting a vigorous publicity campaign, roping in various stakeholders and religious leaders to create awareness among the people. “There have been reports of hesitancy towards taking the Covid vaccine among people in the age group of 45 years and above residing in the rural areas. People have attacked mobile vaccination at various places in the state,” state health secretary and executive director of the State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, told this newspaper. “We are now planning to start an information campaign to tackle this hesitancy and make people understand the importance of getting vaccinated. We will rope in all stakeholders, public representatives and men of religion in the information campaign,” Kumar added. He pointed out that Bihar was comfortably placed in providing vaccine for the people above 45 years, but was facing severe shortage for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. “Right now we don’t have any vaccine for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. We are expecting vaccines for them to arrive from June 7. The situation will be better from June 10,” Kumar said. Bihar has witnessed 5,163 deaths due to Covid-19 so far, a majority of the casualties occurring during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. The state government data has put the total number of detected coronavirus infections at seven lakh, including 16,235 active cases at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||West Bengal||High Court asks victims of political violence in Bengal to email complaints||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court asked victims of recent political violence in Bengal to file online complaints with the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority on Friday, following up on its directive to the state government to set up a committee to look into complaints that BJP workers were being forced to flee their homes since May 2 when results of the Bengal Assembly election were announced. As per the order, passed by the bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, the victims were free to use legal counsels to lodge their complaint via the website of the authority. “We direct that anyone in West Bengal, who is not being allowed to go back to their home allegedly on account of post-poll violence will be at liberty to launch a complaint on the website of WB State Legal Services Authority,” the court ordered. The bench had on Monday directed the state government to set up a three-member committee to look into BJP workers' allegations that they were being forced to flee their homes, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee had dismissed as “motivated” and “fake”. Advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket, had filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court, primarily focussing on the Entally constituency where, on Wednesday, around 144 people were sent back to their homes under police escort. While making it clear that the court’s priority was to ensure rehabilitation of displaced people to their homes, Acting Chief Justice Bindal observed, “The AG has been instructed to say there is none (victims).” Advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya told the court some people were threatened by local police, saying that they would not be allowed to live in their homes since they had approached law enforcement authorities. The division bench ordered that on receipt of such complaints, the competent authority should take corrective measures to ensure that the victims were able to return to their homes and then submit a report to the court. “Complaints may be sent to the official email id of the authority. Other displaced persons will also be at liberty to send copies of their complaint at the official email of WB State Legal Services Authority. On receipt of such grievance, the competent authority shall take necessary steps for rehabilitation of such persons and report to this court,” the order read. Advocate Tibrewal told the court that she had received similar complaints from many people from across the state. Friday's court order came a day after leaflets announcing social boycott of 18 families in Keshpur’s Mahishda village were distributed. Along with a list of names, the leaflets included a warning to shopkeepers and tea-sellers in the village not to trade with any of them. Those found violating the warnings were threatened with stern action. The leaflets had "Mahishda All India Trinamul Congress" written on top followed by booth 176 and 179 in the next line. However, there was no signature. The BJP has claimed that all the 18 families were its supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Four heavyweights appear before CBI court in Narada case||Four senior leaders, facing trial in the Narada case, appeared before the special CBI judge at a court in Calcutta on Friday. Judge Anupam Mukerjee had on April 17, while ordering interim bail to the four leaders, directed them to physically appear before the court on June 4. State ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee appeared before the judge and left the Bankshall court premises after a while. Judge Mukherjee said that the next date for the hearing of the matter will be fixed later in the day. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court granted interim bail on May 28 to the four leaders, who were arrested on May 17 by the CBI, which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on an order of the high court. The special CBI court had granted them bail on that day itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody. Production of the four before the special CBI court was held virtually on May 17 as the investigating agency claimed it was unable to produce the accused in court physically owing to protests outside its office at Nizam Palace by a mob of 2,000-3,000 people. Chargesheet in the Narada sting case was also submitted against the accused before the special court on that day. The special court, granting interim bail, had fixed the next date of hearing on June 4, when the accused were to appear before it. They were placed under house arrest on May 21 by a division bench of the high court, which modified its earlier stay on interim bail granted to the four leaders by the special CBI court. The matter was referred to a larger bench of five judges after the judges of a division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal differed on granting interim bail to the four accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Exporters to Mamata Banerjee: Allow movement of inter-state carriages and operations||The Federation of Indian Export Organisation and several other export promotion bodies have made a joint appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow movement of inter-state carriages and operations with 50 per cent workforce. The government had announced stricter restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19. The federation wants export-oriented MSME sector, manufacturers, SEZs, process industries and their raw material vendors to operate with at least 50 per cent workforce. The federation said suspension of work and ban on movement of inter-state trucks had resulted in the imposition of heavy penalties on exporters by foreign buyers for failing to honour the deadline and commitment. The federation has also requested the state government to allow their offices to function between 10am and 3am every day with 25 per cent workforce to carry out work related to accounts, export/import, communication and transaction with bank, customs and port. “The government should understand that we need to work with limited staff at least during the banking hours. This is required for the survival of the exporters and their employees and the state’s economy too,” an exporter said. Ghojadanga Exporters’ Association, an organisation of exporters engaged in export through the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas, has also made a similar appeal to the chief secretary. They have urged the government to allow movement of inter and intra-state carriages carrying export items to avoid loss. Export and import activities with Bangladesh through land ports, however, continued since nothing was specifically stated about its operations in the government order. Exporter Ranabir Dutta said, “Such suspension of movement has led to our failure to meet our commitment to international buyers. We are incurring huge losses every day and at the same time would be charged heavy penalties by our buyers. The state government should consider this sympathetically and allow our vehicles to move.” Federation’s eastern region chairman Sushil Patwari said: “Exports play a pivotal role in the state's economy. Exports and manufacturing units, who are part of the national and global value chain, have been suffering seriously due to complete suspension of work. We appeal to the government to consider this aspect to save the industries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Ease hope for businesses, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government would relax a few more Covid restrictions, offering an evening window for restaurants and an extra hour for shops in the afternoon, and consider a proposal to allow malls to open with limits on footfall. Sources in Nabanna said the relaxations for eateries and shops could come in a couple of days while those for malls would have to wait till after June 15, when the current spell of stricter restrictions ends. The state government, which has earmarked shop owners, transport workers and hawkers as “potential super spreaders” and is prioritising their vaccination with doses bought from the manufacturers, now plans to widen the category to include weavers, rice mill workers, ration shop workers and domestic workers. “Eateries and restaurants can remain open between 5pm and 8pm provided the employees are vaccinated. Retail shops can operate between noon and 4pm,” the chief minister said at a meeting with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies. Currently, retail outlets can operate between noon and 3pm, while grocery stores and vegetable shops can stay open between 7am and 10am. The Nabanna meeting, which senior officials and business representatives from across the state joined virtually, had been called to discuss what the trade bodies can do to help Bengal’s battle against Covid and its post-Yaas relief and rehabilitation efforts. During the one-hour, 45-minute meeting, the delegates convinced the chief minister about the need for more relaxations for the sake of livelihoods. “I have never favoured a total lockdown and that’s why we have given so many widows of opportunities for business to run. But nor can I see people dying,” Mamata said, underscoring the need to balance the rights of life and livelihood. She said, without specifying a timetable, that IT industries would be allowed to operate with 10 per cent of the workforce each in two shifts. Currently, they are allowed just one shift a day with 10 per cent of the workforce. During the meeting with 50-odd chambers of commerce, including bodies from the districts, the chief minister asked these organisations’ members to take the initiative to have their employees vaccinated. “We don’t want to close trade and business. But in the middle of a pandemic, some steps need to be taken. I urge you to ensure that all your employees get vaccinated,” she said. Initially at the meeting, Mamata had asked the trade bodies to get the vaccines on their own — which employers can do through an arrangement with private hospitals — and said the state would provide the vaccination facilities. But chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi suggested that the state provide the vaccines to the labourers and workers of the various trade sectors by bringing them under the “potential super-spreader” category. Mamata accepted the proposal and set up a committee headed by the chief secretary to oversee the matter. The district authorities have been asked to prepare databases of workers from various sectors and send these to Dwivedi. Government sources said Mamata’s stress on the vaccination of employees was timely. “The chief minister believes the state should be prepared to counter the (possible) third wave. If employees of all these establishments get vaccinated soon, the state can easily avoid the third wave,” a source said. Another official said: “A total of 18 lakh shop owners, transport workers and hawkers have already been vaccinated. They get in touch with many people every day and can spread the virus rapidly if infected.” Officials said Mamata’s decision to allow some relaxations stemmed from the significant fall in daily infections since the enforcement of stricter restrictions from May 16. “When the stricter restrictions were put in place, the state’s daily count of positive cases was around 21,000. It has now fallen to 8,000-odd,” health secretary N.S. Nigam said. “The daily positivity rate too has come down to 13 per cent from 33 per cent, and the total active cases to 70,000 from 1.4 lakh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Mirik gets 50-bed safe home for treatment of Covid patients||A 50-bed safe home for treatment of Covid-19 patients was opened in Mirik, 50km from here, on Thursday at the local college building. Sources said the first of its kind facility in the hill town will be jointly operated by the sub-divisional administration, the health department and the local civic body. “Earlier,  residents of Mirik town and nearby areas had to rush to the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital for Covid treatment. The new facility will provide preliminary treatment to them ,” an official of the health department said. A source said there were altogether 30 beds available at the block primary hospital in Mirik.  So far, the hospital had only two isolation beds for suspected Covid patients and no other arrangement was available for them in the hill town. “The new healthcare infrastructure here will have a total of 50 beds, 25 each for male and female patients. Out of these, six beds will get oxygen support. Apart from that there will be four oxygen concentrators which would be provided to patients who need such support at home. Also, two doctors along with health workers will be present at the facility to monitor the condition of the patients and provide round the clock service to the patients,” Tashi Lama, the block medical officer (Health) of Mirik, said. At present,  there are 345 active Covid cases in Mirik. Majority of them are in home isolation. As per reports of the Darjeeling district administration, a total of 340 cases were detected across the district on June 2, and 40 of them were from Mirik. Meanwhile in Siliguri, an upgraded 20-bed safe home — with full time doctors and nursing staff and each bed with complete oxygen support — was inaugurated at Tinbatti More in Siliguri on May 31. The facility will provide treatment to the patients with mild symptoms of Covid-19. Apart from the government aided health establishment, this is for the first time a sophisticated safe home or a field hospital will be completely managed by the couple of prominent NGOs of the city. Indian Chamber of Commerce and Liver Foundation have extended its support for making the home operational here. “It will have a total of 20 beds. Each of the beds will get round the clock oxygen support. There will be in-house doctors and nursing staff at the home, who will monitor the health condition of the patients on a regular basis,” Avijit Majumdar, the working president of Siliguri Welfare Organisation, which took the initiative in association with some other organisations. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the BoA of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, inaugurated the facility located under Ward 32 of the civic body. “When people are struggling to get a bed for the treatment of Covid-19, such upgraded home with all the necessary facilities under the single roof under the round the clock observation of doctors and nursing staffs with free medicine, oxygen supports and food in completely free of cost will definitely helpful for the common people,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tathagata Roy targets four BJP leaders over post-poll results violence||Former Bengal BJP president Tathagata Roy on Wednesday accused senior party leaders of abandoning the workers at the grassroots at a time they were targeted in post-poll results violence. “A very close person came crying today. Said a few thousand men who had worked for BJP have been driven out by Trinamul goons. They will possibly have to pay hefty sums of money to be allowed to return. I am helpless. Of the state leaders KSA have run away. D doesn’t receive calls!” Roy, the former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya, wrote on twitter. He has been targeting four BJP leaders for the party’s debacle and using the first letters of their names to describe the quartet in his tweets. K stands for BJP national general secretary and minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, S national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, A co-minder Arvind Menon and D state party president Dilip Ghosh. Multiple state and district BJP leaders have told this correspondent that while they don’t have the courage to be as outspoken as Roy, they share his views and hold the likes of Vijayvargiya, Shivprakash and Menon responsible for the party’s debacle as they got Trinamul turncoats to contest for the BJP in the Assembly elections. Referring to Roy’s tweet, a BJP functionary said a female worker from a rural area had called up Dilip Ghosh on May 3 morning for help after her house had been attacked by alleged Trinamul workers. “However, the call to Ghosh was attended by someone else at first and when the Midnapore MP finally answered, he dispassionately said he had nothing to do.” “How can a state president react like this? Whom are we to look up to in times of need if our chief turns us away?” Roy’s jibes at the state leaders prompted some of them to lodge complaints with the central leaders, following which he was summoned to Delhi on May 6. But he could not visit the capital because he was detected with Covid-19. Roy told The Telegraph on Thursday that he was still unwell but planned to visit Delhi once the capital came out of lockdown. “I will submit a report on why and how the party lost in Bengal when I visit Delhi,” he said, making it clear that he didn’t regret the tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi calls up Mukul Roy to inquire about his wife’s health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned BJP MLA Mukul Roy on Thursday to inquire about the health of his wife Krishna who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital off the EM Bypass here. The call from Modi, BJP sources said, assumes significance as Abhishek Banerjee, de facto number 2 of the Trinamul Congress, had paid a visit to the hospital on Wednesday to enquire about the health of Krishna and spent some time with Roy’s son Subhranshu. After Abhishek’s visit, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh also went to the hospital on Wednesday. The sudden concern in the BJP camp about Krishna’s health has drawn everyone’s attention. “Krishnadi has been unwell for a long time and has been on ventilation. Suddenly, everyone seems to be concerned.… The PM could’ve called up Mukulda earlier as well or Dilipda could have visited her before. But all these happened only after Abhishek paid a visit to the hospital,” a state BJP leader said. Sources close to Roy said Modi’s phone had come around 10.30 on Thursday morning and the two spoke for about a couple of minutes about Krishna’s health. “The Prime Minister had called up my father since he is a worker of the BJP. I can’t say anything more about it,” Shubhranshu told The Telegraph. He added that BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, and the party’s national president J.P. Nadda had called up earlier to enquire about Krishna’s health. Although Subhranshu — a Trinamul turncoat who lost as a BJP nominee from Bijpur in the Assembly polls — didn’t share details of the calls from BJP leadership, he was effusive in his praise for Abhishek and the chief minister. “My mother is like Abhishek’s aunt. She loves him a lot. His gesture must become a practice in Indian politics,” Shubhransu said. “The Honourable CM has also enquired about my parents’ health through several sources and I’m very happy,” he added. Mukul also tested positive for Covid, but he is better now and has gone back to his Kanchrapara home. Subhranshu’s praise for Abhishek and Mamata caused jitters in the saffron camp as it willy-nilly endorsed Mukul’s displeasure with the scheme of things in the state BJP. “The party leadership knows that Mukulda is unhappy with several things... That is why efforts are made to assuage his concerns,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden owner proposes to donate CT-Scan machine to Darjeeling district hospital ||Tea planter Ajit Kumar Agarwala has proposed to donate a CT-Scan machine that would cost Rs 1.1 crore to Darjeeling district hospital. Agarwala, who owns eight tea gardens in the region, six in Darjeeling district and the rest in Jalpaiguri, stated in his proposal that a May 31 report in The Telegraph on the lack of CT scan and portable X-ray machine to treat Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling district hospital caught his eye. Darjeeling has no CT scan facility in any hospital, which hampers Covid-19 treatment. “…..upon reading the news article it is felt that an urgent installation of CT Scan machine is the need of the hour so we as a social organisation wish to extend our helping hand to the citizens of Darjeeling, through your good office, by donating a 16 Slice CT Scan machine to the Darjeeling Govt. hospital,” Agarwala has stated in his letter to the principal secretary of the health department, the administrator of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and Darjeeling district magistrate. Agarwala is the managing trustee of the Amit Agarwala Foundation, which is named after his only son. Amit Agarwala died in 2006. “I don’t have any legal heir but I want to do social work in the region that has given me so much,” said Agarwala. Agarwala said he also plans to come up with “hospitals and schools”. He said that he was the first planter in the country to write to the government to distribute land to the tea garden workers. “At Kanchan View (one of the tea gardens that he owns) I once had 200 workers but now we only have 99. I had proposed to the state government to take 50 per cent of the garden land and distribute it to the workers and other landless people,” said Agarwala stressing that lack of workforce is a major problem in smooth running of a tea garden. Asked about the businessman’s proposed gift of the CT scan, S. Poonambalam, Darjeeling’s district magistrate, however, said the health department has already started the process to procure a CT scan machine for the Darjeeling district hospital. “The process was to start before the election but was stalled because of the model code of conduct,” said Poonambalam. To this, Agarwala said that if the government wished, he could buy and install the CT scan at another hill hospital like the Covid hospital at Triveni, Kalimpong district, which is run by the GTA. The tea owner previously owned two gardens in the hills, Chungthung and Kanchan View. He, however, sold Chungthung in 2008. At the Kanchan View tea garden, Agarwala is planning to come up with a 72-room resort, which will be a commercial venture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tajpur residents put dyke repair over politics||Over 1,000 disgruntled residents in East Midnapore’s Tajpur on Thursday afternoon surrounded Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and demanded that a 3km stretch of embankment and guard wall, be repaired “immediately”. Abhishek had travelled by road to Tajpur around 2pm to inspect the damaged embankment and guard wall, which were devastated in Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The Telegraph had reported last Friday that several villages lying close to coastal Tajpur had been flooded and several homes ruined as a result of a high tide coursing through the demolished guard wall structure and embankment. “We don't want rations. We want this embankment and guard wall to be repaired immediately so that we can return home,” said Pritilata Majhi, 65, almost upbraiding Abhishek as he gave the crowd assurances of looking into it by the department concerned. Abhishek, who was accompanied by fisheries minister Akhil Giri, had begun his interaction with the group of villagers asking whether they had received ration and relief materials but the interaction took a different turn with people demanding the embankment and guard wall repaired. “You all know who the DSDA chairman and irrigation minister were till recently. Your district has lost everything in trying to protect one family,” Abhishek said without naming Suvendu Adhikari and his clan. Trinamul turncoat Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari was the chairman of Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) till earlier this year. Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Assembly polls in Nandigram by a slim margin, had earlier been irrigation minister briefly. So had the other Trinamul turncoat, Rajib Banerjee. But Majhi was not interested. “We don't care about who did what. We just want our safety, you look into that,” she told Abhishek, who was then assuring protesters that officials in the Digha Development Authority and the irrigation department, who were responsible for the embankment, guard wall and road cover, would face a probe. It was clear that villagers did not care about political twists and turns when their survival was at stake. The crowd of over 1,000 even had a few members carrying placards that said “Badh chai, bnachte chai (we want the embankment, we want to live).” The area is slated to witness high tide waves for the June 10 full moon. Over 2,000 residents of Tajpur remain displaced for a over week owing to standing water after Cyclone Yaas. Especially in places like Chandpur, Tajpur, Jalda and Shyampur, and loss of essentials during the sudden flooding that took place late last Wednesday. Some have even moved to nearby higher land and are living under tarpaulins. “All we told him (Abhishek) is that we want our homes back, kitchen back. If I don’t have a kitchen, where will I cook the ration,” said homemaker Sabita Maity, 32, who had to shift to a relative’s home with her two sons after the cyclone-induced floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: State govt starts Duare Tran camps to provide financial help to people ||The state government started its Duare Tran (relief on doorsteps) camps from Thursday to provide financial help to people affected by Cyclone Yaas that hit coastal Bengal on May 26. Unlike after Amphan last year, the government has prepared a month-long schedule to make the process transparent. According to the plan, the government will receive applications from June 3 to 18, field enquiries will be done over the next 12 days and then the beneficiaries, depending on the extent of damage, will receive benefits from July 1 to 7. The North and South 24-Parganas opened 20 and 34 Duare Tran camps, respectively, in the districts’ Yaas-hit pockets on Thursday. Taking lessons from alleged malpractices in relief distribution that had snowballed into a major political controversy in the aftermath of Amphan last year, this time the government has taken several precautions to ensure that Yaas relief reaches actual beneficiaries in three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas. The Telegraph lists some steps to ensure transparency in the process: Primary survey: Two days after Yaas struck Bengal, teams of officials armed with photographers were sent to affected villages to collect data from the ground. Officials said the teams sent a detailed report with names of cyclone victims. Photographs of damage caused to properties of the victims were sent with the report. During Amphan, the government had invited applications from people and money was transferred to their accounts without verification. Senior officials said this time they took this strategy for two reasons — first, for a primary database on victims before they apply, and second, if any application comes from unaffected places, verification would be faster. For example, officials have enlisted around 200 households severely damaged in a village in South 24-Parganas. When applications reach officials, they can quickly verify if the names are fresh ones or are part of the primary survey. All applications will be checked and fresh names further cross-checked. “After receiving applications, we will do a ground enquiry for each applicant. In case of data mismatch, the application will be cancelled,” said the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulaganathan. Identifying locations: Unlike Amphan, the government is carrying out location specific campaigns for the Duare Tran. The campaign is done only in those villages where people are affected. The number of camps per day is fewer to keep the process transparent and camps free of crowding amid the pandemic. “We are holding camps in small numbers. Only 20 camps were held on Thursday, in the Basirhat area,” said Sumit Gupta, the North 24-Parganas district magistrate. Proactive documentation: During Amphan, there was no documentation was done apart from receiving the application with a bank account number. This time, every applicant has to submit his or her Aadhaar card and the first page of a bank passbook. A photographer at the camp clicks pictures of the applicants. “The photographs will be cross-checked to find whether the person is real or fake,” said an official in North 24-Parganas. Keeping away politicians: The government this time decided not to involve politicians, including elected representatives of panchayats or panchayat samitis, in the process of distributing relief and at Duare Tran camps. Before starting camps, elected representatives had been asked to help affected people gather documents and send them to camps. In case a person can’t write, the forms are filled up by government employees at the camp. Elected representatives of panchayats or municipalities are not allowed in the Duare Traan camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay explains ‘situation’ in reply to showcause issued by ministry of home affairs||Former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday sent his reply to a showcause issued by the ministry of home affairs, explaining why he had to leave a review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Cyclone Yaas at Kalaikunda last week. After his retirement on May 31, Bandyopadhyay was appointed as the chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. A section of officials said the former chief secretary had mentioned in the reply the chain of events on Friday when Modi had called the review meeting. “He explained the situation in which he had to leave the meeting, along with the chief minister, after handing over a list of damage caused by Cyclone Yaas to the Prime Minister. Bandyopadhyay explained that he had not skipped the review meeting. He left the meeting after taking permission from the Prime Minister,” said an officer aware of the development. The Centre had given him three days’ time to send his reply to the showcause. “He sent his reply within the time-frame given to him,” said the officer. Sources said Bandyopadhyay was right in his stand as he had to obey the chief minister’s order as the chief minister was his immediate boss. “It’s the duty of a bureaucrat to obey orders of his or her immediate boss. In case a bureaucrat fails to obey orders from his or her immediate boss, he could face disciplinary action. Keeping this in view, Bandyopadhyay apparently did not do anything wrong,” said a source. But a section of the officials was sceptical whether the Centre would accept the reasons cited by the former chief secretary. “The Centre made it clear that it was not happy and did not hesitate to initiate steps that could be termed as acts of revenge. Once the Centre came to know that he had retired on May 31 refusing extension of service for three months, it immediately showcaused him under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which frames criminal charges against the offenders,” said an official. Another section of the officials said new chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi had also sent a letter, informing the Centre that Bandyopadhyay had retired on May 31 and he did not opt for extension of service for three months which had been approved by the Union government on May 24 on the state’s request. “This letter was sent to make it clear that Bandyopadhyay was not in service any more and no disciplinary action could be taken against him,” said a source. The state had sought Bandyopadhyay’s service extension, citing the second wave of Covid-19. Although nobody in the state government officially confirmed the content of the letter sent by Dwivedi, sources said the letter was a message that the state government stood by its former chief secretary. “This will boost the morale of the bureaucrats working in Bengal. They will be sure that the state would stand by them in case they face any trouble,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal drop by 8,235||Bengal on Thursday recorded a drop by 8,235 in total active Covid-19 cases, aided by 16,938 recoveries, nearly twice the 8,811 infections reported on the day. The state also logged 108 deaths on Thursday. Of the 108 deaths, 27 were reported from Calcutta and 30 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 976 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,842. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 61,780 now, having improved by over 53 per cent in the past 13 days. Bengal now has 3.78 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. The state now has a total of 14.03 lakh cases, which include 13.25 lakh recoveries, besides 15,921 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 33rd consecutive day, riding the consistently large number of recoveries, rising by nearly 10 percentage points to 94.46 per cent on Thursday. The national rate now is 93.05. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.81 on Thursday. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of total samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.19. “From the peak of more than 53,000 active cases between them, these two districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) now have around 20,000 active cases. From around 40 per cent of the state’s total of active cases, the two districts now have around 33 per cent,” said a minister. “When these two, collectively, have less than 5,000 active cases once again, we will have effectively seen off the second wave,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
04-06-2021||North East||Exploring ways for Ulfa(I) talks, says Himanta Biswa Sarma ||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said the Centre and the state government were exploring ways to get the proscribed Ulfa(I) to the talks table for lasting peace. “As the chief minister, I will try to contribute as much as possible towards creating towards that end,” Sarma said in response to a query by journalists in Delhi about the possibility of peace talks with the Ulfa (I). This was Sarma’s first visit to the national capital after becoming the chief minister on May 10. He has called on the Prime Minister, home minister, finance minister and the BJP national president, among others. Sarma also met the National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, the Union home secretary and Intelligence Bureau officials in connection with the proposed peace deal to be signed with Karbi outfits sometime next week. While he was dwelling on the proposed peace treaty with Karbi Anglong-based militant outfits, he was posed the question regarding the Ulfa issue. Hopes of peace talks between the government and the outfit, formed in 1979 to secure Assam sovereignty, soared after the Ulfa(I) announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire on May 15 owing to prevailing Covid-induced situation in the state. Moreover, Ulfa commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah has reposed faith in Sarma’s capability to ensure a breakthrough. Sarma said Paresh Baruah in his interviews to the media wants inclusion of the sovereignty demand in the talks agenda something which elected ministers cannot agree to because of their oath to protect India’s sovereignty. “Despite the negatives (sovereignty issue) but the positives are that both the government and Ulfa want peace. People of Assam also want lasting peace at any cost. We have to find a path between the negatives and the positives,” the chief minister said. According to Sarma, the Centre, the state and the Ulfa are all exploring ways to move ahead. “How to find a way out is being explored at several levels... at the level of Delhi, at the level of Dispur and, I am sure, even at the level of Ulfa.… We have to take small and steady steps moving ahead. Sufficient to say that we are exploring way to get the Ulfa to the talks table,” he said. The chief minister said that the state government has given its go ahead with the Karbi Anglong outfits. Over 1,000 cadres of five groups operating mainly in  undivided Karbi Anglong district had laid down arms on February 24 in Guwahati before the then chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. The outfits are People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), the Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation (KLNLF), the Karbi People's Liberation Tiger (KPLT),  the United People's Liberation Army (UPLA) and the Kuki Liberation Front (KLF).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
04-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Work left ||Given the devastation wrought by Covid-19 in India, can there be a sliver of hope for those who have been worst affected? The Centre seems to have taken a step in that direction by announcing a special ‘PM-Cares for Children’ scheme for children who have been orphaned on account of Covid-19. It will include a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each child when they turn 18. Thereafter, each beneficiary is slated to receive a monthly stipend for the next five years — the period during which they pursue higher education — for their personal needs; upon reaching the age of 23, they will receive the corpus amount as a lump sum. This is a welcome step, coming as it does in the wake of a tragedy of gargantuan proportions for bereaved children, many of whom run the risk of falling prey to traffickers or being denied their basic rights to food, health and education. Such relief packages have also been announced by several states such as Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Kerala, in fact, announced its scheme before the Centre did. The pledge by the Centre came soon after but ought it not to have been leading the charge? There are also conflicting reports pertaining to numbers. The Centre has identified a total of 577 Covid orphans. The actual number is likely to be significantly higher, as the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights informed the Supreme Court that the tentative figure of children in need of care and protection, including orphans, since March 2020 is 9,346. Some other needs of children, orphaned or otherwise, must be addressed as well. The pandemic, periodic lockdowns and disruptions in the education calendar have had a profound impact on children’s mental health; calls to an Indian helpline for children in distress increased sharply since the pandemic began. And yet, the Centre has allocated a paltry 0.05 per cent of its health budget towards mental health. It stands to reason that within that, the funds allotted for child and adolescent mental health, if any, will be negligible. An unimaginative push towards online classes without ensuring supplementary needs — gadgets, reliable internet connectivity and so on — has put education out of reach for around 56 per cent of students. There is concern about the State’s ability to protect children and young adults in the face of a possible ‘third wave’ of the pandemic even though an expert panel has submitted a plan to bolster India’s preparations for tackling paediatric Covid-19 cases. The Supreme Court has said that the “modalities” of the Centre’s new scheme for Covid orphans need to be “worked out”. The Centre must get to work immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Look deeper: Naomi Osaka’s withdrawal from the French Open||Sir — Naomi Osaka’s withdrawal from the French Open is shocking and unfortunate, but this move has drawn attention to an issue in sport that needed to be addressed (“After Osaka exit, tennis faces volley of questions”, June 2). Osaka’s refusal to talk to the press during the French Open gave rise to controversy — it amounts to breaking a rule — following which she announced her decision to discontinue with the tournament. Osaka should have explained better her struggle with mental health to the authorities before skipping the news conference after her first-round victory on Sunday. The organizers, on their part, rightly fined her for her lack of tact. But it must be kept in mind that when a person is unwell, or mentally stressed beyond control, one might not be able to act judiciously. Instead of mocking Osaka — the derogatory tweet has now been deleted — the organizers should focus on the toll that mental health might take on players and how to address it. This issue cannot be taken lightly. It is heartening that sportspersons like Novak Djokovic have extended their support to Osaka during such difficult times. Biplab Karmakar,Calcutta Sir — It is disheartening to learn that Naomi Osaka has pulled out of the French Open. She cited her mental health as the reason behind her decision. This step has once again emphasized the impact of mental stress that is affecting the lives of people across the world. One hopes that she gets better soon and returns with a bang. Madhumanti Chakraborty,Calcutta Yawning gap Sir — Sukanta Chaudhuri’s article, “A disaster foretold” (June 2), brings to light the blatant fault lines in the new National Education Policy. That there is a big gap between the privileged few of the urban upper and middle classes and the underprivileged, largely ignored, rural population has been reiterated time and again. Many children belonging to the latter section have no access to the internet and thereby, as a fallout of the pandemic, no access to education. I especially agree with the part of the article where Chaudhuri points out, with respect to the NEP’s provision for vocational education reinforcing inequality, that it is highly unlikely that a doctor’s daughter would train to be a mason. On the same day this article was published, there were reports about oxygen concentrators being available at an urban school in Calcutta. This could only be dreamt of by students of schools under the anganwadi programme. School dropout rates are a recurring concern in India. With the onset of the pandemic and schools remaining shut, this problem is only being aggravated. For underprivileged children, attending online classes is a distant dream. Haimanti Dutta Ray,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Sukanta Chaudhuri made an important point about a 21st-century version of varnashram being reinstated by the government through the NEP. There is a reason why the Right to Education Act emphasizes free and compulsory education for a part of India’s student community. Pushing children towards work from an early age robs them of the opportunity to make a real choice about their future vocation. The argument that we do not end up using all that we learn in school is baseless. School education, as it stands, exposes children to a spectrum of possibilities they can pick from. Depriving them of this can be a disaster for the country. Ankit Bhowmick,North 24 Parganas New threat Sir — Even as the world is reeling from Covid-19, a new threat has emerged. The first case of human infection from H10N3, a rare strain of avian influenza, has been reported in China. Although earlier strains of bird flu have caused deaths, human to human transmission of the virus is not common. But it is necessary to analyse the genetic data of this virus and determine if it resembles older viruses or whether it is a new strain. China should ensure that this information is not kept under wraps. If Covid has taught the world one lesson, it is that such problems need to be nipped in the bud. Riddhi Choudhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hurrah||Criticism cannot be criminalized in a democracy. That is the heartening message that has been sent out — loud and clear — by a learned bench of the Supreme Court while quashing the charge of sedition against a senior journalist for his critical remarks against the prime minister. While upholding the rights of journalists to criticize — ‘even brutally’ — the government, the apex court laid out the context that warrants such censure. Valid criticism, the wise judges concluded, is an important tool to improve the quality of governance. This is one of the fundamental tenets of a democratic set-up. An elected government cannot be prejudicial against those critical of it and its measures. Yet, the Bharatiya Janata Party has been repeatedly accused of penalizing contrarian voices by weaponizing legal instruments. Sedition, a colonial-era law, has been its favoured weapon. Data suggest that 96 per cent of sedition cases filed in the course of the last decade against citizens for their disapproving remarks regarding political leaders took place after Narendra Modi won power in India. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Jharkhand — the BJP was in power in each of these states then — accounted for the majority of these cases. That dissenting opinion is integral to the democratic ethic continues to elude the BJP: the myopia is perhaps a result of the party’s authoritarian blinkers. It is equally refreshing to note that the court is now willing to take forward the legal momentum against sedition at a time when there is an attempt to blur the relationship between constitutional rights and public duties. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had expressed its willingness to define sedition in the light of the indiscriminate — intentional — application of Section 124A by the State against the media fraternity. The consistent deterioration in India’s performance in the press freedom index is one manifestation of this witch-hunt against the handful of unrestrained voices that survive. The enlightened position of the court bears lessons for law, State and media. There is a case for reforming law by ridding it of archaic elements — the sedition law being one such. The State, if it is concerned about the failing health of Indian democracy, must participate in this cleansing. As for the Indian media — a rather docile species at the moment — it should take a cue from the court’s unambiguous endorsement of free speech and stop disseminating the master’s voice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Death and resurrection of John Maynard Keynes||The world of economics silently celebrated the 75th death anniversary of Lord John Maynard Keynes on April 21, 2021. On this day, Keynes passed away in Tilton, Sussex in 1946. Keynes — born on June 5 — was the greatest economist of the 20th century who wielded considerable influence on economic policymaking not only in his country but also across the globe. While Adam Smith, the renowned 18th century Scottish philosopher-cum-economist, is regarded as the father of modern economic science, David Ricardo, another gifted man, may be credited with building the fundamental structure of it. Smith, Ricardo, Malthus, Mill (Jr.), Marx and several other economists are clubbed under the nomenclature, ‘classical economists’. The Classical School advocated laissez- faire — free market economy — and considered that government intervention in economic life is ineffective or harmful. From the days of Smith-Ricardo, the march of capitalism was unstoppable. The Great Depression of 1929 and its attendant effects that engulfed the major capitalist economies dealt a severe blow to the classical ideology. Classical economic theories, propagated since the days of Smith-Ricardo and their disciples, were found to be inadequate in explaining the prevailing crisis of the late 1920s and the early 1930s. It was at this juncture that Keynes put forward his macroeconomic theory that not only revolutionized the realm of economic thought but also helped in the resurrection of a capitalism blighted by depression and mass unemployment. Keynes’ theory — laid out in The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money — was sharply different from the classical theory put forth by his predecessors. As per the Keynesian macroeconomics, demand deficiency in the economy is the fundamental reason behind the sustenance of unemployment equilibrium. It needs to be mentioned that the main components of aggregate demand in an economy are private consumption and private investment expenditures. During an economic depression, people’s purchasing power is low and there is limited scope of raising consumption expenditures. The private sector’s profitability is also low and it is not in a position to increase its investment expenditures. Under such circumstances, the role of public policy in generating demand assumes importance. Keynes advocated that demand deficiency and persistent unemployment can be tackled if the government were to chip in by undertaking various public investment programmes, thereby raising demand and public expenditure. The government, for instance, may invest money in building roads, bridges, canals and so on; such expenditures lead to job creation and income generation. And once people’s incomes increase, consumption spending rises and this, in turn, induces private investors to raise their labour demand and production. While the classical theorists discouraged active government intervention in the economy, Keynes, on the other hand, highlighted the pivotal role that public policy — government expenditure and budgetary policy — can play in ameliorating the economic crisis. The Keynesian demand management policies worked successfully in many countries for several decades. From the 1970s, however, the efficacy of Keynesian policies in dealing with the unemployment problem came under scrutiny as stagflation emerged in many countries. In academic circles, especially in the United States of America, the Keynesian policies were discredited and interest in the classical economics was revived. Since the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe, most economies, including that of India, have been forced to downsize their governments under pressure from the US-IMF-World Bank axis. The State has increasingly been abdicating its roles in favour of markets. It is against this backdrop that we need to take a relook at Keynesian economics and acknowledge the decisive role that public policy and the State can play during the periods of crisis. The US, which banished Keynesianism in the aftermath of the stagflation syndrome, had to take refuge in Keynesian policies in the wake of the 2007 recession. The US government was called upon to bail out financially bankrupt companies and infuse blood into the economic system through greater public spending. The present pandemic has brought another severe threat before the world economy. Millions of people, especially in the densely populated countries where the informal sector is the major source of livelihood, have severely been hurt as a result of the pandemic and lockdown. The critical role of the government and public spending has come to be realized, once again. The Nobel laureate, Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, has argued in favour of cash transfer from the government in order to inject demand and purchasing power as well as to battle poverty as a result of job loss. At present, India has been undertaking a mass vaccination drive. Once again, the importance of the State has come to the forefront. While there is a growing clamour for free vaccines and the delivery of adequate public health service, there is also discussion on the need for government spending and funding of research and development toward the development of vaccines by private pharmaceutical companies. In times of crises, the people and the economy cannot be left to the vagaries of the market. Keynes is, indeed, our last resort. As long as mankind and market exist, Keynes would continue to remain relevant. That is why even after 75 years of his demise, Keynesian pills are still effective to counter economic distress. Santanu Ghosh is head of the Department of Economics, Maulana Azad College||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Changing picture||The eleven-day military tensions between Israel and Hamas brought back the spotlight on the old and perennial Israel-Palestine conflict which can arguably be considered one of the most debated and studied peace and security issues in contemporary history. With respect to the present conflagration, the move to upset the status quo in Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah and on the Temple Mount is believed to be the trigger. Hamas was quick to escalate, thus turning away the attention of some of the key external stakeholders from the Israeli government’s actions. In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is battling corruption charges, found this crisis to be an opportunity to put across the point that he was indispensable. In a different context, the same can be said of Hamas, which was eager to pitch itself as the only popular entity of the Palestinians. Externally, the Israel-Palestine conflict ignites visceral emotions in many places and perhaps no other issue gains so much attention from the rest of the international community. In the current crisis, meetings of the United Nations general assembly as well as the security council were convened to discuss the worsening situation; even in the midst of the Covid-19 outbreak, many foreign ministers flew to New York specially to participate in the deliberations. Yet again, one consistent aspect in the current crisis was the proactive role of the United States of America along with regional powers in bringing the two parties to agree to a ceasefire, although tensions continue at the point of the trigger. However, a number of important changes need to be unpacked in the current context to understand the role of relevant external players in future escalations. In the last 70 years, after the eclipse of the United Kingdom as the leading power in the region, the US, with its financial and military muscle, has shaped the developments in the area. In the current crisis, the initial reaction of the US administration was a condemnation of the actions of Hamas and a reiteration of its support for Israel’s right to defend itself. Within the context of the UN security council, a UN resolution condemning Israel was vetoed by the US, which was also expected and in line with the bipartisan consensus on the need to support Israel. However, within the US, several new dynamics are shaping its strategy towards the region. As the situation in Gaza worsened, with more and more human lives lost because of Israeli retaliation, courtesy Israel’s asymmetrical military dominance, a more leftist wing of the Democratic Party became more vocal and critical of the response by the Joe Biden administration. There were mass protest rallies in big cities like New York. The independent senator, Bernie Sanders, a Brooklyn-born Jewish-American, called for a more proactive role by the Biden administration in defusing the tensions. President Biden, a consummate politician, was quick to adjust the earlier stance of his administration. In a politically divided US, Biden needs the support of every segment of the society, particularly those with Democratic Party leanings. The change was reflected in the White House press leaks which indicated that Biden had called the Israeli prime minister — who had lived, studied and worked in the US for many years — six times. It was reported that in his last call, Biden, who has known Netanyahu for 40 years, resolutely conveyed that he wants a ceasefire at the earliest. The views of younger Jewish Americans are worth taking note of. A Pew Research study based on a survey of 4,718 Jewish-American adults fielded from November 19, 2019 to June 3, 2020 mentioned that 71 per cent of Jewish adults (including 80 per cent of Reform Jews) are Democrats or independents who lean toward the Democratic Party. “Overall, more than half of U.S. Jews also gave a negative rating to Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister for more than a decade. Even so, when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, just over six-in-ten U.S. Jews (63%) say they think a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully.” This is not surprising as for more than a decade, in contrast to a more conservative lobbying group called the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, J Street, a liberal non-profit advocacy group, has shaped a parallel narrative of many young and middle-aged Jewish Americans. J Street advocates that the US leadership should facilitate conciliation in the region while also being unequivocal about Israel’s right to exist. While taking note of the impact of these developments, one cannot turn a blind eye to the several incidents of anti-Jewish violence across the US, which occurred simultaneously with the protests in favour of Palestinians that raged in the big cities. The physical attacks and online anti-Semitic abuse against the Jewish American community has seen an uptick recently. For much of the last century, the US’s interest in the stability of the Middle East was seen as being largely predicated on the need to protect its oil supply. Any regional instability would immediately have an impact on the oil prices and supply, thus triggering inflationary trends. This dependence continues to decline on account of two factors. First, the US domestic oil production has increased on account of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling that tap into vast reserves of oil in shale rock formation. Second, according to the US Energy Information Administration, the “imports from Canada increased significantly since the 1990s, and Canada is now the largest single source of U.S. total petroleum and crude oil imports”. It notes that “in 2020, Canada was the source of 52% of U.S. total gross petroleum imports and 61% of gross crude oil imports”. In contrast, “10% of U.S. total petroleum imports and 12% of U.S. crude oil imports were from Persian Gulf countries in 2020”. With its dependence on the Middle East’s oil seeing a progressive decline, the US administration’s priorities to safeguard its economic interest will shift to other regions. In the current context, there is also the factor of the regional permutations and combinations of new alliances. Israel and the US have a seemingly extensive intelligence sharing network, which is particularly important in the context of attempts to check Iran’s alleged nuclear proliferation plans. The country’s programme for nuclear proliferation remains the most important security issue not only for the US but also for Israel and the de facto leader of the Arab world, Saudi Arabia. Both Israel and Saudi Arabia see Iran’s nuclear programme as an existential threat. Although Saudi Arabia has officially denied it, Netanyahu is reported to have met the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, in November 2020. In the regional context, economics is also having an impact on geopolitical calculations. It becomes an economic imperative for the richer Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia to engage with Israel, a regional economic powerhouse with one of the highest per capita incomes in the region, as they attempt to diversify their oil-dependent economies. The Abraham Accords that normalized Israel’s relationship with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain is a manifestation of the changing regional reality. There is little doubt that the US, with key regional players, had a significant role in de-escalating the current crisis. The uneasy status quo will make the eruption of the next crisis inevitable. However, against the background of changes taking place within and among key external stakeholders, the past is no longer a sufficient guide for predicting the interest of, and the scale of substantive intervention by, the key external players in future bouts of the Israel-Palestine conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Cinematography session for Dhanbad varsity students||Renowned cinematographer Shubhra Datta on Friday conducted a special online session on aesthetics of cinematography organised by the mass communication department of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) where she opined that clicking a black and white photograph or shooting such a movie requires much more effort than their coloured counterparts. Chief speaker Datta, addressing around 30 students, said that a black and white photograph requires much more attention to light adjustment and cinematographers of the era were no less talented than ours and rather more skilled than us. The faculty of DA Film School explained the gradual evolution of cinematography right from the silent movie era to talkie films to celluloid films and finally to the present era of digital cinema. During her hour-long session, she also explained different aspects of cinematography like lighting, framing, composition, camera motion, camera angles, film selection, lens choices, depth of field, aperture, zoom, focus, colour, exposure and filtration. Drawing a similarity between aesthetics of cinematography and photography she said while in still photography there is focus on a single frame, in cinematography the focus is on a series of frames moving one after another creating an illusion of motion. “During the silent movie era 12-18 frames were filmed per second but with the sound addition in films the idea of 24 frames per second was brought into practice to create a satisfactory level of realistic motion,” said Dutta. While explaining the effect of lights in cinematography, Datta talked about the significance of natural light, hard light, and blue light, saying, “A scene shot during morning hour of 7am to 9am when the light is comparatively less intense can’t be shot at around 12 noon when the sunlight comes on head and creates a different shadow.” Dhanbad-based renowned photographer, Mukesh Srivastava during his address as the guest of honour said that that the core of cinematography is photography and the basic principles of both are almost the same. “Cinematography is the art of photography and visual storytelling in a motion picture or television show,” said Srivastava, who is also the president of Dhanbad Camera Club. Further cautioning the audience against misinterpreting videography with cinematography he said, “While videography is primarily about recording an event or capturing or recording the proceeding, cinematography is more about art and science of making a movie.” “Cinematography is more creative and intertwined with the art of storytelling,” added Srivastava. BBMKU  Vice-Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava while inaugurating the session said “With the continuous upgradation of technology, cinematography and photography are changing day by day but the aesthetics remain the same.” Head of Department of Mass Communication, Mantosh Pandey exhorted the students to keep pace with rapid progress of technology revolutionizing photography and cinematography.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||On eve of World Environment Day, Jharia activists march for nature||A group of environmentalists of Jharia on Friday took out a 200-meter march on the eve of World Environment Day, carrying trees on their backs and appealing to people to do their bit to save the environment by planting at least one sapling on Saturday on the occasion. The hour-long march taken out under the banner of a social organisation, Youth Concept from Katras More area of Jharia at around 10 am, was aimed at apprising people about the significance of environment conservation in order to secure a better future for our next generation. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Akhlaque Ahmad, the founder of Youth Concept who led the march, said, “We also distributed leaflets bearing appeal to people to plant at least one sapling in their house and vicinity tomorrow (Saturday).” “Our members appealed to people to ensure lesser emission of pollution tomorrow by not using vehicles and instead of trying to reach office by cycles or foot or even by e-rickshaw, if their workplace is far away from home,” further said Ahmad. “The blatant violation of pollution norms by different private coal excavators operating in our vicinity on behalf of BCCL has turned Jharia into one of most polluted areas but no steps have been taken,” said Ahmad. Echoing sentiments with Akhlaque, Md Iqbal,  a government school teacher said, “During our childhood, the atmosphere of Jharia town was much more pleasant as the majority of mining was carried out through underground mining methods. This generated less pollution compared to the present practice of open cast mining  where private contractors working on behalf of coal companies violate the norms leading to increase in pollution.” “Though Dhanbad was selected among the 102 worst polluted cities and towns of the country under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) of Union Ministry of Environment and Forest two years ago for reducing pollution by 30 per cent by 2024 but no significant step is in sight to reduce the pollution level. Road sweeping machines procured at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore are lying idle” said Iqbal. “Some of children of our locality who accompanied us during the march taken carried saplings on their backs with pipes arising from plant connected to oxygen masks symbolically highlighting the importance of oxygen for human which has been realised during the second wave of the pandemic,” said Iqbal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand|| Appellate tribunal quashes Incab Industries' liquidation order||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has quashed the liquidation order of Incab Industries, earlier passed by National Company Law Tribunal's (NCLT) Calcutta bench. The double bench of the New Delhi-based NCLAT comprising Justice A.I.S. Cheema and V. P. Singh, member (Technical), while reading out the 82-page verdict over a video conference on Friday, rejected the company's liquidation and declared the committee of creditors (CoC) as invalid. The statutory body which helps in revival of sick industries also ordered the replacement of Shashi Agarwal, the Resolution Professional _ who was appointed to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process _ and appoint a new RP by June 9. The NCLAT double bench also sought action against the resolution professional and referred the matter to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India ( IBBI) . The final order  said Shashi Agarwal shall immediately hand over  charge to the new Resolution Professional as the adjudicating authority (ie, Calcutta bench of NCLT ) may appoint. The NCLAT order also rejected outright claims of Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investment, the two private entities owned by RR Kabels, one of the earlier bidders of the ailing company. "The new  Resolution Professional will collate all the claims submitted by creditors before the earlier Resolution Professional and, depending on the claims admitted from CoC excluding Kamla Mills Private Limited and Fasqua Investment Private Limited and proceed further with the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Procesd (CIRP), " stated the NCLAT order. Senior advocate Akhilesh Srivastava who is fighting the case in favour of employees said, "We are happy with the NCLAT order. It is a victory for the employees. Things will start afresh at the NCLT. We have always opposed the liquidation move. Now, fresh efforts will be made to revive the company." S. K. Mohanty, a Supreme Court lawyer based in New Delhi who is also fighting the case in favour of the employees, said, "We welcome the NCLAT verdict. It has set-aside the NCLT liquidation order of the company passed on February 7 last year. All parties have been asked to appear before NCLT - Calcutta bench on June 9." Notably, the Calcutta bench of  NCLT on February 7, 2020 had ordered dissolution of ailing Incab Industries under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers in Jamshedpur as well as the union operating here and in Calcutta, where Incab has its head office. Incab's Jamshedpur plant currently has a strength of around 900-odd employees. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the firm. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar.Since then the employees are deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits. Aloke Sen, a senior union functionary of Incab Industries based in Calcutta said that they will again approach Tata Steel with a request to revive the ailing company. Tata Steel was also one of the bidders of the company. It's bid was declared as the best by the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Fnancial Reconstruction (BIFR). But, the steel major could not take over the ailing Incab because of various legal issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches helpline for information on black fungus ||State health minister Banna Gupta launched a 24x7 helpline dedicated to providing information on mucormycosis, or black fungus,amid reports of a growing number of cases as well as fatalities. Gupta rolled out the helpline (6203709250) during a daylong webinar organised by the state health department and the women’s wing of the state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), in association with National Health Mission, on black fungus and other emerging health concerns. Speaking at the webinar, Gupta said, “The 24x7 helpline aims to function as a one-stop centre to assist people by disseminating information about black fungus, ways for early detection and other safety measures.” He said the state government was working to put in place elaborate treatment facilities for those afflicted by the disease which was emerging as one of the most serious post-Covid complications being experienced by patients. “In every district we are now setting up a dedicated ward for black fungus. The state government is also working towards organising compensation for victims of the disease. We are also readying a team of dedicated professionals for effective treatment,” he announced. Data available from the health department suggests that among 63 cases so far, 18 people have died while 14 have recovered. All the cases have surfaced in the last one month since the detection of the first case at the end of April this year. Gupta also appealed to all those who attended the webinar to make the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive a success in the state. “The government is working hard to increase vaccine coverage on a daily basis but we are still facing issues of hesitancy in rural areas. The vaccine is completely safe and everyone must take it,” he said. Over two lakh people — enouragd by religious and community leaders from across the state—attended the webinar, as per an official statement released by Gupta’s office. Additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, in his address, highlighted the government’s efforts at tackling the third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur witnesses two gun attacks in 24 hours||One person was injured and another escaped unhurt as criminals opened fire at two places in Mango and Bistupur during the last 24 hours. While the firing incident at Ulidih took place at 9pm on Thursday, the one at Circuit House Area took place at 11am on Friday. On Thursday night, 32-year-old jeweler Ajay Burman was injured after eight bike-borne criminals fired on him near his house at Janata Path in Mango. The victim who sustained injuries on his neck has been admitted at Tata Main Hospital, where his condition is stated to be serious. One of the pellets is trapped at a sensitive point in the neck. In a statement to police, Burman said the gun-shot attack was launched as he did not pay "rangadaari tax (extortion)" of Rs 30,000 to a local goon identified as Raja Thapa. Police arrested Thappa on Friday morning, said Ulidih police station OC Meghnath Mandal. "But we are looking into whether there is any other reason behind the attack on the jeweler. We have already arrested Thapa and are trying to find out the truth," Mandal said. The victim's brother, Sanjay Burman, said Thapa had demanded that his brother to pay him Rs 30,000 as "rangadaari" every month since April and had even assaulted him on May 22 at his jewelry shop. In the second incident, Pintu Yadav (26) was riding through the Sonari-Bistupur Road on Friday morning when four bike-borne youths intercepted him near Circuit House petrol pump. One of them fired on him. Fortunately, the shot missed him, even though it was fired from close range. The attackers sped away towards Sonari, triggering a ruckus in the posh locality. Pintu, a resident of Sonari Gwala Bustee, then went to Bistupur police station and reported the attack. Pintu, who has a criminal record and had returned from Ghaghidih Central Jail on Thursday, has blamed Bablu Lohar for the attack on him. A police team led by Bistupur OC Vishnu Raut has launched an investigation. "The firing incident took place near the Circuit House petrol pump. We have recovered an empty cartridge from the place," Raut said. He said the attack was a result of old enmity, adding that they are scanning the CCTV footage for further clues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||FIT@50+ women's Himalaya expedition put off to March 2022||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has postponed the FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The expedition, organised in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India programme, was expected to be launched last month. But the premier adventure outfit, after having waited for a while, decided to postpone the expedition to March 2022. Sources revealed that TSAF had planned to organise the expedition sometime later this year, but finally decided to postpone it to next year. "It would not be wise to organise the expedition this year. It would be a risky affair and it is better to play it safe and postpone it to next year. We are hopeful that the Covid situation should improve by next year," a TASF source said. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, confirmed the expedition would be conducted in March next year. "It (expedition) is not possible this year," he said. The unique expedition, which is being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively, was to be led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. It has participants aged 50 and above from across India. The team members have been drawn from across India comprising retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also comprises three women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalaya from Arunachal to Karakoram Range (East to West) covering around 4,500 kms and cross about 40 mountain passes. The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress writes to President to seek free vaccines for all ||A  Jharkhand Congress delegation, led by the state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India to governor Draupadi Murmu on Friday, seeking his intervention to ensure free vaccination for all in the state. The party, which is a part of the ruling coalition government in Jharkhand, criticised the Narendra Modi government for its differential pricing mechanism for vaccines and alleged that it was indirectly allowing black-marketing. Oraon, who was accompanied by his cabinet colleague Alamgir Alam (rural development) and other party workers, later said, “We demand free vaccination for everyone. To counter the challenges posed by the global pandemic, vaccination is the only way forward before us now. And the process has to be fast to safeguard our countrymen amid fears of the third wave later this year.” According to Oraon, India needs to vaccinate at least one crore people daily to be able to cover the entire population by year-end. “Even though Union ministers have been claiming that they will vaccinate everyone by the end of this year, the action on the ground is contradictory. The situation is such that state after state is complaining about vaccine shortage, specially for those in the age group of 18 plus,” added Alamgir. Citing the differential pricing mechanism of vaccines, Oraon maintained it was a "recipe for encouraging black-marketing". “The Centre talks about one nation, one tax. But why is there different pricing for vaccination? States are forced to procure vaccines at double the rates at which the Centre is getting. Why? When the 45-plus and the elderly are given free vaccines, why are states asked to pay for thos above 18? For the first time since Independence, we are seeing the Union government asking states to buy its own vaccines. The Modi government is clearly without any holistic vaccine policy plan and is now running away from its responsibility,” he said. The Congress, he added, was, therefore, appealing to the President of India to intervene in the interest of the country and its people to ensure “universalisation of free vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Tiger, suffering from fever, dies at Ranchi Zoo ||Shiva, a 10-year-old male tiger died at Ranchi Zoo on Thursday night after suffering from fever since Tuesday, sending authorities into a tizzy over fears that the animal may have contracted a coronavirus infection. While it tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday morning, zoo authorities are not taking any chances and have decided to send the samples for further testing at IVRI Bareilly. Reportedly, eight Asiatic lions in Hyderabad zoo had tested positive for Covid-19 in May this year. However, the Union environment ministry thereafter stated the infection was not caused by any variant of concern and noted that there was no factual evidence currently available about animals transmitting the disease to humans any further. Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park director Y.K. Das confirmed the death of the tiger while talking to reporters in the morning, stating that the striped creature first fell ill on Tuesday but was under treatment. “On Thursday, it completely stopped eating, causing an unfortunate death. It’s a sad day for the zoo,” he said. Zoo doctor O.P. Sahu said that they have collected blood, lung and swab samples for further testing at IVRI Bareilly. “It is difficult to say if it was by any chance infected with Covid-19 but amid the ongoing pandemic, one can’t say anything for sure. Since we don’t have any specialised test kit for animals, we performed a test on a RAT kit used for humans which came negative. But to ascertain further and to know the actual cause of the death, we have sent the samples to IVRI Bareilly,” he said. Sources said that Shiva had high fever on Tuesday after which the zoo got in touch with Dr Praveen Kumar, a veterinarian at Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) for assistance. After medication, it showed improvement the next day but its food intake had fallen. “Its lungs seem to be heavily damaged,” said another staff member. Shiva came to Ranchi Zoo on November 24, 2014. Following its demise, the zoo is now left with nine tigers including six males. The 104 hectare park has over 1,200 animals across around 100 species. The zoo has been closed since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive at Maoist stronghold in Latehar||Vaccination in the Maoist-infested Saryu and Domakharn areas of Latehar district kicked off on Friday afternoon where 40 beneficiaries, mostly tribals, got their first jab of Covishield as a bus doubled up as a mobile vaccination unit to reach them. Latehar BDO Ganesh Rajak, who was present at the vaccination bus along with two nurses, said not a single dose went to waste as villagers showed interest in getting the jabs and also agreed to come to take their second dose after 84 days. He said four Covishield vials, vials each containing 10 doses, were opened and used. Palamu district reproductive child health officer Anil Kumar Singh informed that 5,000 doses of the vaccine were dispatched to Latehar district from Palamu on June 3. Talking about the drive, DC Latehar Abu Imran said, “Our rural medical mobile unit will be reaching out to people we find either on the roads or in the alleys of villages. We will persuade them to take the dose of the vaccine. Our officers are working hard to make sure every eligible person gets vaccinated.” Saryu and Domakharn are places where Maoists still carry out attacks despite tight security measures but they caused no problem to the vaccination drive on Friday even in the most remote areas. Locals said that though the rebels hate the men in khaki, they have respect for nurses and sahiyas, who were present during the drive. Officials were also relieved as rain did not mar the drive on Friday. Extra care is being taken for the smooth execution of vaccination during the upcoming monsoon season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in the state, active caseload drops below 7,500||The active Covid-19 caseload in Ranchi dropped below 2000 on Thursday as Jharkhand reported a single-day-spike of less than 500 cases after almost two-and-a-months, data compiled by the state health department highlighted. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the active caseload in the state close to 7500, but at least 10 casualties took the Covid toll to 5021 in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per NHM data, the state reported 427 fresh cases of Covid-19 against 1103 recoveries and the active caseload dropped to 7537. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. At least 48 people were found infected in Ranchi, which was the highest among all the districts. East Singhbhum reported 43 fresh cases of Covid-19, while 46 residents were found infected by Coronavirus in Dhanbad. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the two districts with highest Covid casualties so far – reported two Covid deaths each on Thursday. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1566 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 1014. However, both these districts saw a drop in active caseload. At least 172 recoveries brought the active caseload down to 1,995 in Ranchi, while the active caseload dropped to 839 in East Singhbhum as at least 148 Covid patients recovered. Jharkhand reported a daily Covid positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the second consecutive day as less than 500 of 51,125 people tested were found infected. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in the state also dropped to 0.19 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent, while the recovery rate rose to 96.30 per cent against the national average of 92.80 per cent. However, the Covid-19 fatality rate in Jharkhand continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, at least 1.47 per cent of the over 3.39 lakh state residents infected by Coronavirus so far have died. The national Covid mortality rate, as per NHM data, was 1.20 per cent on Thursday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 33 cases against 49 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 29 cases against 58 recoveries. Only one person was found infected in Pakur while two Covid patients recovered there. Khunti witnessed a spike in active caseload as only one patient recovered there while 10 people were found infected. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 32,108 residents and over 20,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 4988 beneficiaries on the day, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Human rights organisation supports Hemant's letter to Modi||National secretary of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation A. Mohamed Yusuf has supported Jharkhand chief minister’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 31 urging to give free vaccines to the state for age group 18-44 to tackle the pandemic. “We fully endorse the letter written by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren ji to the Prime Minister. In fact our party Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) had filed a PIL with the Supreme Court on May 10 and which was numbered on Thursday. We had prayed the Supreme Court to direct the Union of India to formulate a uniform pan India policy of Covid-19 vaccination for providing it free of cost to every person within India,” said Yusuf, an advocate by profession. “Our petition also prays for the Supreme Court to constitute an independent body under the direct supervision/monitoring of the court to ensure free and uniform vaccination across all the states and Union Territories. We are happy at the observation made by the Supreme Court on Wednesday on the Centre vaccination policy,” added Yusuf. Incidentally, the Supreme Court had made a prima facie observation that the Centre’s vaccination policy, which does not provide free vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44 years, as “arbitrary and irrational”. The observation was made by a bench comprising Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhatt in the suo moto case on Covid related issues (in re-distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic). Soren had written to the Prime Minister on May 31 evening, urging to give free vaccines to the state to tackle the pandemic and that the financial burden for the state to cover 1.57 crore beneficiaries (in the age group of 18-44 years) is likely to be around Rs 1,100 crore and will hit the financial situation of a state like Jharkhand which is already stressed during Covid times. The letter had further stated that it was probably the first instance in the history of independent India that states have been mandated to procure vaccines on their own. Such a mandate, under the ongoing challenging and unprecedented circumstances, where the entire nation is struggling for over a year, stands against the principle of co-operative federalism and cited the instances that so far all states had received vaccines free of cost from the Central government for all other programmes and routine immunisation. The JMM, the ruling party in the UPA-led government in Jharkhand, also enthused with the apex court’s observation claimed that all people in the age-group of 18-44 years will get free vaccines in Jharkhand. “Whether the Central government supports us or not, our people in Jharkhand will get free vaccines. We hope that the Supreme Court will take a decision soon on the issue and save states like Jharkhand which are facing step-motherly treatment by the BJP-led central government in terms of financial support and vaccine allocation programme,” said JMM general secretary and party’s central spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Church help for poor Covid patients in Jharkhand||The Catholic Church has started distributing food packets to poor Covid patients admitted in hospital after giving pre-packed lunch packets outside the two largest state-owned healthcare facilities in Ranchi for their attendants and relatives. “We had started distribution of lunch packets outside both the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Ranchi and Sadar Hospital. We have distributed nearly 500 packets at the RIMS and 400 packets at Sadar Hospital since May 4. “But it was getting difficult to control the crowd and abide by Covid protocols. This made us start distribution of over 300 food packets to Covid patients admitted in the RIMS. We will start distribution of food packets at Sadar Hospital too,” said auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas. According to sources in the Archdiocese, the poorest of the poor come for treatment at the RIMS and though meals are provided by the government to the patients, they don’t have the resources to avail of other items like fruits, biscuits, fruit juices, mineral water, beaten rice, etc. Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas on Wednesday blessed the first 300 packets to be distributed and also prayed for all the benefactors to acquire all the resources. “The Archdiocese will soon launch a programme to distribute dry ration kits containing rice, dal (pulses), potatoes, cooking oil, salt, spices and onions in portions that would last two weeks for a family. “We would identify the needy persons and distribute the ration packets at their doorstep adhering to Covid protocols. We are able to serve the poor only because many religious congregations and benefactors belonging to the Catholic Church as well as followers of other religions have been generously donating to the cause,” said auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas. Kuldeep Tirkey, president of Ranchi Youth Catholic unit, and Father Roshan Tiru, director of Ranchi Catholic Youth, also distributed food to the wardens of the Covid wards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
04-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: East Singhbhum records steep fall in Covid cases||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum district witnessed a drastic fall in Covid positive cases for the first time in last two months. According to health department records, 52 positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours. This is an all-time low during the second wave of the Covid outbreak. During the last 24 hours two Covid deaths were also reported. As per records, of 7,475 people who underwent Covid tests in East Singhbhum 52 were found positive. The overall death toll in East Singhbhum  reached 1, 027 and the total cases 50,296 since the outbreak of Covid last year. The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in steel city is around 0.70 per cent. Of 7,475 Covid-19 tests in last 24 hours, 604 were RT-PCR while the rest 6,871 were rapid antigen tests. As per health records, the recovery rate in steel city is 96.18 per cent while the mortality rate is 2.04 per cent. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said Covid cases are witnessing a fall. "Beds are now easily available as Covid wards in MGM Medical College Hospital and other hospitals have almost become empty. We appeal to the residents to continue following Covid protocols, "said Pal. (Pinaki Majumdar) Hazaribagh: State health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday virtually inaugurated a dedicated Covid paediatric ward at Koderma hospital. Koderma MP Annapurna Devi, MLAs Neera Yadav(Koderma), Amit Kumar Yadav(Barkatha) and Uma Shankar Akela of Barhi were also present at the ceremony. The facility is equipped with 20 oxygen supported beds in anticipation of a third wave likely to affect children. Gupta lauded the Koderma district administration’s efforts and said this was an attempt to save children from the third wave. The ward has been specially designed keeping children in mind with paintings of Chota Bheem, Micky Mouse, trains and different types of animals. There are abundant soft toys, comic books, drawing books and television to keep children busy and make them feel at home. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the ward has been designed to make it child friendly. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A video made by a woman in Delhi paved way for the return of a man to his native village in Hazaribagh. Mohan Bhuiyan, resident of Jalondh village in Ichak block, went to Delhi with his friends in search of job in the first week of April. Mohan was separated from his friends and later kept moving on roads of the national capital. A woman named Tara Dutta of Ananad Vihar in Delhi came to know about Mohan and made a video sharing it on social media. Officer-in-charge of Ichak police station, Devendra Kumar was searching for Mohan after an FIR was registered, and contacted Tara. Kumar requested her to send Mohan to Koderma station. Tara arranged a train ticket for him but also put a pamphlet in his T-shirt mentioning all details of Mohan. At Koderma station, a team led by Kumar took Mohan in their custody and brought him back to his village. Kumar thanked Tara and said what she did was a great thing. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: An army van on Thursday crushed a 27-year-old man to death near Deepu Chowk in Jhumra under Daru police station. Family members said the deceased was going to the local market on his bike when one of the vehicles which was part of an army cavalcade hit him killing him on the spot at 7am. Angry villagers of Daru and Jhumra blocked the road for around eight hours. After assurance of compensation and other benefits to dependants of the deceased, the protest was called off. Villagers said the deceased, Prakash Kumar, was the sole breadwinner of his family. Subdivisional Police officer Anuj Oraon assured villagers of lodging an FIR in this case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
