05-06-2021||Calcutta||Higher Secondary panel report on Saturday||A committee constituted to find ways to assess the Bengal board's Class XII students has more or less agreed that holding exams on campus amid the raging Covid pandemic is out of the question. The members of the committee also said an evaluation on digital platforms would put many from marginalised sections in trouble because of a wide digital gap among students. The committee’s report, to be sent to the government on Saturday, will contain a number of suggestions on assessment. “While finalising the suggestions we have taken into consideration the fact that a large number of students are from underprivileged sections,” a member of the committee said. The committee comprising experts from various fields was set up on Wednesday. It met for the third time on Friday. Once the report is submitted on Saturday, school education minister Bratya Basu is likely to announce the way forward, said an official of the department. Several members of the committee are against holding the school-leaving exams on campus because that would amount to exposing around 10 lakh students to infection. A member of the committee said a number of students and teachers had tested positive in February, when schools had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII and the HS practical exams were being held. That led to the closure of several institutions. “Since the second wave is under way, sending students to school to write the test would not be advisable,” said a member. Sources said the committee had deliberated on and rejected a proposal to hold the exams on digital platforms. A member of the committee said on Friday they did not find the idea feasible because of the digital divide among the students. “A large number of students study in remote places where connectivity is extremely weak. Even if you provide them funds to buy tabs, they won’t get a good network. We also have to keep in mind that last week’s cyclone had washed away a large number of houses,” he said. “We don’t think that our school students are so tech savvy that they can write the test on digital platforms,” said gastroenterologist G.K. Dhali, a member of the committee. Another member said they could not submit the report on Friday as they were still in search of a “feasible middle path”. “A final round of deliberations will be held before we submit the report on Friday. We have to find an option that is inclusive,” he said. According to him, what is coming in the way is the fact that schools have a minuscule record of the performance of the Class XII students in internal assessment. “Schools have only tested them in practicals (for lab-based subjects) and projects (for non-lab- based subjects) when the campus reopened in February. This record is not adequate to assess students. The Supreme Court on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with a ‘well-defined objective criteria’ for the assessment of Class XII students of CBSE and the ICSE council following the cancellation of their examinations. So we too have an uphill task,” a committee member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Calcutta restaurants confused over opening||Some eateries in Calcutta opened their doors to diners at 5pm on Friday even though a formal notification by the state government, formalising a proposed leeway announced by the chief minister, was yet to be issued. Several people tired of confinement at their homes took their tables on their “first outing” in many days. Some of them, who had gone to the takeaway sections, were surprised to see waiters inviting them inside and sat down for a snack. But before the crowd picked up, police ordered the eateries shut for diners. The police told the restaurants they could not open for diners until the state government clarified the norms of opening in a notification. A Park Street confectionery was among the eateries that had opened. Two friends, one from CIT Road and another from Theatre Road, were the first to occupy a table. They saw the chief minister promising the 5pm to 8pm window and said they thought it would be implemented from Friday itself. “We used to spend almost every weekend here until the new curbs were announced. When we heard about the reopening on Friday, we did not want to give it a miss,” said the Theatre Road resident, who is pursuing her master’s in international trade from a Mumbai institute. Another man from Maniktala had come to get some savouries packed from the eatery. “I saw waiters arranging tables and asked if they were open.They said yes and we sat down,” said the man. Across south Calcutta several cafes were open. At least one table was booked at the Woodburn Park outlet of a fast-food chain known for its sandwiches. A café on Purna Das Road was open. However, many restaurants on Park Street and elsewhere remained shut. Most of them had “only takeaway and online orders” posters shut on the gates. By 7pm, most of the eateries that had opened for diners shut shop. Police said they were yet to receive any order related to confirmation over opening restaurants to diners between 5pm and 8pm. “We have not received any order to this effect till now (Friday evening)...,” said joint commissioner (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. On Thursday, at a meeting with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Eateries and restaurants can remain open between 5pm and 8pm provided the employees are vaccinated.” A formal notification on the leeway is expected to answer several questions. If being vaccinated means taking two doses, then most restaurateurs will struggle to resume operations.Who will bear the cost of the vaccination is also not clear. At least one association of restaurateurs has requested the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to arrange for free vaccination for the employees. “We are bleeding because of the shutdown. Any further cost burden on us would be very difficult to cope with,” said a restaurant owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||‘Fraud’ in the name of flight fare refund||A woman whose flight was apparently cancelled earlier this week allegedly got duped while trying to get the refund through a purported customer care number of the private airline which she found through an internet search engine. The woman told the police that she had lost over Rs 66,000. The “customer care number” allegedly belonged to the fraudsters who convinced her to download an app on her phone. Once she did that, the gang allegedly had access to her smartphone. Police said customer care numbers should be accessed only through websites of the companies concerned and not through independent search engines, as these can be manipulated. Complainant Anindita Bishnu, a resident of Haridevpur, had booked a flight ticket for Delhi. On June 2, the day she was to fly, she received a purported call from the airport informing her that the flight had been cancelled, the police said. When she asked the caller how she would get the refund, she was asked to contact the airline. “She searched for the customer care number on a search engine and dialled the number. The recipient told her that for refund, she would have to click on a link sent to her phone and download an application called AnyDesk,” said an officer of Haridevpur police station. AnyDesk is a remote desktop application that helps in screen sharing and gives access to other people’s phones and laptops. Once Bishnu downloaded the app, the fraudster asked her to share a password. The fraudster then asked her to send a photograph of her debit card. She immediately disconnected the call but by then Rs 66,180 had been debited from her account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records second highest percentage of deaths in India caused by air pollution in 2019||Bengal had the second highest percentage of deaths in India caused by air pollution in 2019, said a report by an environment think-tank. The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) report, which was based on central government data and released on Friday, also said the state incurred huge financial losses because of its toxic air. An air pollution expert from the CSE said the high proportions of deaths and related economic loss triggered by air pollution were “a real warning” for the state, particularly for Calcutta and adjoining urban areas. The expert also called upon the state government to be proactive in controlling vehicular pollution, which is a major cause of air toxicity. A state pollution control board official said air pollution in most urban areas in the state had gone down over the last few years, but admitted that the situation needed further improvement. The report, State of India’s Environment 2021: In Figures, was released by CSE director-general Sunita Narain. It states that more than one-fifth — 20.8 per cent — of the total deaths in Bengal in 2019 was caused by air pollution. Rajasthan leads the pack with 21.2 per cent. The percentage varies between 18 and 19 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar and Punjab. Uttar Pradesh tops the list in the gross number of air pollution-triggered deaths in 2019 - 3.5 lakh. The counts in Maharashtra, Bengal, Rajasthan and Bihar vary between 1.2 lakh and 1.4 lakh. The report said air pollution had also caused major economic loss - Bengal is estimated to have lost about $2,125 million — about Rs 15,500 crore — in 2019 alone; which is about 1.26 per cent of state’s gross domestic product (GDP). Overall, in the country, air pollution was found to be the dominant cause of deaths linked to lower respiratory tract infections, lung cancer, ischemic heart disease, stroke and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. “Over the past two decades, deaths attributable to ambient PM2.5 (particulate matter 2.5) in India have increased by 2.5 times,” the report states. Deaths attributable to ozone pollution have “increased by 2.9 times”. “The high air pollution-linked death rate in Bengal is a real warning, considering the high health risk and economic losses…. The state should not be complacent,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, of the CSE. “While pollution from household sources is going down, outdoor pollution is on the rise. In Calcutta and other urban areas, the combination of a large number of diesel vehicles, rapid rise in motorisation and a large number of old commercial vehicles contributes to poor outdoor air quality,” said Roy Chowdhury. “The data is scary. Unless the government works proactively to bring CNG (an environment-friendly fuel) to Calcutta and other cities and replace the vehicular fleet running on dirty fuel, the situation will not improve,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, who moved court several times seeking steps to check air pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather forecast: Monsoon set to reach Calcutta on June 11||A low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is tipped to propel the monsoon into Calcutta around June 11, the Met office said on Friday. “A low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around June 11. Under its influence, southwest monsoon is likely to advance into most parts of Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Sikkim, some parts of Bihar and Chhattisgarh,” said a statement from the India Meteorological department, Calcutta. “Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely over eastern India,” said the statement. “The low-pressure will form around June 11. The system is expected to herald the monsoon into most areas of Bengal, including Calcutta. The arrival will be marked by widespread rain because of the strong southwest currents from the system. Several coastal areas of south Bengal, including Calcutta, are expected to get widespread rainfall from June 11-13,” said G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta. For several years till 2020, the monsoon had made a meek entry into Bengal. The monsoon had set foot in Calcutta on June 12 last year, bringing formidable rain.The strong monsoon currents were attributed to a low-pressure area over the Bay, just like the forecast this year. The Met office had recorded around 40mm of rain in the city on June 12, 2020. “The monsoon usually reaches Bengal via the Northeast. There is a possibility that the monsoon will reach some parts of north Bengal along with the Northeast over the next three-four days. But it is expected to set foot in most places of Bengal around June 11,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Excuses for stepping out amid curbs in Calcutta||◙ A family that lives in Lake Town and had their vaccination at Chingrighata were found by police taking a joyride with their children in Golpark ◙ A man who said he was going to a hospital in Tangra to see a patient could not provide any details or show a hospital pass ◙ A man said he was an employee of a sari store on Rashbehari Avenue but could not show any official identity proof when the police stopped him on James Long Sarani ◙ A man on the Maidan said he was there for his daily exercise. The police prosecuted him ◙ A man at Esplanade said he was an air conditioner mechanic but could not produce any tools needed for the job The number of people defying pandemic curbs, taking advantage of the government’s relaxations, increased manyfold on Thursday and Friday, police said. Till Friday evening, Calcutta police had prosecuted 9,329 people — 6,336 on Thursday alone — compared with 1,272 on Wednesday in the same time frame. Out of the 9,329 cases, 6,753 people were prosecuted by the traffic cops over the two days. Most prosecutions were between 10am and noon, when there is a restriction on the opening of shops and the movement of people not engaged in emergency services. The government has allowed retail shops in the city to open between noon and 3pm. People going to shops could be spared from prosecution. However, cops said they were trying to stop every person on the roads and ask why they were outside. All nine divisions and 25 traffic guards of Calcutta police conducted checks at all major crossings in the city and found hundreds out on the roads without a justifiable reason. “Most of the prosecutions are under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 200 of the CrPC. They will be summoned by the magistrate where they will be asked to explain why they violated the lockdown rules. They may have to pay a hefty fine and land up in jail for a few months, too, if the magistrate orders so,” said a senior officer in the traffic department. “Many people are trying to misuse this relaxation period between 10am and noon and then between noon and 3pm. The volume of vehicles is quite high in the city, mostly because vaccination camps are being organised at different locations. But many are also making false excuses in the name of going to vaccine centres,” said an officer in Golpark. Another officer said at times, people gave a reason but could not provide documents. “In such cases, we are taking the identity card of the person for verification at a later stage. The volume of traffic was very high on Friday and we could not detain the vehicles for a long time because it would have resulted in a traffic snarl,” said the officer posted near New Market. If people could not produce a document or an identity card, they were prosecuted. The police are noting down mobile numbers of all those being prosecuted. The contact details will be sent to the court to decide on the next course of action against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Business slump cloud on family deaths in Calcutta||A 58-year-old garment trader was found hanging at his home in Sodepur and his wife and son were lying dead on the floor on Friday morning. A note found on a table in the house suggested the man was deep in debt and was struggling to pay off his dues. Samir Kumar Guha purportedly wrote about his mounting debts in the note and asked Partha Ghosh, a friend, to sell some of his furniture and other items to repay a part of the loans, the police said. The note also mentions the names of some of the debtors. The bodies of Samir, his wife Jhuma and their 23-year-old son Babai were recovered from their ground-floor apartment in a double-storey house in Sodepur’s Basak Bagan, around 16km north of Calcutta. Neighbours said the family had moved into the rented accommodation on the ground floor a few years back. Samir would step out in the morning and return late at night. An affable character with a lot of friends in the locality, Samir would actively participate in all neighbourhood functions with Jhuma and Babai. Some of Samir’s acquaintances told the police that since the lockdown last year, he had been facing a slump in his garments business. Several orders got cancelled and he couldn’t clear his stocks to repay his loans. Over the past several weeks, Samir had not been in touch with his friends and would step out of home rarely, investigators have learnt. Some neighbours said they had not spotted any family member leave the house in the past few days. Even the lights would remain switched off. On Friday morning, another tenant of the house where the Guhas stayed alerted a few neighbours that a stench was emanating from Samir’s apartment. “We reported the matter to the police. Officers broke open the door,” said a resident. Officers from Khardah police station who removed the bodies said Samir had possibly poisoned Jhuma and Babai before hanging himself. “It appears the debts had been mounting for months because of the pandemic. We will speak to some of his business partners,” said an officer. “The cause of the deaths will be known after the post-mortem report reaches us. The bodies have been sent to the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Call for Centre’s role on all doses||The Covid vaccine distribution system in India should change to achieve better coverage, said Devi Shetty, cardiac surgeon and a member of the national task force set up by the Supreme Court to look into the Covid situation in the country. The Centre, he said, should appoint an agency that will procure all doses of Covid vaccines from the manufacturers and distribute those to the state governments and all hospitals in the country to make the drive successful. Shetty spoke to Metro on Friday on issues like vaccine distribution, importance of vaccinating maximum number of people and how to make the doses affordable for everyone. “The vaccine distribution system should change. One central agency should procure the vaccines and distribute them to all hospitals across the country,” said Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, which runs five hospitals in Calcutta and nearby areas. “Also, no hospital should store a dose for more than three to four days. If they can't use it, the vaccine should be handed over to another hospital which has more demand but fewer doses. This way more people can be covered,” he said. “The government has done a good job vaccinating healthcare workers. Now it should follow the same process.” Among the private hospitals, Shetty said, big corporate chains have been able to procure a large number of doses. But smaller hospitals are not so lucky. In Calcutta, many standalone private hospitals are unable to buy vaccines. Peerless Hospital is yet to get the Covishield consignment it has paid for. “We paid (the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturer of Covishield) Rs 76 lakh for 12,000 doses more than 20 days back but are yet to get any vaccine,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital. Belle Vue is keen to place an order for 50,000 doses of Covaxin. “However, there has been no response yet from the manufacturer (Bharat Biotech),” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The hospital is administering only Covishield. Shetty said the only way to prevent Covid patients from turning critical in large numbers if a third wave struck was maximising the vaccination coverage. “The Covid third wave should not be as virulent as the second one. It should be like a common cold and that will only be possible if the maximum number of people are vaccinated,” said Shetty. He said Narayana Health’s Bangalore hospital had around 700 Covid patients at one point but only a few among them who had been fully vaccinated needed to be shifted to the critical care unit. “We should do it now. If we wait for many people to get vaccinated next year, it will be too late,” warned Shetty. If children start getting infected in large numbers and need to be admitted to hospital, their parents will have to stay with them. “It will be unfair to send a parent who has not been vaccinated to stay in a Covid ward,” he pointed out. Shetty said that ideally everyone should be vaccinated against Covid for free but that was not possible because of budgetary constraints. “So, there should be a capping. No private centre should be allowed to charge more than Rs 200 over the cost of procurement,” he said. Hospitals under Narayana Health, including the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences in Calcutta, are administering Covishield for Rs 630 a dose. Narayana Health, in collaboration with Give India Foundation, an NGO, will administer Covid vaccines to slum dwellers for free. “Many of these people work as help and drivers at residential complexes. They have lost their livelihood because residents of these highrises or houses are not allowing them in fearing Covid,” said Shetty. “Those who can afford will be charged Rs 630 for a dose and then requested to donate one free vaccine for a poor person,” said Shetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Autos out on Calcutta roads despite curbs||Several autorickshaw operators have resumed service in parts of north Calcutta, to ferry people to workplace or markets, despite restrictions on public transport imposed by the state government. Auto operators on at least seven routes from Ultadanga and Maniktala — connecting parts of Gouribari, BK Pal Avenue, Sovabazar ghat, Ahiritola ghat, Nimtola ghat and Baguiati — are plying their vehicles in the morning office hours, catering to commuters who would have otherwise had to walk long stretches to reach their workplace. Most of the passengers are employees of shops that are allowed to remain open between noon and 3pm. Many of the shops are located along Ultadanga Main Road, APC Road, BK Pal Avenue, Maniktala Main Road and Beadon Street, the traditional trade hubs of north Calcutta. For daily wage earners, the autos have emerged as the cheapest mode of transport in the absence of buses and minibuses. The fares are often decided at the spot and even if drivers demand a few rupees more most passengers don’t complain. “Some owner-drivers have been plying their autos in the morning,” said Barun Paul, a leader of an autorickshaw operators’ union that controls a fleet of over 1,200 vehicles that ply between Ultadanga and Sovabazar in north Calcutta. “The original routes have been truncated and tailor-made to meet the demands of the passengers,” he said. “I take a ride in two autos to reach my shop on BK Pal Avenue. I am paying more than before, when I used to travel by buses. But thanks to the autos, I can now reach my workplace,” said Samiran Maity, a Baguiati resident who works at a sanitation and plumbing shop. Police said they had decided not to come down too heavily on the violators. Red Road will be closed to vehicles from 6am on June 5 to 10pm on June 17 for the replacement of damaged masonry arch culvert on the artery by the public works department, said traffic department officers. Vehicles coming from the side of Race course towards central Calcutta will be diverted through JN Island, Dufferin Road, Mayo Road and Netaji Statue, while the south bound traffic on Red Road will be diverted through Netaji Statue, Mayo Road and Dufferin Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Council meeting on Class XII ISC result||Schools are expected to send marks from exams conducted in the past two years in Classes XI and XII so Class XII students, whose board exams have been scrapped, can be assessed, ISC school heads said they were told in a meeting with the council on Friday. In case a student could not write a paper, the school has to calculate the student’s average marks from the exams he or she had written, several school heads said. They will not get a zero in that test but an average of the other exams they wrote will be calculated, a principal said. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had called for an online meeting of heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 on Friday to discuss issues related to the submission of the average marks of Class XII examinees scored in Classes XI and XII. The council has asked schools to submit the marks by June 7. The meeting was addressed by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE and Sangeeta Bhatia, deputy secretary (ISC). Across schools there are students who could not appear for exams because of Covid or other family emergencies. “The council explained that we have to send marks of all exams and take out the average from exams/tests that a student appeared in,” said a principal. During the pre-boards, which some schools conducted on the campus, there were students who were in quarantine because of Covid in the family. There were also instances of students missing tests because they could not afford smartphones, especially during last year when schools were also struggling with the online medium. Taking the average of other exams for one missed exam will ensure a student is not unfairly assessed, principals said. “If a student did not appear for one exam and gets a zero, it would be unfair for the child and their marks would drastically come down. But this (average of the other exams) would mean they have a fair chance. He or she could have missed exams for indispensable reasons,” said a school principal who attended the meeting. During Friday’s meeting, the council reminded principals to send the marks as soon as possible. In a circular issued on Thursday, the council told principals that they are to “devise the objective criteria for assessment within 2 weeks”, which is by June 17. The CBSE and the CISCE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class XII students, now that the board exams had been cancelled. The court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by the counsel appearing for the CISCE, seeking four weeks’ time to place the details before the bench. The court said: “You (CISCE) can do it overnight. Four weeks’ time is a little longer. We cannot give you three-four weeks’ time. You please place it before us in two weeks as students will have to take admission in colleges. Nowadays all communication is happening virtually,” the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Calcutta||IIEST Covid vaccination centre shut over ‘dispute’||A vaccination centre at IIEST Shibpur has been shut down after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the facility because they had asked his home help to produce the Aadhaar card, get registered and wait for the jab. The director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Parthasarathi Chakrabarti denied the allegation. “I have not misbehaved with anyone for allegedly harassing the staff (member) who works at my place (as the help),” said the director. The vaccination centre at the IIEST, which had been administering jabs to residents of the campus as well as people living outside since late April, has remained shut for a week. Officials of the institute were running the facility with the support of the Howrah district health authorities. According to an IIEST official, a staff member of the institute who works as the help at the director’s bungalow went to the centre to take his second jab of Covaxin around 10am on May 28. The official said since the help was not carrying his Aadhaar card, he could not be accommodated in the first batch of 10 persons let into the centre for vaccination. The document is a must for registration. “By the time he returned with the document, the slot for Covaxin was over and that of Covishield opened. So, he had to wait till another slot of Covaxin opened, for which 10 more persons had to turn up. This took around two hours. Once the cook reported the incident to the director, he accused those running the centre of harassing his staff and threatened to close the centre,” the official said. Denying the charge, director Chakrabarti said the vaccination centre had been shut for sometime as they wanted to streamline the crowd by opening separate centres for outsiders and campus residents. “I have not misbehaved with anyone for allegedly harassing the staff (member) who works at my place (as cook). The staff (member) merely told me that too many people were gathering at the vaccination centre, triggering chaos. So I thought of taking steps so that the crowd could be managed and physical distancing and other safety protocols could be followed. The centre will reopen,” he said. An official attached to the office of the district’s chief medical officer (CMOH) said they would resume sending doses to the IIEST once the institute reopened the vaccination centre. “They have suspended the operations because of some internal reasons,” he said. In April, the primary healthcare centre on the IIEST Shibpur campus had been turned into a Covid care unit with beds, oxygen support and isolation facilities after several residents tested positive and had trouble finding beds in hospitals with which the institute had tied up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
05-06-2021||Business||Nigeria bans Twitter, Koo rushes to take place||Koo on Saturday said the Indian microblogging platform is available in Nigeria and is keen on adding new local languages for users in that country. The development comes a day after the Nigerian government announced an indefinite suspension of Koo's rival, Twitter in the country. In a post on Koo on Saturday, its co-founder and CEO Aprameya Radhakrishna said the platform is available in Nigeria . “We're thinking of enabling the local languages there too. What say?” Radhakrishna said. Speaking to PTI, Radhakrishna said: “Now that there is an opportunity for microblogging platforms in Nigeria...Koo is looking at introducing local Nigerian languages in the app.” He added that the platform is keen on making inroads in the Nigerian market. Radhakrishna said Koo will abide by the local laws of each country that it operates in. Koo, founded by Radhakrishna and Mayank Bidawatka, was launched last year to allow users to express themselves and engage on the platform in Indian languages. It supports multiple languages including Hindi, Telugu and Bengali, among others. The Nigerian government on Friday said it was suspending Twitter indefinitely, a day after the company removed a contentious tweet that President Muhammadu Buhari made about a secessionist movement. Koo has over 60 lakh users, and had recently raised USD 30 million (about Rs 218 crore) in a funding round led by Tiger Global. Koo's popularity in India peaked amid clarion calls for expanding the ecosystem of homegrown digital platforms. The platform has seen a massive growth in its user base over the past few months after union ministers and government departments endorsed the homegrown microblogging platform, following a spat with Twitter. Notably, Radhakrishna's post on Saturday coincides with the Indian government issuing a notice to Twitter, giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules. Twitter has also been warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Koo had earlier said it has already complied with the IT rules and has shared necessary details as sought by the government on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Bull Moose Tube Company to construct 350,000-tonnes pipe mill in Texas||Bull Moose Tube Company, part of Caparo Group owned by Indian-born British industrialist Lord Swraj Paul, will build one of the largest specialised pipe mills in the United States. The company will set up a plant at Sinton, Texas, with an annual capacity of 350,000 tonnes a year. It is expected to go into production by early 2023. Speaking to The Telegraph this afternoon, Lord Paul, chairman of Caparo, said the proposed Texas plant would be the seventh plant of Bull Moose Tube in the US and the eighth in North America. “There is likely to be a $200-250 million investment in the plant,” Lord Paul said. The formal announcement of the Texan facility coincides with the birthday of Lord Paul’s son Angad who used to run Caparo from 1996. He passed away in 2015 in his forties. “His energy and enthusiasm will never be forgotten in taking forward Caparo’s business in North America,” Lord Paul added. Caparo, which has close to $1 billion turnover, has a strong presence in India as well where the group operates several companies as OEMs to auto makers. It employs 5,000 people in this country. It was one of the many ancillary companies which had proposed to set up a plant at Singur with the Tata Nano plant. Lord Paul said he continued to believe in the India growth story and will expand business in the future. He informed that his grandchildren spend considerable time in India too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Spandana Sphoorty share price zooms almost 9 per cent on reports of acquisition talks with Axis Bank||Shares of Spandana Spoorthy Financial Ltd zoomed almost 9 per cent on the bourses on Thursday on reports that Axis Bank may be looking to acquire the microfinancier. On the BSE, shares of Spandana Spoorthy ended with gains of 8.63 per cent at Rs 743.60. Intra-day, the stock hit a high of Rs 820 — up 19.80 per cent over the previous close. The gains in the counter came after a Moneycontrol report said Axis Bank was in talks to acquire the microfinancier and that the latter was also open to a complete sale. The acquisition is part of the private sector lender’s efforts to reduce its priority sector lending cost. In a clarification to the stock exchanges, Spandana Spoorthy said as a matter of corporate policy, it does not comment on media speculation. Spandana Spoorthy is the second-largest microfinance company in the country with assets under management of Rs 8,157 crore and an active customer base of 24.45 lakh. For the March quarter of 2021, the company posted a net profit of Rs 41.64 crore against Rs 77.49 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Bengal wants GST setoff till 2027||Bengal has proposed that the period of paying financial compensation to the states to meet projected shortfall in GST tax collection should be extended by five more years in the wake of the debilitating pandemic. Arguing that the GST revenues are yet to stabilise, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, who is part of the GST Council, wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend the period beyond July 2022, when the initial five-year period ends. “Revenue collection, shortfall, borrowing and as a result compensation — the entire financial model of GST must be examined. And if we do so, it will be evident that there should be another five-year extension,” Mitra told The Telegraph this evening. The Centre had constitutionally mandated to cover the shortfall in GST collection if the revenue growth falls below a mutually accepted predetermined level for five-years from the start of implementation of the new indirect tax regime from 2017. The written assurance from the Centre formed an important step in bringing on board the opposing states. However, the Centre and the Opposition ruled states were at loggerheads last year when the former sought to abdicate part of the responsibility. However, it finally caved in under pressure and agreed to compensate states by borrowing. It was further decided that the principal and interest of the loan would be paid by extending the period of collecting cess on luxury and sin goods. “We don’t know how many years we have to collect the cess. Then we might as well also increase the period for compensation,” Mitra argued. The letter bears out why calculation of the compensation and mechanism of payment has become one of the key areas of confrontation between the non-BJP states and the government of India (GoI). In the letter, he argued that the Centre still owes Rs 63,000 crore cumulatively to the states and Rs 4,911 crore to Bengal going by actual revenue collection in 2020-21. “We had taken a projected figure but now we have hard data. Going by this, there is a shortfall which the Centre should immediately release as grant,” he said. Mitra also pointed out that the Centre has to borrow Rs 2,13,000 crore instead of Rs 1,58,267 crore as proposed by the GoI, if last nine months’ actual revenue collection is considered instead of normative growth of 7 per cent as was done in the last fiscal. Mitra made a pitch to allow states to borrow 5 per cent of states’ GDP without any pre-condition. Last year, the limit was relaxed to 4 per cent and up to 5 per cent, conditionally. This year, the limit has been scaled back to 3.5 per cent and 0.5 per cent additional if states meet capital expenditure targets. Mitra spoke of the trail of destruction caused by cyclone Amphan, Tauktae and Yaas which will cost several states a significant amount on rehabilitation. Given that states are to spend on universal vaccination and Covid measures, it would be difficult to increase capital expenditure in 2020-21. Bengal has raised capital expenditure by more than 100 per cent from Rs 15,970 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 34,000 crore this year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank posts Rs 586 crore profit in Q4||State-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Friday posted a standalone profit of Rs 586.33 crore for the fourth quarter ended March, aided by a good increase in interest income. The second-largest PSU lender had reported a loss of Rs 697.20 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20. Interest earned during the quarter rose 36 per cent to Rs 18,789.53 crore from Rs 13,858.98 crore earlier. The financial numbers are not strictly comparable as Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged with PNB effective April 1, 2020, the bank said. There was a marginal improvement in asset quality as the gross non-performing assets were brought down to 14.12 per cent of gross advances at the end of March 2021 from 14.21 per cent in March 2020. Bank of India managing director and CEO A.K. Das said the interest margins of banks are unlikely to be as robust as before because of the shift to repo-based lending rates and transmission of lower interest rates to consumers. The PSU bank’s domestic net interest margin fell to 2.16 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against 3.18 per cent a year ago. It posted a net profit of Rs 250 crore against a net loss of Rs 3,571 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Appellate Tribunal quashes liquidation of Incab Industries ||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has quashed the ongoing liquidation of ailing cable maker Incab Industries and has ordered that a resolution process under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) be started to find a new buyer for the company. Based on the application filed by employees of the company, which has plants in Jamshedpur and Pune, the NCLAT bench comprising acting chairperson Justice A.I.S. Cheema set aside an order of a lower bench in Calcutta which had upheld the liquidation decision taken by the committee of creditors (CoC) of Incab. There are about 1,000 employees still on the rolls of the company, whose salaries have been paid infrequently over the years. They believe the valuation of land and assets — which include prime land in Pune, the company headquarters on a 40 cottah plot on Hare Street in Dalhousie, Calcutta, the director’s bungalow at Lovelock Place and tens of apartments across India — could well be over Rs 700 crore. “The assets of Incab far outweigh the liabilities. We are hopeful of the revival of the company and expect all past dues of the employees, present and retired, to be paid off,” Jayanta Banerjee, appellant before the court and an employee, said. Incab was referred to the erstwhile Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction in 1999. It was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution on August 7, 2019. In the intervening years, attempts were made to revive Incab, which used to make cables for power transmission and a number of companies, including Tata Steel, were interested in taking it over. However, the CoC of Incab decided not to invite expressions of interest from bidders and sent the company into liquidation, arguing that the dilapidated plant with obsolete technologies was beyond revival. The appellate tribunal, however, came down heavily on the CoC and the resolution professional (RP) for going into liquidation without due process. “Liquidation is like a death knell for the corporate entity/person,” the judgment read. The bench found that the CoC was formed without admitting claims, before determining fair market value, liquidation value or information memorandum. The bench also observed that two entities — Kamla Mills and Fasqua Investments — holding 77.2 per cent voting share in the CoC were “related parties”. The formation of the CoC in the instant case is a nullity by law. As the illegally constituted CoC took the decisions at every stage of the CIRP, the entire process is found to be vitiated. Rishav Banerjee, who appeared for the appellant workers pro bono, said the NCLAT judgment would send a clear message that ex-facie related parties of corporate debtors cannot hijack CIRP by illegally getting a seat in the CoC and send the company into liquidation. The NCLAT ordered NCLT Calcutta to appoint a new RP and verify claims of the creditors, excluding Kamla and Fasqua, and to carry on with the resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||RBI slashes GDP growth forecast to 9.5 per cent, not in sync with other economists||The RBI may have cut its growth forecast to 9.5 per cent for the domestic economy but it is not in sync with lower projections made by other economists. Several economists have sharply cut their growth forecasts for the current fiscal. State Bank of India (SBI) has put it at 7.9 per cent, down from the earlier projection of 10.4 per cent growth. Most of the experts expect the economy to grow only in single digits, though there are a couple who feel that the number will be over 10 per cent. One of the reasons behind RBI’s growth estimate was its optimism that the pace of vaccination will pick up in the coming months. However, with uncertainty still remaining on the effect of the second wave and how a third wave will pan out, economists such as Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI, feel that there will be quicker revisions in the central bank’s forecasts from six months earlier to around three months given the current environment. Ghosh also feels that the sharp pick-up in growth estimated by the RBI during the third quarter of this fiscal may not materialise. “We are sceptical of a sharp pick-up in growth outlook in the third quarter given the devastation in the rural economy and the slow vaccination. Thus the RBI forecast of 9.5 per cent could be more of a sombre signaling of a weak growth outlook as of now,’’ he said. Economists at Yes Bank too indicate that there could be downside risks to the RBI’s growth projections, even as inflation fears are rising. “The growth-inflation mix is worsening for the RBI. The downward revision of 2021-22 real GDP growth projection to 9.5 per cent highlights the economy-wide stress to revive growth impulses. Though the RBI highlighted tailwinds to growth, in our view the downside risks to this print comes from increased uncertainty through higher economic costs and health expenses going forward,’’ they said. Moreover, RBI’s efforts to boost credit outflow are yet to be reflected in actual numbers. Abheek Barua, chief economist, HDFC Bank, indicated that banks may also be looking out for some form of credit guarantees to de-risk. Ghosh, however, feels that the credit offtake is low as corporates have deleveraged by repaying high-cost loans through funds raised via bond issuances. He added that their willingness for new investments remains low due to all-pervasive uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||Nothing sacrosanct about 6% yield for 10-year govt bond: RBI governor||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said there was nothing “sacrosanct” about the 6-per-cent yield for the 10-year government bond as he sought to dispel the widespread belief that the central bank will not let the yields on the benchmark 10-year paper to rise above 6 per cent. However, bond market circles are of the view the central bank will continue to keep the yields at least under a tight leash given its impact on corporate bonds amid a huge Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme of the government in this fiscal. At the press conference after the meeting of the monetary policy committee, Das parried a question on whether the RBI was fixated on the 10-year bond even as the yield curve remained steep. He said there was a misconception in this regard as the RBI was looking at the entire yield curve. He said in the two bond purchased auctions, the RBI not only put up the 10-year paper but also other securities. “We are focussed on the entire yield curve across the maturities, its not just the 10 year. Somehow there is a perception… If you see the G-SAP auctions... For instance in the last auction, we had included across the maturity profile,’’ the RBI governor said. The bond yield curve looks inverted as the abundant liquidity in the system has led to rates at the short end falling much more than the longer tenor rates such as the 10 or 14-year papers. “So is it because of abundant liquidity that short end rates go down, so curve looks steep... if you look at 10 year or 14 year, the rates haven’t really gone up. G-SAP is focused across maturities... there is nothing like 6 per cent is sacrosanct. We have talked about orderly evolution of the yield curve and focusing on that,’’ Das said. Market experts are, however, of the view that the RBI will be keen on reining in the benchmark bond to below 6 per cent or at least ensure that it remains in a tight range. “There is no doubt in our mind that the Reserve Bank of India wishes to see bond yields trending down. The RBI governor’s comments during the speech today that it expects the market to respond appropriately to the announcement of G-SAP 2.0 highlights that point,” Dhawal Dalal, CIO-fixed income, Edelweiss AMC, said. “We believe that the RBI will continue in its efforts of some sort of yield curve control until there are clear signs of revival of economic growth while seeing through recent increase in supply-side inflationary pressures,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||Business||RBI’s monetary policy committee decides to hold repo rate at 4%||The RBI policymakers decided to hold interest rates and continue with the accommodative policy as it announced additional bond purchases to steer the domestic economy out of the clutches of the second wave of the coronavirus. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) voted unanimously to hold the repo rate, its key lending rate, at 4 per cent and kept the reverse repo rate, the borrowing rate, unchanged at 3.35 per cent. It, however, slashed the growth outlook for 2021-22 to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent and marginally raised the inflation forecast to 5.1 per cent. At the end of the three-day meeting, there were no surprises as the six-member MPC left the key rates unchanged given the uncertainty over the impact of the pandemic and the upside risks to inflation. The panel also decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis while ensuring that inflation remains within the medium-term target. This is the sixth consecutive policy meeting where the central bank has not touched the repo rate. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the RBI has been taking unconventional steps and focussing on maintaining liquidity. One such measure was the government securities acquisition programme or G-SAP wherein it would purchase securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve and ensure comfortable liquidity conditions. For the first quarter of 2021-22, it had announced a G-SAP of Rs 1 lakh crore. The first purchase for Rs 25,000 crore was conducted on April 15 and the second for Rs 35,000 crore on May 20. The RBI said it would raise the remaining Rs 40,000 crore for the quarter on June 17, with Rs 10,000 crore allotted to the purchase of state government paper. Moreover, purchases for the second quarter (G-SAP 2:0) will be higher at Rs 1.20 lakh crore. Besides, a separate liquidity window of Rs 15,000 crore at the repo rate will be available till the end of this sector to contact intensive sectors such as hotels and restaurants, tourism and aviation ancillary services. As an incentive to banks, they can park their surplus liquidity — up to the size of the lending under this book called the Covid book — with the RBI under the reverse repo window at a rate which yields 40 basis points higher than the current reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. The exposure threshold under Resolution Framework 2.0 — a debt restructuring plan announced in May for stressed individuals, small businesses and MSMEs — has been raised to Rs 50 crore from Rs 25 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
05-06-2021||India||Centre stopped our doorstep ration delivery scheme, says AAP govt||The Centre has stopped the Arvind Kejriwal government's ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme that was set to be launched soon, official sources in the Delhi government said on Saturday. According to them, all preparations for the doorstep delivery of ration scheme were in place and it was scheduled to be launched from next week. "The scheme was stopped by the Centre on the basis that its approval was not sought before implementation," they said. "Delhi government was all set to launch the Doorstep Delivery of Ration scheme across Delhi within 1-2 days, benefiting 72 lakh poor beneficiaries across Delhi. Based on central government's suggestion, Delhi cabinet has passed a decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013. This addresses all the concerns of the central government," the AAP government said in a statement, according to a report by ndtv.com. “LG (Lieutenant Governor) has rejected the file for implementation of Doorstep Delivery of Ration citing two reasons – centre is yet to approve the scheme, and an ongoing court case. No approval for launching such a scheme is required as per existing law," the statement added. The AAP on its Twitter handle slammed the Centre, saying, “Mr Prime Minister, what kind of an arrangement do you have with the ration mafia that you had to stop the Kejriwal government's 'Ghar Ghar Ration Scheme'?" Under the scheme, each eligible beneficiary would have been delivered ration including properly packaged wheat flour and rice, after their biometric verification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Milkha Singh's health condition stable, informs hospital||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who is battling COVID-19 in the ICU of PGIMER here, is stable and his condition is "better than yesterday", the hospital authorities said on Saturday. "Flying Sikh Shri Milkha Singh ji, being unwell due to COVID-19, has been admitted in the ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER since June 3. "On the basis of all the medical parameters today, that is June 5, his condition has been observed better than yesterday," Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of PGIMER, said in a statement, quashing rumours about his death doing rounds in the social media since Saturday morning. The statement also informed that Milkha, 91, was being closely monitored by a team of three doctors. Milkha was was brought to the hospital on Thursday with dipping levels of oxygen. On Friday, Milkha had received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring about his health. Modi spoke to Milkha and expressed hope that the iconic sportsman will be back soon to "bless and inspire athletes, who will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics." Milkha was discharged from a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday last where he received treatment for the infection. He, however, continued to be on oxygen support at home also. Milkha's 82-year-old wife Nirmal, who had also contracted COVID-19 days after her husband got the infection, continues to be in the ICU of the Fortis hospital. Milkha's son and ace golfer Jeev had reached Chandigarh from Dubai on May 22. His elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a physician in the United States, had also reached here. Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Centre gives ‘one last chance’ to Twitter to comply with IT Rules||The government on Saturday issued a notice to Twitter giving it “one last” chance to “immediately” comply with the new information technology rules and warned that failure would lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. The ministry of electronics and information technology said Twitter’s refusal to comply demonstrated the microblogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them by appointing grievance redressal officers from among Indian residents. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create a mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India-based, clearly identified resources,” the IT ministry said. The ministry said that though “consequences follow” for non-compliance after May 26, “as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available... shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India”. The notice did not specify a date to comply with the rules. Twitter declined to comment to an email sent by PTI on the note. “It is clear from your responses that till date Twitter has not informed about the details of the chief compliance officer as required under the rules,” the ministry said. Twitter on Saturday removed and later restored the verified blue tick on the personal account of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. Officials in his secretariat said Naidu’s personal handle had been inactive for a long time and the Twitter algorithm had removed the blue badge. The blue badge had also been removed from the accounts of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and other functionaries, but restored after cries of “tech feudalism”. Twitter said that according to its rules, the blue badge and verified status could be automatically removed from an account if it is incomplete or inactive for six months. “Inactivity is based on logging in. To keep the account active, the account holder must make sure to log in at least every 6 months,” Twitter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Maharashtra to lift Covid restrictions in 5-level plan from Monday||The Maharashtra government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued late on Friday night. The order will come into effect from June 7 based on the positivity rate and the oxygen bed occupancy level of June 3, it said. The lockdown-like restrictions in the state were imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified. Under the notification, each municipal area and district has been treated as a separate administrative unit. In the first category, cities and districts, which have a positivity rate of five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent, will open up completely with regular timings of essential and non-essential shops, malls, theatres, auditoriums, restaurants, private offices, public places, sports establishments. Film shootings, social and political gatherings can resume at such places. Manufacturing, agriculture and economic activities will be allowed. There will be no curfew or prohibitory orders and no e-pass will be required unless the travel is to cities or districts which come under the fifth category (where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent). In the second category, cities and districts where the positivity rate is five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is 25 to 40 per cent, essential and non-essential shops will be allowed to open as per the regular timings, but malls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums and restaurants will function at 50 per cent capacity, it said. There will be a restricted entry in local trains and it will be allowed for those working in medical and essential services only. Public places and private offices can be opened. Social and political gatherings will be allowed with 50 per cent capacity. Curfew orders will remain in place. Gyms, salons, beauty centres can open with 50 per cent capacity. Easing of curbs under the third category will be applicable for the places where the positivity rate is five per cent to 10 per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy is more than 40 per cent. At such places, essential shops can remain open till 4 pm, while non-essential shops can remain open till 4 pm only on weekdays. Malls and multiplexes will remain shut and restaurants can open with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays. The facility of parcel, takeaway and home delivery of food will continue. Local trains will be restricted for medical and essential staff. Offices can operate with 50 per cent staff. Film and TV shootings will take place in bio-bubble with no movement outside after 5 pm. Only 50 persons can attend a marriage ceremony, while only 20 people can attend a funeral. Social and political gatherings will be conducted with 50 per cent capacity. The fourth category is for the places where the positivity rate is 10 to 20 per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent. Essential shops there will be open till 4 pm. Only food parcels and takeaways will be allowed and local trains will be restricted for medical and few essential staff only. Public places will be opened, but they will be shut on the weekends. In the fifth category, where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent, only essential shops will remain open till 4 pm and the office attendance will be 15 per cent. The notification said that every Thursday, the state public health department will declare the number of oxygen beds and the positivity rate, based on which the disaster management authority will decide the level of an administrative unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Delhi markets to open on odd-even basis from Monday, announces Kejriwal||The Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity and markets and malls in the national capital will open on an odd-even basis from June 7, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he announced further relaxations in lockdown. He also said the Delhi government will set up two genome sequencing labs at the LNJP Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences to determine the coronavirus variant that led to a surge in cases in the city. The lockdown in Delhi, which was to end at 5 AM on Monday, will be extended further but several relaxations will be allowed, Kejriwal said during an online briefing. Government and private offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent attendance. Markets and malls will be allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10 AM to 8 PM, he said. Kejriwal said the Delhi government is preparing for the third wave of COVID-19 keeping in mind that 37,000 daily cases may be reported at its peak and making arrangements for beds, ICUs and medicines. A paediatric task force has been set up to decide the number of beds, ICU facilities and other equipment needed for children, who are feared to be affected in the third wave, he said. Delhi is also creating an oxygen storage capacity of 450 MT, purchasing 25 oxygen tankers and installing 64 small oxygen plants. A team of experts and doctors will prescribe useful medicines and a buffer stock of Covid medicines will be created, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Twitter removes, then restores, blue tick on Vice President’s account||Twitter on Saturday removed and later restored the verified blue tick on the personal account of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. Officials of the Vice President Secretariat said the personal Twitter handle of Naidu @MVenkaiahNaidu was inactive for a long time and the Twitter algorithm removed the blue badge. They said Twitter was in the process of restoring the verification badge. The last tweet posted from the personal handle was on July 23 last year. The account has 1.3 million followers. The officials said Twitter was contacted after they noticed this morning that the blue tick was removed. Before 10.30 am, the blue tick badge was restored, they said. "The referenced account has been inactive since July 2020. As explained in the Twitter verification policy, Twitter may remove the blue verified badge and verified status if the account becomes inactive or is incomplete. The verified badge of the Vice President's account has now been restored," Twitter said in a statement. Twitter said the account has been inactive since July 2020. It said the verified badge has now been restored. The Vice President uses the official Twitter handle @VPSecretariat to send out tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||India records 1.20 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,380 casualties in a day||India reported 1,20,529 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in infections in around two months, taking the infection tally to 2,86,94,879, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll from COVID-19 climbed to 3,44,082 with 3,380 new fatalities, while the number of active cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the fifth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily new cases are the lowest in 58 days, the ministry said. A total of 20,84,421 tests were done on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,11,74,142. The daily positivity rate further dipped to 5.78 per cent, less than 10 per cent for the 12th consecutive day, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.89 per cent, it said. The active case count has reduced to 15,55,248, which comprises 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent, the data showed. The number of recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 23 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,67,95,549, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. The 3,380 new fatalities include 1,377 from Maharashtra, 364 from Karnataka, 463 from Tamil Nadu, 136 from Uttar Pradesh, 135 from Kerala, 113 from West Bengal. A total of 3,44,082 coronavirus-related deaths have been reported so far in the country including 98,771 from Maharashtra, 30,895 from Karnataka, 26,128 from Tamil Nadu, 24,497 from Delhi, 21,031 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,034 from West Bengal, 14,927 from Punjab and 13,162 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore COVID-19 cases on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Delhi govt likely to announce further lockdown relaxations||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce further lockdown relaxations from the next week amid a dip in the city's daily COVID-19 case count, officials said on Saturday. Kejriwal, who is scheduled to address a press conference later in the day, is also expected to announce the steps to deal with the possible third wave of the coronavirus. An official said the government may allow markets and other activities from June 7 as the COVID-19 situation has gradually been improving. Last week, the government had allowed manufacturing and construction activities in Delhi beginning phased unlock process. The lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. The city recorded 523 fresh COVID-19 cases and 50 fatalities on Friday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.68 per cent, according to Delhi government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Novel coronavirus gains 'strategic' mutations capable of dodging jabs and immune responses||The novel coronavirus has gained “strategic” mutations that may allow it to escape immune responses and vaccines, researchers in India and the US have said in a study that they say underscores the need for continual vaccine redesign. Their study has found that the emergence of these mutations, which represent subtle changes in a viral protein structure that some scientists view as the virus’s Achilles heel, has coincided with sharp surges in infections in 12 countries, including India. The prevalence of one such mutation among coronavirus samples from Covid-19 patients in India increased 13-fold — from 1.1 per cent in February this year to 15 per cent in April — coinciding with a 15-fold surge in daily infections during the country’s second wave. Similar surge-associated mutations have been detected in at least 11 other countries, rising 38-fold in Chile, 82-fold in the UK and 114-fold in France over two or three months during which those countries too experienced surges. (See chart below) While mutations are expected to occur over time and drive biological evolution, the study suggests the virus is also accumulating strategic mutations that alter a key protein structure called the “antigenic supersite”. This is the virus’s Achilles heel and is a common target for multiple antibodies that neutralise the virus. “This evolutionary trait appears strongly with infection surges, suggesting some immune-evasive mechanisms in play that aid rampant human-to-human transmission,” Venky Soundararajan, the scientist who led the study, told The Telegraph. Soundararajan and his colleagues at nference, a biomedical data science company with offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Bangalore, working with doctors at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, analysed over 1.3 million coronavirus genomes from 178 countries and looked for patterns between mutations and epidemic surges. Their study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server, is the first to connect the epidemic’s features — measured through the test positivity rate (the proportion of positive results among those tested) in specific geographic regions — with virus mutations. Their findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, may be relying on mutations that accumulate on the antigenic supersite as a novel escape strategy to evade immune responses resulting from natural infections or mass vaccination campaigns. Clinical trials and real-world studies have established that multiple Covid-19 vaccines are effective in protecting people from the infection and disease, but people already inoculated have been infected too in what are being termed “breakthrough infections”. The nference-Mayo researchers sequenced 53 coronavirus specimens from patients who had become re-infected or had breakthrough infections and, in samples from three patients, detected mutations in the same viral protein structure where surge-associated mutations have been seen. “There is an urgent need to identify the immuno-evasive features of SARS-CoV-2 to develop effective countermeasures,” said Soundararajan. “Our study provides a foundational platform for designing new vaccines and biological therapies to counter the immune-evasive strategies of SARS-Cov-2.” The study also underlines the need for a massive scale-up of the coronavirus genome-sequencing efforts in low and middle-income countries, and for efforts to link sequence data with health records of patients and vaccinated people worldwide. Over 50 per cent of the 1.3 million SARS-CoV-2 genomes available for scientific analysis are from the US, the European Union or the UK. India has sequenced over 25,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes so far and is just starting out to establish connections between the sequences and the countrywide vaccination status. Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said: “Their call for what needs to be done is absolutely correct. There is a need to broaden and deepen surveillance and to diversify the vaccine design strategies.” However, while the study has used computational methods to identify previously undetected patterns that suggest a link between mutations and infection surges, Rath said, there is no real evidence yet that the surges have occurred mostly because of re-infections or breakthrough infections. Besides, immunologists have underlined that the antigenic supersite is also the region the virus uses to infect cells, and it is possible that the mutations are driven by natural-selection pressure created worldwide through physical distancing. “What is emerging then might be variants that bind better to human cells and are therefore more efficiently transmitted from person to person,” Rath said. “The immune-evasive correlation might then be incidental and dependent on the fact that vaccines are directed at generating antibodies that stop the virus sticking to cells.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Call for tribute in memory of those lost to Covid, lockdown, lynch mobs or hunger||Every Sunday, light a lamp or candle for those killed by Covid or the long walk back home amid the lockdown, by lynch mobs or hunger, to remember the humanity of people now turned into a statistic. And to keep alive your own humanity in so doing. This was the appeal sent out on Friday by a host of people who included actors Parambrata Chatterjee and Richa Chadha, badminton player Jwala Gutta, singers T.M. Krishna, Moushumi Bhowmik and Rupam Islam, Assam MP Ajit Bhuyan, Gujarat MLAs Chhotubhai Vasava and Jignesh Mevani, Bihar MLAs Manoj Manzil and Mahboob Alam, Jharkhand MLA Vinod Singh and former navy chief L. Ramdas. Joining them were writers and academics V. Geetha, S.V. Rajadurai, Samim Ahmed, Du Saraswati, Rajendra Chenni and Rahamath Tarikere, Kannada filmmakers Giriraj and B. Suresh, and actor Chetan “Ahimsa” Kumar. Apart from lighting a lamp at home, in the neighbourhood or at the workplace every Sunday, the statement encourages people to sing, share pictures and post messages on social media on the theme if they want to. “It’s a really simple activity: one just has to light a candle of remembrance. This collective mourning will perhaps be cathartic,” Chadha told The Telegraph. “A lot of people are numb or gutted right now. It will take a long time to heal. People aren’t just statistics: they are colleagues, papas, betis (daughters), dadis (grandmas), classmates and wives.” The appeal says: “Governments do not want to count the dead or even admit they have died. They are even removing the shrouds from the riverside graves so that the world may not be able to count our dead. By refusing to count them, they are seeking to forget our precious loved ones. “But we cannot let our loved ones be forgotten: each has a name, each must be remembered, each must continue to be loved. “We must remember not only those who fell to Covid-19 but those who fell to other disasters and violence — migrant workers killed walking home, kids and the elderly who died of hunger, those killed in cyclones, droughts, victims of lynching by mobs instigated by hatred and fake news, victims of targeted communal, caste or patriarchal violence, victims of police firing, manual scavenging deaths.” Gutta told this newspaper: “It is to keep our sanity and human-ness.... As humans we want to talk about what is positive but we should not and cannot ignore the negative, or not envy other countries that have moved on.... We can’t overlook those who distract us from the crisis like Baba Ramdev who demoralises our healthcare personnel.” She added: “We cannot exist as a society without (remembering) those who lost their lives, like the workers who died on the roads. I shall be surprised if no human feels for these people.” The appeal adds: “No need to gather in large numbers and risk spreading the virus: you can join in from wherever you are, without any crowds. Just try and reach out to neighbours and strangers, and share their losses.” Krishna told this newspaper: “We have had deaths caused by an uncaring government. The migrant workers dying is a classic example. There are people dying for lack of oxygen. Do you call it Covid deaths? “For so many years now you have had people dying because of lynching, communal hatred — not to forget police firing. We need a cultural change to remember those who are not remembered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Navodaya Vidyalaya staff prodded to donate salary to fund kin of fallen colleagues||Employees of the central government-run Navodaya schools have been prodded to donate two days’ salary towards a benevolent fund for the families of colleagues who have died of Covid or other causes since March 2020. But many among the 24,000 teaching and non-teaching employees at these 600 schools and even some of the prospective beneficiaries have protested, saying it’s the government that should provide the compensation instead of resorting to crowd-funding. N.K. Pahwa, deputy commissioner of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS), wrote to all the regional offices of the organisation on May 7 asking the school principals to secure employees’ consent to the initiative. The letter said the bereaved families would also be offered a contractual job each. Since the employees’ response was not “encouraging”, NVS joint commissioner Sameer Pandey wrote to all the regional offices on May 27, telling them to ask the principals to motivate those employees who had not given their consent. The NVS runs residential schools, mainly for talented rural students. A senior employee at a Navodaya school said the Centre should have helped the families with its own money. “Last year, the government forced us to donate two days’ salary to the PM CARES Fund while the staff of the central universities and the IITs donated a day’s salary,” the employee said. “Earlier, we had been asked to donate a day’s salary towards flood relief in Kerala, and we did. Does the government not have any responsibility?” An NVS official said nearly 150 teachers and other staff had died of Covid in the past one year, and a few others of other causes. With the donations, the NVS wants to create a benevolent fund and give Rs 2 lakh as assistance to every family. Last year, NVS staff had donated Rs 7.48 crore from their salaries to the PM CARES Fund. “It has therefore been decided that as a one-time measure, the dependent family member/ nominee of the deceased regular employees will be granted immediate financial assistance, out of the contribution from the regular employees of NVS,” the May 7 letter said. The letter said: “In view of the above, it is requested that each member of Navodaya Family (regular employees only) may contribute a minimum two days’ salary (basic + DA) for the above noble cause, on voluntary basis.” An NVS official said the organisation had Rs 200 crore of unutilised funds left over from last year, and had received Rs 300 crore in additional grants this year. Besides, its hostel mess funds remain unused because the students are at home. Altogether, the NVS has over Rs 1,000 crore at its disposal with which it can “easily pay the families of deceased staff”, the official said. Subhank Singh Thakur, son of the dead NVS clerk Surendra Singh Thakur from Mandla, Madhya Pradesh, criticised the move for crowd-funding and the offer of a contractual job. “My father worked his entire life for the NVS. The assistance should come from the NVS and not from contributions of other staff,” he said. “I won’t accept the contractual appointment unless the NVS assures us in writing that we will be regularised when vacancies arise,” Subhank, who is qualified to be a teacher, added. Emails sent to NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg and the Union education ministry on May 21 asking why the government wasn’t compensating the families with its own funds have brought no answers. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Progressive Sikshak Sangh, a teachers’ body, has requested the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan to compensate the families of employees who have died of Covid, with money and a job. A teacher said nearly 200 employees of the organisation’s over 1,200 schools had died of Covid. An email sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey on May 25 seeking a reaction to the teachers’ demand has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||SKM accuses govt of trying to shift movement from Delhi borders to Haryana||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has accused the Narendra Modi government of trying to orchestrate a shift in the epicentre of the farmers’ movement from Delhi’s borders to Haryana by constantly provoking agitating peasants in the latter state. Given that Haryana is the state most invested in the movement against the Centre’s new farm laws after Punjab, there have been frequent face-offs with the administration as farmers have been boycotting or gheraoing events attended by leaders of the BJP and ally JJP, triggering sporadic clashes and arrests. The latest face-off was at Tohana in Fatehabad district on Thursday after farmers protested outside the residence of JJP legislator Devender Singh Babli. Matters have escalated and farm leader Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as a face of the movement after a reluctant start, is now sitting on a dharna at the Tohana toll, demanding the release of the farmers arrested for the incident. Tikait, too, had alleged on Thursday night that the Centre was conspiring to shift the movement to Haryana. Stating that the gherao of Babli was one in a series of episodes where farmers are being provoked into action and then arrested, Yudhveer Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) announced on Friday that since the Haryana government likes to imprison people, Rakesh Tikait and BKU (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni will lead farmers to the Tohana city prison on Saturday for a “jail bharo” agitation. “This will not be a one-day programme but we will continue to do this. Let us see how much space they have in their jails,” Yudhveer Singh said while addressing the media after a meeting of the SKM general body at the Singhu border protest site. The SKM is an umbrella outfit of 40 farm unions spearheading the movement against the three new laws. Chaduni said that while farmers would continue to boycott or gherao BJP and JJP leaders in Haryana, this would be restricted to the politicians’ public appearances for official programmes, not when they are out on personal engagements. As for the protests along Delhi’s key borders of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, the SKM leadership maintained that there was no question of going back after having come this far and staying for over six months now. Upset with the manner in which the government is once again trying to weaken the movement using state power in Haryana, the SKM has decided that batches of farmers from the state will proceed to the three borders keeping in mind Covid protocols. The new protest action in Haryana notwithstanding, the SKM will continue with its plan to observe Saturday — June 5 — as “Sampoorna Kranti Divas” in memory of Jayprakash Narayan’s call for Total Revolution given on this day in 1974. For the protesting farmers, this is now a “black day” as it was on June 5 last year when the Modi government had introduced the three farm laws as ordinances in the midst of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Defence Acquisition Council approves plan to build six subs||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, on Friday cleared a project worth Rs 43,000 crore to build six conventional submarines to counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet, sources in the ministry said. “This is a landmark approval, being the first case processed under the Strategic Partnership model. This would be one of the largest ‘Make in India’ projects and it will create a tiered industrial ecosystem for submarine construction in India,” Rajnath said on Twitter. The submarines will be built under the strategic partnership model that allows domestic defence manufacturers to join hands with leading foreign firms to produce high-end military platforms to reduce import dependence. The six submarines will be conventional, diesel-electric vessels and are likely to be equipped with land attack missiles and anti-ship cruise missiles. Sources said the Indian Navy plans to acquire 24 new submarines, including six nuclear attack submarines, to bolster its underwater fighting capability. It now has 15 conventional submarines and two nuclear submarines. The navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its capabilities in view of China’s efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean region. The DAC on Friday also approved proposals concerning capital acquisition of various equipment for modernisation and operational needs of the Indian Armed Forces amounting to Rs 6,800 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Editors Guild welcomes Vinod Dua verdict||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) and other associations of journalists have welcomed the Supreme Court verdict on the sedition case against journalist Vinod Dua. The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a sedition FIR registered against Dua in Himachal Pradesh for his criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of Covid and the use of the Pulwama attack and Balakot airstrike to seek votes. Lauding the verdict, the EGI demanded repeal of the “draconian” and “antiquated” sedition laws. The Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) hoped that the judgment would provide “immediate relief” to journalists who are in jail under sedition charges. “The EGI expresses satisfaction with the Supreme Court’s concerns over the chilling effect that sedition laws have on free media and our democracy,” the Guild said in a statement. “The Guild demands repeal of these draconian and antiquated laws that find no space in any modern liberal democracy.” The IWPC said: “We have noticed with dismay a growing trend in India in recent times where both the central and the state governments have routinely slapped sedition charges on journalists for articles, tweets, Facebook posts that criticise government policies, actions of their functionaries and shortcomings in governance”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Valley police registers FIR against scribe for status on WhatsApp||Police in Jammu and Kashmir have registered an FIR against a local journalist after he put up a WhatsApp status of a picture showing 20 children who died in a boat accident 15 years back with the word “martyr’s” inscribed on it. Journalist Sajid Raina, who works in Bandipora district, said he received a call from police informing him that an FIR has been lodged against him under Sections 153 and 505(b) of the Indian Penal Code. Section 153 relates to provocation which might cause rioting, while 505(b) is related to intention to cause fear or alarm which might induce a person to commit an offence against the State or against public tranquillity. A police statement said an FIR was lodged against “one person namely Sajid Raina”, without describing his profession, for his WhatsApp status on May 30, saying it “attracts investigation into the contents and intention behind it”. “It was not against anyone’s profession particularly journalists as being circulated in social media. Investigations are underway,” the statement added. Twenty school children had died on May 30, 2006, after a boat capsized in the Wullar lake, an accident not related to militancy. “I put up a WhatsApp status on May 30 simply in memory of the kids that died that day in 2006. There was nothing political about it and there was no other intention. The words ‘Wullar martyr’s’ were already inscribed in the picture,” Raina told The Telegraph. “In Islam, we believe one who dies in an accident or by drowning is a martyr. I do not know what is offensive about that.” Raina, who works for a local news agency, said he received a call from a police official about the WhatsApp status after which he deleted the picture. “It was there for just five hours and was seen by no more than 20 people. Today, I was summoned by a police official.” Sajad Gul, a colleague, tweeted that he was also booked by Bandipora police recently and claimed the police “wants to criminalise journalists in Bandipora and stop them from factual reporting”. Gul was booked for “rioting, trespassing, and assault” after he wrote a story for a website in which villagers alleged a tehsildar was harassing and threatening them for opposing a demolition drive. The journalist claimed he was booked for stone pelting and shouting slogans during the demolition drive although he was in Srinagar that day. Valley journalists have been in the crosshairs of the government, facing arrests, thrashing, intimidation and FIRs after the revocation of the state’s special status in 2019. Police also routinely book other men for apparently small issues. Local journalist Aasif Sultan recently completed three years in prison. Police claim he was arrested for his militancy links but his family and various journalist bodies have been protesting that he was targeted for his professional work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India|| BJP sacks its recalcitrant Bihar MLC Tunnaji Pandey||The BJP on Friday sacked its recalcitrant Bihar MLC Tunnaji Pandey whose utterances against chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar were putting a strain on the tenuous relations between the two alliance partners. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal issued Pandey’s order of suspension, copies of which have been made available to the media, a day after the legislator was issued a showcause notice by disciplinary committee head Vinay Singh. Jaiswal has pulled up Pandey for having spoken “in violation of party discipline”, without making a specific mention of Nitish, and referred to the showcause notice. The action came after Pandey insisted on Thursday that he was stating a fact and, when asked about the party notice, remarked: “I will reply to it when I receive the same. At the most, the party can throw me out. I do not depend on the party for running my household.” The row started earlier this week with Pandey taking potshots at Nitish over gangster and former Siwan MP Muhammad Shahabuddin’s death from Covid-19 in Tihar jail in Delhi. “Shahabuddin’s body could have been brought to Siwan for burial if Nitish wanted to. Recently, the body of a Covid victim was brought to Bihar from Sikkim, but the body of Shahabuddin, who was a four-time MP and twice an MLA was disposed of in Delhi on the pretext of Covid protocol,” Pandey said. He further said that Shahabuddin was punished for speaking the truth about Nitish being “a chief minister of circumstances”. “It is true that Nitish is a chief minister of circumstances. Presently he is holding the post despite representing the third largest party, while previously he was the chief minister while his JDU was the second largest party in the state. I will never say Nitish Kumar zindabad. He is not fit to be our leader because he never contests polls,” Pandey said. A couple of days later he followed this up by tweeting that the public had chosen Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the chief minister “but Nitish ji is ruling today by misusing the government machinery”. Pandey also accused Nitish of being in nexus with the liquor mafia. “He (Nitish) indulged in a liquor scam in 2009I will get him sent to jail soon for this.” The two parties have been attacking each other intermittently since the Assembly elections held last year. The JDU accused the BJP of conniving with Chirag Paswan of the Lok Janshakti Party to ensure that Nitish’s party gets fewer seats. Pandey’s statements were enough to infuriate JDU leaders. The party’s parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha on Wednesday questioned the silence of the BJP state leadership on the issue. “This statement must have been reaching you Sanjay Jaiswal ji (Bihar BJP unit president). Had any JDU leader given such a statement about the BJP or any of its leader… then…,” Kushwaha tweeted. JDU MLC and spokesperson Sanjay Singh said: “He (Pandey) was a liquor trader. He has come into politics accidentally. People should not lose their nature and behaviour in politics. Nobody has taken birth who can send Nitish Kumar to jail because he has never indulged in corruption. Everybody knows that Pandey’s brother is an RJD MLA and he has been doing everything to help the Opposition party despite being in the BJP. We cannot tolerate anybody abusing our leader (Nitish). It is up to the BJP to take cognisance and action on the issue.” Pandey has always been surrounded by controversies. He was accused of eve-teasing while travelling in a train to Bihar and was arrested. Former minister Vikram Kunwar accused him recently of swindling public money by purchasing ambulances that normally cost around Rs 7 lakh each at Rs 22 lakh. Kunwar has written a letter to Nitish about the alleged scam in the purchase of ambulances and the chief minister’s office has sought a report on the issue. “Pandey was elected to the Legislative Council in 2015 and his six-year term is ending in July this year. He could be attacking Nitish in an attempt to get close to the Opposition parties and get a ticket for the upcoming elections to the upper House of the legislature,” a BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. BJP spokesperson and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said: “The statements made by Pandey are his personal opinion. He has moved away from our party and is never called to our meetings. However, he has not been suspended from the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS scan on infections after receiving vaccines||A study at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, of 63 so-called “breakthrough infections” among people who had received Covid-19 vaccines has noted high viral loads, stable disease but no deaths. The study that tracked the course of the disease in 63 Covid-19 patients who had turned up at the AIIMS emergency department is also the first to document breakthrough infections after Covaxin, the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, had been administered. Previous breakthrough infections in India had been reported among recipients of Covishield, the other vaccine currently used in the nationwide inoculation campaign. The patients were ill enough to approach the emergency department, but the disease did not worsen, their biomarkers were stable, and all of them survived, researchers at the AIIMS and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology who conducted the study said. “The zero mortality observed in this set of breakthrough infections is fresh evidence for the protection available from vaccines,” a medical researcher at the institute told The Telegraph. Among the 63 patients, 53 had received Covaxin and 10 had received Covishield. The researchers have asserted that their study was not designed to measure any differences in breakthrough infections between the two vaccines. Twenty-four patients were healthcare workers at AIIMS, an institution that provides only Covaxin. Many others were local residents who might also have received their vaccines at AIIMS. Among the 63 patients, 36 had taken two doses, while 27 had taken a single dose. The researchers found that viral loads in the patients were high irrespective of the vaccination status or which vaccination they had received. Some patients also showed high counts of antibodies which, the researchers said, “puts in doubt the protection offered and the clinical relevance” of the antibody counts to immunity from Covid-19. Vaccine science specialists have underlined earlier that vaccinations do not work only through antibodies but are expected to generate other immune responses that can also fight the coronavirus. The AIIMS-IGIB study also genome sequenced coronavirus specimens available from 36 of the 63 breakthrough infections and found 23 (63 per cent) were the variant designated B.1.617.2. But the proportion of the variant among the samples from breakthrough infections was similar to its proportion in Covid-19 samples collected in Delhi during March and April. “The similar proportions tells us that B.1.617.2 is not turning up more frequently as breakthrough infections — its prevalence seems to be what we see in the general community,” a senior researcher said. Urvashi Singh, a clinical microbiologist at AIIMS, and Sridhar Sivasubbu, a scientist at IGIB, led the study that involved 18 others, including AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and IGIB scientist Vinod Scaria. The researchers posted their study on bioRxiv, an online server for preprints, on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Lost days, death fear fuel jab hesitancy in residents of Aligarh district village||Residents of a village in Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh have refused to take the Covid-19 vaccine, the health department failing to convince them to take the shots for the third consecutive day on Friday. Eyewitnesses said while the men in Jeevangarh village refused to talk to reporters, the women said they have developed distrust for “certain things” and don’t want to “die”. “There are many people who contracted coronavirus after taking the first vaccine dose. We have heard that we need to stay at home for a few days after receiving the jab. This is not possible as we have to go out to work daily to feed our families. Also, we don’t want to die. Certain things have happened in Uttar Pradesh in recent weeks which have created a fear psychosis,” said Mehran Nisar, an agricultural worker, apparently alluding to hundreds of bodies seen floating in the Ganga. “Some villagers who had taken the first dose developed some infection and were admitted to hospital. They eventually died there. We don’t want to die,” Rukhsana Begum, another resident, told reporters. Earlier, the villagers of Nai Basti in Mathura had refused to take the vaccine. Out of a population of 1,500, only 20 have received the jab. Last week, around 1,000 out of 1,500 residents of Sisaura in Barabanki district had jumped into the Ghaghra river when a medical team reached there to administer the vaccine. Those who stayed back in the village were equally sceptical about taking the shot. Rajiv Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate of Barabanki, said: “So far 14 villagers have taken the vaccine. We are trying to make them understand the necessity of vaccination and hope that they will come around soon.” “Those who had jumped in the river realised later that we were not forcing them to go for vaccination. We were only trying to tell them the benefits of the vaccine,” added Shukla. State health minister Jai Pratap Singh said: “There maybe some people who have been misinformed by some politically motivated persons. However, we believe that people are slowly realising that vaccine is the only way to control the effect of the virus. We are continuing the (vaccination) drive and hope to complete 100 per cent vaccination in the next two months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Village refuses Covid vaccine, power supply goes off||Over 100 families of Chhibramau village in Kannauj district are living in darkness for the last three days because they didn’t want to get vaccinated against Covid-19. “A team from the health department had visited our village on Wednesday morning. They wanted the entire village to be vaccinated. However, around 40 per cent of the villagers refused to take the vaccine because they believed that their immunity level would go down for a few days and they might fall sick,” a villager, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters on Friday. The medical team called the sub-divisional magistrate and informed him about the resistance. “The SDM arrived in the village and tried to convince us to get vaccinated. When we kept refusing, he suddenly got furious and called the electricity department officials. They disconnected the power supply in our houses on the order of the officer,” the villager added. “Even on Friday, some officers came and asked us to get inoculated, failing which they would take legal action against us. We know that they cannot take any legal action, but the way they are threatening us is alarming,” Mahendra Singh, another villager, said. Gajendra Kumar, additional district magistrate of Kannauj, said: “Many villagers haven’t paid their power bills. The electricity department repeatedly served them notices, but they ignored them. This was the reason the electricity supply was discontinued in those houses. The connection would be restored as soon as they clear their dues.” He denied this had anything to do with vaccine hesitancy. “However we will also try to persuade the villagers to take the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Reliance seeks nod to buy Johnson & Johnson’s jabs||The Reliance Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries, has sought the government’s authorisation to import 20 lakh doses of US-based Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine for captive consumption and to inoculate its workforce pan-India, sources said. “Reliance Foundation will import and receive the shipment of Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen Covid-19 vaccine from the USA with the purpose of captive consumption and to administer our entire workforce pan India. Import of this vaccine shall be administered within the organisation only and not at all for commercial purpose,” a source quoted the Reliance Foundation as having communicated to the health ministry. The Foundation may source additional quantities too, the company is learnt to have said. It may also explore the possibility of importing jabs from other vaccine producers for internal use only, the organisation has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Indian team returns as Dominica adjourns hearing on Choksi’s habeas corpus petition||India that had flown to Dominica to bring back Mehul Choksi, the diamantaire wanted in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank scam, is headed back home on a Qatar Airways private jet after the island nation’s high court adjourned the hearing on his habeas corpus petition, sources said. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. Publicly available flight data showed that the jet took off from Melville Hall airport in Dominica at 8.09pm (local time) on June 3 and was travelling towards Madrid, Spain. The multi-agency team of officials is on board, the sources said. The team led by CBI DIG Sharda Raut had been stationed in Dominica for nearly seven days to bring back Choksi, who is accused of defrauding the bank along with his diamantaire nephew Nirav Modi who is now in a London jail. On Thursday, Dominica High Court adjourned the hearing on Choksi’s habeas corpus petition. It is likely that the next hearing may take place after a month and the businessman will remain in Dominica, local media has reported. Judge Bernie Stephenson will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides, Antigua News Room said. The adjournment is to allow Choksi’s lawyers and the Dominica government “to agree on the language to be used with respect to the injunction filed to prevent his removal from Dominica”, the media outlet said. Thursday’s hearing was conducted through videoconferencing as a group of protesters stood outside the high court building in Roseau carrying placards with messages seeking to know the truth behind the controversy. “Who brought Choksi to Dominica?” read one of the placards, a photo of which was published by many media outlets. Choksi had gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen since he fled Delhi. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen who appeared to be Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. The judge had on Wednesday ordered Choksi’s production before a magistrate to face charges of illegal entry into Dominica. The 62-year-old wheelchair-bound diamantaire, who has a pending Interpol Red Notice against him, arrived at Roseau Magistrate Court in black shorts and a blue T-shirt from Dominica-China Friendship Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. His application for bail was rejected. Choksi and Nirav had fled India in the first week of January 2018, weeks before the PNB scam rocked the Indian banking industry. The duo had allegedly bribed officials of the government bank to get letters of undertaking (LoU) on the basis of which they availed themselves of loans from overseas banks that remained unpaid. Some bank officials allegedly did not enter these LoUs in the core banking software of PNB, thus evading scrutiny. The non-payment of the LoUs or bank guarantees worth Rs 13,500 crore resulted in default and became a liability on the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Delhi and Kerala: Two states, two contrasting battles with Covid||Covid-19 is a wake-up call for the government to reconsider its priorities and acknowledge that health care is the basic right of every citizen. I came to Kochi in Kerala on May 7 to attend a workshop on cinema and tested positive for the coronavirus four days later at Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital run by the state government. I was stunned and a cold fear gripped me. Many disturbing questions flashed across my mind. What will happen now? How will I manage the infection? What if my oxygen level falls, what if my condition deteriorates? Will I survive? What made me more anxious was what I had seen back home in Delhi, where I am a research student. The health infrastructure in the capital had collapsed under the weight of sharply increasing coronavirus infections. I did not have lakhs to spend on treatment, nor did I know anyone in Kerala who could arrange for oxygen or a hospital bed if the need arose. That was my biggest concern. I had spent four days at the workshop with 20-odd people and was scared to inform them, lest they got angry. Neither did I want to cause them any anxiety. I felt I would be responsible if anyone else caught the infection and landed in hospital or had to stay in quarantine. The doctor at the taluk hospital noticed that I was feeling uneasy and restless and asked me where I had put up. I told her I was staying at a hotel and was worried sick that I may have infected the others there. She calmed me down and assured me that I only had mild symptoms. She said I had nothing to worry and asked me to quarantine at the hotel. She told me to inform the persons with whom I had been in close proximity. She said I could either quarantine myself at the hotel or shift to the Covid ward of the government hospital where treatment would be free of cost. The organisers of the workshop suggested that I isolate myself at the hotel itself without thinking about the expenses. They also directed the hotel staff to give me food and medicines by maintaining physical distancing. The other workshop participants and staff were advised to quarantine for seven days. Right from Day 1, I began receiving calls from various departments of the Kerala government, enquiring about my health. They advised me to call up the emergency number if needed and told me not to leave my room. After seven days of quarantine, I tested negative but was advised to remain indoors. The entire process — from testing positive to returning to health — was so smooth and I did not have to spend a single rupee for my treatment. Meanwhile in Delhi the entire healthcare system had crumbled and the situation was even worse than when I had left. My family, friends and teachers advised me to stay on in Kerala to avoid complications. While in quarantine, bad news kept trickling in. On the third day of quarantine, my uncle passed away. The next day, Covid claimed a friend’s father. The tragedy had just about started to sink in when a friend in Delhi called me up to say that she had tested positive and was having difficulty breathing. We are a group of four friends and all of us were down with Covid. One was in Delhi, another in Patna and I in Kochi. We frantically worked the phone lines to try to arrange for a hospital bed for the friend who was having breathing problems. But no bed was available anywhere. We tried all possible means but failed. Then we tried to get her an oxygen cylinder at her home but these attempts also proved futile. Luckily, an old university friend who is a research scholar at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) helped us to get a hospital bed in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, 160km from Delhi. The next challenge was to arrange an ambulance with an oxygen cylinder. We got an ambulance around 4am. She set out for Aligarh, accompanied by our other Covid-positive friend in Delhi. He sat in the front seat, wearing a PPE kit. After she got admitted to the Aligarh hospital, the doctor said remdesivir would be needed. Thus began another battle. We got in touch with all sources but could not find the medicine anywhere. Finally, one of our friends could arrange two doses, which were administered urgently. My ailing friend’s father, 59 and vulnerable to the infection, arranged four more doses of remdesivir in Kashmir where he lives. He travelled to Aligarh, risking his own health. My friend survived and is stable now. We were not alone in our miseries. Thousands and thousands of others have been struggling everyday for hospital beds, oxygen, ambulance, remdesivir, and then if they are not as lucky, at crematoriums where too they have to wait in long queues for the last rites of their loved ones. To protect my sanity and mental health, I stopped watching news, kept off social media and decided to stay put in Kerala. I could avoid the horrific situation in Delhi, but my friends and family are suffering. Apart from the physical suffering, the mental suffering too is unfathomable. Worse, it is intangible. So now, instead of arranging for oxygen and remdesivir, which I cannot do alone from so far away, I am calling up my friends and family regularly and trying to spread some positive energy. In the coming months, Covid will take a heavy toll on our mental health also. This is my experience with Covid in two states. I am not returning home anytime soon. In Kerala, I will get proper medical care, or at least oxygen. Nehal Ahmed is a research scholar at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Kerala finance minister announces Rs 20,000cr package||Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal announced a Covid stimulus package of Rs 20,000 crore in the revised budget presented on Friday. This is the second stimulus package after his predecessor T.M. Thomas Isaac announced a similar amount to tide over the first wave of the pandemic in March 2020. An amount of Rs 2,800 crore from the package would be spent on handling the health emergency, Rs 8,900 crore for providing monetary relief to those who lost their livelihood due to the pandemic and Rs 8,300 crore for providing loans and interest subsidy to people to overcome the crisis. The finance minister noted that there was a sense of hope when daily cases reduced to 3,110 and deaths to 19 when Isaac presented his full budget in February. But the second wave led to a spike in daily cases to 43,000 and deaths at 213 before they began to come down. Balagopal said one of the main objectives of the government was to provide free vaccines to as many people as possible before a third wave. “Some central policy decisions are still creating some impediments. But vaccines will be made available by solving them by any means,” the finance minister said. He set aside Rs 1,000 crore for providing free vaccines to everyone above 18 years of age, and another Rs 500 crore for purchasing medical equipment needed to fulfil the mission. Balagopal also proposed to enhance pediatric facilities in view of the scientific community’s warning that the third wave could impact children. In the first phase, Rs 25 crore would be spent on adding beds in existing pediatric ICUs. New pediatric ICUs would be developed in district hospitals and medical college hospitals. The budget set aside Rs 10 crore for the Institute of Advanced Virology to begin research on vaccines and explore the possibility of setting up vaccine manufacturing units in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||'Reckless' abandonment of old values led to Kerala BJP’s electoral failures , say veterans||A “reckless” abandonment of old values in the quest for easy success and a disconnect with the grassroots, even its own cadres, lie behind the Kerala BJP’s electoral failures and the scandals engulfing it, some party functionaries feel. A leaked audiotape has triggered accusations that Kerala BJP president K. Surendran bribed a Left ally to join the NDA, and an April 3 car robbery has left the state unit fighting allegations of using money power to influence the April 6 Assembly elections. However, BJP insiders who spoke to The Telegraph suggested the rot didn’t begin with the under-fire Surendran but stemmed from “systemic flaws” that had developed over several years. “None of this recklessness happened because of one individual named Surendran. The main reason is the systemic flaws arising from years of ignoring the old school values established by our veteran leaders,” a senior state BJP functionary, who declined to be named, told this newspaper. “Had they followed the path of the past leaders whose approach was based on an adequate outreach to the people and a connect with party workers, no (current) leader would have dared taken any such controversial decisions.” He was alluding to the allegations, which Surendran has denied but which have prompted questioning and infighting within the party, causing a state-level BJP official to be sacked and a party worker to be stabbed in a factional clash. Another BJP source argued that merely changing the state leadership would not help. “If not Surendran, someone like him will take over the reins, and that will solve nothing unless the system changes.” Asked what the reason for the “disconnect” was, the first source said the current leaders were “immersed” in social media. “They are immersed in Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. They go by the massive following each of them enjoys on these platforms without realising that this doesn’t translate into votes or grassroots support,” he said. “Our leaders don’t answer or return calls from party workers and local functionaries. Party workers often call some of us seeking solutions to problems when the big leaders ignore them. We try to pacify them although there’s little we can do.” The source added: “Once we lose our relationship with the party workers, they lose the enthusiasm for grassroots work. It’s this disconnect with the workers that has led to this big defeat.” While the BJP lost the lone seat it had won in 2016, the NDA’s vote share shrank from 14.96 per cent to 12.4 per cent between the two state elections. The source attributed the top leaders’ failure to understand the pulse of the people to their lack of electoral experience. “Take Surendran, (national executive member) P.K. Krishnadas, (state organising general secretary) M. Ganeshan and the others close to them. None of them has even won an election to a cooperative bank,” he said. The second source said Krishnadas was planning moves to replace Surendran. “But I don’t think it would make any difference unless they imbibe some lessons from our veteran leaders who built the party in Kerala,” he said, alluding to leaders like P.P. Mukundan and C.K. Padmanabhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Covid mishandling  and Bengal poll debacle  shake BJP top brass||The drubbing in the Bengal elections and its impact on national politics where Narendra Modi’s aura of invincibility has been sullied, coupled with the possibility of a third Covid wave on the back of a fierce second, appears to have shaken the top leadership of the RSS-BJP. The brass has been holding hectic parleys to take stock and prepare for impending challenges. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and nine other top leaders of the BJP’s ideological fountainhead are in the midst of a three-day informal meeting in Delhi to discuss, among other things, the “post-poll violence in Bengal” and a third pandemic wave in the aftermath of a second that has exposed the shortcomings of the Modi government like never before. BJP chief J.P. Nadda is scheduled to chair a session on Saturday and Sunday with party general secretaries, again to size up the emerging situation with special focus on preparations for the next round of Assembly polls. BJP leaders feel the Bengal elections, where Mamata Banerjee single-handedly took on and trounced the entire might of the BJP led by Modi and Amit Shah, has shattered the perception of the BJP being unbeatable, and careful planning is needed on all fronts. Before these two meetings, RSS and BJP leaders had separately and jointly held unscheduled discussions, signalling the jitters in the ruling camp. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale first met BJP leaders in Delhi and then travelled to Lucknow, the headquarters of Uttar Pradesh where elections are due early next year, to get a feedback. Internally, party strategists feel the Bengal defeat, made worse by the extreme anger over the Centre’s mishandling of the second Covid wave, has severely dented the BJP’s image. Now if a third Covid wave sweeps the country, it could have a devastating impact on the party’s politics, apart from playing havoc with people’s lives and livelihood. Six states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat — go to the polls in 2022. Barring Punjab, the BJP rules all the other states. While Uttar Pradesh is the cynosure of the elections to be held in the first half of 2022, Gujarat, Modi and Shah’s home state, will attract attention in the latter half of the year. BJP strategists feel the outcomes of the state polls in 2022, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, will set the tone of the country’s politics. Although RSS leaders claimed that Bhagwat’s three-day meeting had nothing to do with politics, at the same time they conceded that post-poll violence was top on the agenda of the discussions. “The post-poll situation in Bengal is very disturbing. It needs the attention of the country,” an RSS leader said. “We also need to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid, taking lessons from what the country faced recently.” The RSS-BJP had hurled itself with full force into the Bengal elections, turning it into a high-stakes battle in a state the saffron camp considers significant to its ideology. The outcome has come as a big blow, BJP leaders acknowledged. The BJP’s desperation has become all the more evident given the way the central government and the party have been trying to assert themselves in Bengal, through the governor and the investigative agencies, despite the rejection by the people. The RSS, too, has in a statement urged the Centre to intervene and “take all necessary steps” to ensure the Mamata government acts against those engaged in post-poll violence. The BJP had alleged that its cadres and voters were being targeted by Trinamul, also trying to give it a communal spin in keeping with its campaign tactics that bit the dust. As top RSS leaders met, a junior Union minister and a BJP spokesperson on Thursday held a virtual interaction with party cadres in Kerala over the post-poll violence in Bengal, trying to widen its drive. The main reason behind the continued push in Bengal and the disruptive tactics, according to BJP insiders, was the fear of losing leaders, cadres and even voters in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. After the Bengal debacle, both the RSS and the BJP are worried about the Uttar Pradesh elections, fearing that the political fallout and the anger of the people over the government’s tackling of the pandemic could make the party vulnerable. “While the second coronavirus wave seems to be subsiding, we are worried about a third wave. Elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in February-March and if the third wave strikes just before that, we could be in trouble,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Child chokes to death after hospital ‘refusal’  at Muzaffarpur ||An eight-year-old Dalit girl lost her life at Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital in Bihar after the doctors there allegedly refused to attend her in the absence of a Covid-19 test report. The child — Radha Kumari — was choking after swallowing a litchi seed on Wednesday. Her father Sanjay Ram, of Raghunathpur Madhuban village under Kudhani block in Muzaffarpur district rushed her to the government hospital, but what happened was unimaginable for him. “She was choking after swallowing the litchi seed. I immediately took her to the local government hospital at Kudhani where the doctor referred her to Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital. I rushed to the emergency facility there, but the doctors refused to treat her and asked me to bring her corona test report,” Sanjay alleged. “All my entreaties to the doctors went in vain. They said they would not touch her till her corona test report comes. They made me run from one counter to another for more than an hour with my daughter on my shoulder. By the time I got the report, she was no more,” an inconsolably weeping Sanjay told reporters. Though Sanjay returned to his village, his allegations raised questions of ethics, duty and responsibility of doctors in such a situation during the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon S.K. Chaudhary termed the allegations serious and asserted that the primary duty for doctors posted at any hospital’s emergency was to save lives instead of focusing on various protocols. However, Chaudhary conducted a half-hearted enquiry, asserted that the child was already dead when she arrived at the hospital, and absolved the doctors of any negligence. “I called the two doctors posted in Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital’s emergency on that day and conducted an enquiry in my chamber to know the truth about the incident. That patient’s name was not registered at the registration counter of the hospital,” Chaudhary told The Telegraph on Friday. However, he did not check whether any Covid test was done in the name of Radha at the hospital. He also did not check the CCTV footage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata elevates nephew Abhishek with key Trinamul post||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee took a step towards anointing her political successor on Saturday by elevating her nephew, the Trinamul Congress’s youth wing chief and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek, as the party’s  only all India general secretary. “Didi is doing the groundwork for the 2024 general elections. With Abhishek’s elevation, he will play a much bigger role in the party now. Unlike others like Suvendu (Adhikary), Didi cannot just remove Abhishek in a day. After all he is her own nephew whom she has groomed,” said a Trinamul leader after a 30-minute meeting at Trinamul Bhavan on Saturday. “Abhishek’s elevation removes any doubt about who is going to be her political successor,” he added. From his days as “Balak Abhishek” when he was brought into the party fold to contest his first election in 2014 from Diamond Harbour, the last seven years have turned out well for the young satrap, the latest in India’s long tryst with politics of dynasties. Saturday’s elevation indicates the growing importance of Abhishek in the party. Though Mamata has never hidden her aversion to dynasty politics—the reason she went public on not giving tickets to people born with a golden spoon—her actions have been contrary to her claims. At the annual July 21 rally of 2011, barely two months since she became chief minister, Mamata had floated the Trinamul Yuva to accommodate Abhishek. Like then, as well as in 2014, her decision had raised eyebrows, given that she has often claimed she does not have a “family”. The Trinamul Yuva, now disbanded, was floated to give Abhishek a platform without disturbing the party’s organisation. Son of Mamata’s brother Amit, Abhishek has an MBA degree and his first foray into politics was campaigning for the Trinamul nominees in the 2011 Assembly polls and working behind the scenes with select members from the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad and the party’s cyber team. Mamata had told a public gathering at Diamond Harbour that at the age of two, Abhishek had promised to avenge the vicious attack on her, referring to the assault by CPM goons in 1990. “He was barely two years old when CPM goons hit me on the head. O amake ese bolechhilo, ‘pisi, boro hoye ami badla nebo’ (He came and told, me, ‘aunty, I will avenge this when I grow up),” Mamata had said on May 4, 2014. The “revenge” was in the form of his victory in Diamond Harbour twice and bringing one of CPI(M)’s youngest leaders, Ritabrata Banerjee, to the Trinamul fold. Along with Abhishek, the CPI(M) turncoat -- he used to head the party’s SC/ST cell -- was on Saturday made in charge of the Trinamul’s trade union front. In the last five years, since Mukul Roy fell out of favour and quit Trinamul, Abhishek inducted several leaders of his choice from other parties, like, for instance, former Congress veteran Manas Bhunia. "He does not trust most of the leaders who are close to Mamata di. On his insistence Sonali Guha was dropped from the candidates’ list this time," said a Trinamul leader. Abhishek was also instrumental in recruiting Prashant Kishore which has paid rich dividends for the party and Mamata’s becoming chief minister for the third time. Suvendu factor Abhishek’s entry to the Trinamul had sparked a feud with another rising leader, also regarded as the satrap of another dynasty though far from the seat of power in Calcutta. That man was Suvendu Adhikary. Setting up the Trinamul Yuva had pitched a young Abhishek directly with the Adhikary family scion, whose biggest political victory has come in the form of his victory against Mamata in Nandigram. Abhishek’s journey in politics has almost mirrored that of his celebrated aunt. Like Mamata, Abhishek too has borne the brunt of public assault though not as violent as what his aunt had to face. On January 5, 2015, while addressing a rally in East Midnapore’s Chandipur, Abhishek was slapped. The incident happened soon after Mamata had given him charge of the party’s youth wing as well. On Saturday, after Abhishek’s elevation as all India general secretary, Bengali actress Sayani Ghosh, who contested unsuccessfully from the Asansol South seat, was made the party’s youth wing president. ‘One man one post’ On Saturday, Mamata spoke of the Trinamul adhering to the “one man, one post” rule, a lesson she seems to have imbibed from the Adhikary episode. After Suvendu joined the BJP, his father Sisir, though still a Trinamul MP, campaigned for the BJP in the Assembly elections. During the campaign, Mamata had repeatedly spoken about how much she “gave” to the Adhikaries referring to the numerous posts the Adhikary clan held in East Midnapore district. Mukul Roy had held the post of all-India general secretary till he fell out with Mamata and quit the party in 2017 to join the BJP. Mukul’s importance in Trinamul’s scheme of things, and gradually in Bengal politics, was largely because of his position in the organisation, the Number Two in the hierarchy. “Mamata di made it clear that she was in favour of one leader, one post. (Subrata) Bakshi da held the two posts for four years now,” said the Trinamul leader referring to his holding the post of state party chief and also all India general-secretary. More changes likely Another key appointment was former state labour minister Purnendu Basu being named as head of the farmers’ wing of the party. Mamata also held a separate meeting with MPs and senior leaders of the party. Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said major changes will also be made within a month in district units. A senior Trinamul leader said while the final call will be taken by Mamata, the stamp of Abhishek will be there in these changes. At the second meeting, Mamata is understood to have told all her ministers not to use the beacon. She also warned party leaders against getting embroiled in any corrupt activities like illegal coal and sand mining and unfair relief distribution, all of which the Trinamul has been accused of in the last 10 years in Bengal. The Trinamul’s core committee comprising Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Bakshi, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Chandrima Bhattacharya and Gautam Deb has been asked to keep “watch” on the activities of the party leaders and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee becomes new general secretary of Trinamul Congress||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday elevated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the party's all-India general secretary, a senior leader in Calcutta said. Addressing a press meet, TMC leader Partha Chatterjee also said that the working committee has decided that one person will be allowed to hold just one post in the party, and the core committee has duly given its approval. "Our party chief Mamata Banerjee has nominated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the all-India general secretary of the TMC," Chatterjee said, following two crucial meetings earlier in the day. Abhishek, nephew of the party supremo, will be replacing Subrata Bakshi as the national general secretary, while actor-turned-TMC leader Sayoni Ghosh has been made the youth wing president - a post earlier held by the MP. The party also appointed its MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar as the president of its women’s wing. It retained Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O'Brien as the parliamentary leaders. Chatterjee further stated that no discussion was held on turncoats, who had quit the TMC to join the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, and were now willing to return to the party fold. Chatterjee also informed that Trinamul is planning to expand its wing outside Bengal -- a move that may influence the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat next year, as well as Lok Sabha elections scheduled for 2024. Saturday’s meeting was the first major organisational meeting of the Trinamul Congress since the Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Four Trinamul leaders appear in CBI court||Four leaders — two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul Congress MLA and a former mayor — arrested in the Narada case on May 17 and later granted interim bail by Calcutta High Court presented themselves before the CBI court in Calcutta on Friday to honour the lower court’s order. The magistrate handling the case fixed June 18 for the next hearing. Panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, transport minister Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee had been arrested by the CBI on May 17 for their alleged involvement in the Narada case. Soon after the arrest, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a few of her cabinet colleagues reached the CBI office at Nizam Palace here. Trinamul supporters blocked the road outside the CBI office to demand the release of the leaders. On the same day, the four were virtually produced in the CBI court which granted them bail. The magistrate also asked them to be present before the court on June 4. On May 17 evening, the CBI moved Calcutta High Court and informed it about the presence of the chief minister and her “associates” at the CBI office and the Trinamul supporters outside the building. During the hearing of the case, the CBI asked the high court to stay the lower court’s order granting bail to the four leaders. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the lower court’s bail and sent the four to jail. Following a split verdict of the division bench on May 19, the four leaders were placed under house arrest and a larger five-judge bench was formed to hear the case. The five-judge bench granted the leaders interim bail with certain riders on May 28. As the bench is yet to give its order on the CBI petition seeking shifting of the trial from the lower court to the high court, the case in the CBI court still prevails. “To obey the May 17 order, the leaders attended the court today (Friday),” lawyer representing Madan Mitra said. On Friday, the five-judge bench of Justice Bindal, Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Arijit Banerjee heard the case for the fifth consecutive day. CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta, whose submission ended on Friday, tried to convince the larger bench that the presence of the chief minister in the CBI office, that of her associates in the CBI court and the blockade on the road outside Nizam Palace by Trinamul supporters might have had influenced the trial court to award bail to the leaders. The counsel prayed to the high court to take over the trial of the case. Appearing for the two ministers, advocate Abhishekh Manu Singhvi told the court on Friday that Mehta had failed to prove that the incidents had influenced the trial court. Subrata Mukherjee’s counsel Kalyan Banerjee countered the CBI’s claim that he had threatened a CBI counsel. Banerjee in an affidavit claimed that during his presence at the CBI office on May 17, the DIG CBI had shown him a text message that said that he was acting under pressure from someone. Banerjee, however, said he did not see who had sent the message to the DIG. Banerjee also sought to refute the CBI’s claim that law minister Malay Ghatak was present in the CBI court. The hearing will resume on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj TMC councillor assaulted for protesting against illegal liquor sale ||A Trinamul Congress councillor at Raiganj municipality was allegedly assaulted by a BJP leader and his associates on Thursday evening for protesting against illegal sale of liquor. Abhijit Saha, the Trinamul councillor of ward 27, filed a police complaint against BJP leader Biswajit Ghosh. North Dinajpur district BJP leaders have denied the charge. Sources said a group of people led by Ghosh had been illegally selling liquor at Debinagar in Saha’s ward. “Youths from other areas would swarm Debinagar to drink alcohol. There would be brawls among drunkards daily. Yesterday evening, I went there and asked Ghosh and others to stop the liquor sale. He took out a firearm and hit me on the head with its butt. His sidekicks roughed me up and snatched my gold chain,” said Saha. Saha called up Prasenjit Sarkar, the Trinamul councillor of the neighbouring ward, for help. Sarkar rushed in with Trinamul supporters, prompting the BJP leader and the associates to escape from the spot. “A police complaint has been filed. All of them should be arrested. We will never allow such practices at any locality of the town,” said Sarkar. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur district president of the BJP, said: “As Trinamul lost the Raiganj Assembly seat, the party has become vindictive and started implicating our leaders and workers in false cases. The BJP has nothing to do with the liquor sale and the attack on the councillor.” Based on Saha’s complaint, Raiganj police registered a case. “No arrests have been made so far. Our officers are collecting details,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Fire breaks out in air-conditioned coach of Kanchankanya Express near Bagdogra station||A minor blaze broke out in one of the air-conditioned coaches of the Alipurduar-bound Kanchankanya Express near Bagdogra station while it was heading towards Siliguri on Friday morning. According to railway sources, a section of passengers could smell something was burning under the coach and also smoke was emanating from it. “The train was at that time crossing the Atal tea estate, near Bagdogra. The loco pilot and the guard immediately stopped the train. The next stop of the train was Siliguri Junction, 18km away,” said a source. The loco pilot and the guard examined the coach and after some time, the train was taken to Bagdogra railway station. Meanwhile, the GRP and RPF personnel, along with railway officials and fire engines from Matigara, rushed to the Bagdogra station. They thoroughly inspected the coach and around 11am, the train left for Siliguri Junction, almost an hour after its scheduled time. “During preliminary examination, it was found that the brake-binder of the wheels (which is made of rubber), somehow got heated. There was no major blaze and the train reached its destination — Alipurduar Junction — safely,” said S Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR. Miscreants nabbed Police arrested five miscreants from Englishbazar in Malda. Acting on a tip off, a team of Englishbazar police station in Malda conducted a raid in a locality that is close to the government polytechnic located on Malda-Manikchak state highway on Thursday night and arrested five miscreants. The gang, police sources said, had assembled to commit a robbery in the locality. A number of sharp and blunt weapons have been recovered from them. All the five are residents of different localities of Malda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur: Three persons killed in highway crash ||Three persons died and two suffered serious injuries after a vehicle ferrying them went off the road and rammed into a tree on NH31 in North Dinajpur on Thursday night. Police said the victims were travelling from Suryapur of Dalkhola to Islampur. The driver lost control of the vehicle and the accident took place in  the Ghordhappa area. “The impact of the crash was so intense that the vehicle had virtually turned into a mangled junk of metal. It took us time to take out all the five passengers who were rushed to the sub-divisional hospital in Islampur. Doctors pronounced three of them dead on arrival. The injured are under treatment,” said a police officer. The deceased are Mohammad Mohzam, 30, who hailed from Katihar in Bihar, Kaushar Alam, 25, and Vikram, 26, both residents of Dalkhola.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Central team to visit cyclone-hit areas in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore ||A seven-member inter-ministerial team from Delhi would visit areas hit by Cyclone Yaas in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore and make on-spot assessment of the damage. The team headed by S. K. Shahi, joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, is scheduled to reach Bengal on Sunday. It would visit some of the affected areas and hold meetings with officials in the two districts and Calcutta for three days. The visit of the central team holds significance in the backdrop of a tussle between the Union government and the state following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s non-attendance at a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda last week to review the post-cyclone relief operations. The state government has, however, made elaborate arrangements to ensure that the central team gets a true picture of the damage. “We have told the district concerned that all arrangements should be made to ensure that the team members can visit the areas devastated by Yaas and talk to affected people,” said a senior government official. Announcing the team members as state guests, the disaster management department asked all officials concerned to ensure that they got due “courtesies and facilities”. “It is therefore requested that due courtesies and facilities may kindly be extended to the VIP and party during their visit to this state,” reads an order issued by the disaster management department on Friday. Sources said such a clear directive was not usually spelt out in government orders after declaring the team members as state guests. “Everybody in the government knows what should be extended to the state guests. But mentioning in the order clearly gives a hint that the state wants to avoid any kind of confrontation with the Centre,” said an official. Although a section of officials said sending a team to the state didn’t mean that the Centre was ready to announce a handsome amount for Bengal to help in restoration work in the post-cyclone period. “Central teams had visited the state after Fani and Amphan. But the support the Centre extended after Amphan was too meagre. So, we will do our job by letting the team know about facts. But at the same time, we don’t expect anything,” said an official. The sources also said it had become imperative for the Centre to send a team to Bengal after the Prime Minister had visited the state following the cyclone. “So, we don’t read too much into the visit of the central team... We would wait to see if the Union government wants to help the state by allotting some funds which we would require to rebuild damaged embankments,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||More than 10% of Darjeeling tea gardens seek buyers, but in vain||More than 10 per cent of the tea estates in the Darjeeling hills are up for sale but insiders say there are no buyers, offering a grim situation report on what was once known as the pearl of the tea industry in India. “Annual production has come down from 8.5 million kg of made tea to 6.5 million kg of made tea for 2020-21, imports are down from 4.2 to 3.1 million kg and no importer is increasing the price because they, too, are under stress,” said a planter. He was citing one of the key reasons — lower production — for the plight of those growing Darjeeling Tea, a globally recognised brand. “More than 10 per cent of the tea gardens are up for sale but there are no takers,” the planter added, echoing the assessment of several industry figures in Darjeeling. Multiple tea industry insiders referred to a combination of factors like absenteeism, political instability in the hills, the weather pattern, management style and the poor health of the economy as the reasons for the state of affairs in the Darjeeling Tea industry. Only 87 tea gardens can sell their produce as “Darjeeling Tea” because of the Geographic Indicator status they received in 2003. Other gardens cannot sell their tea as “Darjeeling Tea”. “Despite these protections, the industry is in the red and that’s the biggest worry,” said a source. The annual turnover of the industry in the hills is estimated to be around Rs 400-500 crore. The 87 gardens altogether employ 55,000 permanent workers along with 15,000 temporary workers. It is estimated that 3 lakh people in the hills directly or indirectly derive sustenance from the industry. The 170-year-old industry traces its history to Dr A. Campbell, a civil surgeon who became the superintendent of Darjeeling and experimented by growing tea seeds at Beechwood in Darjeeling. However, the gardens are now looking for buyers. “Why would people want to sell tea gardens? Definitely something is wrong,” said a source. The telltale signs had emerged sometime ago. In the past two years, two gardens changed hands but the owners of several others were desperately scouting for buyers. Many planters said the crisis had deepened after the fight between “Didi and Daju”, an allusion to the standoff between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung that culminated in a 104-day general strike in the hills in 2017. Apart from political instability, other factors have come into play, planters said. “This year, the industry has lagged in first-flush production by more than 40 per cent because of the drought-like conditions that prevailed in the region,” an industry official said. Of the four flushes — first, second, monsoon and autumn flush — the first accounts for 20 per cent of the annual production and fetches the highest price. Most of it is exported. The second flush, too, accounts for 20 per cent, while the monsoon flush yields 50 per cent and the autumn flush 10 per cent. “On an average, the first flush leaves get sold for around Rs 1,800 a kg, while the broken leaves go for Rs 500 to Rs 600,” said a planter. The owners are not complaining much about the price of the produce. Their main concern is the fall in production by 40 per cent, which has reduced the top line. The lower production has a direct link with poor labour supply. “We have also been hit by absenteeism, which is as high as 40 per cent in Darjeeling, compared to 15 to 20 per cent in Assam,” an industry insider said, referring to a lack of interest among the labour force to work in the industry. Poor labour supply has been one of the biggest problems. The unions blame low wages and point to a general trend of aspirations driving youths towards the hospitality industry and other less labour-intensive and more rewarding avenues. Many planters said Darjeeling’s tea gardens used to complete around 26 rounds of plucking in a year. “Now this has come down to 16-18 rounds on an average,” a planter said. He said a particular tea garden had increased its green leaf quantity by 15,000kg last year after employing 80 workers from a closed tea estate nearby. “The engagement of 80 workers ensured six more plucking rounds for the garden,” he said. Against this backdrop, several planters feel that only major groups with diversified interests might be able to make the industry thrive again. “There is a group in the industry whose share from the Darjeeling industry is only 2 per cent of their overall business. Such groups will survive,” said an old planter. Tea planters have come up with other suggestions. “The government must fix a minimum selling price for the industry. The industry is under the commerce department but it should be brought under the agriculture department so that the industry can avail agriculture sops,” said a planter. “Marketing of Darjeeling tea in the domestic market is important as exports are coming down. Also, the Centre should be vocal for local products and strictly stop the inflow of Nepal tea, which is eating into Darjeeling tea’s domestic sale,” said another planter. “The time has come for the governments, both at the Centre and in the state, the tea management and the unions to sit down and have an honest discussion to revive the industry,” said a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Digha trader loses home and livelihood ||Cyclone Yaas has dealt a double blow to Madhab Jana, 35, a resident of Gobindabasan village in East Midnapore’s Digha. The cyclone, which hit the state on May 26, has thrown him out of his home and destroyed his source of livelihood. While he remains homeless for almost 10 days since the cyclone, his shop situated on the Old Digha beach, which he acquired on lease from the local administration a few years back, has been damaged by floodwater. “We are currently living at a relative’s house. Hopefully in a few days, we can get back to our home and make it habitable after a few repairs. But what about my stall?” Madhab wondered. “I used to run a shack previously. Three years ago, I took this stall on lease from the Digha Shankarpur Development Authority and it cost me Rs1.36 lakh. I also paid a monthly rent of Rs 100 to the authority. Now, the stall, along with the products kept inside, has been completely damaged,” a teary-eyed Madhab added. A large number of the 2,000 odd stalls situated along the Digha coast have either been fully or partially damaged in the cyclone. These stalls — a major tourist attraction and an important source of livelihood for local people — mostly sold fancy seashells and similar products used for household decorations. Many of these stalls are owned by the likes of Madhab, who reside within a few kilometres from the coast. Gobindabasan, Madhab’s village, is less than a kilometre away from the sea. Water has gusted into these villages during the cyclone and many of these areas are still flooded. “The loss we have incurred is around Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Sumita, 30, Madhab’s wife. “Moreover, everything in my house, including television, refrigerator and furniture has been destroyed,” she added. The likes of Madhab and Sumita are staring at a bleak future. Their lives depended on the sea-side stalls. These businesses were slowly but efficiently recovering from the losses they had suffered during the pandemic induced lockdown last year. But the cyclone has come as a double blow for them washing away their shops and houses alike. A widowed sea shell product seller and Madhab’s neighbour Kanan Majhi, 50, didn’t even have a proper stall since she couldn’t afford the money. She would sit on the road near the beach with her products every day. Her goods worth Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 were packed inside her house and all of those has been destroyed by floodwater. In spite of all their sufferings, government help or relief has not reached these villages. While some NGOs have come with food, tarpaulin and other relief materials, the local administration was nowhere to be seen, Madhab complained. “NGOs and some individuals have helped us but that isn’t enough. We have lost our livelihoods. If the government doesn’t stand up to the situation there can be no relief for us,” Kanan said. However, Bishnupada Roy, the BDO of Ramnagar 1 block, said: “We are providing relief and tarpaulin to everybody. But the losses have been great and if someone has been left out we will look into it.” Ashutosh Samanta, the secretary of Digha Stall Owner’s Association, admitted that most of the stalls and the goods inside them had been damaged and washed away. The association has requested the DSDA to repair the stalls and take care of the losses. “These permanent stalls were built after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011 and has been a lot of help for us. We hope the government will take care of the damaged stalls too,” Samanta said. State fisheries minister and local MLA Akhil Giri said the issue had been brought to the notice of chief minister. The issue of helping the stall owners was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers gherao Dilip Ghosh for removal of district president and state secretary||Around a dozen BJP workers surrounded state party president Dilip Ghosh at the district office in Hooghly’s Chinsurah on Friday, demanding the removal of district president Goutam Chatterjee and Dipanjan Guha, a state secretary who unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly polls from Chandernagore. Angry BJP workers alleged that promoting leaders who were hand-in-glove with the Trinamul at the cost of old-timers had led to the party’s debacle. Demanding the removal of the leaders, the workers asked Ghosh to form a new district committee. “The district president and the state secretary are responsible for the defeat. They were hand in gloves with Trinamul and had fielded candidates without any background. So, today we had come to the party office to demand removal of the district president,” said an agitating BJP worker. Chatterjee took over as district president in 2020 by removing Subir Nag, a move that had angered BJP old-timers. The district had faced a series of protests over selection of candidates and a central leader was gheraoed in Singur after the party decided to field Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharjee as the BJP nominee from Singur. Ghosh had arrived for a meeting at the district party office in Chinsurah on Friday afternoon. The BJP workers surrounded Ghosh when he was leaving the office after the meeting. “You have come here to lodge a complaint with me but you never came to my office to inform me about this. The party has a decorum and come to my office to tell me about your allegations,” Ghosh told angry party workers. BJP district president Chatterjee later told reporters that Ghosh had asked him to suspend all those who had demonstrated on Friday. Mukul wife BJP MLA Mukul Roy on Friday said no one from the BJP state committee had enquired about the health of his wife Krishna Roy even while Trinamul MP and de-facto number two in the party Abhishek Banerjee visited the hospital and then Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him up. “I did not know when he (Dilip Ghosh) came to see her...No one from the state committee had taken any update in this regard,” Roy said. Ghosh, however, said it was not possible to call on Covid patients and that was the reason for not going to meet Mukul's wife. He added that for the same reason no one had visited him when he had contracted the disease last year. “However, when I heard that she was seriously ill and on life support I went to the hospital. I got worried when I heard that Abhishek had gone to see her. One should be thankful that he came to see her,” said Ghosh. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to hold first major Trinamul Congress meeting since Assembly elections||Mamata Banerjee will on Saturday chair the first major organisational meeting of the Trinamul Congress since the Assembly elections, where she is likely to announce some decisions to ensure better performance of the party, especially in areas where it still remains weak. Besides Mamata and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, the top tier of the leadership, including the likes of Subrata Bakshi, Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, besides poll consultant Prashant Kishor, would be present at the meeting at Trinamul Bhavan. “All of this remains in the realm of speculation, as she is unpredictable, with a bit of a reputation for last-minute surprises and U-turns. But some of these things are very likely to take place tomorrow… things such as Abhishek being given more importance, formally, in the parent party, a “one person, one post” policy being adopted,” said a minister, on the condition of anonymity. “There will be attention to rewarding performers and sidelining of those who could not deliver even amid such a historic mandate in our favour. Changes in order to minimise conflict within are likely to be prioritised,” he said, adding that districts where Trinamul did not do well — such as Darjeeling, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Bankura and Purulia — are likely to see drastic changes in the party organisation. A Trinamul vice-president said Kishor and his team, having contributed substantially to the turnaround since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, are also back after a month’s leave. “PK and his team are now likely to focus, over the next three years, on charting a path for her in national politics...  This is the most opportune moment, in her entire political career, for that, given the national scene. It is also a very convenient time for the party,” said the vice-president. “Of course, Team PK will not focus on Delhi at the cost of the state. It will be in tandem, all in a deft balance…. Complacence or letting our guard down now could leave the door ajar for the BJP to make quick inroads here, once again,” he added. Also attending the meeting, virtually or otherwise, would be the party’s MPs, MLAs, and key representatives from 120-odd civic bodies of the state. Civic polls in Bengal, deferred because of the pandemic since last year, have to be conducted at some stage, when the Covid-19 situation improves. “There will be some instructions for the civic bosses, as the civic polls – where we no longer fear major losses – will be held in a matter of months, depending on the pandemic situation,” said a south Bengal MLA associated with a civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bid to build up bases at north municipal towns||The Trinamul Congress has decided to cement its support base at municipal towns in north Bengal as the party lost to the BJP at the urban centres in the recent Assembly elections. “Civic elections are ahead and we need to work in urban areas to develop our support base. We could win 23 (of 54) seats in north Bengal and simultaneously, lost most urban Assembly segments, including the district headquarters barring Jalpaiguri,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri. In north Bengal, the BJP won 30 Assembly seats, including Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Siliguri, Darjeeling, Englishbazar, Balurghat and Raiganj. Ever since the poll results were announced, Trinamul has taken up various activities. They include distribution of food grains to the poor, providing of support to Covid-19 patients and their families who are in isolation at homes and engagement of frontal organisations for pandemic awareness programmes. In north Bengal, elections are due at around 20 civic bodies, which include the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and the Darjeeling municipality where Trinamul or the BJP has never been voted to power. Like other parts of the state, the support base of both the Left and the Congress was obliterated in north Bengal in the Assembly elections. “Trinamul and the BJP are aware of this swing. When it comes to towns, the BJP is keen to retain the votes, while Trinamul is desperate to build up its support,” an observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs less than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for first time since April 17||Bengal on Friday logged less than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time since April 17 with increasing hints that current restrictions to curb the disease’s spread were effective in achieving a turnaround from the peak of the deadly second wave. The state recorded 16,557 recoveries, over twice the 7,913 infections, and 113 deaths on Friday. Total active Covid cases, which were at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, are 53,023 now, having improved by 60 per cent in the intervening 14 days. Compared to the previous day, the number of active cases on Friday dropped by 8,757. “There should be no doubt anymore about how necessary and effective the restrictions were,” said a Bengal minister. “We are days away from getting to the goal of less than 5,000 infections being detected daily. After that would be the goal of less than 1,000 daily,” he added. Bengal now has 2.85 per cent of the total active patients at the national level and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. Till now, Bengal has recorded a total of around 14.11 lakh cases, which include 13.42 lakh recoveries and 16,034 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 34th consecutive day, riding the consistently large number of patients getting cured. The rate rose by nearly 11 percentage points to 95.11 per cent on Friday. The national rate now is 93.23. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.11 on Friday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.19. Of the 113 deaths reported on Friday, 23 were from Calcutta and 25 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 899 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,686. The total of active cases, of the two districts taken together, improved from over 53,000 to more than 17,000 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Garment merchant hangs self after killing wife and son in Sodepur||A garment merchant has apparently hanged himself after allegedly killing his wife and son at a rented accommodation in North 24-Parganas’s Sodepur. Khardah police seized the trio’s decomposed bodies on Friday afternoon after neighbours complained of stench from the house at Basakbagan in Sodepur. The police said Samir Kumar Guha, 58, was hanging from a ceiling fan, while his wife Jhuma, 51, and son Babai, 22, were found lifeless on bed. “Crippling debt and poor business because of the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19-induced lockdown appear to be the reasons for the drastic step,” said an investigating officer of Khardah police. The police found a suicide note written on June 2 by Samir and addressed to one of his friends. The note described the trader’s financial crisis and advised the friend to pay his dues by selling his properties. Samir also wrote down details of his creditors against the outstanding amounts. Deputy commissioner of police, Barrackpore commissionerate (central zone), Aashish Maurya, said: “Prima facie, it appears the man probably poisoned his wife and the son to death and then killed himself. It could not be immediately ascertained whether the woman and the son were beaten up before death since the bodies were decomposed. We have sent the bodies for autopsy and the cause of the death can be ascertained only after that.” Neighbours said Guha used to supply garments to local retailers and had settled in the area four years ago. “His business suffered a serious setback during March last year when the Centre announced a lockdown,” said Tarun Das, a friend of Samir. “Samir had been in a deep financial crisis since last year. We tried our best to support him, but he went into depression because of pressure from his creditors and wholesalers to whom he owed money.” Neighbours and relatives claimed that the couple and their son had not been seen in the past two days. They suspected something was amiss when stench started emanating from their rented home, prompting them to call the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||North East||Senior NHIDCL officer held by Nagaland police on bribe charges ||Nagaland police have arrested a senior NHIDCL official on charges of demanding bribe from contractors operating under him. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) GM B.D. Jangade was arrested on Wednesday by Mokokchung police and produced him in court on Thursday. He has been remanded to three days in police custody. He was arrested on complaints lodged by NHIDCL’s Delhi office and its Kohima office after a video of the official purportedly demanding “one per cent cut money” went viral last week. “The NHIDCL might have taken suo motu cognisance of the video and lodged the complaint on which we have acted,” police said. Wads of cash were seen lying on table in the room where this purported discussion took place. The NHIDCL, the fully owned company of the ministry of road transport & highways builds/upgrade, operates and maintains national highways and strategic roads. Seven districts are under the Mokokchung division of which Jangade was the GM, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
05-06-2021||North East||Covid: Annual Ambubachi Mela at Kamakhya Temple cancelled||The annual Ambubachi Mela, one of eastern India’s leading religious congregations held at Kamakhya Temple atop Nilachal Hills here, has been cancelled because of “threats posed by the Covid-19 pandemic” for the second year running. The mela is held from June 22 every year but the temple will remain closed till June 30, head of the Maa Kamakhya Devalaya Parichalana Committee Mohit Chandra Sarma told The Telegraph. The committee decided against holding the four-day mela on Thursday evening even though Covid-19 cases are showing a declining trend in the state. “Cases are falling but we don’t want to take any chance. We are closed till June 30. It was a tough decision because priests and businesses associated with the temple depend on devotees/visitors. Large gathering could trigger another wave. That is why we decided against the mela in everyone’s interest, because of threats posed by Covid-19. Only the rituals will be held during Ambubachi mahayog from June 22,” Sarma said. Over 20 lakh visitors/tourists had attended the 2018 mela and about 25 lakh in 2019 from within India and outside but most from Bengal and Bihar. The place hold special significance for Hindus because Kamakhya Temple is one of the 51 shaktipeeths in the country. The temple remains closed during the four-day period because the goddess is believed to undergo her menstrual cycle. There is a huge rush of devotees, sadhus, tantriks and tourists once the doors open. Sarma said the temple will be closed till June 30. “Future course of action will depend on the situation. Since there will be no mela, entry of devotees including sadhu and sanyasis is totally prohibited. There will also be no food and lodging facilities at Kamakhya,” he said to dissuade the devotees from thronging the temple. Assam’s total case load was 50,534 till Thursday, the surge starting in April, attributed mainly to the huge gathering during the Assembly polls. The day saw detection of 4,309 cases and 49 deaths, both falling but it is too early to lower one’s guard, health department officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
05-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Power is knowledge||The love of wisdom shows itself in many guises, depending on what the words ‘love’ and ‘wisdom’ mean at different times to different people. Wisdom to some is idiocy to others, and love, again, may look like hate. The Greek name for the love of wisdom was ‘philosophy’, a term much tortured in recent times. But even then, students generally associated university courses in philosophy with the study of inaugural thinkers and modes of thinking that attempt to understand human existence. Or they did so. Now the received notion of philosophy is being revolutionized. The Chaudhary Charan Singh University of Meerut has introduced in the undergraduate philosophy course two books by Ramdev and Yogi Adityanath respectively, reportedly at the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation. There was a committee to determine the curriculum, but since the UP government is Mr Adityanath or, officially speaking, Mr Adityanath is the chief minister of UP, the recommendation of his book is more an order to celebrate his stature as teacher and philosopher. The teachings of Socrates and Plato should fade away beside the philosophy of a saffron-clad politician and a saffron-clad businessman since, as the university’s dean of arts said, this was the need of the times. Is the need of the times political or intellectual? The times are intriguing enough, with political force manifesting itself as love of wisdom. The wisdom being touted is that of ancient India, but of a special kind. There is no serious discussion of ancient Indian systems and subjects of knowledge in the regime led by Narendra Modi; the focus is on thrilling attributions to the past in order to prove India’s superiority and inspire a Bharatiya Janata Party brand of nationalism. Thus Ganesha’s head is proof of plastic surgery, Gandhari’s children come from stem cell and test-tube birth technology, Vishnu’s chakra is a guided missile and so on. Besides inspiring a contrived patriotism, such myth-making devalues serious scholarship and aims to stifle critical thinking. A revealing example of efforts to destroy learning based on reason and a scientific approach is the inclusion of a book by a businessman and yoga teacher in a university syllabus just after he proclaimed allopathy to be a ‘stupid science’. The sequence of events is dangerous, especially in the context of the countrywide protests by doctors against Mr Ramdev’s comments in the midst of the pandemic. The ayurvedic company he endorses was selling a product claimed to be the first proven cure for Covid. Students will be learning from his book how yoga cures illnesses, and about hatha yoga practice from the chief minister’s book. Yoga as one of the six systems of ancient philosophy demands serious study. A philosophy course would be enriched by it; its utility in everyday life is a different discipline altogether, even if presented knowledgeably. But the new philosophers of New India are just patriotic; the credibility of Indian education is not their concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||Help out: Kamala Harris calls Modi with vaccine aid||Sir — It is a relief that the vice-president of the United States of America, Kamala Harris, called the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, to tell him that the US would share some of its Covid-19 vaccine stock with India. Given that the Indian government has made a royal mess of the vaccination drive in the country, it is high time we received some help from outside for the health and safety of the vast swathes of the population who are yet to receive even their first doses. The occasion, however, calls for reflection upon the fact that the Indian government, which loves to boast about its achievement, cannot even vaccinate the people of the country on its own. Ananya Bose,Calcutta Silent treatment Sir — In a shocking move, through an amendment to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, the Central government barred all retired officials in intelligence and security-related organizations from publishing any material “which falls within the domain of the organization” before clearing it with the current head of the organization concerned (“Pension ‘gag’ on security officials”, June 3). The move perilously overextends the scope of service and pension rules, deals a blow to retired officials’ fundamental right to free speech and potentially weakens democratic discourse in India, as those who have the most experience on sensitive subjects are effectively barred from commenting on it, except with the government’s approval. It also reinforces the impression that the regime is not comfortable with dissent and criticism, even when it comes from those who have served the Indian State with great distinction and patriotism. Retired officials of security organizations must, of course, exercise the utmost responsibility given that they have had access to “sensitive information” that may imperil the “sovereignty and integrity of India”. But the revised rules widen the scope of restrictions and will create a sense of fear among them. Given India’s generally opaque security set-up, the refusal to declassify files, rules of secrecy and stringent norms of access, retired officials are a key source of information and insight. After years of being in a regimented bureaucracy, they can finally share this expertise with other citizens. At a time when dissenting voices within the system find it hard to take positions, a distinctive view from outside would only help the State evolve a more considered policy approach. These officials have spent their entire professional lives safeguarding India’s security. Rather than threatening them with docked pensions, they should be trusted and given the space to express their views. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The recent amendment to the pension rules is yet another blow to the integrity of a healthy public discourse in the country. If Central intelligence or security organization officers fail to follow the new guidelines, their pensions can be withdrawn or withheld. Pensions are given for the services rendered by government servants to the country.   Linking them to post-retirement conduct is immoral. It is also against the fundamental right to free speech enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution. At a time when dissenting voices are being curbed, and ordinary citizens have to go to court to be heard, the expertise of former espionage officers will only enrich the public discourse. Many government officials currently in service get to write books and newspaper articles. The same right cannot be denied to retired officials. The latter have devoted their lives to protecting India. In Western democracies, books and articles by former intelligence officials are welcomed. For a society to move forward, debates, discussions and free speech are necessary preconditions that must be encouraged. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||Summer bonanza in the United States||Summer’s much anticipated this time around. After being cooped up at home for almost fifteen straight months, people can finally do the things they love and regain the lost human connection. This summer, many traditional events that were cancelled last year have returned and new ones have popped up. Movie screenings, concerts, food festivals and live arena sports have resurfaced as well. While local music festivals are popping up, the larger American festivals are gearing for a September launch. Milwaukee’s festival, Summerfest, which is one of the largest music festivals in the world, said it will take place over the first three weekends of September. Coachella, postponed twice already, will be held next in 2022. In New York City, Broadway shows are estimated to resume in September. The famous Shakespeare in the Park plays will return in July and the Tribeca Film Festival is slated to launch in June. Chicago’s famous music festival, Lollapalooza, also returns in July with A-list musical guests. It typically brings in 100,000 attendees per day who watch multiple musical performances and enjoy local Chicago bites at the downtown Grant Park location. It is a much anticipated event for Chicago-dwellers, almost synonymous with summer, outdoors and fun. Pride Month, which kicked off on June 1, is also back with a bang this year with blended virtual and in-person celebrations all over the country and people expected to take to the streets with parades, floats and rainbow colours. Reel magic To add on to a hopeful summer this year, the world’s largest and much anticipated Harry Potter store opened in the Flatiron district in Manhattan recently. The store spans 21,000 square feet; intricate details of what it holds were released on the Harry Potter Fan Club app before the launch. The store is sectioned off into 15 themed areas. Merchandise ranges from wands, robes, chocolate frogs to your own Hogwarts acceptance letter. You can interact with actual movie props such as Hagrid’s boots, an interactive wand table and even a ‘moving’ staircase. There are plenty of photo booths and photo opportunities throughout the sprawling space. The story also has a section with a multiplayer virtual reality game called “Chaos at Hogwarts” where you go exploring inside the magical castle. Another one, “Wizards Take Flight”, will let players ‘fly’ on brooms and battle death eaters. The store is free to enter but will use a virtual queuing system. “It’s been a really tough year in a lot of people’s lives. We have a giant Fawkes the Phoenix hanging over our entrance at Fifth Avenue and I sometimes see that as a bit of a sign for the store — a phoenix from the flames,” said Karl Durrant, a Warner Bros. vice-president. But this summer was not just for Harry Potter fans; even diehard Friends fans had a chance to rejoice with the launch of the Friends: The Reunion, bringing back all six cast members and with special guest appearances from other supporting cast. The host, James Corden, mentioned that Friends has been watched one hundred billion times across the globe and now for the first time after 17 years the cast was united on television for the two-hour special. Hit the streets Unlike last year’s more subdued, Covid-inflicted Memorial Day, this year was marked by optimism as various states slowly lifted Covid restrictions and more than half the adults have been fully vaccinated. The American Veterans Center describes the event as a “moving timeline of American history” that draws on traditions from past parades, going back to the beginning of the holiday just after the Civil War. The National WWI Museum and Memorial in Kansas City hosted its first ever hot air balloon festival and in Washington, DC, bikers took to the streets keeping with the tradition since 1988 where motorcycle groups would ride the streets in memory of the troops who are classified as ‘Prisoner of War’ or ‘Missing in Action’. In New York, Staten Island’s 102nd annual Memorial Day Parade was back. The celebration serves to remember both those the country has lost in service as well as honour those who still serve today. Shameful conduct Recently a Florida high school’s yearbook photos of the female students were altered to hide and cover their chest area, while pictures of the males — including of boys wearing just speedo swim shorts — were left untouched. The action was met with ridicule and shock. The school’s dress code also is much more restrictive towards girls. Many stated that the school is body shaming and sexualizing them. The school’s response seemed to indicate it was confused about the uproar. Most US schools have dress codes. In 2014, some students from a New Jersey high school created a #IAmMoreThanADistraction to protest their dress code. Several hundred online petitions to change traditional and sexist dress codes still exist. Footnote Ever heard of a retirement home for animal statues that used to be on display in various playgrounds? An aardvark, a frog, a camel, and two dolphins will be sent to a park referred to as the ‘NYC Parks Home for Retired Playground Animals’ by the city’s parks department. They will not be touched up to keep their charm intact for park visitors to relive their nostalgia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||A common thread||Three remarkable Indians died in a single week in May. All were greatly influenced by Mahatma Gandhi, though each expressed his ‘Gandhism’ in different ways and in different geographical settings. One was in his eighties, the second in his nineties, the third had lived for more than one hundred years on this planet. So while we mourn their deaths we must also celebrate their lives. The first of these Gandhians to go was Sunderlal Bahuguna of Uttarakhand (picture). When the Chipko movement began in the upper Alaknanda valley in 1973, Bahuguna already had several decades of social work behind him. The initial Chipko protests had been led by Chandi Prasad Bhatt, in Bahuguna’s words the ‘mukhya sanchalak’ (chief organizer) of the movement. Inspired by what women and men had done in the district of Chamoli, Bahuguna brought the idea of Chipko to his own home terrain, the valley of the other great branch of the Ganga, the Bhageerathi. Here he organized protests against the felling of green trees, going on long fasts in the forests. I first met Sunderlalji in Calcutta in 1981. I was just beginning my doctoral research on Chipko, and he had come to the city to talk on this very subject. He was a captivating, compelling speaker, switching between Hindi and English with ease (doubtless he was even more captivating and compelling in his native Garhwali). Two years later I did a spell of fieldwork in the Badyar valley, interviewing peasant women who had worked with Sunderlal in a major protest he had led there. In the course of my research I came to admire both Chandi Prasad Bhatt and Sunderlal Bahuguna. Journalists and academics in Delhi were quick to take sides, promoting one or the other as the ‘real’ or ‘true’ leader of Chipko. In truth, both had played vital roles in the movement. Besides, their orientations were different, but complementary. After the protests of the 1970s had led to a rapid decline in commercial felling in Uttarakhand, Bahuguna took the message of Chipko across the Himalaya. Bhatt, on the other hand, focused on grass-roots reconstruction within Uttarakhand, mobilizing women and students in successfully reforesting hillsides made barren by what one Chipko activist described to me as “andhadhun katai”, the reckless felling of trees by contractors in collusion with the forest department. Both Bahuguna and Bhatt inspired many younger Indians to take to a life of service and activism. Matching Sunderlal Bahuguna in energy, courage, intelligence and charisma was a Gandhian who died five days after him. This was H.S. Doreswamy of Karnataka. He was a decade older than Bahuguna, and thus had an even longer record of service. As a student, Doreswamy met Gandhi when the Mahatma came to Nandi Hills for a spell of rest and recuperation in the summer of 1936. Six years later, Doreswamy played a leading part in the Quit India movement in the princely state of Mysore, spending a long time in jail as a consequence. In the 1950s and 1960s, Doreswamy worked in the Sarvodaya movement, focusing on land redistribution. However, when the Emergency was promulgated in 1975, he abandoned social work for activism, which resulted in his now being jailed by the government of independent India as he had once been jailed by its feudal and colonial predecessor. He was released after a few months, and spent the rest of his life working for a more humane social order in his home state. I first met H.S. Doreswamy in the late 1980s, when I took part in demonstrations led by him against the environmental destruction of the Western Ghats by the military-industrial complex. Already in his seventies, he was an impressive presence; tall, erect, always ready to lead a procession or go on hunger-fast. Like Sunderlalji, he had a special way with the young, his accessibility and sense of humour drawing them closer to him. My most recent meeting with H.S. Doreswamy was in March last year. In the intervening decades I had, of course, followed his work closely. He was verily the conscience of Karnataka, fearless in taking on land sharks, mining companies and, not least, corrupt politicians. Through his eighties and nineties he retained his zest and commitment, raising his voice against social and economic injustice, all the while refusing to take any favours from the state. He never owned a car, preferring to use public transport. The photographer, K. Bhagya Prakash, seeing a ninety-one-year-old Gandhian waiting at a Bengaluru bus stop, stopped to take — unnoticed by the man himself — a series of quite wonderful snaps of Doreswamy boarding a bus, these reposted on Twitter after his death. For all its other achievements, the Gandhian movement in independent India has never paid adequate attention to the threat posed to the Republic by the rise of Hindutva majoritarianism. (Sunderlal Bahuguna himself sailed quite close to these murky waters, associating with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on occasion.) In this regard, H.S. Doreswamy was a sterling exception. His last campaign, which he undertook at the age of one hundred and one, was against the immoral Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Inspired by the exemplary courage shown by students (particularly female students) at Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia in the face of police repression, the centenarian Gandhian decided to make a public statement himself. In March 2020, he placed himself under a shamiana in an open space where, along with thousands of other friends and admirers, I went to meet him and hear him speak. As The Hindu reported, Doreswamy held the CAA to be grossly discriminatory, “antithetical to the founding principles of our nation”. “The Muslims here chose to be Indians,” he said. “They cannot be asked to prove their citizenship now.” Opposing the regime’s discriminatory policies, observed Doreswamy, “doesn’t make me anti-national. We need to differentiate between the government, the state and the nation.” Both Sunderlal Bahuguna and H.S. Doreswamy were activists who were entirely comfortable being in the public eye. They were quite happy to express their thoughts if a microphone were placed before them, and fluently and wittily too. Both were also extremely photogenic. Rather different in character and temperament was a Gandhian who died just after Bahuguna and just before Doreswamy. His name was K.M. Natarajan. Gentle, self-effacing and hence much less well-known than the other two, he admirably embodied the Gandhian spirit in his own home state, Tamil Nadu. Natarajanji was more a constructive worker than an activist. Inspired by Gandhi as a student, in 1956-57 he joined Vinoba Bhave on a long padayatra through Tamil Nadu, promoting the Bhoodan movement. Thereupon he dedicated the rest of his life to rural renewal. He worked on, among other things, the abolition of caste distinctions, the promotion of khadi and of organic agriculture, and the redistribution of land owned by temples to landless labourers. Among his closest associates in these campaigns were that extraordinary couple, Sankaralingam and Krishnammal Jagannathan, and an American in khadi, Ralph Richard Keithahn. I first got to know K.M. Natarajan courtesy the Indian postal service. Back in 1996, I had written a newspaper article on the Gandhian economist, J.C. Kumarappa, which prompted a most instructive mail from a man in Madurai who had worked closely with Kumarappa himself. Many years later, while researching the life of R.R. Keithahn, I found Natarajan had known him well too. So I travelled to Madurai to seek his advice. Over cups of tea in the Sarvodaya office in the Gandhi museum complex, Natarajanji told me many things I did not know about Keithahn’s life. Then he sent me off with introductions to people at the Gandhigram Rural University in Dindigul, who had known Keithahn well too. In the course of our conversations I discovered, to my surprise and joy, that Natarajanji had a keen interest in that decidedly un-Gandhian pursuit, the game of cricket. And his generosity was boundless. After I returned to Bengaluru, I received a steady stream of parcels from him containing original letters written by Keithahn, which he had sourced for me from all over Tamil Nadu. His kindness extended to reading drafts of what I wrote on the subject, with my errors gently pointed out. As I reflect on these three lives, I see what each of them has to teach those of us who still have time left on this earth. Bahuguna of Uttarakhand taught us that human beings are not separate from or superior to the natural world, that for our own survival we have to respect the rest of creation. Doreswamy of Karnataka taught us that discrimination according to caste, class, gender or creed is not just antithetical to the ideals of the Indian Constitution, but to decency and humanity itself. To oppose such discrimination, and non-violently, is the duty of all who claim to have freedom and justice as their ideals. Natarajan of Tamil Nadu taught us that true self-reliance begins with the individual, working with her family and her community, that local action for rural sustainability is as vital to the future of the planet as international agreements on reducing carbon emissions. Three lives, each admirable, albeit in different and distinct ways. Yet there was a common thread that bound them. Bahuguna, Doreswamy and Natarajan were deeply rooted in their home districts, their home states, while being keenly interested in India and the world. It was a privilege to have known them all. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key World Environment Day events in steel city ||The Covid -19 pandemic turned the World Environment Day into a low-key affair in the steel city on Saturday. World Environment Day is celebrated annually and is the United Nation's principal vehicle for encouraging awareness and action for the protection of the environment. Saplings were sown at various pockets of East Singhbhum, including Jamshedpur, in events organised by Jamshedpur forest division, district administration, social organisations, schools and clubs. Social distancing was maintained while celebrating the occasion. Political parties also celebrated the occasion. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, sub-divisional officer (Dalbhum) Nitesh Kumar, SSP M.Tamil Vanan, SP (City) Subhash  Chandra Jat, CRPF DIG Ashu Kumar,  regional chief conservator of forest (Jamshedpur division) Jabbar Singh were divisional forest officer Mamta Priyadarshi  were present at the event organised by Jamshedpur forest division at Ghorabanda Park near Telco township “Humans are largely responsible for the imbalance in environment.  This is the reason behind problems like flood, drought, global warming and unseasonal rains. Let us pledge to work for conservation of environment,” the DC said after sowing a sapling.. SSP, SDO and forest officials also planted saplings on the occasion. “A total of 22 saplings were sown. We kept the occasion low-profile because of the pandemic,” DFO Priyadarshi said. Former chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das and Jamshedpur East MLA Sarayu Roy also planted saplings and stressed on the importance of saving the environment. The district Congress functionaries also conducted a plantation drive at various pockets of the steel city. Kerala Samajam Model School also celebrated the occasion by sowing saplings at the school campus. Social outfit Marwari Zila Sammelan, city unit of Ananda Marg  and Parsudih Bazaar Samity also celebrated the occasion with a  pledge to protect the environment. In Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu, also known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with she fights the timber mafia, led few members of Van Suraksha Samity to plant saplings at  a jungle near her village in Maturkham. “Human life can be saved with jungle conservation only,” she said. The occasion was also kept low-profile at Dalma wildlife sanctuary. Saplings were handed over to village heads for sowing in their respective areas. “There was no reason for gathering in this difficult situation. We handed over five saplings each to as many village heads,” a forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL santises hospitals and residential areas using drones||Dhanbad based Coal India subsidiary, Bharat Coking Coal Limited, has launched disinfection of its offices, hospitals and residential colonies using drones. The disinfection of the entire campus of central hospitals of BCCL, situated at Jagjivan Nagar locality, including its Covid wards, besides nursing school and nurses’ hostel was carried out on Friday as part of the inaugural special disinfection drive under the supervision of director personnel of BCCL, P.V.K.R.M. Rao. Rao said the novel technique of disinfection is very useful for disinfecting the open areas and inaccessible points and added that a drone can carry 10 litres of sodium hypochlorite solution at a time. Divulging details about the disinfection plan using the drone, Rao said, “We have plans to carry out disinfection of different residential colonies of BCCL beginning with Koylangar, Karmik Nagar and Jagjivan Nagar. Rao said the drones have the potential to carry out disinfections of exteriors of different building like offices, hospitals and residential complex with proficiency. Technician operating the drone being used for sanitisation work said that the drones have been used for the first time in the state by BCCL. BCCL celebrated World Environment Day on Saturday by organising a programme at Panchvati Park of Koylangar locality under the leadership of BCCL, CMD P.M. Prasad during which senior officials including Director Technical (operations) Chanchal Goswami; Director (Personnel), PVKRM Rao and Head of Department (Environment) Rajiv Kumar took the oath for environmental conservation. A booklet titled, Paryavarandarpan highlighting BCCL’s green initiative was launched at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Swab samples of Covid victims to be sent for genome sequencing||The Jharkhand government on Saturday asked medical colleges and state-run RT-PCR testing centres to send swab samples of all Covid patients who died on or after April 1 for genome sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar at the earliest. “It is emphasized that whole genome sequencing of all the Covid death cases shall be done at the earliest to understand the mortality rate of various variants,” a letter from state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh to various medical colleges in Jharkhand stated. As per government data, as many as 3,920 Jharkhand residents have died due to Covid-19 from April 1 to June 4. The state has reported 5,034 Covid deaths since March 2020. Besides the swab samples of Covid victims, randomly picked samples of at least 15 patients from areas that saw an outbreak will also be sent for genome sequencing every two weeks in order to identify mutated variants of virus and take necessary preventive measures, officials said on Saturday. Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s IEC wing, said that all virus undergoes mutation in a bid to survive and some mutated variants are more dangerous than others. Variants that have already been found in other parts of the world and are considered more dangerous will qualify as “variants of concern”, while such variants that have not been found before will be “variants of interest” as their mutation and effect will be studied, he added. As per data with the state health department, at least 537 swab samples from various medical colleges in Jharkhand have been sent to ILS Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing from March to April and 363 of them have been processed. Of the 363 samples processed so far, at least 301 showed mutated variants of the virus. As many as 272 samples showed presence of double mutant virus which was first reported in India, while 29 showed mutation that was first reported in the UK. Genome sequencing is important in order to study the pattern of transmission and take necessary action for combating the virus, the health secretary’s letter to the directors and superintendents of medical colleges stated. “All medical colleges in Jharkhand, including Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and IRL-Itki, have been identified as Sentinel Surveillance Sites under special surveillance mechanism for whole genome sequencing,” the letter further stated. The nodal officers of all medical colleges and RT-PCR labs may coordinate with district surveillance officers and epidemiologists to get appropriate number of samples from affected areas for genome sequencing, the health secretary said in his letter, asking all government labs to get SRF ID of Covid victims from the concerned district administration and send the samples within the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Met office forecasts Celsius surge across Jharkhand||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has forecast dry weather across Jharkhand for the next two days with rise in maximum temperature by two to three degree Celsius. "There is no local weather system or any cyclonic circulation which might impact Jharkhand's weather during the next 48 hours," said a duty officer at Ranchi Met centre on Saturday. "This will result in a rise in maximum reading during the next two days.  Day's reading in Jamshedpur, Dumka, Sahebganj and several other places in southern, central and north-eastern Jharkhand is expected to rise to 40 degree Celsius," he added. The Met office also did not issue alerts of adverse weather in the next two days. However, it warned of thundershowers and lightning with wind speed of 40-50 kmph on Tuesday and Wednesday. Saturday's satellite pictures and wind chart analysis showed no weather systems over Jharkhand and its neighbouring states which could trigger rain. Met statistics  revealed that light rain occurred in two places during the past 24 hours.  Ramgarh and Hazaribagh recorded around 10 mm of rain. The highest maximum temperature of 39.7°C was recorded at Sahibganj  for the last two days. The day's reading also witnessed a rising trend in several places including Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj, Pakur, Deoghar, Garhwa, Latehar and Simdega. Monsoon watch Southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of central Arabian Sea, entire coastal Karnataka, Goa,  parts of Maharashtra,  Telengana,  Andhra Pradesh,Tamil Nadu and some parts of central Bay of Bengal and northeast Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is very likely to advance further into more parts of central and northeast Bay of Bengal, some parts of north east Bay of Bengal and northeast India during the next 24-hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Newly weds in Bokaro village plant saplings on World Environment Day||On the occasion of World Environment Day, Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh made an appeal to people to plant saplings on all occasions whether big or small. “Whether it’s a birthday of your children or wedding or marriage anniversary or any other occasion, make it memorable by planting saplings. Plantation should be done on all occasions. Every person must plant at least one sapling in his lifetime,” said Singh. The DC’s words have resonated with residents in Jamunia village situated under Nawadih Block at a distance of about 60km from district. Newly married couples begin their first-day after marriage by planting saplings. This is a new culture growing popular especially among youths. In the past 15 days, three couples have planted sapling and taken a vow to protect trees. The practice began during the Covid pandemic, after villagers realised the importance of trees in their life, seeing people struggling for oxygen across the country. They decided to plant and protect trees as it is only natural oxygen producer. The villagers have decided to plant saplings during festivals and special occasions. Forest department officials have lauded their efforts. On May 24, Kosurendra Hembram with his wife Jhunia Soren planted a Sakhua plant. Dozens of youths of Jamunapania village, under the leadership of local Manjhi Haram (religious guru) Phoolchand Kisku, Nayake Haram and Pranik Daso Kisku, have been trying to protect water, forest and land for a long time. The village has not reported any Covid cases. Apart from the tribals, villagers from other communities have also welcomed this tradition. “Save trees and save forest to protect environment. And also plant sapling. These trees give us life and oxygen, shade and everything which humans require for survival,” said Manjhi. “We live close to nature, thus have good immunity and have fresh air enriched with oxygen produced from the trees in forest here,” said Kisku. The people here have taken up the task of protecting the environment by increasing the greenery of the local forest. Under this, the youth started the tradition that newly married couples should start their married life by planting saplings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual chess tourney to determine national players||The All Jharkhand Chess Association is organising an online chess festival in the state for the U-18, 16, 14, 12 and 10 age groups in both boys and girls categories to select players for upcoming national tournaments. The under-18 event has already started while the one for the under-16 age group kicked-off on Saturday evening. "The matches are played on digital platform Li-Chess under Swiss Rapid rules of FIDE which is going to be used in the forthcoming Nationals and World Championships for 2021," said AJCA secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. According to him, the under-14 event is scheduled on June 7 and will be followed by the one meant for the under-12 age section on June 9. The chess festival will conclude with the event for the under-10 age group on June 11. Matches for all age groups will be for two days. Chess enthusiasts from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad are participating in the chess festival. Players who participated in the under-18 event include Adhiraj Mitra, Souryadipta Sarkar, Rishav Kumar, Kriti Kumari, Saara Jain,Navieka Jaiswal, Sunidhi Singh, Dishita Dey and Dyuti Chakraborty (all from East Singhbhum), Ishant Kumar, Harshvi Matalia (both from Dhanbad), Shaswata Paul (West Singhbhum), Kadambini Ghadai (Bokaro). The online national championship for the under 18 age group will be starting on June 10 and will be subsequently followed in quick intervals by the ones meant for other groups. The All India Chess Federation has made it mandatory for all players to get registered with it to play any official events including district championships. The district and state associations cannot charge any annual registration. The state outfit has been conducting events virtually to keep the players engaged during the pandemic. This way they can remain in touch with the game and will not face issues when offline tournaments start getting organised once the situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Police avert 'Anarkali' punishment for farmer's daughter||The tragic story of Anarkali has inspired writers, musicians, playwrights and filmmakers for generations. Legend has it that Mughal Emperor Akbar had punished her by arresting and entombing her within a wall of his palace for having an affair with his son prince Jahangir. Cut to 2021, a 19-year-old girl was given a similar punishment by a group of villagers who were having a dispute with her father over a piece of land. However, Sulekha Kumari was luckier than Anarkali. The daughter of a farmer in Yogiatilha village of Koderma district was saved as police stepped in . Police said Sulekha's parents went to a nearby village to attend a grih pravesh function on Friday. Taking advantage of the situation, Shankar Pandit, Vinod Pandit, Manoj Pandit, Birbal Pandit, Usha Devi, Gayatri Devi, Manisha Devi, Meena Devi and Savitri Devi, reached their house in the afternoon and caught Sulekha who was busy taking care of her cows. They locked her in a room and constructed a wall to block the room's door. After that they also constructed a wall covering the main entrance of Sulekha's house. Sulekha’s cries for help went in vain as the villagers left the premises with her trapped inside. A villager informed the Jai Nagar police of the incident. Sulekha's father, Kishore Pandit, also reached the police station and requested immediate action. A team led by assistant sub-inspector Rajendra Rana reached the house on Friday evening and rescued her. Sulekha was taken to a nearby health centre where doctors provided her the required treatment. Rana said they got information on time, and that saved her life. Her father Kishore said he had won the land dispute case but the opposing villagers were not ready to accept the verdict. On Friday, some villagers pelted stones at the house. Police have managed to arrest one of the accused Savitri. The rest of the villagers were missing. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Mohammad Abdullah Khan said it was a serious matter and police were not going to spare the culprits. “We are taking the appropriate action to arrest the missing ones,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to operate special trains from Bengal ||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run two special trains between Santragachi and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Hatia and Mumbai CSMT, keeping in view demand of passengers. According to a schedule released by the office of SER's Calcutta-based chief passenger transportation manager the 02498/02497  Santragachi-LTT-Superfast Special will run on June 9, 16, 21 and 23. The days of its next run will be notified later while the return train will run on June 11, 18, 21 and 25. The train with 16 sleeper class coaches and four general second class coaches will run via Tatanagar. The train will leave Santragachi at 6pm and will come to Tatanagar at 10.45 pm. After a two minutes halt it will head for its onward journey. The train will reach LTT the next day at 11.45 pm. In the opposite direction the train will leave LTT at 1.15 pm and will come to Tatanagar the next day at 1.35 pm. The train is scheduled to reach Santragachi at 6.35 pm. The 02406/ 02405 Hatia-Mumbai CSMT Superfast Special will run from June 11. The Up train will run on June 11, 18 and 25. Further run dates would be notified later. The train in the opposite direction will run on June 13, 20 and 27. The train with 16 sleeper class coaches and four general second class coaches will run via Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Raipur. The train will leave Hatia at 5.40 pm and reach its destination - Mumbai CSMT, the next day at 11 pm. In the opposite direction the train will leave Mumbai CSMT at 11.05 am and will reach Hatia the next day at 3:30 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Puri takes jibe at Rahul, Sonia over vaccine row in Punjab & Rajasthan||The BJP on Saturday sought a probe into alleged profiteering by the Congress government in Punjab by selling Covid vaccines to private hospitals, and said that "heads should roll". The party fielded Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri to target the Amarinder Singh government, with the BJP leader asserting that the state dispensation's decision to withdraw the controversial order shows that there was something "fishy" in the matter. Taking a swipe at Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, Puri said they questioned the Modi government over the vaccine supply when their government in Punjab was indulging in alleged profiteering to the tune of Rs 38 crore by selling jabs to private hospitals. Large doses of vaccines have been found dumped in Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled state, he said. "Government profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain," Puri said at a virtual press conference, adding "heads should roll". He also sought to know the "nature of the fund" to which the money received by the state government from private hospitals was credited. Citing a Punjab government communication, he said it procured Covishield vaccines for Rs 412 per dose but sold it to private hospitals for Rs 1000 and they, in turn, charged Rs 1,560 from the people. Two private hospitals in Mohali charged people Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,200, he alleged. While the Congress is busy with the "cricket match" between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, this is what is going on in the state, he said, referring to the internal bickering in the party. Taking exception to the Punjab government statement that its decision has not been taken in the right spirit, Puri said this points to concealment of corruption and a culture of impunity in the Congress. For the Congress corruption is something to be taken for granted, he alleged. Under flak from the opposition for "diverting" Covid vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government had withdrawn its order on Friday. This official reason cited by the Punjab government for withdrawing the order reflects "poverty and incompetence" of the ruling dispensation in the state which draws its inspiration from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, he alleged. Puri also hit out at the Congress for allegedly fuelling vaccine hesitancy as some of its senior leaders "questioned" the safety and efficacy of Indian-manufactured jabs, and wondered if this was because the party wanted imports of foreign vaccines for getting "commission". Puri also accused the opposition parties of spreading misinformation and lies over the recently enacted farm reform laws, noting that the central government has done record procurement, with Punjab being the major beneficiary. The state contributed over 32 percent of 411.19 lakh tonnes of the wheat procured, with over Rs 26,103.89 crore credited to bank accounts of farmers directly, he said. Opposition leaders had alleged that the new laws will lead to the minimum support price regime and mandis being done away with, he said. At the press conference, he again attacked the critics of the central vista project and asserted that as of now work on raising a new parliament building costing Rs 900 crore and central vista avenue costing Rs 400 crore is on. An MLA hostel being built in Maharashtra is alone costing Rs 900 crore, he said. To a question about AAP MLA and Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan seeking assurance that no mosque in the area would be affected by the project, Puri, whose ministry is in charge of the exercise, said his doors are open for talks and he will look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma jumbos make hay as tourists are kept away||The elephants, including calves, at the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary are enjoying their time out amid its peaceful environs with no tourist presence owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The jumbos are scattered almost everywhere across the 192 sq km sanctuary. With minimal human presence, the Asiatic elephants have ample reason to make their presence felt. Elephants usually remain anchored in the core area and come to the watering holes to bathe or satiate their thirst in late afternoon. But, in the changed scenario, they can be spotted near watering holes in the morning hours. "Sanctuary mein bahut shanti hain aur hathi mouj kar rahen hain (Sanctuary is very peaceful and the elephants are enjoying it)," a forester said, adding watering holes are overflowing. Barring villagers who live in the 85-odd villages inside the sanctuary, and foresters, there is not much human traffic inside the jumbo abode. "Unlike earlier when the sanctuary was open, there is no one to tease the elephants. Tourists, including those from Jamshedpur and elsewhere, often tease the jumbos by throwing stones at them. But that is not the case now. Most of the elephants are stationed uphill and can be seen in their playful best near watering holes," a forest guard said. The elephants can even be spotted on the main arterial road snaking uphill, besides the ones existing deep inside the jungles. "This is the best time for tourists to click pictures of elephants in their playful best. The animal hideouts near watering holes are lying vacant. The tourists are missing a great opportunity but nothing can be done in this situation," the forest guard said. The villagers, who venture into the jungles to collect dry timber, are also venturing out in few numbers. However, foresters are continuing with their daily patrol of the sanctuary situated 30 km from Jamshedpur. Over 130 elephants are presently anchored inside the sanctuary. Asked if presence of elephants pose any problems for villagers, Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar said they cannot stop them (villagers) from venturing. "The villagers have a right to venture across the sanctuary. However, there is no danger as such from an elephant point of view," he added. The jumbos had migrated to the jungles of Bankura and West Midnapore in neighbouring Bengal in August-September last year. The elephants gradually started ambling back home from January onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's daily Covid caseload drops below 7,000||Jharkhand reported a single-day-spike of less than 500 cases on the second day in a row on Friday, while Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the active caseload in the state below 7000, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload in the state dropped to 6832 as at least 1170 Covid patients recovered from the infection while 478 people were found infected by Coronavirus. However, as many as 13 Covid patients died in the State on Friday, taking the Covid toll to 5034, the bulletin further stated. With 102 cases East Singhbhum was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike. At least 40 people were found infected in Ranchi while as many as 43 residents were found infected by Coronavirus in Dhanbad. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the two districts with highest Covid casualties so far – reported three Covid deaths each on Friday. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1569 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 1017. However, both these districts saw a drop in active caseload. At least 184 recoveries brought the active caseload down to 1,849 in Ranchi, while the active caseload dropped to 768 in East Singhbhum as at least 171 Covid patients recovered there. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 23 cases against 37 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 26 cases against 46 recoveries. Fourty two persons were found infected in Simdega while 62 Covid patients recovered there. Jharkhand reported a daily Covid positivity rate of less than 1 per cent for the fourth consecutive day as less than 500 of 60,416 people tested were found infected. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in the state was 0.18 per cent against the national average of 0.34 per cent, while the recovery rate rose to 96.51 per cent against the national average of 93.10 per cent. However, the Covid-19 fatality rate in Jharkhand continued to be higher than the national average. As per NHM data, at least 1.47 per cent of the over 3.40 lakh State residents infected by Coronavirus so far have died. The national Covid mortality rate, as per NHM data, was 1.20 per cent on Friday. The state on Friday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 69,410 residents and almost 50,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 6432 beneficiaries on the day, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years, stated a report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||9 CCL officers booked in Bokaro for coal transportation fraud ||Bokaro district mining department has booked as many as nine senior officers of Central Coalfield (CCL), including a few general managers, for gross irregularities in transportation of coal to power plants across the country with FIRs being lodged at Bermo and Bokaro Thermal police stations on Friday. The district mining officer (DMO) Gopal Kumar Das said that investigations revealed that thousands of tonnes of coal were being transported via the railways without challans in three CCL mining projects, leading to huge losses to the state exchequer. Transportation was facilitated via CCL  railway sidings of Tarmi, Dhori, Karo-Kargali Washery, Jarangdih PF One and a PF under Bermo sub-division. Despatch of coal without the use of transport challans is a violation of Rule 09 of The Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017 and  district mining department officials claimed that CCL officials had been warned of similar violations earlier too. Now the district mining department has lodged FIRs under sections 379, 420 (theft and cheating) of IPC, along with section 21 of the MMDR Act 1957. Das said, “FIRs have been lodged against three general managers (GMs), three project officers (POs), three regional sales officers (RSO) and others.” He said efforts were on to ascertain the ascertain the quantum of revenue loss to the state exchequer beacuse of lapses on the part of CCL. Mining activities and transportation of coal are being undertaken in 11 mines of three CCL project areas in Bermo sub-divisiono, each headed by a GM. Among the 11 CCL coal mines, one is underground while the rest are open cast. Coal excavated from these coal mines are being transported either by road transport or trains, primarily to power plants across the country, district mining officers explained. In Bokaro and Kargili projects of CCL, FIRs have been lodged against GM M.K Rao, POs Tapan Kumar Rai and Dilip Kumar, and RSM K. L. Yadav. Similarly, in CCL's Kathara project, FIRS have been lodged against GM M.K Punjabi, PO Sanjeev Kumar and RSM Anurag Pushp. And at Dhori Project, FIRS have been lodged against GM M.K. Agarwal, PO Virendra Singh, Arvind Kumar Sharma and RSM Vinod Kumar Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gears up for Covid third wave||The Jharkhand government has started preparations to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 later this year. The health department rolled out an intensive vaccination campaign on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays from June 4 across all the 260 blocks of the state to dispel vaccine hesitancy reported from certain areas, is going for mass recruitment of doctors and paramedics and planning to conduct surveys of district, sub-divisional and community health centres through private consultants to find out infrastructure shortcomings in an effort to be not caught off-guard by another wave. “The intensive vaccination campaign will be held on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays across all the blocks and panchayats of the districts. This would be apart from the routine work at the selected vaccination centres. We have drawn up a plan to involve local MLAs, MPs, traditional village heads, panchayat heads, religious leaders, prominent persons and social workers in each block, who will be vaccinated during the three days, to encourage others to take vaccination without any hesitation,” said state health nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy. From Monday to Thursday, self-help and local groups would be mobilising villagers to go for vaccination. “We have set a target of administering 1.5 lakh vaccines (4.5 lakh in three days) daily as part of the intensive campaign. The campaign will continue throughout June,” said Tripathy. The step was taken after reports emerged that people in a few pockets in the state were reluctant to take vaccine due to rumours and vaccination teams were turned away by villagers in the last few days. “We have won over villagers in areas where our vaccination team members faced resistance. We hope to motivate people to turn out in large numbers during the campaign. All civil surgeons have also been directed to ensure sitting arrangement for senior citizens at vaccine centres while adhering to Covid protocols,” Tripathy said. As of Thursday, the state has 107,950 vaccine doses for the 45 and above age group and only 55,530 doses for those aged between 18 and 44 years. On Thursday, the health department sent a proposal to the personnel and finance department for urgent recruitment of 360 doctors. After clearance from these two departments, a notification would be sent to the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) and the process of recruitment is expected to be completed in July. In addition, the state unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) will be recruiting 800 paramedical staff, 280 specialist doctors and 79 medical officers on contractual basis and interviews will be conducted soon. “The step has been taken to boost manpower at all health centres especially in Sadar and sub-divisional hospitals before the third wave of Covid,” said a source in the human resources wing of the NHM. The health department will also be hiring a private consultant to conduct a survey in all the district (Sadar) and sub-divisional hospitals and community health centres to find out infrastructure shortcomings. “The consultants would be conduction a survey on all aspects of infrastructure — physical (building, facilities), medical (bed, operation theatre, etc.) and human resources. Letters have been sent to all deputy commissioners to conduct a prima facie survey of these health centres to avoid duplicity. Based on the survey, the government will plan for improvement on all fronts,” said Tripathy. On Thursday, Jharkhand registered 10 deaths due to Covid taking the total casualties to 5,021. The state also recorded 427 new cases taking the active caseload to 7,537. State health minister Banna Gupta launched a dedicated helpline 6203709250 in Ranchi on Friday for providing information on mucormycosis. An online training session of over two lakh health workers along with civil surgeons of all 24 districts was organised by the NHM on mucormycosis, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) and other health ailments at Ranchi on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
05-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand rural areas not alarming||Covid infection did not appear to have spread alarmingly in rural Jharkhand, much to the relief of all concerned. The interim findings of an intensive public health survey (IPHS) in rural areas that will end on Saturday found the infection rate to be 0.52 per cent only, indicating the spread was not alarming. The state government had initiated the survey for assessing spread of Covid-19 infection in villages, particularly after a large number of migrant workers returned to their homes from different parts of the country during the peak of the second phase, most of them without getting checked on their way. As a part of IPHS, teams comprising rural officials who were accompanied by women health workers known as sahiyas started conducting a door-to-door survey across the state on May 25 that would continue till Saturday (June 5). They screened the people and segregated those who had Covid-like symptoms for conducting rapid antigen test (RAT) on them. According to data shared by the information, education and communication (IEC) wing of the state health department, the survey covered 42,98,993 households in the state and screened 2,13,54,053 persons till Wednesday. RAT was conducted on 1,55,426 persons who were found to have Covid-like symptoms but only 811 among them tested positive. There were 36 children among those 811 infected persons. While seven among them were children below one year of age and only one in the age-group of 1 to 6 years, rest 18 were above 6 but within 18 years of age. The survey showed the infection rate in rural Jharkhand was just 0.52 per cent which was far below the state’s overall infection rate of 2.14 per cent on June 2, suggesting the spread of infection was much more in urban areas. But the spread of the infection also considerably reduced in the state, and thereby in urban areas also now and the active caseload that stood at 43,415 on April 23, a day after the ongoing partial lockdown began in the state, came down to 7,537 on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government also began an intensive vaccination drive across the state on Friday for protecting people from the disease. In a letter addressed to deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts of the state, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh directed them to conduct the interactive vaccination campaign on three days — Friday, Saturday and Sunday — every week during the month of June for vaccinating maximum eligible beneficiaries above 45 years. Though the government admitted inadequate stock of vaccines in the state it wanted to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people on each of those days. They also declared that such beneficiaries may go to the venue get vaccinated after registering themselves on the spot. “The vaccination programme is also being organised in rural areas and it will go simultaneously with survey work for two days — today and tomorrow,” informed Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer at the IEC wing of the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
