06-06-2021||Calcutta||Effort to resume vaccination project at IIEST Shibpur||The  vaccination programme at IIEST Shibpur, which had been suspended after the institute’s director allegedly misbehaved with those running the centre over harassing his home help, will be resumed, the institute has said. The notification issued by Debabrata Mazumder, the professor-in-charge of the institute’s hospital says: “….in view of several complaints received from the employees regarding vaccination in the campus, the said program has been suspended for a few days.... Vaccination program will be resumed as per that schedule depending on the availability of vaccine.” The Telegraph reported on Saturday that the institute’s director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, allegedly misbehaved with those running the facility because they had asked his help to produce the Aadhaar card, get registered and wait for the jab during the vaccination exercise on May 28. Asked about the complaints mentioned in the notice, an official of the institute said they received complaints that many persons were not getting the jabs despite registering. The director on Friday denied the allegation, contending that the streamlining was required because of the overcrowding at the centre which, he said, was triggering chaos. But sources on the campus said the efforts to restart the vaccination centre were initiated hours after The Telegraph sought to know from director Chakrabarti whether his alleged misbehaviour was responsible for the closure of the vaccination drive . Director Chakrabarti said on Saturday they want to restart the vaccination centre as early as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Decomposed body of a 52-year-old man found in Bansdroni||The decomposed body of a 52-year-old man was found in his Bansdroni home early on Saturday. Police identified him as Siddhartha Roy. The exact cause of death is yet to be ascertained but officers said Roy had died a few days back. Neighbours had alerted cops after a stench started emanating from Roy’s residence. “He lived alone in the flat. His mother, who used to live with his sister at a distance, would visit him frequently,” said a senior officer of the Bansdroni police station. “The body was found lying prostrate on the floor when we broke open the door of his flat.” For almost a year now, Roy had stopped mingling with neighbours and kept to himself, the neighbours said. Maids, too, had stopped visiting. Some residents of the area said they had a feeling that Roy had lost his job a year back since he wouldn’t step out as frequently as he used to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Children use T-shirts to paint message on World Environment Day||Children and teenagers aged between five and 13 used their old T-shirts to paint a message on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday. The contest by a non-profit called Vinisha, which works for the cause of the environment and puts trust on schoolchildren to make a difference, was started by Ramesh Chandran to get children to act. “In Vinisha, we believe that we need to catch the children young, motivate them young and make them perform while they are young... I feel it is time for serious action,” Chandran said. “Get out of the theoretical mode and get into working mode. When a child writes an essay that he or she will plant hundreds of trees, make the child plant at least one tree... Students properly guided by parents and teachers have a great role to play and that is needed in all fairness and sincerity,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta|| Cowin platform allows anyone turning 18 by end of 2021 to register for Covid jab||The Cowin platform is allowing anyone who turns 18 by the end of this year to register for Covid vaccination, a provision that many students who are yet to turn 18 are availing themselves of to get the jab. Many of these students have plans to study abroad and are worried that international travel may not be allowed if they are not fully vaccinated. Colleges abroad, too, could refuse to admit them if they cannot produce vaccination certificates. The students did not want to wait till their 18th birthday to get vaccinated because that could be too late for them to take admission in a college of their choice. Other students, too, have plans to study in colleges in other Indian cities. They are also apprehending difficulties in admission if they are not vaccinated. Though the general understanding is that people in the age group 18-44 have become eligible for vaccination from May 1, in reality those who are a few months away from turning 18 would be committing no offence by taking the vaccine, said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which also handles Co-Win platform for Bengal. “The Centre has officially communicated that anyone born up to December 31, 2003 is eligible for vaccination this year. Someone born in January 2004 will not be eligible for vaccination,” said the official. The students also said that since many young adults got severe Covid-19 in the second wave, they do not want to risk themselves by delaying their vaccination. “The university expects us to get vaccinated if we have a provision for it. I will turn 18 this month but I got vaccinated last month because I will not be eligible for the second dose before 12 weeks. I am scheduled to leave in September and I want to take the vaccine by August so that I am safe with all requirements,” said Yash Kejriwal, who is planning to go to the University of California San Diego. Students planning to go to other Indian cities are also using the provision. A student from the outgoing Class XII batch said that the fear of the virus is also driving them to get vaccinated. “The app does not require us to enter our date of birth but only the year and so I got it after consulting a doctor. There are so many instances of young people getting infected and getting critical so why shouldn’t we use all means to keep ourselves protected,” she said. Manish Dalmia got his daughter who will be 18 in October vaccinated last month. “The app allows it and so, I got my daughter registered and then vaccinated. This is the only protection we have now,” said Dalmia. “My father had turned critical and was in hospital for almost two months and I don’t want to take chances with others now.” South Point school has organised a vaccination camp for staff and a section of parents. They have also opened the facility for the outgoing Class XII batch. The students who could register on CoWin — 120 of them — can get themselves vaccinated. “Students continue to remain vulnerable since they have to appear in competitive exams as well go to various colleges and institutions for the admissions. This is a protection,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point. Doctors and immunologists felt that taking the jab a few months before one turns 18 is unlikely to have any adverse effects because of age. “I do not think someone who is a few months left to be 18 would develop any complications for their age if they take the Covid vaccines being administered in India. Attainment of physical adulthood often comes much earlier than when someone turns 18,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist with the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, too, said administering the dose to someone who is 17 would not cause any problem. “Younger people have less adverse reactions after taking a vaccine. They can tolerate a vaccine better than people who are older. There would be no problem if someone who is 17 takes the vaccine,” said Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. He added that paediatric age is considered to be up to 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Both flanks of EM Bypass bridge to be shut for load-bearing tests||Both flanks of the concrete bridge on EM Bypass, connecting the two rotaries of Parama and Ruby, will be closed to traffic in phases beginning this week for load-bearing tests of the structure. Engineers from the urban development department will carry out load tests aimed at finding out the structural stability of the bridge, which was built a little over three decades ago on EM Bypass. The flank of the bridge — popularly known as Ambedkar Bridge —  that brings vehicles from Garia towards Ultadanga will remain shut till 6am of June 9, police said. From 8pm the next day —  June 10 — the other flank, which is used by vehicles to reach Ruby from Ultadanga end, would be shut to traffic. The closure will remain in force till 6am of June 14. The police said vehicles would have to slow down and move down one of the flanks during during the period when each of the flanks of the bridge would be shut for the tests. Guardrails will be put up and officers would be posted to direct all vehicles to one of the flanks when the other remains shut, a senior officer in Lalbazar said. “We will conduct two types of tests on the bridge — static and dynamic. The results will be collated and experts would analyse them to determine the structural stability of the bridge,” said a senior engineer of the urban development department. In the static test, engineers would find out the horizontal pressure of wind that tries to push the bridge sideways while in the dynamic test, the aim would be to measure how the bridge oscillates in the impact of the vertical wind pressure. Bridge experts said Ambedkar Bridge has been receiving a huge volume of traffic since traffic count nearly doubled on EM Bypass. The tests were necessary to find out whether the bridge needed thorough overhauling or cosmetic repairs to increase its lifespan. “These tests will help us determine the type of maintenance work that needs to be carried out so that we can increase the life of the Ambedkar bridge to another 20-plus years,” said a member of the expert committee on bridges and flyovers that the state government has set up following the collapse of a portion of Majerhat bridge in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta witnesses first ‘Zero Shadow’ day on June 5||Wherever there is light, there should be a shadow. But people, all around the world, living between the Tropic of Cancer (+23.5 degrees latitude) and the Tropic of Capricorn (-23.5 degrees latitude), lose their shadows, albeit momentarily, twice a year. Those two days are called ‘zero shadow’ days. For Calcutta, the first zero shadow day was on June 5, 2021 and the zero shadow moment was at around 11.35am. Young students and enthusiasts, in spite of the critical situation all around because of the pandemic, showed interest and enthusiasm to observe this phenomenon. This event also reminds us of motions and the position of celestial bodies with respect to earth, which have direct links to events on earth like change of seasons, tides, eclipses and zero shadow moments. It reminds us also, maybe momentarily, our presence on earth with a cosmic perspective. Zero Shadow Day is a special celestial event that occurs twice a year. During this time, no shadows appear of any object or living being when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. The lack of shadow is beautiful, too. It happens twice a year, for places between +23.5 and -23.5 degrees latitude. The sun is almost never exactly overhead at noon, but usually transits a bit lower in altitude, a bit to the north or a bit to the south. The earth’s rotation axis is inclined at 23.5 degrees to the plane of its revolution around the sun, which is why we have seasons. This also means that the sun, in its highest point on a particular day, will move from 23.5 degrees south of the celestial equator to 23.5 degrees north of the equator, and back again in a year. On a Zero Shadow Day, when the sun crosses the almost overhead position, the sun’s rays will fall exactly vertical relative to an object on the ground and one cannot observe any shadow of that object. On these two days, the Sun will be exactly overhead at noon and will not cast a shadow of an object on the ground. This Zero Shadow Day will clearly be different for different places on earth. This year, from Salt Lake, on the north eastern fringe of Calcutta, Zero Shadow Day was observed mostly from the rooftops and terraces. It was cloudy at times, but the beauty of the event could be captured through the camera. The exact zero shadow moment at Calcutta was 11.35am. On its return path (called Dakshinayan), the sun again will be exactly overhead in Calcutta on July 7 at around 11.41am. The author is director, research & academic, M. P. Birla Institute of Fundamental Research||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Weather likely to be hot and sultry till monsoon: Met||The city sweated under the twin assault of heat and humidity for most of Saturday before claps of thunder, streaks of lightning and gusts of wind brought some relief in the evening. There was very little rain but the cloud cover and the winds brought the mercury down marginally. But the relief was short-lived. “The weather is likely to be hot and sultry in the coming days until a fresh low-pressure area over the north Bay propels monsoon into the city,” said a Met official. He attributed the uncomfortable weather to formidable moisture incursion from the Bay. “This is typical pre-monsoon weather. The high moisture content in the air is making the conditions so sweaty. The mercury is also on the higher side,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||Vehicles moving towards Dalhousie diverted through JK Island||Vehicles headed towards Dalhousie down Red Road were diverted through JK Island, near Fort William’s main entrance, along Dufferin Road and Mayo Road on Saturday for underground canal repair. PWD engineers said among the several outlet canals, one that runs under Red Road needed immediate clean-up so that rain water can move out faster after a heavy downpour. The diversion will continue for a week before work on the other flank of Red Road begins, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Calcutta||HS committee rules out possibility of holding exams on campus, suggests home assignments||The committee constituted to find ways to assess Bengal board’s Class XII students has ruled out the possibility of holding exams on campus amid the raging pandemic and recommended that students be assessed through home assignments. The panel submitted its report on Saturday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to make an announcement on Monday on the course of action, officials in the school education department said. Sources said the committee had proposed that the possibility of sending questions to examinee’s home and fetching the answersheets from there be explored. According to the proposal, the answers would be stocked in schools so that teachers could evaluate them. “The marks of the assessment could be tallied with that of the practical exams that the students appeared for during the brief resumption of in-person classes in February. However, sending questions to the homes of as many as 10 lakh examinees is a mammoth task,” said a member. An official of the school education department said mobilising the workforce to deliver question papers and fetching answers amid the pandemic was easier said than done. “It has to be kept in mind that houses of a vast section of students across the coastal belt of Bengal have been devastated by Cyclone Yaas. Some of the school buildings have been damaged too.” A committee member said any home assignment on digital platforms would inconvenience those from marginalised sections because of a wide digital gap among students. According to him, the main problem pertains to the fact that when the campuses had reopened on February 12 for for Classes IX to XII, the schools were asked to take practical for the lab-based subjects and the project works for the non lab-based subjects of Class XII students. “But alongside practicals, some sort of internal tests should have been taken. But it appears that it did not strike the school education department then that a fresh wave of cases was in the offing and the possibility of holding the board exams on the campus could be derailed. So, we are now proposing whatever seems possible under the circumstances,” said a committee member. According to another member, they have also advised the school education department to keep an eye on what the Supreme Court would say in its next hearing on June 17 on the probable methodology of assessment for students of the CBSE board and ISC council. The apex court on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of CBSE and the ICSE council. “We hope that the state government will take into account all the aspects before making any decision. If the apex court gives any guidelines on what could be the methodology in two weeks there is no harm in waiting for a few more days,” the member said. An official of the school education department explained why they were looking up to the chief minister for the final call. “Let the chief minister go through the details. She had last week announced that Madhyamik and HS exams would be held. Then the expert committee was constituted following her instructions on Tuesday after the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams were cancelled. So, this time too she will take a call,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
06-06-2021||Business||Petrol prices cross Rs 100-mark in six states, stand at Rs 101.63 in Mumbai||Petrol price on Sunday crossed Rs 95 a litre in Delhi and diesel breached Rs 86 per litre mark for the first time ever as fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was increased by 21 paise per litre and diesel 20 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike - 20th since May 4 - took fuel prices across the country to a historic high. Petrol is now above Rs 100 per litre mark in six states and union territories - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 95.09 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.01 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Retail prices have risen after an increase in international oil prices on investors' optimism that improving demand and a dwindling supply glut may mean the market can absorb any additional production from OPEC and its allies. Brent crude, the global oil-price benchmark, is nearing USD 72 per barrel for the first time in two years. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100-a-litre mark. Petrol now costs Rs 101.3 per litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 93.35. The increase on Sunday is the 20th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like Bengal. In 20 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 4.69 per litre and diesel by Rs 5.28 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Centre gives 'one last notice' to Twitter to comply with IT rules||The confrontation between  Twitter and the Narendra Modi government is set to intensify with the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) on Saturday giving the social media platform “one last chance to immediately” comply with the new IT rules. It warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing the intermediary exemption from liability under the IT Act. The ministry said Twitter’s refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the microblogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create a mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India-based, clearly identified resources,” the IT ministry said. The ministry said though with effect from May 26, 2021, “consequences follow” given Twitter’s non-compliance with the rules “however, as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply, failing which ... Twitter shall be liable for consequences under the IT Act and other penal laws of India”. The notice, however, did not mention a specific date to comply with the rules. Twitter declined to comment on the latest notice by the government. The ministry also noted that the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company was not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, and added that the office address of Twitter Inc as mentioned by the company “is that of a law firm in India, which is not as per the rules”. The new IT rules, which were announced on February 25, came into effect on May 26. Every social media intermediary, including Twitter, was given three months to comply. Under the new digital rules, social media companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message as well as to conduct additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Twitter has not complied with the rules that stipulate the appointment of a resident grievance officer. The platform had earlier said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new IT rules and regulations that it said, “inhibit free, open public conversation”. In case the government revokes Twitter’s indemnity under Section 79 of the IT Act, the microblogging site could be held responsible for content posted by users on its platform. At present, Twitter and other social media platforms, as intermediaries, enjoy the protection that holds users responsible for posts deemed illegal. Twitter has been in the Centre’s line of fire over content takedown requests for tweets from various user accounts criticising the government on multiple occasions, including the farmer protests in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Paytm loss narrows to Rs 1,704 crore in FY21||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, has managed to pare its losses for the year ended March 31, 2021 even as consolidated revenues dipped almost 11 per cent. The company, which is set to come out with an IPO, has suffered a loss of Rs 1,701 crore compared with a loss of Rs 2,942 crore in the preceding year. However, revenues fell to Rs 3,187 crore from Rs 3,541 crore in 2019-20. This is the eighth straight year where the company is reporting losses and the second consecutive one where it has narrowed it down. The year was also marked by a drop in its expenses by over 20 per cent to Rs 4,783 crore. In January 2021, founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma had said that the company could break-even this year as Covid-19 could lead to a rise in digital transactions. A spokesperson for the company said during the fiscal year, it witnessed significant disruption in the business of its merchant partners, particularly in the first half. However, a strong recovery in the latter half resulted in minimal impact on its revenues. One97 Communications will hold its annual general meeting on June 30. One of the items on the agenda is to sub-divide its shares to Re 1 per share from Rs 10 per share. The record date of such a share split will be June 30. Shareholders will also have to approve the remuneration of Sharma. At Rs 4 crore, it will be the same as in the previous fiscal. Recently, the board of One97 Communications had given its nod for a share float of Rs 22,000 crore. The company is likely to file its draft papers with Sebi by next month while the IPO is likely to come during the October-December quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank to pick stake in NARCL; plans to transfer Rs 8,000 crore worth NPA||Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Saturday said it has identified bad loans worth Rs 8,000 crore that it would transfer to the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL), which is likely to be operational from July. “We are expecting everything to be put in place by June 30 and from July 1 onwards things will start functioning. The Indian Banks’ Association has already indicated this,” PNB managing director S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao told reporters. While public sector banks together are expected to pick up a 51 per cent stake in the national ARC, Rao said PNB’s shareholding will be less than 10 percentage points. The bad bank, initially proposed by the IBA, was later endorsed by the government in the budget. Insurance stake Rao said the PNB board has decided to exit Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company (CHOICE), and the sale process would take around 1-1.5 years as it would involve the appointment of intermediaries and engagement with advisers. The bank expects to exit the insurance venture at a good valuation. The state-owned bank had acquired a 23 per cent stake in the life insurer post amalgamation of the erstwhile Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) into itself last financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
06-06-2021||Business||GST mop-up tops Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May, crosses Rs 1-trn mark for 8th straight month||The goods and services tax collection dipped in May because of restrictions imposed by states to curb the second wave of Covid-19 infections. However, it managed to hold on to the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the eighth month in a row. The tax collection for May stood at Rs 1,02,709 crore, slipping from a record high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore in April 2021, according to data released by the ministry of finance on Saturday. “As expected, May 2021 GST collections have shown moderation as was predicted by the sequential slowdown in e-way bills between March and April. With the extension and widening of restrictions by various states in May, the e-way bills have declined further, which will dampen the GST collections in the month of June,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra, said. The May 2021 collection is 65 per cent higher than the Rs 62,009-`crore tax revenue of May 2020. Collections last year were impacted as economic activity took a hit because of the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. “The gross GST revenue collected in the month of May 2021 is Rs 1,02,709 crore of which CGST is Rs 17,592 crore, SGST is Rs 22,653, IGST is Rs 53,199 crore (including Rs 26,002 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 9,265 crore (including Rs 868 crore collected on the import of goods),” the finance ministry said in a statement. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Collections above Rs 1 lakh crore in April 2021 indicate that the economic impact of the restrictions has been much lower than expected. A close watch is required on the next month’s collections to determine the extent of the impact on GST collections in FY22.” Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said : “As most of the businesses were not functioning in April because of the lockdown, the numbers come as a pleasant surprise. “The numbers should rise further considering that many small businesses are yet to file their returns because of the Covid-related relaxations extended by the government for such businesses.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said: “The Rs 1.02-lakh-crore GST collections for the month of May will rise further as businesses with less than Rs 5 crore turnover have until the first week of July to file returns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
06-06-2021||India||Delhi govt asks private centres to keep Covaxin only for 2nd jabs||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Court rejects plea to produce Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi in handcuffs||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi Police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that they are not gangsters . The plea application which came up for hearing before Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in handcuffs in both hands from back side , contending that they are high-risk prisoners . The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by the high echelons of the Delhi Police and prison authority. The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters, the Additional Sessions Judge stated in an order dated June 5. He further said that the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The judge also noted the replies submitted by the Superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, Additional DCP (Special Cell) and DCP of third battalion of Delhi Police, on the plea. The DCP told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape. As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon'ble Court, the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26. However, in the reply given by the Additional DCP of Special Cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs, was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Central Vista revamp to raise green cover, 1,753 new trees to be transplanted||As many as 1,753 new trees will be transplanted and 2,000 tree saplings planted in the Central Vista area under the government's ambitious redevelopment plan, which will increase the overall green cover there, official sources said Sunday. They also said that as per the proposed plan, 3,230 trees will be moved out of the Central Vista area and transplanted to the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur after obtaining necessary clearance from the Ministry of Environment & Forest, and a permission from the Forest Department. After all the transplantation and plantation, they said, the Central Vista area will have a net gain of 563 trees. One of the sources said, “1,753 new trees will be transplanted within the project sites and 2,000 new tree saplings are to be planted within Central Vista area.” The proposed plan also includes compensatory plantation that will ensure a substantial increase in the overall green cover of the national capital, the sources said. “A total of 36,083 tree (saplings) will be planted in the city and overall green cover will increase substantially, including 32,330 trees to be planted in the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur as compensatory plantation,” an official source said. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The government has been facing criticism from the opposition for executing the Central Vista Redevelopment Project amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Slamming the opposition, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Monday said a false narrative is being created over the Central Vista redevelopment plan and asserted that it is not a “vanity project”, but a necessity. Under the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue which comprises Rajpath, leading from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, 48 trees are proposed to be transplanted and of them, permission has been granted for 25, including 22 Jamun trees, till date, sources said. However, no old tree planted as per Lutyen's original plan, including Jamun trees, is proposed to be transplanted, they said. Transplantation of the trees approved is in progress, they said. On Sunday, the government sought to bust “myths” around the Central Vista project, saying that all laid down procedures have been followed. “The cost for the PM's residential complex has been mischievously exaggerated in media. It is part of many projects, as mentioned earlier, whose neither the design has been approved nor the cost estimate or tendered cost has been firmed up," they said. Detailed environment impact assessment has been carried out for all the 10 Buildings under the Common Central Secretariat, Common Conferencing facility, Prime Minister's Residence, Prime Minister's Office and Vice President Enclave. “The Expert Appraisal Committee which is an independent body of field experts has examined this and recommended for clearance on May 2 this year. Environmental Clearance has been granted by MoEF&CC on May 31. “Therefore, these statements that piecemeal approach has been taken to surmise adverse impact of this project is unfound and totally false,” they said. The Congress has been asking the BJP-led Union government to shelve its plans on the central vista redevelopment project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the COVID-19 pandemic to save people's lives. The government said that all the paintings, sculptures, manuscripts, collections and other significant heritage and cultural artefacts that are presently housed at the National Museum, National Archives of India and Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) are carefully preserved. According to the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, the entire project will be carried out in a heritage-sensitive manner. The existing documents and artefacts will be moved to upgraded facilities, with modern infrastructure, to ensure their longevity, it has said. The entire exercise will be spearheaded and monitored by the Ministry of Culture, ensuring compliance to the heritage conservation guidelines. All the relevant heritage-sensitive approvals and clearances will be obtained from Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) before initiating the project, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||CSIR begins clinical trial of Niclosamide drug for Covid-19 treatment||The CSIR and Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited have initiated phase II clinical trials of anti-helminitic drug Niclosamide' for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, a statement said on Sunday. The trial is a multi-centric, randomised, open label clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Niclosamide for treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Niclosamide has been extensively used in the past for treating tapeworm infection in adults as well as children. The safety profile of this drug has been tested over time and has been found safe for human consumption at different dose levels, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) said. Ram Vishwakarma, advisor to Director General CSIR, pointed out that in a screen to identify drugs that can inhibit syncytia formation, Niclosamide was identified as a promising repurposed drug by a research group from King's College London, which collaborated in this project. The syncytia or fused cells observed in the lungs of patients with novel coronavirus infection probably result from the fusogenic activity of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and Niclosamide can inhibit this syncytia formation. Independently, a collaborative research between CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu and the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru had recently demonstrated that Niclosamide was also a potential SARS-CoV2 entry inhibitor, blocking the viral entry through pH dependent endocytic pathway. Given these two independent experimental studies, Niclosamide has now emerged as a promising drug candidate for clinical trial in Covid-19 patients. Srivari Chandrashekhar, director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) Hyderabad highlighted that the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) is being made by Laxai Life Sciences based on improved technology developed at IICT and the lab is a partner in this important clinical trial which could provide cost effective therapeutic options for patients if the ongoing trial is successful. Ram Upadhayaya, CEO, Laxai Life Sciences noted that realising the potential of Niclosamide, efforts were initiated last year itself to undertake the clinical trials. Having received approval from drug regulators, the clinical trial has been initiated this week at different sites and is expected to be completed within 8-12 weeks, the CSIR said. Based on successful clinical evidence generated during the clinical trials in Indian studies, emergency use authorisation may be sought so that more treatment options are available to Covid-19 patients, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Pregnant women should be vaccinated on priority, says report||Amid rising deaths of pregnant women due to Covid-19, a report has made a strong case for their vaccination on a priority basis. For Covid not to further aggravate the already heavy burden of maternal and under five mortality, there is a strong case for inclusion of pregnant women as a high priority group for vaccination, a report prepared by a group of doctors led by Yamini Sarwal of Delhi-based Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital said. "We recommend including Covid-19 vaccination in the routine protocol for antenatal care in all countries, particularly India and Indonesia, in view of their high dual burden," it said. Currently, either pregnant women are not included for vaccination, or the policies are ambiguous with the decision being often left to the woman, the report said. Evidence is emerging of the safety and efficacy of Covid vaccination, which along with benefits of passing on the protection to the newborn, call for including pregnant women in the high priority group for vaccination, it said. Observing that pregnant women are known to be at significantly higher risk for severe coronavirus-related complications compared with non-pregnant women, it said, the issue of protecting such women is critical. Vaccination has emerged as a reliable protective measure against severe Covid-19 infection, the report noted. Of the top 20 Covid affected countries, nine allow vaccination of pregnant women, of which two preferentially vaccinate them. In contrast, four of the 20 high under-five mortality countries allow vaccination of pregnant women, while none include them in the preferential group. India and Indonesia, with one fifth of the world's population, fall in both the groups but do not include pregnant women for vaccination. Many organisations have represented the government for inclusion of pregnant women for inoculation. Last month, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) moved the Supreme Court against the January 14 advisory of the Union government excluding pregnant and lactating women from vaccination. Arguing for prioritisation, the report said pregnant women experience more severe Covid-19 disease than non-pregnant women. They are more likely to require hospitalization, admission to ICU, receive invasive ventilation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation when compared with non-pregnant women, it said, adding, there is a 70 per cent increased risk of death among symptomatic pregnant women as compared to non-pregnant ones. Women who get coronavirus infection while pregnant, experience a higher maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, it added. Observing that Covid vaccination in pregnancy has dual benefits, it said, both the mother and newborn get antibodies which have been demonstrated in cord blood and breast milk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Don't speak Malayalam, Delhi hospital tells nurses; revokes order after flak||Facing flak over a circular asking its nursing staff not to use Malayalam at work, the Delhi government-run G B Pant hospital on Sunday revoked the order and said strict action will be taken in the matter. The circular which was issued by the Nursing Superintendent, G B Pant Hospital, without any instructions or knowledge of the hospital administration and the Delhi government stands withdrawn with immediate effect, a new order issued by the Medical Director Dr Anil Agarwal read. "The matter is being investigated and strict action will follow," Dr Agarwal told PTI. The circular issued on Saturday read, "A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patients and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience. "So, it is directed to all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication. Otherwise, serious action will be taken," it had said. An official of the G B Pant nurses' association said there are around 850 nurses working at the hospital, of which around 400 are Malayali. The association's president, Liladhar Ramchandani, claimed the circular was issued based on a complaint sent by a patient to a senior officer in the health department, regarding use of Malayalam language at the hospital, while adding that "the union disagrees with the wordings used in the circular". The circular invited criticism from the medical fraternity, political leaders and the public. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called for stopping language discrimination. Party leader Shashi Tharoor said that the order was unacceptable, crude, offensive and a violation of the basic human rights of Indian citizens . Last year, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences had also issued an order advising staff that regional languages should not be spoken in its premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Rahul: BJP busy fighting for blue ticks, people must be self-reliant for vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the Modi government, saying it is fighting for a blue tick while leaving people to become "aatmanirbhar" (self-reliant) to get Covid vaccines. Gandhi's remarks came a day after outrage over the removal of the 'blue tick' badge from the personal accounts of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and RSS top functionaries, including Mohan Bhagwat, by Twitter, only to restore it later. "The Modi government is fighting for the blue tick. If you want a Covid vaccine, then be self-reliant," he said in a sarcastic tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#Priorities". Taking a dig at Gandhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said doing politics on Twitter is his (Gandhi's) "most important subject" and "biggest platform". Patra asserted that the Modi government has done an admirable job in spearheading such a big inoculation programme and providing free ration to the poor. Hitting back at the Congress leader, the BJP said he should get out of social media and work on the ground. The party also asked him to speak to chief ministers of Congress-ruled states regarding alleged scams and irregularities in the Covid vaccination programme there. Meanwhile, the former Congress president also talked about stopping language discrimination after a Delhi government hospital asked its nurses not to converse in Malayalam. The hospital order has been revoked. "Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination," Gandhi said in another tweet. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also shared the concern and posted the order of the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research warning the nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication, else serious action will be taken. "This order is a violation of the basic values of our country. It is racist, discriminatory and utterly wrong," she said in a tweet in Malayalam, saying Malayali nurses are risking their lives in Covid times to save people. "This order is also an insult. We owe them a debt of gratitude and respect. It should be withdrawn as soon as possible and an apology should be published," she demanded. In another tweet, Priyanka alleged that the Modi government reduced oxygen beds by 36 per cent, ICU beds by 46 per cent, ventilator beds by 28 per cent between September 2020 and January 2021. "Is the health of Indian citizens less important than the Central Vista project?" she asked, alleging that the government has declared the project as an essential service with people working day and night to complete it by 2023. "When every expert in the country, the Parliamentary Committee on Health and their own sero-surveys warned them that additional beds would be needed for an inevitable second wave," she said as part of her 'ZimmedarKaun' (Who is responsible) campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||BJP’s UP in-charge meets governor amid reports of cabinet reshuffle||BJP national vice-president and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh on Sunday dismissed the possibility of a cabinet reshuffle in the Yogi Adityanath government. His remarks came after a meeting with Governor Anandiben Patel here, which he described as a formality. Asked about the possibility of a reshuffle in Uttar Pradesh, Singh told reporters "there is nothing as such". "After becoming the (party's) in-charge of UP, I have not met the Governor. When she was the chief minister (of Gujarat), I was the Agriculture minister, I had an old association with Gujarat. Since, I could not meet her in the past six months, hence I met her today. This was a personal meeting and a formality," Singh said. Praising Adityanath, he said, “Everyone believes in his mettle. Everyone knows that he has done the work of Corona recently.” He said the Uttar Pradesh government and the organisation are moving very strongly. "The strongest organisation and most popular government are working in UP," Singh said. Ironically, there had been reports of despair and helplessness and widespread criticism of the Adityanath government over its tackling of the pandemic that had apparently prompted the central leadership to rush BJP national secretary B.L. Santhosh and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh to Uttar Pradesh for the stock-taking exercise. Reports of the central leadership mulling a reshuffle were also doing rounds. Several of the BJP’s own ministers and MLAs have been resentful of the administration’s handling of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||India had over 9.2 lakh severely acute malnourished children till November: RTI||More than 9.2 lakh children in India are ‘severely acute malnourished', with the most in Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar, according to government data, underscoring concerns that the Covid pandemic could exacerbate the health and nutrition crisis among the poorest of the poor. An estimated 9,27,606 ‘severely acute malnourished' children from six months to six years were identified across the country till November last year, the Women and Child Development Ministry said in response to an RTI query from PTI. Of these, Uttar Pradesh counted for 3,98,359 and Bihar 2,79,427, according to the figures shared by the ministry. Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Manipur and Madhya Pradesh reported no severely malnourished children. Except for Ladakh, none of the anganwadi centres in the other four, including Madhya Pradesh, one of India's largest states, reported any data on the matter, according to the RTI reply. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines ‘severe acute malnutrition' (SAM) by very low weight-for-height or a mid-upper arm circumference less than 115 mm, or by the presence of nutritional oedema. Children suffering from SAM have very low weight for their height, and are nine times more likely to die in case of diseases due to their weakened immune system. The Women and Child Development Ministry had last year asked all states and union territories to identify SAM children for their early referral to hospitals. The figure of 9,27,606 came following that exercise. The worry is that the numbers could not just be an underestimation but also rise in view of the ongoing pandemic with fears that the third wave could impact children more than others. "There is rise in unemployment, there is rise in an economic crisis which is bound to have repercussions on hunger and when there is hunger there will be malnutrition. The government has a clear cut protocol and they need to ramp that up," Enakshi Ganguly, co-founder of the HAQ Center for Child Rights, told PTI. While Uttar Pradesh and Bihar top the list for SAM children, they are also home to the highest number of children in the country. According to 2011 census data, Uttar Pradesh has 2,97,28,235 (2.97 crore/29.72 million) children aged 0-6 years while Bihar has 1,85,82,229 (1.85 crore/18.5 million). According to the RTI response, Maharashtra reported 70,665 SAM children followed by Gujarat at 45,749, Chhattisgarh at 37,249, Odisha at 15,595, Tamil Nadu at 12,489, Jharkhand at 12,059, Andhra Pradesh at 11,201, Telangana at 9,045, Assam at 7,218, Karnataka at 6,899, Kerala at 6,188 and Rajasthan at 5,732. The identification of SAM children was done by over 10 lakh Anganwadi centres from across the country. Ganguly stressed on the role of anganwadi centres in helping improve the nutrition status of the children. "The anganwadis have to become much more functional and if the possibility of children reaching anganwadis is going to become hard because of lockdowns, then the anganwadis need to reach the children. So what are the plans for that? she asked. Malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity if what they are saying that children will be affected more in the next wave holds true, then malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity and how are they going to address that?" Dola Mohapatra, executive director, Rise Against Hunger India, agreed that COVID-19 could further exacerbate the situation with shrinking food diversity and low intake combined with episodes of missing food at times. He said solutions have to be both home-based care and facility-based care. "Since SAM has direct connection with food availability, utilisation and awareness the immediate task is to appropriately build linkages with the government systems to ensure families receive not just ration/food, but required education and support," he said. COVID-19 has been a big impediment in organising community based interventions, so new ways/methods to disseminate info to the mothers and caregivers have to be found out," he said. Mohapatra also stressed on the need to strengthen Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs) which are meant to treat SAM cases "There are studies that suggest that NRCs have not been very effective. In many cases, we have seen that SAM cases have been discharged early because either the centre could not continue to keep the same case for a continued period, or the caregivers could not stay for a longer duration at the facility, or there was simply not enough supervision by the higher ups." He also stressed on the need for designing customised menus in consultation with experts for SAM cases and formulating guidelines. For administrative and operational convenience, as well as for better accountability, SAM cases could be segregated into smaller units and responsibility to manage/coordinate and monitor smaller units could be handed over to independent entities such as medical colleges, local NGOs, women's collectives under the overall guidance of the District/Block health staff," Mohapatra said. While data is not updated year on year, the last available figure of SAM children is from NFHS-4 (National Family Health Survey) in 2015-16 according to which, the prevalence of severe acute malnutrition among children was reported at 7.4 per cent. NFHS-4 gathered information from 601,509 households, 699,686 women, and 112,122 men. Information on 265,653 children below age 5 has been collected in the survey NFHS-5, released in December last year, which gave figures for 22 states and UTs also presented a grim scenario. It said malnutrition increased among children in 2019-20 from 2015-16 in 22 states and UTs. Around 13 states and UTs out of the 22 surveyed recorded a rise in percentage of children under five years who are stunted in comparison to 2015-16; 12 states and UTs recorded a rise in percentage of children under five years who are wasted; 16 states and UTs recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are severely wasted and underweight in 2019-20. The NFHS-5 was conducted on 6.1 lakh sample households. Wasting is low weight for their height among children, reflecting acute undernutrition. Wasting is a strong predictor of mortality among children under five years of age. To tackle high persistence of malnutrition in the country, the Centre launched the Poshan Abhiyan programme in 2018 to reduce low birth weight, stunting and undernutrition and anaemia among children, adolescent girls and women. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Kejriwal: If pizza can be delivered, why not ration?||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the doorstep ration delivery scheme by his government was stalled by the Centre and appealed to him to allow its implementation in the national interest. He said the scheme should be implemented across the country in view of Covid-19 otherwise ration shops will act as super-spreaders. "If pizza, burgers, smartphones and clothes can be delivered at home, then why can't ration be delivered at their doorstep," Kejriwal asked. He alleged that the Centre was fighting with everyone, including Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra, Delhi and Jharkhand governments, farmers and the people of Lakhsadweep. "People are distressed that the central government is fighting everyone. If we fight like this, how will we tackle Covid-19, the chief minister said in an online briefing. "The Delhi government did not require the Centre's approval for the implementation of the scheme, but it sought permission five times to avoid any dispute," Kejriwal said. The Delhi government on Saturday had claimed the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was rejected by the Lt governor saying the Centre's approval was not sought and that a litigation was pending in the high court regarding it. He said the scheme would have finished the powerful ration mafia in Delhi. "If you stand with the ration mafia, who will stand with the poor people" the chief minister said, adding that the scheme was intended to benefit 72 lakh people in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Labour codes likely to see the light of day in two months||The four labour codes are likely to see the light of day in a couple of months as the Centre is now keen to go ahead with the implementation of these laws, which among others will result in reduction in take-home pay of employees and higher provident fund liability of companies. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and provident fund of employees are calculated. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety & working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 central labour laws. The ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many states were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdiction. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India and therefore both the Centre and states have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. "Many major states have not finalised the rules under four codes. Some states are in the process of finalising rules for the implementation of these laws. Central government cannot wait forever for states to firm up rules under these codes. Therefore it is planning to implement these codes in a couple of months as some time would have to be given to establishments or firms to align with new laws," a source told PTI. According to the source, some states had already circulated the draft rules. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50 per cent. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of the basic wage, which includes basic pay and dearness allowance. The employers have been splitting wages into numerous allowances to keep basic wages low to reduce provident fund and income tax outgo. The new wages code provides for provident fund contribution as a prescribed proportion of 50 per cent of gross pay. After the implementation of new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce while provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases. Once implemented, employers would have to restructure the salaries of their employees as per the new code on wages. Besides, the new industrial relation code would also improve ease of doing business by allowing firms with up to 300 workers to go ahead with lay-offs, retrenchment and closure without government permission. At present all firms with up to 100 employees are exempted from government permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Have we really gone Green?||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||India records 1.14lakh new Covid cases, lowest in 60 days||India reported 1,14,460 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 60 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 5.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 2,88,09,339. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,46,759 with 2,677 daily deaths, the lowest after around 42 days, while the active cases dropped below 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6. Also, 20,36,311 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,47,46,522, while the daily positivity has further declined to 5.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 13 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.54 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 14,77,799 comprising 5.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.67 per cent. A net decline of 77,449 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for 24 consecutive days.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,69,84,781, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.20 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Defense ministry appoints monitors for Pakistan and China border projects||The defence ministry has appointed two independent external monitors for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and Military Engineering Services (MES) to oversee the ongoing infrastructure projects along the Pakistan and China borders. The move comes amid China’s objections to India building strategic roads along the Line of Actual Control, which has triggered a standoff between their armies in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Both countries have since then been aggressively deploying men and machines along the frontier. The ongoing border infrastructure projects are key to India’s deployment of forces. Former Intelligence Bureau chief Rajiv Jain and former chief information commissioner Sudhir Bhargava are the external monitors who will for three years oversee the functioning of the BRO and the MES. The BRO is a military outfit that builds and maintains roads along India’s frontiers. The MES is an inter-services organisation that has army and civil components and deals mainly with construction. China particularly wants India to stop building the 250km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road that connects Leh to the Karakoram Pass. This road runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations ranging between 14,000 feet and 16,000 feet. Its strategic significance is that it connects Leh to Daulat Beg Oldie at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. Completion of the border roads will ensure faster deployment of Indian troops in the region. India and China have both ramped up strategic reserves in their rear bases near the frontier by rushing in artillery, infantry combat vehicles and military equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Odd-even reopen plan for Delhi malls and liquor shops ||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that malls and liquor shops would open on an odd-even basis and the Delhi Metro would resume services with 50 per cent capacity from Monday. In a webcast on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “All markets and malls will be opened up on an odd-even basis — half the shops will be operational on one day and the other half the following day. This will be from 10am to 8pm, based on the shop numbers... Delhi Metro will become operational with a 50 per cent capacity.” Delhi Metro said it would be able to return to the pre-lockdown frequency of trains by Wednesday. A clarification issued by the government after the chief minister’s webcast specified that liquor shops would also be allowed to function on odd-even basis. However, theatres, restaurants and bars, gyms, spas, hair and beauty parlours, and shops selling entertainment or amusement products would remain shut. “All private offices can be opened up at 50 per cent manpower. But efforts should be made to ensure that more people should work from home. Private offices should make attempts to stagger their work hours so that not everyone should come out at the same time,” the chief minister added. The Delhi government slammed the Centre for disallowing its scheme to deliver ration to the doorstep citing litigation. However, the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network wrote to Kejriwal on Saturday that even distribution of ration at designated centres to those without rations cards — as relief for loss of employment — was happening with arbitrary caps on the amount of grain given. It also complained against insistence on Aadhaar cards and OTPs in violation of court guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India|| 50-year-old man shot dead by cow vigilantes in Mathura||A man was shot dead after a village mob in Mathura attacked him and his seven associates, alleging they were cattle smugglers ferrying stolen cows in their truck for slaughter. While Mohammad Shera, 50, joined the list of the dozens lynched by cow vigilantes in the past few years, his injured and hospitalised associates have denied the cows were for slaughter. They said they had bought the six cows from farmers in Hathras and were travelling to Haryana on Friday to sell them when a mob stopped their truck in Tumaula village, pulled them out and began thrashing them. Pramod Panwar, inspector in charge of the local Kosikalan police station, said the matter was being investigated but did not hesitate to label the victims as cow smugglers. He also backed the villagers’ claim that the men on the truck had fired at them on being stopped, an allegation the injured victims have denied. A PTI report spoke of firearms having been seized from the spot without specifying who they belonged to. Panwar, however, accepted that an “unidentified villager” had fired and killed Shera, and said the police were trying to identify him. Villagers said residents of neighbouring Jawa and Tumaula had gathered on the highway after one of them was “tipped off about cow smugglers travelling on a truck”. It wasn’t clear who exactly was “tipped off” or by whom. All the attackers have been labelled “unidentified” in the statement the police have recorded from Shera’s son Shahrukh, one of the injured. It reads: “Unidentified villagers stopped the truck, pulled us out and thrashed us mercilessly. They opened fire when we tried to escape.” Rahman, another injured, told reporters from his hospital bed on Saturday that the victims had managed to get back onto the truck during the assault and tried to drive away, with Shera at the wheel. “Someone fired at Shera and the truck tipped over. Shera died on the spot.” The police have also recorded a statement from Chandrashekhar, a sadhu from nearby Nandgaon who claimed to have been at the spot and to whose cowshed the villagers have handed over the six cows. Chandrashekhar has said that when the villagers stopped the truck, “someone fired at them” and that “when the truck jumped off the road, a stray bullet hit Shera and he died there”. Six of Shera’s companions were admitted to a hospital in Mathura city. The injured have been identified as Shahrukh, Rahman, Shahzada, Anis, Kadim and Sonu. Panwar said the police had registered cases of cow smuggling and firing against the truck occupants, a murder case against an unidentified villager, and assault cases against two dozen unidentified villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Internecine strife in Punjab Congress unit bares lack of crisis management system||Punjab, which the Congress hopes to retain in elections early next year, has been dogged by internecine strife that has exposed the lack of a crisis management system in a party that has not been able to resolve its leadership issue since Rahul Gandhi relinquished office two years ago. While the discord in Punjab has erupted now because of the impending Assembly elections, most state Congress units have been in ferment, desperately waiting for corrective measures instead of preparing for political battles. While nobody — neither the entrenched veterans nor the middle-rung leaders — is ready to accept the young Anil Chaudhary’s leadership in Delhi, most senior leaders are awaiting the removal of Ajay Kumar Lallu as state president in election-bound Uttar Pradesh. Many other state Congress units are grappling with similar internal feuds: while veterans aren’t happy with state chief Amit Chavda in Gujarat, the young Hardik Patel, appointed working president last year, is feeling restive because there apparently is no freedom to work. Deep distrust between state president Kumari Selja and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is an open secret in Haryana. The Bihar unit is almost defunct under Madan Mohan Jha, while newly appointed Maharashtra chief Nana Patole has left the entire Congress leadership in the state unhappy. Kerala, where the Congress recently lost the Assembly elections primarily because of a protracted internal feud, witnessed another burst of discontent when senior leader Ramesh Chennithala wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi over how humiliated he had felt by the manner in which V.D. Satheesan was appointed leader of the Opposition. In Karnataka, despite the dynamic D.K. Shivakumar taking over the party’s reins, the unhappiness of former chief minister Siddaramaiah is known to all. While factionalism and dissent aren’t new in the Congress, what has accentuated the sense of frustration is the absence of a crisis-management mechanism. State leaders don’t know who to talk to in the high command structure after the demise of Ahmed Patel and there is no way to convey their feelings to Sonia directly. Rahul doesn’t get directly involved in organisational matters on the ground that he is no longer the party president. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, is not perceived by cadres as someone interested in organisational issues. When Punjab was threatening to slip out of hand, with chief minister Amarinder Singh and dissenter Navjot Singh Sidhu sniping at each other publicly, Sonia constituted a committee of senior leaders to resolve the crisis. While the intervention should have been made six months ago, which would have prevented the ugly spectacle of intra-party warfare before elections, what is more disturbing is that many leaders believe the situation reached such a pass because Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lent their weight behind Sidhu, seen as a trouble-maker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Retired bureaucrats seek withdrawal of overbearing reforms in Lakshadweep||Over 90 retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the immediate withdrawal of the overbearing reforms in Lakshadweep and the appointment of a “full-time, people-sensitive and responsible administrator”. In a long memorandum, the retired bureaucrats from the Constitutional Conduct Group on Saturday registered their concern at the disturbing developments in the isles off the Kerala coast. Referring to the slew of draft laws brought after Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, took additional charge of Lakshadweep, the memorandum noted they were all part of a “larger agenda”. “It is clear that each of these draft regulations is part of a larger agenda that is against the ethos and interests of the islands and islanders,” the 93 signatories stated. “Taken together, the actions and far-reaching proposals of the administrator, without due consultation with the islanders, constitute an onslaught on the very fabric of Lakshadweep society, economy and landscape as if the islands were just a piece of real estate for tourists and tourism investors from the outside world.” Among the signatories are former foreign secretary and national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former adviser to the Prime Minister T.K.A. Nair, former Bengal special secretary Gopalan Balagopal, former cabinet secretariat special secretaries Vappala Balachandran and Rana Banerji, and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro. Among the contentious decisions of Patel are a move to ban beef, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure — all of which have sparked fears of Lakshadweep being turned into “another Kashmir” through repression and intimidation. The retired bureaucrats cited the draft laws that are pending with the Centre, such as the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (or Goonda Act) and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR). They have also referred to the amendment to the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation. The administration has already removed beef from school mid-day meals, brought draft laws to take over any resident’s land for development projects and closed down two dairy farms. The Goonda Act empowers police to detain anyone for a year without trial.  The administration has claimed it is only trying to usher in more tourism by modelling the isles on the Maldives. “Claiming that there has been no development in Lakshadweep for the past 70 years, the LDAR reflects a model of land and tourism development which includes resorts, hotels and beachfronts on the ‘Maldives model’ unmindful of the differences between the two island groups in size, population, number of islands and their spread,” the Constitutional Conduct letter said. Pointing out that the crime rate in Lakshadweep was very low, they came down heavily on the Goonda Act and stated that it had “generated fears that the real purpose of the regulation is to smother dissent or protests against the policies and actions of the administrator or on any other issue”. “Other regulations proposed by the administrator target food and dietary habits and religious injunctions of the local islanders, 96.5 per cent of whom are Muslims,” the letter added. “Each of these measures smacks not of development but of alien and arbitrary policy making, in violation of established practices that respect the environment and society of Lakshadweep,” the signatories alleged. The Lakshadweep administration has ordered that all fishing boats have a government official on board to monitor their crew and gather intelligence. The department of ports, shipping and aviation of the Lakshadweep administration issued the new guidelines on Wednesday. “This is a baffling decision. I am unable to see any logic in ordering that each fishing vessel have a government official on board,” Lakshadweep district panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress, who is also the chairman of the local body’s standing committee on fisheries, told The Telegraph on Saturday. “Fishing boats set sail between 3am and 5am and return only around 5pm. I wonder how government servants would be able to board them so early in the day when their duty hours begin at 10am,” Malika said. Kavaratti district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party said the authorities were “trying to portray us as terrorists and give an impression to the outside world that something very dangerous is going on here”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Researchers document breakthrough infection after vaccination with Covishield||India’s largest yet data analysis of the so-called breakthrough infections after inoculation with Covishield has found that 16 in every 1,000 fully vaccinated healthcare workers developed Covid-19 infections, about threefold the incidence observed in a US study after Pfizer or Moderna doses. A team of doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has documented 48 Covid-19 infections among 3,000 healthcare workers who had completed two weeks after both doses of Covishield before they tested Covid-positive. “The incidence of breakthrough infection was 1.6 per cent, the median time from receipt of the second dose to the breakthrough infection was 29.5 days,” Venkatamaha Laksmi Pinnaka and his colleagues at PGIMER wrote in their report in The New England Journal of Medicine. Medical researchers caution that the incidence of breakthrough infections among healthcare workers cannot be extrapolated to the general public because the former are more likely to be exposed to the infection and make up a vulnerable population group. The PGIMER study, however, is being viewed as significant because it followed up over 7,170 healthcare workers who had received the first dose of the vaccine and 3,650 who had received the second dose since the start of the nationwide vaccination campaign that began in January. The doctors found that 184 (2.6 per cent) among the 7,170 were infected after the first dose, and 72 (2 per cent) among the 3,650 were infected after the second dose, of whom 48 (1.6 per cent) were among the 3,000 who had completed two weeks after the second dose. Earlier observations of breakthrough infections in India had involved smaller samples. A hospital in Delhi had, for instance, last month counted 15 breakthrough infections among 113 vaccinated healthcare workers. Experts say the larger the samples, the greater the statistical reliability of the results. A study at the Rockefeller University in New York had detected breakthrough infections in two (0.05 per cent) of 417 healthcare workers who had been fully vaccinated with either the Pfizer or the Moderna vaccines at least two weeks earlier. The study from India’s PGIMER and other efforts to gather additional data “provide important contributions regarding risk (of breakthrough infections)”, Robert Darnell and his colleagues at the Rockefeller University said, responding to the Chandigarh-based institute’s findings in the journal. But doctors have cautioned that breakthrough infections do not distinguish between vaccine failure and infections after successful immune responses produced by the vaccination. It will be “especially important” to combine data on breakthrough infections with the course of the infection and disease outcomes in the patients, they said. Studies on small samples of breakthrough infections in two Delhi hospitals have observed moderate and severe disease but no deaths. But anecdotal accounts have recorded deaths among healthcare workers after two doses. Medical researchers believe there is an urgent need to expand studies on breakthrough infections in relation to coronavirus variants amid evidence that a widely circulating variant, designated B.1.617, appears likelier to cause post-vaccination infections than other circulating variants. A joint study of 27 breakthrough infections by the National Centre for Disease Control and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi had found that 19 had been infected by the B.1.617.2 variant and two had been infected by the B.1.617.1 variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||KVS asks Class XII students to thank PM for cancelling board exams||Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) authorities have asked their schools in at least two regions to get their Class XII students to tweet video messages under the hashtag “Thank You Modi Sir” for cancelling their board exams, several principals and teachers have said. A number of academics said the move would have undermined the dignity of the schools and the teachers, who had to pass on the diktat to the students, and amounted to schoolchildren being used for political propaganda. A senior official at a private school in Delhi said this was an attempt to burnish Modi’s image amid the criticism over the mismanagement of the Covid crisis. When the Nazis ruled Germany, the ministry of public enlightenment and propaganda had exercised control over schools, too. While the nudge from the KVS came “unofficially” in a WhatsApp message, several teachers emphasised that the schools had no choice but to obey. The principals of the 51 Kendriya Vidyalayas in the Bangalore region — which covers the whole of Karnataka — received the WhatsApp message on Thursday from the deputy commissioner for the region, Sirimala Sambana. “All principal (sic) Bangalore region. Please send at least 5 videos of hashtag/ retweet by your students ‘Thank You Modi Sir’ by 4pm today (Thursday) for onward transmission to… hq,” the message attributed to “DC Bangalore” said. “Please share among teacher/ students, if not shared immediately, and get at least 5 videos,” the message added. A principal and two teachers independently confirmed that they had received the message. A June 1 meeting chaired by Modi had scrapped the CBSE Class XII exams. A KVS official said a similar message had been sent to the principals of the Ernakulam region, which covers Kerala and has 39 Kendriya Vidyalayas. A video message from a student in Kerala under the hashtag “Thank You Modi Sir” said: “I… wish to express my sincere gratitude to our honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for relieving lakhs of students from the entire country from the uncertainty regarding the Class XII board examinations 2021. Covid 19 has definitely disturbed many families and lakhs of students have gone through harrowing times. This decision of our honourable Prime Minister has definitely come as a healing touch to the entire student community. Thank you, Sir, and a big salute to you.” The KVS official said the Union education ministry had unofficially prodded the KVS to get its students to post such tweets. The central government-funded KVS has 25 regions and runs over 1,200 schools in the country and three abroad. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry on Friday, and another to KVS Commissioner Nidhi Pandey on Saturday, have brought no response. Calls from this newspaper to Sambana went unanswered. Several Bangalore principals passed on the “DC’s” message to the class teachers immediately, sources said. The teachers put out the message in their students’ official WhatsApp groups, which have the class teacher as the administrator. “Many teachers also phoned the students and asked them to post the tweet,” a teacher at a Bangalore Kendriya Vidyala said. The teacher said: “The students follow whatever their class teacher says without any questioning. They began tweeting and the screenshots of the tweets were forwarded by the schools to the KVS regional office for further transmission.” While Sambana’s message spoke of “at least five videos”, the schools asked every Class XII student to tweet a written message or a video, sources said. Each section of a class at a Kendriya Vidyalaya tends to have about 40 students. Assuming a school has two sections per class on an average, some 4,000 students from the 51 schools in the Bangalore region would have been expected by their teachers and principals to post the tweets thanking Modi. Educationist Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, said: “It’s unfortunate that the autonomy of institutions and teachers and their dignity is being undermined to the point of making them sycophants of politicians.” She added: “What will the students learn from this? One wonders what respect they will carry for their institutions and leaders.” The senior official from the Delhi private school said the Class XII exams would have had to be cancelled anyway because of the Covid situation, and that the Twitter campaign was just an attempt to build hype around Modi. “There was no other choice but to cancel the exam. The board should have taken this decision earlier,” the official said. “But now the government is using social media platforms to manufacture popularity for the Prime Minister, who has been facing criticism over his handling of the Covid crisis.” A Kendriya Vidyalaya principal in Bangalore said that over the past few years, the KVS had been sending official communications to the schools asking students to participate in government programmes such as Swachh Bharat. Another such programme is the Pariksha Pe Charcha, an interactive session the Prime Minister holds with students annually to discuss exam stress. This year’s programme was held online in April. “As a government employee, you have very little choice, frankly,” the principal said. An academic in Delhi who did not wish to be quoted said the latest KVS move reflected an attempt to please the Prime Minister. “The education minister and other ministers are busy tweeting more and more because the Prime Minister follows Twitter. This is being done to please the Prime Minister. The autonomous institutions are being brought into this too,” the academic said. Last year, the education ministry --- then known as the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) --- had asked each IIT to prepare a presentation on its Covid-related research. Saying that HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal would post a tweet on the basis of the presentations, the ministry verbally suggested that all the IIT teachers re-tweet it. This was officially communicated by the IIT Bhubaneswar PRO to institute staff. “The MHRD wants maximum momentum to HRD minister’s tweets and has asked that from our institute end, all the deans, heads of schools including all the faculty members and all students to re-tweet the same tweet from their individual Twitter handles,” the email from PRO Shalin Sasidharan Nair said. However, the communication was withdrawn after sometime. In another email, the PRO said the first mail had been erroneously sent to all the teachers although he intended to discuss the matter only with the deans of student affairs and faculty planning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Imam's appeal dispel fear, hundreds get vaccinated in Mathura, Etawah||Announcements by two imams over their mosque loudspeakers have persuaded hundreds of Hindus and Muslims in Mathura city and Etawah town to shed their unfounded fears of the Covid vaccine and take the jab. Some 1,500-odd residents of the Raya locality in Mathura city were hesitant to take the vaccine. But three days of encouragement over the local mosque’s public address system had led to 80 per cent of them getting themselves vaccinated by Saturday morning. The rest have some or other health issue and are waiting for their doctors to declare them fit to take the jab. “Sixty per cent of the locality’s population is Muslim and 40 per cent is Hindu. All of them were opposed to receiving the jab, because three people from the neighbourhood had died three to seven days after getting inoculated,” a resident, Rahim Qureshi, said. It’s unclear what these people died of since they did not undergo Covid-19 tests. “However, an announcement by the imam of the local mosque worked wonders,” Qureshi said. Hafiz Islam Khan, the imam, said: “It was a difficult decision to appeal to the people over the mosque loudspeaker to take the vaccine. I feared that people would accuse me of misusing my position.” He added: “However, I was amazed to see the response of the Hindus as well as Muslims. A large number of residents came out of their homes to get vaccinated within a few hours of my announcement on Thursday morning.” The imam had announced in Hindi: “Are you listening to me? Listen to me. Those who have not taken the vaccine must take it now so that we get rid of the disease. Go and take the vaccine to make the country corona(virus)-free. The injection is necessary to force the disease out.” Dr Rachna Gupta, chief medical officer of Mathura, said: “There was problem in Raya area but people have started coming to the vaccination booths in the last three days. I cannot tell you the exact number at the moment but the problem has been sorted out there.” The imam told reporters: “From today (Saturday), I shall be going door to door to tell people to keep their areas clean and wear masks whenever they step out. I shall ask the mothers and sisters in particular to ensure that all family members stay home even after taking the jab, as the virus is changing its character very fast.” Maulana Zahid Raza Qadri, imam of the Masjid Panjabian in Etawah town, made a similar announcement on Friday and Saturday. “I asked people to ignore the rumours (about purported side-effects) and trust the doctors and scientists. Many have taken the vaccine in the past two days. I’m thinking of continuing the announcement for a few days,” Qadri said. “There are Hindus as well as Muslims here, and both communities are responding to my appeal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest:  Copies of three new farm laws burnt  in North and South||Farmers burnt copies of the Centre’s three new farm laws near the residences of BJP leaders and at other places in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, observing the day of the promulgation of the farm ordinances last year as “Sampoorna Kranti Diwas” (Total Revolution Day). Thousands of kilometres away in Tamil Nadu, too, farmers took part in similar agitations. The protesting peasants in Punjab and Haryana, the epicentres of the farm movement, carried black flags and raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre for not scrapping the legislations, which they said would “destroy” the farming community. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit spearheading the agitation, had given the call to observe Sampoorna Kranti Diwas. Protests were held across Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali, Abohar, Hoshiarpur, Barnala, Nawanshahr, Patiala, Chandigarh, Sirsa, Jind, Karnal, Panipat and Ambala. In Phagwara in Punjab, farmers burnt copies of the farm laws near the residence of Union minister Som Parkash at Urban Estate. The protesters assembled near GT Road and marched towards the BJP politician’s home. Police had put up barricades on the road leading to Parkash’s house to prevent protesters from reaching there, officials said. The Union minister of state for commerce and industry was not at home. Farmers also held a protest near another of Parkash’s residences in Mohali district. In Chandigarh, a protest was held against the Centre for not repealing the farm laws, the main demand of the agitating farmers besides a legal guarantee on minimum support price. In Hoshiarpur, farmers took out a protest march from the local Gurdwara Singh Sabha to the BJP office at Shastri Market where they burnt copies of the three legislation. In Karnal, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to farmers not to disturb law and order during their protest. In Ambala in Haryana, farmers held a demonstration near the residence of Haryana home minister Anil Vij. A group of farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union gathered at National Highway 1 near Ambala Cantonment, around 500 yards from the residence of the home minister. The entry point to Vij’s residence at Shastri Colony was barricaded and the police were deployed. Protests were also held near the residence of BJP MLA from Ambala City, Aseem Goyal. Goyal was not at home when the farmers burnt copies of the laws. In Panchkula, the police lathicharged farmers who tried to force their way through barricades to head towards the home of Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. After being promulgated as ordinances on this day last year, the farm bills were passed by Parliament in September. The President gave his assent to the bills later that month. Down south, members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, a farmers’ outfit, burnt copies of the three farm laws, demanding their withdrawal. Protests were held in various parts of the state with farmers assembling in small groups wearing face masks and maintaining physical distance owing to the pandemic. Recalling the year-long protests by farmers across the country and their sacrifices during the six-month picketing of New Delhi’s borders, Sangam state general secretary P. Shanmugam urged Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin to take steps to pass a resolution against the farm laws in the Assembly. “Our chief minister wrote to the Union government recently, seeking the withdrawal of the three farm laws for the welfare of the farming community,” Shanmugam said. At Tambaram near Chennai, 15 people led by Shanmugam gathered to burn copies of the laws. They raised slogans denouncing the Centre for enacting the “anti-farmer laws”. Policemen doused the flames with a bucket full of water. Shanmugam said the protests were peaceful. “In districts such as Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, the CPI and the CPM extended support to us,” he said. Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support prices for all crops. The government, however, has been maintaining that the laws are pro-farmer. Eleven rounds of talks between the agitating farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock. The last round of talks was held on January 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Fresh payoff slur on Kerala BJP chief||Kerala BJP chief K. Surendran has again found himself in the thick of poll payoff allegations with a Bahujan Samaj Party nominee accusing him of getting him to pull out of the race in Manjeshwar in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a cellphone and the promise of a wine shop. K. Sundara, the BSP nominee for the Manjeshwar seat in Kasaragod district, which Surendran eventually contested, had withdrawn his nomination papers on March 22 and immediately joined the BJP. The BSP later sacked him. “I withdrew because he (Surendran) asked me to…. He spoke to me over phone, but never met me,” Sundara told a news channel on Saturday. “They gave me Rs 2.5 lakh, (of which) Rs 2 lakh was handed over to my mother and Rs 50,000 to me…. I had asked for Rs 15 lakh. They also gave me a mobile phone worth Rs 15,000,” Sundara told another television channel. He said he had also demanded a wine shop. “I had asked them for a wine shop. But nothing happened after the election as no one called me,” Sundara said. Surendran, who unsuccessfully contested from Manjeshwar and Konni (in Pathanamthitta district), is yet to respond to Sundara’s claims. The Kasaragod BJP leadership has vehemently denied Sundara’s allegations. Ironically, many in the BJP believe that the similarity in the names of Surendran and Sundara that may have confounded voters cost the former the Manjeshwar seat in the end. Sundara’s claims have also offered a glimpse of the depth of the desperation to score electoral points, especially in a state that has always staved off the BJP, as efforts were purportedly made to ease out an adversary who had polled just 467 votes in the last election. Earlier, a leaked audiotape had triggered accusations that Surendran had bribed a Left ally to join the NDA, and an April 3 car robbery has left the state BJP unit fending off allegations of using money power to influence the April 6 Assembly elections. Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, had on Wednesday accused Surendran of agreeing to pay Rs 10 lakh to her now-suspended party leader C.K. Janu to get her to return to the NDA. Both Surendran and Janu have denied the allegation. The funds from the alleged payoffs are being linked to the highway robbery on April 3. Although the complainant named Shamjeer had claimed that Rs 25 lakh in cash had been robbed by a gang that carjacked the vehicle in which he and RSS worker Dharmarajan were carrying the money in Kodakara, Thrissur, police have so far unearthed more than Rs 1 crore of the suspected Rs 3.5 crore that was in the car. Dharmarajan had allegedly been entrusted with ferrying money for the BJP. A special investigation team of the police on Saturday questioned Surendran’s driver Libeesh and secretary Dipin in connection with the heist. Sources said Libeesh and Dipin were questioned over call records that suggested they had been in touch with Dharmarajan. According to the sources, the duo have claimed that they had called up Dharmarajan as he had been entrusted with ferrying posters and other printed materials for the elections. Sundara, the politician who has made fresh allegations of bribery against Surendran, has been under the media spotlight ever since the 2016 Kerala Assembly elections in which he had polled just 467 votes as an Independent. Many in the BJP had suspected that some voters had confused Surendran with Sundara when the state unit chief lost the Manjeshwar seat this time by a wafer-thin margin of 89 votes. In the largely Kannada and Tulu-speaking part of the northern Kerala district of Kasaragod, bordering Karnataka, Surendran is called “Surendra” by people in Manjeshwar. Kasaragod BJP president K. Srikanth denied that any money had been paid to Sundara. “This is a baseless allegation. We did not give him any money to withdraw his nomination papers,” Srikanth said, accusing the CPM and the IUML of getting Sundara to spread lies. “We suspect that Sundara is making these allegations at the behest of the CPM and the IUML. What is coming out is a conspiracy against the BJP,” Srikanth said. BJP veteran and former Kerala unit president C.K. Padmanabhan said the guilty would be punished. “Those who have erred will pay for it. That is how the law of nature works.” Padmanabhan was one of the party seniors who had come out against Surendran’s style of functioning and leasing a helicopter for his election campaign. CPM politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan termed the scams being linked to the BJP as “only the tip of the iceberg”. “What has been disclosed is only the tip of the iceberg. A comprehensive investigation is needed,” he told reporters. Congress leader and Lok Sabha member K. Muraleedharan also called for a detailed inquiry by a retired judge. “A detailed investigation is needed to probe the use of hawala money, his (Surendran’s) travel by helicopter and payoffs to rope in new partners,” Muraleedharan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Bihar government mission to plant 5cr saplings||The Bihar government rolled out “Mission 5.0” on Saturday to plant five crore saplings in 2021-22 to mark World Environment Day. The state government has engaged paramilitary forces, farmers and several other institutions to make the drive a success. The aim is to increase the green cover — area covered by plants or trees in a certain terrain — in the state ravaged by climate change, and increase awareness about environment protection. Chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated the mission by planting a mahogany sapling at his 1 Aney Marg residence in Patna. The mission was simultaneously launched across the state, including various forest divisions. “We started the Hariyali Mission in 2012 to increase the green cover in Bihar. It had decreased drastically after Jharkhand separated from the state, but has now gone up to 15 per cent due to the state government’s continuous efforts,” Nitish said. The plantation drive has also been incorporated in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Jeevika didis, who are part of women self-help groups created under the Bihar Rural Livelihood Project, paramilitary forces stationed in the state, and several civil society organisations have also been made a part of the mission to plant five crore saplings. Various nurseries belonging to the environment and forest department have prepared 5.5 crore saplings to meet the target. These will be provided free of cost for planting. Around 1.24 crore of these saplings will be planted as part of projects undertaken by different government departments, two crore will be planted as part of MGNREGA work and 1.5 crore by the Jeevika didis. Different central paramilitary forces stationed in the state, civil society organisations, boards and clubs will plant over 20 lakh plants as part of the mission. Around 50 lakh saplings of fruit-bearing plants will also be provided to the farmers in an attempt to increase their income. The government will give Rs 60 to them for every surviving plant after three years. A government official said most of the planting would be completed during the rainy season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC inducts young leaders as part of brand renewal strategy||The Trinamul Congress organisational changes seem aimed at bringing in fresh faces from the next generation in order to renew brand TMC ahead of the next round of elections. The move also reflects a trend among regional parties where Akhilesh Yadav, has taken over the mantle from his father and founder of the Samajwadi Party, while Tejashwi Yadav has taken over from his father Laloo Prasad Yadav in leading the powerful RJD party which almost upset the apple- cart in Bihar. Abhishek Banerjee has taken over as national General Secretary, even though the party has hardly any presence outside West Bengal, in a move where he is seen to project him as the next leader of the party. Abhishek was also the most prominent TMC campaigner other than West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is his aunt, in the recently concluded state assembly elections. However, Trinamul insiders aver that this should not be viewed as Parivar-waad or nepotism as its critics and opposition parties were making it out to be, but rather a bid to reward youngsters for their hard work and to groom a next line of leaders, keeping in mind the next round of general and assembly elections. Newly appointed state General Secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Inducting new faces doesn’t indicate Trinamul is not giving weightage to the experience and wisdom of seasoned veterans they will be there to guide the young.” Ghosh known to be close to both Trinamul Surpremo Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek, claimed the move to induct younger faces was with an eye to project a young band of leaders before the people ahead of the Lok Sabha battle three years from now, to reach out with the development work pursued by our government and counter the false communal narrative of BJP. Bringing in new faces is part of a strategy aimed at brand renewal. The selection of candidates for the assembly elections where many old party leaders were sent to the benches and younger people were brought in was similarly based on feedback and a pre-planned strategy, said Rajat Roy, well- known political analyst, and member of the Calcutta Research Group. Even before the next general elections, the party will have to face elections to around 80 municipalities and four Municipal Corporations besides polls to the three-tier panchayat set up in districts. Some TMC leaders who did not wish to be named are also speculating the trend towards promoting the youth brigade is also a prelude to Banerjee attempting to focus more on national affairs. She has already signalled that she has been reaching out to other opposition parties in her bid to take on the BJP. Other TMC insiders said promotions to the younger brigade effected in Saturdays organisational changes were reward promotions. A top TMC leader told PTI, “Take the instance of Ritabrata Banerjee, (a former CPIM MP) who has been made state General Secretary of INTTUC. He had been working for the party organization in Dooars area for past one year without any fanfare or hype. The party felt he did his job well and has rewarded him with greater responsibility.” Agreed TMC insiders who pointed out that the party had fielded young men and women in 30 per cent of the seats it contested including actor-turned candidate Saayoni Ghosh. Despite her loss at the hands of the BJP by a small margin in Asansol South, we believe in Saayoni's potential as a street fighter. The actress has been made the President of Trinamul Yuva Congress, a post vacated by Abhishek. “From Birbaha Hansda at Jhargram to Raj Chakraborty in Barrackpore we had fielded many new faces who have potential, young faces and they vindicated our trust by winning, TMC leaders said. Chakraborty has now been entrusted with charge of the cultural cell which is considered an important organisation within the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks public opinion before taking final call on board exams||Three days after forming an expert panel to check the feasibility of conducting board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the West Bengal school education department on Sunday shared email ids and sought public opinion on the matter within 24 hours. The six-member expert committee, comprising the head of the secondary board, the chief of state child rights protection panel, a doctor and academics, has already submitted its report to the government on Saturday, but its recommendations have not been made public. A member of the panel, however, told PTI that he and the others have unanimously agreed that conducting offline exams, both for Class 10 and Class 12 students, was not realistic, under the present circumstances. Opinions, however, differed about the next course of action -- if an open book examination system would be more apt for the students or an online assessment. The school education department, in a notice issued on Sunday, said, views of the public are being sought on "whether to conduct or not conduct the Madhyamik/Ucchya Madhyamik examinations 2021. If yes, suggestions should be made on the mode of conducting the examinations." The department has also sought views about the possible criteria for assessment. "While the expert committee is considering and discussing the matter, the government of West Bengal invites views from the general public, guardians/parents, students on the above points by 2 pm tomorrow, 7th June 2021," the notice said, sharing the email ids. Authorities had on June 3 cancelled a joint press conference, which was scheduled for announcing dates for Class 10 and 12 board examinations. Last week, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had declared a possible time period for holding Madhyamik (Class 10), and Higher Secondary (Class 12) exams. Taking to Twitter, she said on Sunday, "Our children's future is my greatest priority. To this regard, we have formed an expert committee to decide over holding the Class 10th & 12th board exams in 2021." "We are also inviting views & opinions from parents, general public, sector experts, civil society & students. https://t.co/eVpEIbJkBK. I request each one of you to send us your feedback on the issue by emailing us on the following addresses by June 7th, 2021, 2 PM," she added. Over 12 lakh students are set to appear for Madhyamik and 8.5 lakh for Higher Secondary examinations this year. CBSE and CISCE have recently cancelled 12 board exams in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Law and order situation in Bengal ‘extremely alarming’, says Dhankhar||Describing the law and order situation in post-poll Bengal as "extremely alarming" with numerous cases of killings and rapes recorded, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said he has called upon Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi to learn about the steps being taken by the administration to contain this "retributive violence". He also claimed that the state police is "engaged as an extension of ruling dispensation to let loose vindictiveness on political opponents". Dhankhar, taking to Twitter, said lakhs of people were being displaced and property worth hundreds of crores vandalised in Bengal. "Extremely alarming law & order scenario. Security environment is seriously compromised. In such a grim situation called upon (the) Chief Secretary to brief me on the law and order situation on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence," he tweeted on Sunday. The governor also alleged that people who have voted against the ruling TMC are victims of "targeted violence". "The state is in (the) grip of unprecedented post poll retributive violence at unimaginable scale, with lacs of people being displaced and property worth hundreds of crores vandalised. Rampant vandalism and hooliganism has resulted in large scale arson, loot, destruction of property. "Numerous instances of rapes and killings at the hands of rogue elements who have no fear of law (sic)," he stated. Condemning alleged incidents of socially boycott and denial of benefits to people who had voted for TMC rivals, he said they are being made to pay extortion fees for living in their own house or running their own business. "Democratic values are openly shredded and trampled by ruling party harmads. People are in mortal fear of police and that in turn is at the feet of ruling party rogue elements," he wrote on his Twitter handle. He maintained that the state functionaries "are not recognising this malaise, much less take steps to contain it". "Police is engaged as extension of ruling dispensation to let loose vindictiveness on political opponents. In such a grim situation Chief Secretary of the state be called upon to brief me urgently on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence," Dhankhar, who has always been at loggerheads with the TMC government, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Central team to visit Bengal for assessing damage caused by Yaas||A central team headed by a joint secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will visit Bengal to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas, days after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee abstained from a cyclone review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi triggering a controversy. The very severe cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on May 26 and affected a large part of the state as well as Bengal. A central team led by a joint secretary of the MHA will visit Bengal for three days to assess the damage caused by the cyclone, a Home Ministry official said. The Bengal chief minister had said, as per preliminary assessment, the cyclone had led to damage of an estimated Rs 20,000 crore to property and agriculture. She had also said that 18 lakh people were affected by the cyclone and around 2.21 lakh hectares of crops and 71,560 hectares of horticulture area suffered damage. Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected area of Bengal on May 28 and later called a review meeting at the Kalaikunda air force station. However, the chief minister and the then chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a senior IAS officer, did not attend it, even though they met the prime minister for a few minutes. Following this, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the cadre controlling ministry for the IAS officers, summoned Bandyopadhyay for serving in the central government. However, he did not come to the capital and chose to retire on May 31, instead of accepting a three-month extension sanctioned to him by the state and central government. Subsequently, he was appointed as the chief advisor to the state government by Mamata. On May 31 itself, the MHA slapped a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment for up to two years for abstaining from the meeting presided by the prime minister at Kalaikunda. The Chief Minister had alleged that the officer was targeted by the central government due to a "political vendetta". The ruling Trinamul Congress claimed that the Centre was wreaking vengeance on the Bengal government and that the notice sent to Bandyopadhyay was an "illegal" move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: WBCPCR raises Covid murder finger at EC||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has filed a petition in Calcutta High Court seeking a directive to the Election Commission of India to pay compensation to children orphaned by Covid-19 and to the families that lost children to the infection after the announcement of the Assembly polls on February 26. “The petition has been filed before the court,” advocate Debashish Banerjee, representing the child rights organisation, told The Telegraph on Saturday. In the petition, the child rights commission, a statutory body set up under the Protection of Child Rights Act, accused the EC of “wilfully and deliberately putting the lives of about 10 crore in the state into the depth of despair” amid the pandemic by conducting a prolonged, eight-phase election. The WBCPCR said it was restricting itself to the “disastrous effect and consequences that have been caused to the children of the state and how the statistics of pre- and post-poll Covid cases reveal that countless number of children have directly and indirectly been affected during the time the general election had been conducted in the state and still continue to suffer”. Ananya Chakraborti, the WBCPCR chairperson and petitioner, told this newspaper: “Covid in our state was under control as we did not participate in any of our festivals last year. Some schools had also resumed classes in February this year. Then, the election was announced.… Reports that we have collected from various department have shown that children were the worst affected in the last couple of months and so we decided to file the case against the EC.” The WBCPCR said in the petition that the large number of central force personnel who came to Bengal on poll duty did not adhere to Covid norms. “The Election Commission did not direct for mandatory Covid test of such personnel,” the petition said. The WBCPCR said the personnel moved about “uncontrolled and unrestrained” in Bengal, even travelling to the remotest corners. The forces had put up in “government and government-aided primary, upper primary and secondary schools, which were requisitioned for such purpose by the Election Commission, remaining nonchalant of the fact that midday meal were handed over from such schools on a regular basis… to guardians of students”, the petition said. The child rights commission said the EC “did not take any step to completely restrict public gatherings during the election campaigns”. “About a week before the first phase of the elections, less than 4,000 active Covid-19 cases were reported in the state of West Bengal and by the time the seventh phase of election was held on April 26, 2021, the state reported near about one lakh active cases. During this period, the number of new cases per day increased from less than 400 to about 16,000,” said the petition, which has attached copies of Covid bulletins from dates before, during and after the polls. The child rights panel is mandated to examine everything that inhibits the enjoyment of child rights and look into matters relating to children in need of special care and protection. The poll panel is immune from legal scrutiny in the phase between the announcement of the poll schedule and the declaration of results. “The election code of conduct prevails from the time between the date of announcement of the election to the publication of the election results. During this period, the courts have no jurisdiction to entertain any issue relating to the polls. But after the election, petitions can be entertained,” explained Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, senior advocate with Calcutta High Court. The child rights commission said in the petition that some of the affected children were those with special needs, who have “suffered significantly more during the Covid-19 lockdown, giving rise to stress with psycho-social problems of isolation, abandonment and violence”. The panel said the Election Commission was “solely, entirely and absolutely responsible and accountable for the children, firstly those who have lost their lives… (to) Covid, secondly those who have survived the disease and are thus compelled to live the rest of their lives with post-Covid syndromes, thirdly and most importantly, those who have lost both their parents and guardians and have thus been rendered as orphans, fourthly those who are being compelled to live like orphans since their parents and guardians are admitted in medical facilities”. “It cannot be denied that today the lives of so many children are at stake, some have become orphans, opening a gate for illegal adoption, many have been adversely affected, some have become victim of child labour/ child trafficking, their education, their future everything are at stake and the Election Commission of India is fully liable for such violation of child rights, which attracts penal provisions,” the petition added. “…The Election Commission of India must admit to its failure to prevent such massacre and compensate adequately and on the event otherwise, this Hon’ble Court may kindly be pleased to hold the Election Commission of India solely and absolutely accountable and responsible for all those children that the state has lost and for those children who have lost, due to deliberate, wilful, unconcerned, nonchalant, illogical act on the part of the Election Commission of India,” the child rights body said. The WBCPCR appealed to the court to direct the EC to “compensate each of the families of the deceased children, being responsible and accountable for the children who have lost their lives due to the Covid-19 disease in the state (after the) announcement of the general election on February 26, 2021, the quantum of which may be stipulated by this Hon’ble Court”. The petitioner sought an order to the EC “to render necessary financial assistance to all children who have lost their parents or guardians due to the Covid-19 disease in the state, and have thus been rendered as orphans”, till such period they are suitably and appropriately rehabilitated. The WBCPCR said the pandemic’s second wave, “invited by the Election Commission of India”, had left children “once again locked in their houses”. “Schools are once again indefinitely closed and board exams have been (cancelled or) deferred, thereby severely affecting their career. Children in rural areas cannot even avail online classes due to financial crisis. These unpredictable circumstances are sheer violation of their right to education. Such families, having no other means, are compelled to engage their children in such works which are definitely violation of their rights, attracting provisions of the Prohibition of Child Labour Act, 1986,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp group exit adds grist to BJP rift mill||BJP MP and state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan left a media WhatsApp group of the party’s Bishnupur unit in Bankura and skipped an organisational meeting convened by state party chief Dilip Ghosh in Bishnupur on Saturday. On Saturday morning, the BJP’s Bishnupur organisational committee put up a post in the party’s official media WhatsApp group to share Ghosh’s schedule with journalists. Soon, Khan, the Bishnupur MP, left the WhatsApp group and party insiders said it was a reflection of his tenuous ties with Ghosh. “This WhatsApp group is not of importance. It gets difficult to keep tabs on all the groups I have been added to. So, I decided to leave one. There is no question of having any rift with Dilipda,” Khan said. Khan added that he had to skip Ghosh’s meeting because of a pre-scheduled meeting of the BJYM, which was later rescheduled to Sunday. A BJP leader said the BJYM meeting had been convened by a leader known for his proximity to Ghosh. “It is no longer a secret that Dilipda and Saumitrada don’t get along well. As the Bishnupur district committee is led by people close to Dilipda, they are always at loggerheads with Saumitrada,” said a leader in the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: State govt to include tourism sector staff in priority group for vaccination||The state government has decided to include tourism sector workers in the priority group for vaccination, a move that has brought a sigh of relief to an industry among the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, there is no clarity whether the nearly three lakh tea garden workers from north Bengal are included on the vaccination-priority list. The list issued by the Bengal’s health and family welfare department also includes those working in micro, small and medium enterprises, khadi workers, handloom weavers, rice, flour mill and cold storage workers along with “industrial workers”. Confusion prevails on whether the tea workers fall under the “industrial workers” category. Tea and tourism are the mainstay of the hill economy. “We are hopeful that workers in the tea industry will fall under the industrial workers category,” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association. Darjeeling district magistrate S. Poonambalam, however, said that he would seek a clarification from the higher authorities on whether tea workers are part of the priority list. “However many tea workers who are above 45 years have been vaccinated.” Apart from tourism sector workers, domestic workers, cable TV operators and TV channel staff have been included in the new list. “The state government’s decision to include tourism sector workers in the priority group has come as a huge relief as this industry is among the worst hit sectors,” said Tashi Pencho, owner of Hotel Seven Seventeen in Darjeeling which also has a restaurant. The state government has decided to open restaurants from 5pm to 8pm from Saturday, provided all the employees in an establishment are vaccinated. A survey conducted for the Union tourism department in 2015 suggested that nearly 64 per cent of the staff working in the hotels and restaurants were less than 40 years old. Enlistment in the priority group ensures that people in the 18-44 age category, too, can be vaccinated quickly. Most of the vaccination camps in Bengal are vaccinating only those above 45 years. Darjeeling hills is one of the top tourist draws in Bengal. The hill town alone has 350-odd hotels. There are also over 2,500 homestays that have come up in recent times. At present, most hotels are closed in the hills because of the pandemic-induced restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases in Bengal now stand at 44,441||Bengal on Saturday logged 7,682 new Covid-19 infections, less than half the 16,146 recoveries, to register a drop in its total of active cases by 8,582. The total of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 44,441 now, having improved by over 66 per cent in these 15 days. Bengal now has 3 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. “We are decidedly past the second wave’s peak,” said a minister. There were 118 deaths reported on Saturday. Bengal now has a total of 14.19 lakh cases, which includes 13.58 lakh recoveries and 16,152 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 35th consecutive day, rising by nearly 11 percentage points to 95.73 per cent on Saturday. The national rate now is 93.61. “We are sixth on the list of states with most people (1.2 crore) vaccinated with at least one dose, and third among states with most people (39.3 lakh) fully vaccinated. Despite the Centre’s many blunders in vaccination, we managed to give at least one dose to 12 per cent of our huge (state) population, and around 4 per cent of our population are fully vaccinated,” added the minister. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave to nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.57 on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.2. Of the 118 deaths reported on Saturday, 23 were reported from the city and 28 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 796 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,664.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s remark on migrant workers rattles BJP||The BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday indicated his party could create problems for lakhs from Bengal who work in BJP-ruled states, prompting many within the saffron camp to say the party was yet to understand Bengali sentiments. “Forty lakh people from Bengal work outside (the state). If they (Trinamul) think that they can boycott BJP workers in Keshpur from having tea… even we can stop them from working in Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Noida, Surat…. But that isn’t BJP’s policy and we won’t do that,” Adhikari told journalists. The MLA was reacting to an allegation that Trinamul’s local unit in Mahishda, which is part of the Keshpur Assembly seat in West Midnapore, had issued a social boycott fiat against Opposition workers. The alleged notice addressed specifically to tea stall owners, names 18 persons, mostly BJP supporters  and a few CPM workers, who cannot be sold tea without Trinamul’s permission. While BJP leaders have condemned the alleged boycott call, Adhikari’s reaction has shocked them. “The poll results have proved how alienated our party is from the people of Bengal. Suvenduda’s statement will only aggravate it further,” a state BJP office-bearer said. “This (Adhikari’s statement) sounds like a threat to poor migrating labourers of Bengal. This cannot be the language of the leader of Opposition ,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul MP. Local Trinamul leaders said the boycott notice was fake. Dev Adhikari, Trinamul MP from Ghatal that covers Mahishda, also tweeted that party leaders had not issued  the notice. He said: “I have personally spoken to my party members in Keshpur after having seen this and they too have reconfirmed that such a notice has never been issued by any TMC party office/ members.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Floating body in Ganga sparks fear in Malda||A body was recovered from river Ganga on Saturday morning, while residents claimed another body was swept away by the current, in Malda where the river enters Bengal from the Jharkhand border. Residents fear that the body could be of a Covid patient from another state tossed into the river. This is the first time that a body has been recovered from Ganga on the Bengal border following reports of such incidents in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Police have confirmed recovering the unidentified and decomposed body from the Ganga. Sources said that a body was found stuck on a bend of the river by residents of Kesharpur village of Bhutni islet under Malda’s Manikchak police station. Villagers claimed another body was carried away by the river’s current. “The body that was found was beyond recognition. We will follow the statutory measures as directed on post mortem and last rites. As people have claimed to have seen another body in the river, we are keeping watch,” said SP  Alok Rajoria. The district police chief said no missing complaint had been filed in the area in the past few days, which suggests that the body may have found its way here from a neighbouring state. “There is a possibility of that, but it is difficult to confirm,” said Rajoria. Residents are sure that the body floated from another state. Bholanath Mandal, a Kesharpur resident, said: “We could not identify the body and are sure it came from outside as all villagers here are vouched for. We think it is that of a Covid patient from elsewhere.” People have stopped bathing in the river. Fishermen have stopped casting nets after news of ‘bodies” in the Ganga spread, said sources. Debajyoti Sinha, district secretary of CPM-backed labour union Citu quoted villagers to say the second body, which could not be found, was wrapped in coloured plastic. A senior administrative official said: “It  is too early to comment on the origin of the body and if it was of a Covid victim. But  all those who died of Covid in Malda and Bengal as a whole have been suitably cremated or buried.” Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate said: “We have been keeping watch on the Ganga. The body recovered would be dealt with according to protocol and directives from higher-ups.” Fake cops arrested Alipurduar police arrested four persons from Jaigaon town along the Indo-Bhutan border for impersonating men in uniform and demanding ransom from a trader. Police said four local men, Kiran Sharma, 33, Shubash Lama, 26, Biswakarma, 27, and Migma Dorjee, 26, pretended to be cops and raided the house of grocer Dharam Kumar Gupta at Deokota Tole in Jaigon on May 29. They allegedly demanded Rs 3 lakh and threatened him with a gun. On Friday night, when they called up Gupta for ransom, he shared the phone details with police, which was traced to Kiran and all four were arrested. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee fills Mukul’s shoes in Trinamul Congress||Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and till now the Trinamul youth wing chief, on Saturday succeeded Subrata Bakshi as the all-India general-secretary, a post held for years by Mukul Roy before he joined the BJP. Bakshi, one of Mamata’s most trusted lieutenants, will continue as the state president of the party. On Saturday, the formal seal of approval was given at a two-part organisational meeting chaired by Mamata Banerjee at party headquarters. “Humbled at the new role that @AITCofficial has bestowed upon me. I thank every single soldier of the party who fought this battle shoulder to shoulder with me despite all odds and helped Bengal emerge victorious,” tweeted Abhishek, 33, and the party’s Diamond Harbour MP, in the evening. “I assure all that I will leave no stone unturned towards the service of the people & take @MamataOfficial’s message to every nook & corner in India in the days to come. I bow to all the senior colleagues in the party who stood by the party & its values despite all odds,” he added. Sayani Ghosh, the 28-year-old actor who recently joined Trinamul and lost from Asansol South, was picked to succeed Abhishek at the helm of the youth wing. The historic mandate of the Bengal election was in some ways, a referendum on Trinamul’s succession plan, made so by Narendra Modi-Amit Shah’s key poll plank against alleged bua-bhatijavad (“aunt-nephewism”). A Trinamul vice-president said with the poll results, Abhishek silenced critics outside and within the party. “Many expressed reservations regarding him. Some left for the BJP, mainly over their differences with him, such as Suvendu (Adhikari) and Mukul (Roy). His methods, especially after he got (poll consultant) Prashant Kishor on board, were questioned by many. But he did not budge from what he believed was right for the party,” he said. He pointed out how, in every public statement for months, Prime Minister Modi, home minister Shah, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and others from the party’s national and state leadership spoke about bhatija or bhaipo (nephew). Subrata Mukherjee, a Trinamul veteran, said: “The old must make way for the new.... The next generations have to be readied, so that they can carry the mantle forward. Mamata was once a youth leader. I was too…. Abhishek has truly earned it.” Mukherjee and several others in the party lavished praise on Abhishek’s role, especially after the setback of the general election in 2019 in which the BJP made unprecedented gains. Abhishek, said a senior minister, was instrumental, along with Kishor, in setting up the election war room for the party, one of several unprecedented exercises that apparently paid off very well. He said Abhishek was also behind the bohiragawto (outsider) versus Banglar nijeyr meye (Bengal’s own daughter) pitch that Mamata pursued relentlessly in her campaign. “Abhishek played a key role in everything, from shortlisting of candidates based on their winnability for her (Mamata’s) final selection, to countering the BJP’s polarising campaign with Bengali sub-nationalism,” said the minister, adding that the Diamond Harbour MP was second only to his aunt in crisscrossing Bengal in the intense campaign, holding over 100 rallies and roadshows. Besides Abhishek’s promotion, two crucial elements from the two-part meeting stood out. First, as Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee announced, instructions were issued by the Bengal chief minister in her third consecutive term in power to enhance the party’s organisational presence and strength in other parts of the country. This is in keeping with Mamata’s refuelled national ambitions in the run-up to the Lok Sabha election of 2024. Poll strategist Kishor and his team have returned, and are now likely to focus, over the next three years, on furthering Trinamul’s national agenda. Second, Mamata’s purported stress on the need for a “clean image”. “She warned against excesses, against complacency, against allowing this mandate to be sullied by allegations of graft or popular resentment against ostentatious shows of wealth or clout. She repeatedly underscored how the historic mandate should bring with a greater sense of responsibility and humility,” said a senior MP. At the meeting, Trinamul adopted the “one person, one post” policy in the party, at least on principle. Secretary-general Chatterjee said it would, in a process meticulously overseen by the supreme leadership, be implemented over the next few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Brick by Trick||The message read thus: “You have to see it with your own eyes to believe this. Four-year-olds, six-year-olds with barely a thread on them, working all day long at brick kilns.” The sender of the message, Jaydeep Mukherjee of NGO Meghdutam Foundation, has been delivering relief to the pandemic affected since March last year. One morning, as he set out for an aid sortie, I went along with him to the brick kilns at Joynagar and Tilpi in South 24-Parganas. As we headed towards Gocharan railway station and crossed the wholesale market of Dhosha Bajar, I noticed the river. “That’s Piyali,” said Jaydeep. “It flows and meets Matla some kilometres downtown.” Brick kilns are invariably near river banks because the soft earth there is used to make bricks. We met Mohammed Kutubuddin Molla, a social worker from Tilpi at Dhosha Bajar. He led us to the kilns on his motorbike; we followed in an SUV. The roads turned dusty and the landscape desolate. Tall brick chimneys spouting black fumes showed us the way to the kilns. They have names for the kilns — Jamuna, Shilpi, Sagar and so on. The Bengali word for kiln is bhnata. As we made our way towards Shilpi bhnata, children of different sizes came running towards us. They were dressed in rag-tag shorts or pyjamas or were bare-bodied. Their enthusiasm had to do with Jaydeep; on previous visits he had come bearing treats. Kutub showed me around. Wide fields stacked with grey clay bricks all neatly arranged and waiting to be furnaced. I was ushered to the base of the brick chimney. Coal was being spaded into carts, carried to the base and poured into channels. The ground was smouldering hot. The furnace was right below our feet; here neatly arranged bricks were being fired. I was told they would have to be fired for four to five months continuously to make red bricks. Shilpi bhnata is a 24-hour kiln during summer months. Once the rains start, the furnace is put out, workers take their pay and head home and stay there till winter. I climbed into the pit and found Tasmira Lashkar, all of two-and-a-half feet, standing against a pile of bricks. Her head was covered with a red gamchha and she was one of the few children who wore a colourful frock. She looked at me quizzically. “What are you doing here,” I asked. “I work here with my family,” she replied. How old is she? “Fifteen,” she replied. “They hide their age,” said Kutub, “They are tutored by the kiln owner to hide their actual age.” Engaging children below 14 years of age is a violation of the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act and also the Right to Education Act. Tasmira has three brothers. All of them and their parents work at the kiln. What does Tasmira do? “Ami int kati… I make bricks,” she said. Does she go to school? “No,” pat came the reply. Tasmira’s parents were nowhere to be seen. It was two in the afternoon, break time. Most likely, they were cooking a hurried meal before the next shift. Tasmira’s friend Madhura Handa joined us. Madhura is a little taller and she too is wearing a colourful frock. Madhura has left behind her extended family in Mariganj village. She was a student of Class V in Nonakhali High School when the nationwide lockdown happened. Asked if she would return to school once it reopens, Madhura nodded. As we headed towards the field lined with rows of grey bricks, we saw Rupa Sikari hurrying along. Like Tasmira, she had her head covered with a cloth. In a full sleeved blouse and a brightly printed cotton sari, Rupa looked ready for a long stint under the sun. She had her four-year-old daughter in tow. The Sikaris too have been camping at the kiln. At the peak of production season, a brick kiln will have 100 to 200 people camping at the site. Asked how much she is paid, she replied, “We get Rs 400 for 1,000 bricks.” Her job entails cutting the bricks to size and getting them ready for the furnace. She has to stack them neatly so her employer can count easily, otherwise her payment will be stalled. The shifts are rigorous. Work starts at four in the morning and continues till noon. After the azan at 1pm, work resumes and continues till 4pm. Rupa’s husband Ramprasad is also at the kiln. She said, “He used to do zari work before the lockdown, but now there is no work at our village in Hedobhanga. So we came here to earn some money.” Rupa has brought one of her children with her. “My son is with his grandmother at the village. His school is closed since lockdown but he goes for tuitions. My daughter is too small to work. But I can’t leave her behind at the village,” she said. When asked if her daughter was safe at the kiln, she said: “I keep her with me,” and no more. Jaydeep tells me little girls have been sold off during the lockdown. How does he know? “I have been told by the locals, the social workers who asked me to come here and distribute relief,” he replied. “There was no work anywhere, people couldn’t feed their children. Some families apparently sold off their girls for as little as Rs 1,000,” said Jaydeep. So who were the buyers? “It’s usually the brick kiln owners and their middlemen,” he told me. But none at Shilpi bhnata said as much when I asked them about this. “We don’t feel unsafe here. We bring our husbands along and live here as a family. I have not encountered anything nor do I feel unsafe,” said Rupa. As we talked, a whole bunch of women gathered around us. There was Sabitri Naiya from Kashinagar in Raidighi, Shikha Sardar from Shyamnagar, Rupa from Deulbari, all in South 24-Parganas. They were all on their mid-day break from work; nearly all of them had either a gamcha or the pallu covering their heads and shielding them from the sun. “What are you writing,” asked Shikha. “I am writing down your stories,” I replied. “Write down our names also,” she demanded and I scribbled them down obediently. All of them stood in a queue and rattled off their names and names of their villages. Why were they so keen that I write down their names? “If you write something about us, maybe things will change for the better,” said Rupa. They fought among themselves, scolded each other. Sabitri took up cudgels with one, “Why are you here, you don’t work in the kiln.” Umbe Nazma Sardar, with a child in her lap, was the target of Sabitri’s ire. Umbe pleaded, “No, I don’t work in the kiln but won’t she write down my story?” Her husband had just recovered from tuberculosis and was working in the kiln. She has two children to feed. She cannot work because her children are too young. More such stories follow. Sabitri has a teenaged handicapped child back home. “He can’t walk or do anything by himself,” she said with the furrows in her forehead deepening. Then added, “That I have to live here and work tears me up.” Shikha labours to feed her family of five. “My husband does not work, he’s an alcoholic and my in-laws are too old and frail,” she said. And where are the families whose children were trafficked? In February, The Telegraph reported that over a hundred headmasters and headmistresses from 23 districts of West Bengal met in Calcutta to discuss ways to combat trafficking against the backdrop of the pandemic. At the conference, Chandan Kumar Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, said: “There were 450 Madhyamik aspirants in our school before the pandemic. But around 350 have enrolled for the exam. The rest have not contacted the school for a long time.” Maity, who is the general secretary of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses, West Bengal, added, “Most of the parents are extremely poor. Their livelihood has taken a massive hit because of the pandemic. Many of them want to get their girls married off.” Said Shyamal Kumar Majumder, the headmaster of a school in Murshidabad, “My area has over 400 brick kilns. There are a lot of daily wage earners. Their children are most vulnerable to these threats... I cannot keep an eye on all of them. There is a block child protection wing but that is not enough. We need an institutionalised support system.” Shantha Sinha, leading child rights activist and former chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “Every out-of-school child is a child labourer or a child bride.” Ananya Chakraborti of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights added, “At least at the kiln the children are working. Mostly in the interior villages, parents give away their children for some paltry sum.” We drove to another bhnata nearby. Rows of shanties lined the kiln site. Plastic covers over the makeshift homes billowed in the warm breeze. Children in underpants played amidst the mounds of earth and dust. Some women were drawing water from a tubewell. I asked them about the trafficking menace and they replied almost in unison. “We are all okay here. We work, we get paid,” was all that they would say. Possible. Except that their frail bodies, their clothes in tatters and vacant eyes told another story. These women from the bhnatas of South 24-Parganas wanted The Telegraph to publish their names. As one of them, Rupa Sikari, said: “If you write something about us, maybe things will change for the better.” Here’s introducing to you: Sabitri Naiya, Shikha Sardar, Rupa Sikari, Nila Mandal, Sanaka Naya, Saraswati Mandal, Haskura Laskar, Naurita Laskar, Ashabari Mandal, Joba Mandal, Leena Sardar, Sadeda Laskar, Alpana Jana, Kajal Mandal, Samina Laskar, Durga Haldar, Sakera Gain, Nebujan Laskar, Durga Sarada, Riziya Haldar, Ashura Mandal, Rafiqul Mandal, Mahima Laskar, Rubaiya Laskar, Sangita Molla, Innhar Mandal, Alema Mandal, Raida Mandal, Anima Mollah, Nazira Mandal, Amina Mandal, Zasmina Mandal, Ozira Mandal, Tumpa Manna, Fargu Manna, Shyamali Sardar, Ashaphali Mollah, Anima Mollah, Shohana Mollah, Shaharan Mollah, Akash Mandal, Suraj Mandal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Chinsurah youths offer bike rides to those in need only for fuel cost||A group of eight friends from Howrah’s Chinsurah have turned their passion for bike riding into a way to assist those in need and are ferrying people to and from Chinsurah on their motorbikes, taking only the cost of fuel. “We have always loved riding and have travelled to many places. We even purchased our bikes together. So, we thought of converting our passion into assistance,” said Amit Ray, a state government employee and a musician who runs a platform — Amit Ray Creation — with his friends. Amit and his friends Sandip Sana, a sound engineer, Arun Saha, an employee of the Chinsurah civic body, and sound engineer Sushovon Parui, recently broadcast their intentions on social media groups that they would ferry people to and from Chinsurah (within a radius of 100km-140km) on their motorbikes only against the cost of fuel. They started the initiative on May 15, when the state announced lockdown owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and have already assisted over two dozen people to reach various locations, including Burdwan, Calcutta, Nadia and North 24-Parganas. “Burdwan is around 96km from Chinsurah and four litres of petrol is needed to cover the distance. Our cost is around Rs 400 for the rider. We are also requesting our riders to donate something for the poor if they wish. We have received a huge response from the people here,” said Amit. However, after the state government imposed stricter restrictions to curb the Covid graph, the service is open only for those who need to travel for emergency purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||North East||Tension along Assam-Mizoram border as 2 houses burned down||Two abandoned houses along the Mizoram-Assam border have been burned down by unidentified persons, fuelling tension along the volatile inter-state border, police said on Sunday. Both the states claimed that the incident took place inside their territory on Friday night but no casualty was reported as the houses were empty. While Assam put the blame on "miscreants from Mizoram", the neighbouring state pointed the accusing finger at "Bangladeshi immigrants who wanted to flare up the border dispute". Hailakandi district Superintendent of Police Ramandeep Kaur claimed that besides burning down the two empty houses belonging to Ali Hussain and Saidul Islam, miscreants from Mizoram have also erected a structure 300 metres inside Assam's territory near Gutguti area in the district. An investigation is underway to ascertain the identity of the miscreants involved in the incidents and cases have been registered, she said. Security has been beefed-up in the area and patrolling has been intensified, the SP said. The matter has been taken up with higher-level authorities in Mizoram and hopefully, the issue will be resolved soon, Kaur said. Kaur, along with Hailakandi Deputy Commissioner Rohan Kumar Jha and Ramnathpur police station officer-in-charge Liton Nath visited the area to review the prevailing situation. The location falls under the inner-line reserve forest area and is very difficult to reach from the Assam side, she said. Vanlalfaka Ralte, the SP of Mizoram's Kolasib district, however, claimed that the abandoned houses were located in Zophai area near Bairabi town in the district. "The houses, abandoned since February this year, were earlier occupied by non-tribals hired by Mizos to look after their paddy fields. "We suspect that the burning of the houses was a political ploy by Bangladeshi immigrants to revive the border issue between the two neighbouring states," he told. The area where the incident took place is within the territory of Mizoram and not within the inner line reserved forest area, he said, adding that the owners of the field have land pattas (documents) in Mizoram and pay land taxes to the state government. A case has been registered with the Bairabi police station and a manhunt launched to nab the accused. Since October last year, there have been frequent incidents of burning of houses, allegations of land encroachment and even a bomb blast inside a closed school along the 164.6-km-long Mizoram-Assam border. The previous incident had taken place near Gallacherra border outpost, under which Gutguti falls, in February and since then, many residents had vacated their houses, Kaur added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
06-06-2021||North East||Raimona reserve forest becomes Assam's sixth national park||Raimona reserve forest in lower Assam became the state’s sixth national park on Saturday. Spread over 422sqkm in Kokrajhar district, Raimona National Park straddles the northern part of the notified Ripu reserve forest, which forms the westernmost buffer to the Manas Tiger Reserve. Raimona also shares contiguous forest patches with Phipsoo Wildlife Sanctuary and Jigme Singye Wangchuk National Park in Bhutan (1,999sqkm) creating a transboundary conservation landscape of more than 2,400sqkm. Kaziranga National Park, Manas National Park, Nameri National Park, Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Orang National Park are the five other existing national parks in the state. A forest department official said the benefits of upgrading the Raimona reserve forest under Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) as a national park are manifold. “Such a secured transboundary ecological landscape will help ensure long-term conservation of endemic species such as the golden langur — the mascot of BTC — and endangered species like the Asian elephant, royal Bengal tiger and varied other flora and faunal species it supports,” he said. The park will also open up huge opportunities of ecotourism for the fringe villagers, who currently are partially or totally dependent on forest resources for their livelihood. Over 150 species of butterflies, 170 species of birds and 350 species of plants are found in the park. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma made the announcement while participating in a World Environment Day function at Gandhi Mandap here along with forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya. “This would be the sixth national park in the state and would be a great step towards protection and preservation of rich biodiversity in the area,” Sarma said. Stressing on the need to conserve nature, Sarma also said the process to declare the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary in Upper Assam as the seventh national park is under way. He said the state science and technology department would be re-christened as the department of science, technology and climate change from Saturday to “bring climate protection into focus of government planning and action”. Lauding the forest and environment department for its relentless efforts resulting in the reforestation of 10,000 hectares of land in the state, the chief minister elaborated on various activities undertaken by the department to increase forest cover. He also said 28 bio-diversity parks named “Sahitya Manishi Upaban” are being set up in 28 of the state’s 34 districts. The day also saw Suklabaidya inaugurate the first of the four Nature Learning Sub-Centres at Nellie in Morigaon district. The centre houses galleries showcasing rare endangered species, flora and fauna and the evolution of the Himalayan biodiversity hotspot. Suklabaidya said wanton destruction of forest and killing of wildlife taking place across the globe must be brought to a halt as “our future and that of the coming generations hinges on the environment”. “At a time when one is gasping for oxygen cylinders and concentrators during the Covid-19 pandemic, the crying need of the hour is to protect the trees and plants that provide oxygen to us 24x7,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
06-06-2021||Opinion||Tokyo Olympics: Safety first||Sir — The Olympic Games are a test of athletes’ resolve unlike any other. But the Tokyo Games will test the athletes in a very different way. In a time-honoured tradition aimed at preventing the spread of HIV, Olympians will be given condoms as they reach the Olympic Village. But the authorities have requested the sportspersons to abstain from the activities that would require them to use the condoms given the pandemic. History shows that little has been able to keep young athletes away from one another. This time though, the athletes must keep the greater good in mind.  Kaveri Raj, Ernakulam Sir — It was reassuring to read that the Supreme Court has protected the edifice of democracy in India once again (“Hurrah”, June 4). The verdict upholding the citizen’s right to criticize the government has reaffirmed faith in the judiciary. The role of the fourth estate, which has considerable public influence, cannot be undermined, especially in a country where there is a tendency towards centralization of powers. I wonder why the government does not acknowledge inputs from unbiased critics and the media — this is an amplification of the vox populi — and make amends instead of trying to demonize them. Taking genuine input and working on it will greatly boost the government’s image. The Centre would then no longer need ‘bhakts’ to handle publicity. The current dispensation must realize that slapping sedition charges on flimsy grounds not only harbours negativity among citizens but is also a sheer waste of time and public money. Dhananjay Sinha,Calcutta Sir — Qatar has been gearing up for the 2022 football World Cup since the country was unexpectedly named the host by Fifa. But it is a pity that this venue would transform the ‘beautiful game’ into a “Blood sport” (June 1, Alexis Tadié). More than 6,500 expatriate workers from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal who were behind the construction of seven stadiums, a new airport, a lot of hotels and so on are reported to have died in Qatar. Workers in Qatar are often forced to face conditions equivalent to slavery — violations of labour rules leading them to bear beatings, sexual assault, withholding of salaries, restrictions on the freedom of movement are just some of the problems. Amnesty International reported that these workers have been suffering from “serious exploitation”. In the wake of these revelations, a global movement demanding punishment for such cruel and unethical treatment of labourers must be started. Countries that want to keep football a beautiful game should begin by boycotting the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Footballers from Norway, Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands have already made a statement defending human rights. Although awarding of the contract to host the football World Cup usually goes hand in hand with controversy, it must be asked why a country like Qatar with little to no infrastructure or experience was chosen for this purpose. Amidst allegations of malpractices, several Fifa members have gone on record to claim that the choice of Qatar was a mistake. Football fans deserve answers. Rabindranath Sarkar, Calcutta Sir — Reportedly, a search for the ‘ugliest language’ in India on Google returned Kannada as the answer. Google has since taken down this response; the tech giant faced massive backlash from Kannadigas as well as the Karnataka government for this. Anyone with a basic understanding of how Google works will know that the search engine was probably only highlighting content that it found somewhere on the internet and not presenting its own opinion. However, this does not absolve it of all responsibility. Google should learn to sharpen its algorithms to do a better job of screening objectionable content when responding to searches by users. Debalina Chatterjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Judgeasana||The Delhi High Court has told off doctors for going all out after Ramdev. Yes, the man criticised allopathy, mid raging pandemic too, but so what? He is entitled to his views and freedom of speech and expression. Besides, the court said, doctors should be doing something more productive in these times instead of taking up court time. Indeed, what have doctors done lately? Yes 594 of them have died — Ramdev has claimed that more than 1,000 doctors have died despite being fully vaccinated — but dying is not doing. Now, compare that to how busy Ramdev has been. Waging a one-man attack on allopathy. Even as mere mortals gasped for breath, scrambled for oxygen, remdesivir, tocilizumab, ivermectin, he pronounced that lakhs had died not for want of these things but because of them. He called allopathy “stupid medicine”. In another one of his widely shared videos, he laughed at those who complained of shortness of breath. “Cylinder kam par gaye… Running short of cylinders, are you?” he chided and reminded one and all that the brahmand was full of good and free oxygen, and all one had to do was breathe right using the “two cylinders” or nostrils God has given each of us and be well. In the same video, he claimed to have helped the oxygen deficit score 100 on the oximeter after an hour of bhastrika, kapalbhati, anulom vilom. And when the CEO of Patanjali dairies died of Covid-19, the company put out a statement saying it had “no role in his allopathic treatment”. Indeed, Ramdev has been busy. Every time someone took umbrage at his claims, he spun around them with the agility and moves of a yoga maestro. When the health minister pulled him up for denting the morale of doctors of India, he stretched as if to apologise, lobbed 25 questions at doctors and continued to peddle his wares more aggressively. Patanjali launched the Coronil kit initially, avowedly with the WHO’s blessings and thereafter, after the WHO’s denial, with the approval of the AYUSH ministry. The only kit that elicited attention and action, however, was the Congress toolkit reportedly designed to malign PM Modi, but that’s another matter. The thing about Ramdev is that even when he is not doing, he is doing. He has promised an AIIMS-like institution, which he says will produce “ideal doctors”. His book Yog Sadhna va Yog Chikitsa Rahasya has found its way into the undergraduate philosophy curriculum of a university. And so on and so forth. The Delhi High Court rejected the Delhi Medical Association’s request to restrain Ramdev from making offensive remarks. It said, “Tomorrow, I may feel homeopathy is fake. It's an opinion. How can a suit be filed against it?” In the meantime, the second wave continues, 1.5 lakh deaths and counting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Sing me a song that isn’t too long||Someone is singing. But it is not one person’s singing. It is the singing of many persons, too many persons. It seems my country is singing in my ears. Or perhaps my ears are singing; that happens, your ears sing, they ring of imaginary singing and so when all is silent, all, even the sound of grass growing and the murmur of mynahs’ nestlings gathering fur and feather on their tawny membranes, at such times sometimes ears begin to sing. Or hear singing. It is the longing of ears that have heard no song. What is singing but a twist of the soul — a merry twist, a morose twist, or just a twist that is itself and wouldn’t tell its nature — and a strumming of the chords, the chords that are the carousels of all song. Singing is a different thing; you sing because speaking is no longer sufficient for what needs saying out. Souls sing, nothing else can, and when a soul is stirred it will most likely sing because nothing else will express its stirring. Ever heard raindrops kiss other raindrops and waltz with the wind as they plummet to certain death? They are singing. Ever heard a gust taking a tree in its clasp, its thudding velocity around the trunk, the frenzied creaking of branches, the pounding and pulling of leaves, the sound of that asunder dance, and the rustle and the whispering when the tempest is done and it is time to untangle and move on? That is song, a rhapsody of minors and majors, contralto and countertenors. Ever heard the sea’s salinity supping on sand, or snow cuddling into anything that will cuddle in return, the plop of a ripened leaf on water, the rush of a torrent rubbing on pebbles, the springing of lichen on rock, moisture tonguing down the throats of lilies arched with yearning? When plates shift in the planet’s belly and there’s a rumble, or when a volcano’s eye erupts, you hear percussion and you hear trumpets. It’s all song, and it gives on to greater song — of scared birds scattering, distant vulpine howling, penned cattle mewling, furtive felines caterwauling, frenzied ant-crawl, khar-khar-khar-khar, ripping earth and timber before anybody will notice, our petrified selves. Is this the end of the world? We wait upon it, we always have, upon the end. We wait upon the song, because in the end there will be singing. In the end there is always singing, in the end all that is left is song. We depart in crescendos of ascending, but we must await our turn to come to that final song. It makes a sound, orchestral sounds, when we merge with the elements we came from, from wind and earth, and sky and water and ether. You cannot imagine what that return to elemental things will sound like, but it will be a sound like no other because it will happen that one and only time. That sound will be like song, it will come drenched in ecstasy and tears. And when they merge with all of the rest, they make song, and we hear singing. There was song, there was always song. Even in the crying there was song, and from a distance it sounded like prayer, a song seeking the end of being unrequited, a song saying it wants to be heard before it is broken. There was a time we would often sing ourselves and listen to our song. Even with our distraught hearts because they were hearts. We had hearts. What we now have in that space we cannot be sure, but to be sure we sang like this, and heard songs like this, even with distraught hearts. Someone wrote, didn’t they? I purloin good things, you know that, I am a purveyor and purloiner, but I do say I purloined. This I purloined from I do not recall who, perhaps from Irshad. A. Irshad. Was someone. Is someone, lives on. Like this. Irshaad: Beqaraar dil yoon hi tu gaaye jaa Khushiyon se bhare ye taraane Jinhe sun ke duniyaa jhoom utthe Aur jhoom utthe dil deewaane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion|| Another New Deal||Over the last few decades, the US economy has been afflicted by an ailment — inequality. Not only is income inequality rising in the United States of America, it is also higher than in other advanced economies. Comparisons of income inequality across countries are often based on the Gini coefficient, which can take a value ranging from 0 to 1 — from perfect equality to complete inequality. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Gini coefficient in the US stood at 0.434 in 2017. This was higher than in any of the other G-7 countries, in which the Gini ranged from 0.326 in France to 0.392 in the United Kingdom, and closer to the level in India (0.495). Another way to interpret this statistic more starkly is to note that the wealth gap between America’s richest and poorer families more than doubled from 1989 to 2016. In 1989, the richest 5 per cent of families had 114 times as much wealth as families in the second quintile ($2.3 million compared with $20,300); by 2016, this ratio had increased to 248, a much sharper rise than the widening gap in income. The rise in economic inequality in the US is tied to several factors. These include, in no particular order, technological change, globalization, the decline of unions and the eroding value of the minimum wage. Whatever the causes, the uninterrupted increase in inequality since 1980 has caused concern among members of the public, researchers, policymakers and politicians. Why does inequality matter? One reason is that rising inequality may cause people in the lower rungs of the economic ladder to experience diminished economic opportunity and mobility, a phenomenon referred to as the Great Gatsby Curve. Others have highlighted inequality’s negative impact on the political influence of the disadvantaged, on geographic segregation by income, and on economic growth itself. In light of these headwinds caused by increasing inequality, it is heartening that the Joe Biden administration has — at last — taken it upon itself to make a course correction to this trend. Before analyzing what the current US government is doing, let me briefly look back on how the US came to this state. After World War II and the Great Depression, when the world economy was devastated, the US under the then president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, took an unprecedented policy initiative called ‘The New Deal’. The New Deal was a series of programmes to solve the problems caused by the Great Depression, including unemployment and agricultural overproduction. The most significant contribution of The New Deal was over the role of government. Should the government direct investment more actively? Should it redistribute far more money to the disadvantaged for the sake of common decency and to restore social cohesion? The New Deal was a set of domestic policies that dramatically expanded the federal government’s role in the economy in response to the Great Depression. The new administration’s first objective was to alleviate the suffering of the nation’s huge number of unemployed workers. Government agencies were established to dispense emergency and short-term governmental aid and to provide temporary jobs, employment on construction projects, and youth work in the national forests. The New Deal also tried to regulate the nation’s financial hierarchy in order to avoid a repetition of the stock market crash of 1929 and the massive bank failures that followed. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation granted government insurance for bank deposits in member banks of the Federal Reserve System and the Securities and Exchange Commission was formed to protect the investing public from fraudulent stock-market practices. Perhaps the most far-reaching programmes of the entire New Deal were the Social Security measures enacted in 1935 and 1939, providing old-age and widows’ benefits, unemployment compensation, and disability insurance. Maximum work hours and minimum wages were also set in certain industries in 1938. One could argue that this was a significant reason for America’s rise to an economic powerhouse after the devastation caused by the Great Depression. It was an all-encompassing set of policy initiatives, which addressed the inequality impact of unfettered capitalism. This trend started waning in the 1970s, given the intellectual influence of right-wing economists spearheaded by Milton Friedman. His influential economic paradigm criticizing the role of the government in economic policies was picked up by Ronald Reagan in the 1980s when he famously commented that the “government is not the solution to our problem, government is the problem”. This policy shift led to the lowering of taxes, removing government subsidies and welfare programmes which, in turn, created the basis of the rising inequality in the US. This general economic paradigm, with minor exceptions, has largely been the focus of US economic policy-making. But since the financial crisis of 2008, more and more Americans have concluded that the American system needs fundamental realignment. Republican and Democratic presidents, from Jimmy Carter through Barack Obama, worked within the parameters of the American system, but a new generation in the country, raised amid the financial crisis, wants to smash the ‘neoliberal consensus’. This intellectual shift in the Democratic Party — starting with the young but now encompassing most of the establishment — is what is driving Biden to do so much so fast, and it will continue to drive him throughout his presidency. One should view Biden’s policies in that backdrop. I shall mention three important aspects in which the Biden administration is trying to reverse the above trend of the last few decades. Given the impact of the current pandemic, he has undertaken two major initiatives in recent months which significantly brought the government to the rescue of the economy. On March 12, Biden signed a $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief act into law. Just 10 days later, he pushed a $2.3 trillion package of jobs, clean energy and infrastructure proposals. Very importantly, the infrastructure bill is to be paid for by raising the corporate tax rate from 21 per cent to 28 per cent, which would raise an estimated $2 trillion over 15 years and demonstrate to financial markets the intention to control the huge rise in government debt that is underway. The administration’s international economic plans are even bolder. They include measures to eliminate international tax havens, a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15 per cent to discourage companies from moving to countries where taxes are the lowest. Republicans are trying to stop the president from reversing the tax cuts for high earners and corporations in Donald Trump’s tax law. Currently these issues are being hotly debated in the US Senate and surely some of Biden’s measures will be hard to enforce but the intent is clear. The other important area where Biden has taken bold initiatives is on the role of the worker unions which has been argued as a major source of the rising inequality. Union membership has declined precipitously in the US and accounted for about 10.8 per cent of US employees last year, half the rate in 1983. Biden issued an executive order establishing the White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment, a move that aims to help unions expand their ranks. The White House also issued a fact sheet, saying that Biden’s proposed $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan would create many union jobs in construction, clean energy and other fields by, for instance, requiring companies that receive money under the legislation not to oppose unionization efforts. Biden has vigorously supported the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, the most pro-union legislation to advance in the Congress since the 1930s. Among other things, the ‘Pro Act’ would take away some of corporate America’s most effective tactics in fighting unionization and give state and local employees in all 50 states the right to unionize. In this way, Biden is undertaking an extraordinary effort to help reverse the decades-long decline in labour unions’ membership and power. Finally, Biden signed an executive order that requires federal contractors to pay a $15-an-hour minimum wage. Currently, the minimum wage for federal workers is $10.95 per hour and the tipped minimum wage is $7.65 per hour. The Minimum Wage legislation was started by Roosevelt in 1938 as part of the New Deal where he famously intended this rate to be “more than a bare subsistence level”. The minimum wage was created expressly to ensure that people of all skill-levels, if they worked, could “earn a decent living” off those wages — thus, a living wage. Over the last few decades, this has been a bone of contention and a serious political issue in the US. This ‘leftward’ shift of the Biden administration is very illuminating given it has implications for other world economies too, namely India, where inequality is currently one of the highest in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: virus and vocabulary||‘A’ for asymptomatic; ‘B’ for bath; ‘C’ for coronavirus — this may well be the way the generation learning to speak amidst the pandemic now reads alphabets. Since children’s brains are able to store fewer words than adults, they learn words that are spoken or repeated a lot around them. It is thus not surprising that reports from primary schools around the world show that words like ‘blackboard’, ‘school bus’ and ‘classroom’ have been replaced by ‘headphones’, ‘login’ and ‘mute’. Similarly, ‘apple’, ‘ball’ and ‘cat’ — the familiar A,B,C of English language — are giving way to such words as ‘mask’, ‘sanitizer’ and ‘quarantine’. It isn’t just vocabulary that is changing; pedagogical challenges are mutating as well. A recent survey of schools and parents, conducted by the Education Endowment Foundation, London, found that children who started school in 2020 needed more support learning than in previous years, with the greatest area of concern being communication and language development, in which 96 per cent of schools said they were either “very concerned” or “quite concerned”. An additional worry is the mask — not being able to see lips move during speech, combined with the warping effect that wearing a mask has on the sound produced, has made it difficult for children, nay, everyone, to understand what other people are saying. Historically, major events like natural disasters and war have influenced vocabulary in significant ways. Numerous studies from the 20th century show that World War II was a major inflection point for language change because, in contrast to the Covid-19 pandemic, it brought together people who would ordinarily not have had contact with one another — soldiers, women telephone operators and nurses from across continents. But what about a world — today’s world — where people are further apart from each other than ever before? The pandemic has helped besieged peoples navigate life and reality by giving a fresh lease of life to words like ‘pestilence’ as well as coining new words: ‘covidiots’ — their numbers are not insignificant in India — is one example. But it has also introduced barriers in the path of vocabulary and verbal interactions: the face mask and social distancing are impediments to fluent communication, thereby increasing human reliance on bodily gestures. Could visual — non-verbal — communication deepen the hold of image over text and, in turn, text over speech in society? Interestingly, one study has shown that online communication is making individuals miss prosodic cues integral to voice patterns that give meaning to sentences. While all languages are at risk, some are more at risk than others. The predominance of English — be it in pandemic-related medical information, official communication or the ubiquitous ‘qwerty’ keyboard — means that indigenous, localized dialects may soon find themselves on the edge of collective memory. Visual signs — be they physical or digital — are emerging as substitutes to make sense of words lost in translation. Lives and language seem to be in equal peril in this time of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Why is Amit Shah lying low and who does Rahul follow on Twitter? ||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s defeat in the recent assembly elections in West Bengal was a major jolt for the entire sangh parivar. For the Union home minister, Amit Shah, however, it has been a personal blow, according to the buzz in the corridors of power. The impact has been visible, with Shah lying unusually low, even though more than a month has passed since the votes were counted. He attends virtual meetings where he is required to be present in his capacity as the home minister, and also participates in some party sessions. But the quintessential Shah — the leader who defends the government and takes on adversaries aggressively — is missing. While some have attributed Shah’s shift to the background to some health issues, the view held by most is that he is licking the wounds caused by the drubbing received at the hustings in Bengal. Shah had put his election management skills to use in the polls, hoping to project them as his victory. That hope was shattered. Uttar Pradesh and some other states are scheduled to go to the polls next year. Whispers in the party corridors have it that, this time round, Shah could be maintaining a safe distance. In politics, there is nothing exceptional about witnessing a storm in a teacup about irrelevant issues. Who Rahul Gandhi follows on Twitter became a hot topic of discussion this week after he unfollowed around 60 persons, including politicians and journalists. While there was never a policy or fixed yardstick for following a person, Rahul Gandhi following journalists who are known bhakts of Narendra Modi or bitter critics of the Congress was indeed frowned upon. Rahul unfollowed most of the journalists as well as some people who work in his office. There was input that some journalists whom he followed projected themselves as Rahul’s mentor and guide. The argument provided for the unfollowing was that there would be some application of mind regarding whom Rahul should follow, and that there was no need for him to follow those with whom he interacted daily. There was prompt clarification about the speculation that Rahul is angry with his close aides like Nikhil Alva, Kaushal Vidyarthee, Alankar Sawai and KB Byju who were unfollowed. But there is no logic behind who he is still following on Twitter. While veterans like Ahmed Patel, Tarun Gogoi and Somen Mitra — they have passed away — continue to be in the list, insiders still find it inexplicable that he follows many insignificant people in the party but not some important leaders. There are also a number of people who are genuinely surprised as to why this particular subject became a heavily-discussed topic as whom one follows on social media is a matter of personal choice. But others sarcastically wonder, what else is Congress politics beyond Twitter? Social media posters in the name of the Aam Aadmi Party praising the Hindutva ideologue, VD Savarkar, reportedly prompted the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to complain to the AAP leader and the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal. Two posters — one in the name of the AAP’s Ambedkar Nagar legislative assembly member, Ajay Dutt, and the constituency unit president, Ajay Shukla, and the other by its Trilokpuri unit functionary, A.K. Mandal — praised Savarkar on his 138th birth anniversary on May 28. Dutt has denied releasing the poster. The AAP MLA, Amanatullah Khan, who heads the city’s waqf board, tweeted a purported image of one of Savarkar’s mercy petitions to the British saying, “Veer Nahi, Maafi Veer”. Savarkar’s followers suffix ‘Veer’ before his name and Port Blair’s airport was renamed Veer Savarkar International Airport when Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government was in power in 2002. The Delhi state secretary of the CPI(M), KM Tiwari, demanded action against Dutt before the latter’s denial. Tiwari asked Kejriwal, “Will you call a man who spread communal venom as a social reformer... The role of an MLA — who quit your party and joined [the] BJP — in the North East Delhi riots is well known. The same Kapil Mishra tried to give a communal identity to the movement against the CAA and NRC in the city”. The newly-appointed chief minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has ended speculation about the future of the man he replaced — Sarbananda Sonowal. According to Sarma, the BJP president, JP Nadda, during his meeting last month with both men in order to finalize who the new CM would be, said, “Himanta will be the chief minister for five years and Sonowal will be given new responsibility”. Sarma also told mediapersons during his first visit to Delhi after becoming CM — in what would be described as the smoothest power transition ever — that he was unaware of the role the ruling party has in mind for Sonowal, but he was sure that the BJP would use his experience as a Union minister and as a CM. Sonowal has remained quiet and calm since resigning, deflecting questions about his future with a straight ‘the party will decide’ answer. The party had not named a chief ministerial candidate before the polls because it had one in Sonowal, but it gave equal weightage to both during the campaign. BJP leaders held both Sonowal and Sarma capable of running an effective ‘double engine ka sarkar’ in Assam. It was a given that Sarma would be handsomely rewarded after the ruling coalition’s victory in the assembly polls. But Sonowal’s removal left many shocked, given his close ties with the prime minister and because he was the party’s face in the polls. But party insiders said that Sarma’s revelation in Delhi makes it clear that Sonowal is very much in the BJP’s scheme of things. His supporters can heave a sigh of relief. E Sreedharan, popularly known as ‘metroman,’ had joined the BJP but quietly withdrew to his home after he lost in his maiden attempt to enter the Kerala assembly. But the imbroglio in Lakshadweep off the Kerala coast, where Narendra Modi’s favourite minder, Praful Khoda Patel, rolled out several anti-people reforms, put Sreedharan back in the news. The BJP’s Lakshadweep unit apparently asked the Centre to replace Patel with Sreedharan as the administrator of the Union territory. Sreedharan had no idea about such a move, but many in the party felt it was time for him to be resurrected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||18-year old drowns in steel city river||A week after a 10-year-old boy drowned in the Kharkai, an 18-year-old boy drowned in the same river along Bagbera thana area on Sunday. The victim, identified as Raju Das, drowned while taking a bath in the river. He was a resident of Gandhi Nagar, an urban slum in the suburban Bagbera locality. Some residents who were present near the river while Raju was drowning, tried to save him, but failed. The victim's father, Prakash Das rushed to the spot to locate his son, failing which, he informed Barbara thana. The police recovered the body after local divers were hired for the task. The OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh, confirmed about the drowning of a teenager in Kharkai. "From the statement of the family members, it was learnt that the victim had gone to the river to take a bath and drowned. We recovered the body having pressed a couple of local divers and have sent it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. A local resident, Bijay Gope, said the spot where the youth drowned is a dangerous point where people do not venture in fear of drowning. "It appeared as if the youth wanted to take a bath in a spot where there was deep water. But while preferring a deep water zone, he drowned, "said Gope to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town cosmetic shop owners demand reopening||More than 500 cosmetic shop owners facing a difficult time during the pandemic due to lockdown curbs are demanding permission to reopen their shops for two days on June 7 and 8 ahead of Vat Savitri festival scheduled on June 10. The preparations for the festival will begin on June 9 with Nahay Khay, a ritual ahead of the main festival on June 10. Vat Savitri is one of the most auspicious festivals celebrated by married Hindu women, during which they fast for a day seeking the blessing of god for the well being of their husband. The devout women wear new clothes and congregate around the banyan tree of their vicinity where after performing puja of the tree they also tie a ceremonial thread around the tree as a mark of their love for their husband. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Hiralal Sao, owner of a cosmetic shop at park market Hirapur said, “We are one of the worst victims of the pandemic as all our major income opportunities including the marriage season have passed without any profit for us due to the lockdown.” “Vat Savitri is the last opportunity of this season for some income to somehow sustain our life and we were expecting reopening permission for us also while the government initiated the process of unlock but unfortunately out expectation were belied as we were denied permission,” said Sao who is operating his retail outlet for the last 30 years. “We requested the government and local district administration through Hirapur Chamber of Commerce to allow us to reopen shops at least for two days ahead of Vat Savitri festival as we are receiving a lot of calls from our customers seeking queries whether there is any possibility of opening of shops,” said Sao. “The pandemic has not only affected our own income but also the job prospects of sales girls of some of reputed cosmetic brands working at our outlet,” said Sao. Echoing his sentiments, Sanjay Kumar Sao, another cosmetic retailer of Park Market in Jharia who also demanded shop reopening for two days said, “We have been operating our shop since last 20 years but never faced a condition like we faced since the first phase of the lockdown." Sanjay said those who have launched their shops by taking loans are facing more difficulty due to the financial burden of payment of EMIs. He also pointed to the dichotomy in the administration's order and said while there is no restriction on grocery shop owners selling cosmetic products, only the cosmetic sellers have been denied permission for reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Congress funds struggling woman footballer's career||Dhanbad based international woman footballer Sangeeta Soren, who was compelled to work at a brick kiln during the pandemic, has received financial support from the Congress as Baghmara based state secretary Ranvijay Singh on Sunday handed her a cheque of Rs 51,000. The sports authority of Jharkhand had earlier provided her with financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh. Sangeeta represented India in 2018 and 2019 at Thailand and Bhutan respectively as part of the Indian Under-18 Women’s team. She was also compelled to work a brick kiln near her native village at Bansmuri  to support the family as her father Dube Soren is visually challenged and has hearing impairment while her brother Babuchand Soren struggles to secure a daily income at the construction sites where he works as a labourer. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranvijay Singh said, “Though the government has already provided a financial assistance worth Rs 1 lakh to Sangeeta during the last month itself but I also handed over a cheque worth Rs 51,000 as her family due to lack of a definite source of income is passing through a difficult time.” “I also decided to bear the cost of all her future sporting ventures, be it travel expense to go for selection trial of girls senior team or shoes or other dress requirement and also training cost if any,” said Singh who also met her family members, including her father Dube Soren and brother Babuchand Soren. “Providing any small employment to her will affect her sporting career as she will not be able to do justice to her football career while performing the obligation of any small job so we have rather decided to adopt her whereby besides meeting her sporting expenses we will also assure her livelihood expenses if any,” said Singh. “Yes indeed the financial assistance provided by the government earlier as well as by Ranvijay Sir today and also some food grain support provided by other organisations and individuals provided some relief to me and my family,” said 20-year-old Sangeeta Soren. “My primary focus at present is to continue practice and get selected for the senior Indian Women Football team as and when the selection trial is held after the improvement in Covid situation as I want to bring more glory to our country,” said Sangeeta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders death audit at hospitals with ‘unusually high’ number of fatalities||The Jharkhand government has asked all the districts in the state to identify hospitals that reported unusually high number of deaths from April 1 to May 21 and conduct a thorough audit of the fatalities in order to get an idea of the various circumstances that led to the death of patients. The health department on Sunday addressed a letter to deputy commissioners of all  24 districts in Jharkhand asking them to identify such hospitals and begin the audit. It suggested that district administrations form teams comprising officials from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), epidemiologists, members of World Health Organisation and civil society to conduct the audit. “Even private hospitals that have reported unusually high number of deaths during this period can be selected for the audit if the concerned deputy commissioner finds it necessary. It would be a detailed study including the cause of death, medicines administered, comorbid conditions and other factors,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for the IEC wing of the health department. “The audit is not only for Covid deaths, but also for deaths that occurred due to reasons other than Covid-19,” he added. The state government has already been surveying rural households in Jharkhand to gather data of deaths caused during the pandemic. The latest directive, however, specifically aims at auditing deaths reported in hospitals, officials said. During the ongoing survey, the government has found that more than 25,000 deaths were reported in rural areas between April 1 and May 31, when the second wave of Covid-19 wreaked havoc in Jharkhand. The figure includes Covid as well as non-Covid deaths. The state, however, is yet to officially release the figures. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 5,046 Jharkhand residents have died due to Covid-19 so far. Most of the deceased, officials said, died during treatment in hospitals. However, data on the total deaths reported during this period was not available yet. A highly placed source in the health department said that some hospitals had reported a higher number of deaths compared to other hospitals in the district. While some hospitals may have reported more deaths as critical patients were referred to these hospitals from different parts of the state, the audit will give a clearer picture of the various causes of deaths reported during the second wave of the pandemic, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon likely to arrive in Jharkhand mid-June||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Sunday said that the monsoon was likely arrive in Jharkhand between June 15 and June 18 aided by the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around June 11. "A low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around June 11. This was indicated by the satellite pictures and wind chart analysis. It will help in the advancement of southwest monsoon  into Jharkhand apart from neighbouring  West Bengal and Odisha, " said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre. The weatherman said the low pressure is expected to intensify into a depression, but  ruled out the possibility of its intensifying into a cyclonic storm. Fairly widespread rainfall with heavy showers at isolated places is likely to occur in Jharkhand and its neighbouring states owing to the low pressure system. The southwest monsoon has already  set in over Kerala on Thursday. On Sunday, the southwest monsoon advanced into Maharashtra, entire Karnataka  parts of central Bay of Bengal and most parts of Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim. As predicted by the weather department,  the maximum reading in several districts including Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj touched the oppressive 40 degree Celsius Statistics of the last 24-hours revealed that Dumka recorded tge  highest maximum temperature of 40.8°C . Sahebganj and Jamtara recorded 40.1°C while Pakur recorded 40°C. The Met department predicted gradual rise in maximum temperature by 2-3°C during the next three days over the state. Weathermen said a  cyclonic circulation lay over sub-Himalayan West Bengal extending upto 1.5 km above mean sea level. The forecast for the next three days indicated a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thunder likely at isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches seed distribution ahead of monsoon||The state agriculture department has commenced distributing kharif seeds to over 30 lakh farmers ahead of the monsoon that is likely to arrive in Jharkhand between the second and third week of June. Considering the host of issues being faced by the farmers' community, already in distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said the state government had succeeded in placing advance orders for seeds to enable uninterrupted distribution among farmers on 50 per cent subsidy. “It is perhaps for the first time that the  state agriculture department has started distributing seeds from the last week of May, weeks ahead of the monsoon. Working overtime amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we succeeded in placing orders for 44,000 quintal seeds and  about 24,000 quintal  has already arrived and out for distribution,” he said on Sunday. The minister added that the department had rolled out awareness raths (vehicles) almost in every district  to publicise the seed distribution drive and various agricultural schemes of the government for the benefit of farmers. “'Covid-19 has brought several woes for the farmers’ community and the state government is committed to assisting them for timely sowing and better kharif output this year,” he noted. The minister added that the agriculture department is also alert about preventing black marketing of seeds or fertilizers. “While all the districts have been asked to keep a strict vigil on any such illegal acts, I am also touring different places regularly to take stock of the situation,” he said. Like last year, Jharkhand is expecting a good  paddy season this year too with the Met department predicting timely onset of monsoon in the state. Officials said that the recent spell of rains due to Cyclone Yaas also turned out to be favourable for the agriculture sector as it induced the right amount of moisture in the soil to enable farmers to prepare their land for sowing later this month. About 18 lakh hectare land is under paddy coverage in the state. “Last year, the coverage of paddy was more than 98 per cent resulting into a bumper harvest of over 40 lakh tonnes. "Considering the timely distribution of seeds, coupled with timely arrival of monsoon, we expect good paddy season this year too,” said another official of the agriculture department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 517 Covid-19 infections, 1,098 recoveries ||Jharkhand reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Saturday, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 6,239. However, 12 casualties took the Covid toll to 5,046 and the mortality rate remained 1.48 per cent, which was higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 517 people were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on the day, while at least 1,098 patients recovered. None of the 24 districts reported a triple-digit spike in cases on the day. With 73 cases, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among Jharkhand districts on Saturday, the bulletin stated. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 1,664 as the district reported 229 Covid recoveries against 47 cases on Saturday. Two casualties took the Covid toll here to 1,571. The active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 707 as the district reported 131 recoveries against 73 cases on the day. East Singhbhum also reported two casualties which took the Covid toll there to 1,019. The positivity rate on Saturday remained below 1 per cent as only 517 of the 56,126 people tested were found to be Covid positive. The state has been reporting a daily positivity rate of less than 1 per cent since Wednesday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 59 cases against 65 recoveries, while Bokaro reported only 15 cases against 30 recoveries. The active caseload in Pakur dropped to eight on the day as the district reported three recoveries against one fresh case of Covid-19. The vaccination rate also improved in Jharkhand on Saturday with the addition of new vaccination centres. As many as 86,368 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day, while at least 6,534 beneficiaries received the second jab. As many as 61,036 of the over 86,000 residents who got their first jab on Saturday were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Over 3.40 lakh residents have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 96.68 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.18 per cent against the national average of 0.33 per cent, while the doubling rate of cases in the state was 412.98 days against the national average of 212.64 days. Congress MLA from Barkagaon Assembly constituency Amba Prasad was admitted to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital on Saturday after she felt dizzy and experienced breathlessness while on an inspection of panchayats and villages. Doctors at the hospital sent her swab samples for Covid testing, the Rapid Antigen Test for which turned negative. Her blood pressure was also monitored at the hospital. Amar, the personal secretary of the MLA, who was present on the spot said ,"She is out of danger. Soon she will start her work."Ramgarh Congress MLA Mamta Devi met Amba Prasad to check up on her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tata Steel donates 300 oxygen concentrators to government||Jamshedpur: In its continued efforts to fight against Covid-19, Tata Steel handed over 300 oxygen concentrators to the Jharkhand government on Thursday. The oxygen concentrators were handed over to Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, state health, medical education and family welfare department by Sanjay Mohan Srivastava, chief resident executive of Tata Steel, Ranchi. The oxygen concentrators were imported from US and China. An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It helps in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Arun Singh thanked Tata Steel for their support to the state and said that the steel major has always come forward for such social causes and is working closely with the government to reduce the impact of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Health department officials said the oxygen concentrators donated by Tata Steel would be used in government hospitals and Covid care centres. Besides other initiatives to combat Covid-19, Tata Steel has been collaborating with the state government for augmenting medical facilities and augmenting supply chain of liquid medical oxygen in the state. (Pinaki Majumdar) Dhanbad: Around 12 social workers and environmental activists of Jharia on Saturday observed a day-long fast and sat on a symbolic protest at Children’s park of Jharia against the apathetic attitude of authorities toward the glaring state of affair of pollution. The programme convened by environmentalist Akhlaque Ahmad began at around 9 am during which the speakers spoke at length about the need to take emergent steps to control pollution in Jharia. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ahmad said,“On one hand rampant mining is being carried out by over two dozen private contractors on behalf of BCCL are polluting the environment while Dhanbad Municipal Corporation which is entrusted with the task of implementing measures for controlling  pollution under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) is sitting idle.” “Though, several steps like plantation on road side, green walling of town, dust sweeping etc has been planned under the NCAP to reduce the pollution by 30% by 2024 and a fund around Rs 104crore has also been allocated to DMC by Central Pollution Control Board but none of these steps are in site and resultantly there in no improvement in the pollution and rather it is deteriorating day by day,” said another environmentalist Manoj Singh who carried out plantation of more than five thousand saplings in different colonies of over the last one decade under banner of NGO, Green Life. “None of instructions given to BCCL during the meeting of June 2019 are being followed as a result of which more than 8 lakh residents of Jharia town and its adjoining localities are having serious health repercussions in form the breathing related diseases like, Bronchitis, Ashthama and even Tuberculosis,” said Singh. Echoing his sentiments, an old timer of the town Murari Sharma who is also a noted industrialist said, “we can’t remain a mute spectator to the pollution caused due to the unorganized mining activity of BCCL and will be compelled to file petition  in court demanding steps to control pollution.” (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A monitor lizard on Saturday entered the house of a resident inTatijharia block sparking fear among villagers who confused it with an ant eater and then called it a dinosaur. Forest department was informed about it which rescued the animal. Officials said they will release it in the forest. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A woman named Anisha Khatoon was caught while fleeing with a newborn from Chatra sadar hospital on Saturday morning. Anisha is a resident of Kalyanpur village of temple town Itkhori. Officer-in-charge of sadar police station, Luv Kumar said they had taken Anisha in their custody and they are trying to know as why she stole the baby from Chatra sadar hospital. Sources said a resident of Rajachak village under Rajpur police station was admitted at Sadar hospital where she gave birth to a baby boy on June 1. On Saturday morning, Anisha took the new born boy sleeping with his mother out of the mahila ward and disappeared. Woman was soon caught and boy was recovered from her. Anisha is married to one Iqbal Ansari and has three daughters. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt approves one month’s extra pay for health workers||The Jharkhand government has approved one month’s extra pay as an incentive to health workers who are engaged in Covid-19 duties. The decision was taken at a state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren in Ranchi on Friday evening. “The cabinet has approved incentives for health department workers, including doctors engaged in coronavirus related contact tracing, testing, supervision and other related work in Covid hospitals and wards besides control rooms, which will be equivalent to their one month’s salary,” an official statement after the cabinet meeting said. The incentive will be equivalent to the basic salary of April 2020. Health minister Banna Gupta had in March announced a Rs 103-crore incentive for frontline health workers in the state Assembly. The chief minister had also announced in May on social media that one month’s additional salary will be given to doctors and medical workers employed to contain the pandemic. “The proposal would be sent for approval to the finance department for the release of funds. It would take at least a month for the funds to be released to the accounts of the health department staff concerned,” said a senior official of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) unit of the health department. The state on Friday registered 13 more Covid deaths taking the total casualties to 5,034 and recorded 478 fresh cases taking the active caseload to 6,832. Meanwhile, as part of its effort to increase testing of samples, the state government will send another 44 TrueNat machines to 16 districts which have witnessed high numbers of Covid cases in addition to the 222 TrueNat machines installed in all 24 districts. This would be in addition to the eight state-owned and four private RT-PCR labs in the state. Another 14 TrueNat machines have also been sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, CCL Hospital (both in Ranchi), Tata Main Hospital (Jamshedpur), Bokaro General Hospital and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Deoghar. “The TrueNat machine would be used for urgent Covid tests of patients requiring surgical intervention, pregnant women, dialysis, emergency operation and other emergency cases and suspected coronavirus deaths,” said state health department nodal officer Siddharth Tripathy.The health department has also written to the director of RIMS, Ranchi, principals of medical colleges and hospitals and nodal officers of RT-PCR labs to ensure that all samples of Covid victims and 15 randomly collected samples from the places of outbreak in their jurisdiction are sent to the Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, to identify the coronavirus variants. “The directive was given following an instruction from the Union health ministry,” added Tripathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-06-2021||Jharkhand||World Environment Day: Sand art with green message||An artwork created on the banks of the Damodar in Jharkhand on Saturday by a local artist stood testament to an eloquent expression of the theme of World Environment Day this year — “Ecosystem restoration”. The sand sculpture, a creation of Ajay Shankar Mahato, a native of Silfor-Suyadih village of Chandankiyari block in Bokaro district, at nearby Kapat Ghat, also reminded of the grim reality that hundreds of Covid-19 patients and their anxious relatives experienced recently — an acute shortage of medical oxygen. The sculpture with the message — “Save tree, save life” — consists of three distinct sections. While the left section shows three tree stumps where a man is seen breathing through a mask attached to an oxygen cylinder, the right side depicts a tree just behind a masked woman and the central portion of the sculpture shows a world full of greenery. “Merciless felling of trees can lead to such a situation when we won’t be able to even breathe without the external support of oxygen,” Mahato said. “Trees, if saved, will also protect us as mothers do and that will, in turn, make our planet actually green,” he added. Largely unknown to outsiders, Mahato has been making sand sculptures similar to those made by Sudarshan Patnaik of Odisha who has received national and international acclaim for his creations on the beach in Puri. “I have been making these sculptures at Kapat Ghat for nearly a decade now but the sand here is coarse unlike the fine quality found on sea beaches,” said Mahato who has a diploma in fine arts from Prachin Kala Kendra, Chandigarh. Mahato teaches fine arts at a nearby institute. “I create such sculptures on various occasions — be it Independence Day, Republic Day, International Yoga Day or Kargil Vijay Divas,” he further said. Mahato said that he found satisfaction from the appreciation he got from the local people who come to see those sculptures. People from adjoining areas of Bokaro and Dhanbad districts who know about his work come to have a look at his sculptures on the days I make them, Mahato said. However, he said only a few witnessed the sculpture created on Saturday as “not many are venturing out due to restrictions imposed now”. The river in the background of the sculpture looked rejuvenated with an increase in its water level and the trees on its banks looking greener, thanks to recent rainfall. But with everything from coal dust and fly ash from collieries and coal washeries to toxic effluent from industrial units dumped in it, the Damodar indeed needs to be restored in line with the theme of the World Environment Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
