07-06-2021||Calcutta||Veteran man talks about tigers at virtual session ||A veteran ad man talked about tigers at a virtual session on Saturday. Sandip Chaudhuri, who has spent over two decades with top advertising firms, is also a wildlife enthusiast. On Saturday evening, Chaudhuri was the speaker at “Black, White and Amber — Tiger Tales from Bandhavgarh,” an online interactive session organised by the Calcutta Club. “I am not a tiger expert. I am a tiger lover,” Chaudhuri said at the outset. During a pictorial presentation, he went on to talk about the many iconic tigers of Bandhavgarh. The list included Mohan, the white tiger credited with starting the first captive breeding programme of the breed, a male tiger named Charger and his consort Sita, considered to be the patriarch and matriarch of the Bandhavgarh tigers of today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Thundershowers bring relief from from heat and humidity||A sultry day gave way to a round of thundershowers in the afternoon in parts of Calcutta and its adjoining areas on Sunday. The spell of rain was short but sharp, accompanied by streaks of lightning and rumblings of thunder. But it was not uniform. While some southern pockets were drenched, areas in central and north Calcutta had to be content with dark clouds and the occasional roar of thunder. The maximum temperature touched 38 degrees, three notches above normal, on Saturday. The minimum relative humidity was around 50 per cent. For most of the day, the city felt like a cauldron. Sunday’s clouds came to Calcutta from western districts of Bengal. The sweaty conditions are here to stay, said a Met department official. “Sweaty conditions are typical of the monsoon because of the high moisture content in the air. But there will be a temporary phase of overcast conditions once a low-pressure area forms over the north Bay of Bengal around June 11. The system is also set to propel the monsoon into south Bengal,” said the official. The monsoon reached north Bengal on Sunday and is expected to reach south Bengal before next weekend, the official said. “Southwest Monsoon has advanced into most parts of Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim today,” said an IMD statement on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: IIEST convocation to be held online||The IIEST convocation, scheduled for June 30, will be held online because of the surge in Covid cases. The students have been asked to register from June 4. The degree certificates will be sent to the recipients by post. The recipients have been asked to send relevant information such as the mailing address through Google Link by June 20. “The recipients cannot be asked to visit the institute to attend the event at a time when Covid cases are rising on the campus. The situation is so bad that we had to open a Covid vaccination centre and an isolation facility on the campus,” the official said. “The institute had last month decided against calling students back to the campus for supplementary tests and practicals because of the Covid situation on the campus and elsewhere. The situation has yet to normalise. So there is no other option but to hold the convocation online,” the official said. A notice posted on the institute’s website says: “Degree recipients are requested to attend the programme online. The graduating students shall wear formal dress. All graduating students shall have to pay Rs. 750/- as registration fee.” A small programme will be held on the campus, which will be attended by IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti and other senior officials of the institute. The event will be live-streamed on digital platforms. “Details of the digital platforms will be finalised soon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||ATM fraud: Two men arrested in Surat and two in Calcutta||Two men have been arrested in Gujarat’s Surat and another two in Calcutta in connection with a series of ATM frauds in the city. More than Rs 2 crore was fraudulently withdrawn from at least 10 ATMs of a private bank in Calcutta within a week last month. Police said that in each case the ATM was disconnected from the bank’s server and a proxy server was set up before the money was withdrawn. The anti-bank fraud section of Calcutta police’s detective department rounded up the four early on Sunday. The two picked up from Surat have been identified as Manoj Gupta, 40, and Naveen Gupta, 30, both from Fatehpur Beri in Delhi. The ones arrested in Calcutta are Bishwadeep Routh and Abdul Saiful Mandal. “Manoj and Naveen have been produced in a court in Surat. They will be brought to Calcutta on transit remand,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Bishwadeep and Abdul have been remanded in police custody till June 19.  The court accepted the police’s prayer to add sections of fraud and forgery in the case. Investigators have learned that the cash robbed from the ATMs across the city was deposited in two bank accounts in Calcutta before it was withdrawn from another city using an ATM card of that account. The two men arrested in Calcutta had allegedly allowed their bank accounts to be used by the fraudsters to deposit the stolen money. Money was fraudulently withdrawn from the private bank’s ATM kiosks at 10 locations — including Bowbazar, New Market, Phoolbagan, Beniapukur, Behala, Cossipore and Jadavpur — between May 14 and 22. Investigators have learned that the gang had stayed at a Topsia hotel. Officers said a search was on for other gang members. Similar cases of ATM fraud have been reported from Faridabad, Ghaziabad and the National Capital Region. Cops suspect the same gang was involved in all cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Three policemen injured while trying to rescue abducted woman||Three policemen were injured while trying to rescue a young homemaker who was allegedly kidnapped by a man whom she had befriended over Facebook a few months ago. The incident happened in Baruipur on Saturday night, hours after the accused, identified as Tukan Das, allegedly kidnapped the woman from Rajpur at gunpoint. “Three of our officers were injured. The man fired in the air before our officers overpowered him. The victim was safely rescued,” said an officer of Baruipur police district. The police said the woman, who has an infant daughter, had apparently got involved in a relationship with Das. Two months ago, the woman had apparently tried to end the relationship. She had also shifted from her in-laws’ house in Baruipur to her paternal home in Narendrapur. “During the period when the woman had stopped all communications with the man, the accused posted a photograph in which he was seen being intimate with a woman resembling the victim. His intention was to malign her and force her to resume the relationship,” the officer said. On Saturday, Das allegedly went to her in-laws’ house and threatened them with dire consequences if the woman did not contact him. Perturbed, the family asked the woman to contact Das over the phone. “The man threatened the woman, too, over the phone,” the officer said. The woman, accompanied by her father, was heading for Baruipur police station to lodge a complaint when Das allegedly abducted her. The father reported the matter to the police. Cops went to Das’s house and rescued the woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Yaas relief carrier overturns on Basanti Highway, 1 dead||A man who was part of a team that was carrying relief materials for Sunderbans residents affected by cyclone Yaas died after one of the vehicles the group was travelling in overturned on Basanti Highway on Sunday morning. The 32-year-old victim, Loknath Das, had lost his father 18 days ago. The sole breadwinner of his family is survived by his mother, younger brother, wife and two children, said residents of Muchibazar in Ultadanga where the family stays. The team was carrying relief materials on behalf of two clubs in Ultadanga - New Golden Star Club and Kabiraj Bagan Super Star Club. They were headed for Hingalganj, in the Sunderbans, when the Tata Ace in which Das was travelling overturned in Ghatakpukur, around 35km from the heart of the city. Police said the driver lost control of the vehicle after a tyre fell into a crater beside the road. Many vehicles loaded with relief materials are heading for cyclone-affected areas in North and South 24-Parganas every day with police permission. Most of them travel through Basanti Highway, which has some sharp turns and is prone to accidents. Members of the Ultadanga clubs had left for Hingalganj around 4am on Sunday in three vehicles. They were carrying dry food, clothes, baby food, drinking water pouches and other items. “Loknath was in the third vehicle. At one point we realised that the third vehicle was not following us. We turned back and travelled a few metres towards the city before we came across an accident site,” said a member of one of the clubs who was part of the entourage. The people travelling in the Tata Ace and the relief materials had flung on the road by the time they were spotted by their friends in the other two vehicles. “Loknath was most grievously injured as most of the relief materials and other passengers fell on him. He was taken to a private hospital on EM Bypass, where he was declared dead,” said the team member. Another passenger, Rajib Saha, suffered multiple fractures in the face. A few others were injured, too. Loknath’s aunt said he earned a living by stitching garments. “We are requesting the government to help the family in their hour of need. He met this tragic end while trying to help the poor. His family deserves some help,” said Rita Das, the aunt. “It is most unfortunate that he lost his life while trying to do a noble job. Our club has been feeding the poor since the stricter Covid curbs kicked in three weeks ago,” said a member of one of the clubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: New Town authorities launch WhatsApp chatbot to help residents book slots for jabs||The New Town authorities have launched a WhatsApp chatbot to help residents book slots for their Covid vaccine doses. The chatbot has been designed so that people do not have to stand in a queue for hours in the summer heat for the Covid shot. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had earlier introduced a similar chatbot. Many residents of all three action areas of New Town have already booked slots through the chatbot. One has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 74396 05026 to initiate the process of booking a slot, said an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “There will be a series of responses, to which the person has to keep replying to complete the process,” the official said. “The person has to send the number of a government photo identity card such as Aadhaar card, Voter ID card and driving licence.” One has to carry the WhatsApp message confirming the booking to the vaccination centre. “Prospective vaccine recipients who have booked slots through the chatbox have to report to the designated vaccination centre at a specified time. This will help keep the queues short,” said an NKDA official. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had launched the chatbot to streamline the booking process for both first and second doses. "Residents were complaining to us regularly that they were facing difficulty booking slots for vaccination. So we decided to come up with this chatbot that will help streamline the process,” Sen said. The chatbot, he said, is taking bookings for the two NKDA-run vaccine centres. One of them is located at the government bus depot near the Pride Hotel crossing and the other on the first floor of CB Market, near the New Town post office. According to him, more than 1,500 people have already logged into the chatbot. “Slots from Monday are being offered,” the official said. Reetika Tandon, 37, a resident of a housing cooperative society in Action Area I, said she had booked three slots - for herself and her parents - through the chatbot. “I had been trying in vain to book slots for my parents' second dose and my first through the CoWIN portal. It showed that all slots were booked. Then I heard about the NKDA chatbot and I could book all three slots through it. The process was quite easy and I could do it in no time,” said Tandon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Regional lockdowns make vegetables costlier||The prices of onions and other vegetables sourced from states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka are rising because of regional lockdowns. The price of onion has shot up from Rs 25 a kg a few days ago to around Rs 40 in retail markets. Traders say the upward trend is likely to continue. Bengal consumes about 1 lakh tonnes of onion every month. The demand has come down to around 45,000 tonnes as many eateries are closed or functioning on a smaller scale because of stricter Covid curbs that have been in force in the state since May 16. Bengal’s onion harvest earlier in the year has by now been consumed and the state is now entirely dependent on supplies from outside. “Over 80 per cent of our current requirement is sourced from Nashik in Maharashtra and the rest from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors Association. “We are now having a shortfall of around 10,000 tonne.” The bulk of the supplies from other states reach wholesale markets in Calcutta and its adjoining areas by trucks. Wholesale traders in Calcutta said a truckload of onions from Nashik would cost between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.1 lakh. It now costs between Rs 1.4 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh. The price rise has been attributed to a rise in loading/unloading charges and delay in transportation because of regional lockdowns. A third factor is an increase in the transportation cost because of a hike in the diesel price. Several wholesale traders dealing in capsicum, beans, cabbage and cauliflower — most of which are sourced from Karnataka during this time of the year — cited the same reasons for the rise in the prices of these items. Delays in transportation by road are resulting in a higher volume of wastage. Cabbages sold for Rs 40 a kg on Sunday. A few days ago, the price varied between Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kg. The price of cauliflower has risen from Rs 15 to 20 apiece a few days ago to Rs 25. “What's hurting the most is the delay in transportation. While trucks from Nashik and Bangalore would earlier reach Calcutta in three days, now they are taking five days because of lockdown-related checks on inter-state borders," said Ashim Halder, a wholesale onion trader in Sealdah. “Around 20 truckloads of onions would arrive at Koley Market in Sealdah daily. Now five to six trucks are coming.” The impact has started showing. On Sunday, Nashik onions sold at Rs 25 a kg in the wholesale markets. In retail markets, a kilo sold for close to Rs 40, a rise by around Rs 15 in a matter of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Demand for vaccines on the rise, supply falters ||Corporate houses as well as medium and small-scale units want their employees vaccinated against Covid. Almost every household wants its domestic help inoculated. The demand for Covid jabs has been on the rise as an increasing number of people are realising that only a widespread vaccination could result in an early resumption of some form of normality. However, an uncertainty over supply is proving to be a stumbling block to faster vaccination. Several private hospitals in the city are flooded with requests from corporate houses to set up Covid vaccination centres for the employees on their premises. Woodlands Hospital has been requested by 990 companies to vaccinate their employees. Fortis Hospital has received 130 such requests. “We have been requested by 990 companies to vaccinate their staff. Vaccination is ongoing or has been completed in 41 companies. We are trying to add four or five new companies every week,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands Hospital. Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare, said offices and housing societies were simultaneously approaching several hospitals for vaccination. “We have administered 20,000 doses to employees of various corporate houses and we plan to administer 10,000 more doses in the next few weeks,” said Richa. Necessity of vaccination Vaccination is the key to reopening factories and offices for all. Kasba Industrial Estate, which has about 180 units, has decided to vaccinate the 10,000-odd employees, guards, members of the housekeeping staff and fire safety personnel. The drive will start on Tuesday. “Around 250 people will be vaccinated daily. Vaccinating all employees is crucial. For the last 14 months, businesses have suffered. The livelihood of so many families depends on the rolling of businesses and economy,” said Satyabrata Mukherjee, the president of the Kasba Industrial Estate MSME Joint Forum and the owner of Rene, which manufacturers ethic wear and leather products. However, even after vaccination, people have to keep wearing masks and follow other Covid protocols like physical distancing. Shortage of doses is a big concern. Officials of several hospitals said vaccination could be ramped up many times had the supply been robust.“At the current pace, it would take two to three months to vaccinate all employees of the companies that have approached us. Ideally, the operation would have been over in a month,” said an official of a private hospital. Domestic help and others Many people are enquiring with hospitals about how they can get their domestic help, cooks and others vaccinated. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced last week that the state government would include domestic help among the priority groups. A resident of Mudiali who helped her help book a slot at a Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinic told The Telegraph that there was an urgent need to get everyone in the family, as well as those who come in contact with them such as cooks and drivers, vaccinated at the earliest. The CMC has started vaccinating domestic help from the centres meant for administering jabs to members of priority groups. Each of the 16 boroughs has one such dedicated centre. A civic official said domestic help should visit such a centre with his or her Aadhaar card and preferably a letter from an employer. On Sunday, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences vaccinated over 500 people in a slum in Mominpur for free. The hospital also vaccinated 79 students suffering from autism in Tangra for free. “This is part of our initiative to vaccinate the poor and the marginalised. We will do it every Saturday and Sunday, and at times on weekdays, too. This is being done in association with Give India Foundation,” an official of the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||ISC and CBSE schools reach out and try to help students beat fear of results, college admissions||Several ISC and CBSE schools are holding meetings with students of the outgoing Class XII batch to address their concerns and fears about results, college admissions and other such issues. In some schools teachers are informally reaching out to students and counselling them following the cancellation of the Class XII board examinations by both the ICSE council and CBSE. The uncertainty that was initially about exams but has now stretched to college admissions has aggravated the anxiety of students. Several heads of schools felt they the students need to be “assured” and their “fears allayed”. Students across schools have been asking teachers about their board marks and how will it be calculated, how colleges are likely to set their entrance criteria and whether college admissions will be pushed back. La Martiniere for Girls conducted a meeting with the outgoing Class XII batch on Friday. “They have apprehensions about their marks and we addressed them to allay their fears... also colleges who would hold on site tests might change their pattern and hold short online tests and online interviews and the students should be prepared for that,” said principal Rupkatha Sarkar. “We tell them it is not wrong to seek help. We want to strengthen them before they venture out because it is not going to be easy this year.” Loreto House has a scheduled meeting on Monday with the Class XII students. “This ISC 2021 batch needs our support even more and we need to assure them that we haven’t left them on their own. They have queries and anxieties about their marks since their college admission depends on it and we have to address and counsel them as they begin a new chapter in completely changed circumstances,” said Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House. Some schools are reaching out to students informally where students talk to their teachers or counsellors over the phone. “There is no clear understanding of how the marks will be computed and how it will impact their admission. This is causing anxiety among the students,” said Rita Chatterjee, director of North Point Senior Secondary Schools. Chatterjee said that students have also been asking that if the board (CBSE) is lenient with marks, will colleges will be equally lenient in their admission criteria. “The students also point out that with fixed number of seats in colleges, scrambling for seats is bound to happen,” she said. Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy, said that students are asking how they will be evaluated by colleges and even the toppers are feeling let down. “Unfortunately anxiety has become a part and parcel of this batch of students whether it was during the practical classes in the pandemic, or uncertainty of exams. Now it’s about the results and college admission. Our job is to keep them motivated and we tell them to have faith in the system,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 curbs: Shutdown robs thousands of gym employees of their livelihood||The shutdown of gymnasiums because of the Covid-19 curbs has robbed thousands of employees of their livelihood. The future seems bleaker as several owners said they were mulling permanent closure if the shutdown got stretched beyond June. Having to pay rent and other overhead expenses with zero income is getting tougher by the day, they said. Over five months of shutdown in 2020 had dealt a lethal blow to the sector. Now, within another year, the curbs are threatening to deliver a knockout punch. On Friday, the Gym Owners’ Forum (West Bengal) had written to the chief minister, requesting that the gyms be allowed to resume operations with a set of standard operating procedures. “The second wave of Covid infections has hit the fitness service and preventive health-care sector the hardest. Our businesses have virtually collapsed and many of us are facing bankruptcy and complete shutdown from which we are unlikely to recover. In compliance with all the directives we have kept our gyms/fitness centres closed since 30th April 2021…. However, this has resulted in immense losses with no relief. As it is, the business is not very lucrative and runs on the monthly cash flows generated and has to bear high rentals,” the letter said. The shutdown means “loss of livelihood for more than 2 lakh people”, it added. Suman Mitra, a fitness trainer at a gym in Nagerbazar, has been getting half his salary since May. He is not unfamiliar with a prolonged income loss. “Last year, when gyms were shut for over five months, I had to break my fixed deposit to keep the kitchen fire burning. I don’t know what I will do this time. I don’t have any savings left,” said the 37-year-old. His wife, a beautician, is also out of work because of the Covid  curbs. Another trainer at a gym in south Calcutta, who did not want to be named, has been selling fish at a market in Bagha Jatin. “I had done the same during the lockdown last year. I have to sustain my family,” said the man in his 30s. “If there is no solution by this month, I will have no other option than a permanent closure,” said Rupam Sinha, the owner of the Physiomax chain of gymnasiums. He has three gyms — one in Salt Lake and two in Dum Dum. Sinha has to shell out over Rs 2.5 lakh every month in rent and partial salaries of his staff. “I have 22 employees. I know their livelihood will be gone but I don’t have any other option,” said Sinha. Most of the city-based gyms have a six-monthly or annual membership option that most patrons opt for. Many patrons who have already paid the fee are asking for refunds for May and June, said owners. The footfall has been on the decline since the gyms reopened last year, said owners. Some of the trainers are coaching patrons virtually. But the number is negligible. “The revenue is zero. The fixed-cost components are unchanged. It is impossible to survive in this condition, especially for smaller units. Several gyms shut down last year, unable to bear the losses. If the shutdown gets stretched, many more gyms will also shut down for good,” said Gagan Sachdev, the owner of the Karma Fitness Studio chain and a member of the Gym Owners’ Forum. The forum has around 150 members in Calcutta. The number of registered gyms and fitness centres in Bengal would be around 5,000, said a member. The forum has organised a vaccination drive for staff of gyms in Calcutta at Bhawanipur Education Society College on Tuesday. “Before opening, we have to spend a substantial amount on sanitisation and Covid-19 protocols. Spending any extra money will be extremely difficult for many owners. But this is a fight for survival. We are hoping the government allows us to resume operations as early as possible,” said another member of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
07-06-2021||Business||Jagmohan Singh with JSA Online Portal embarks customers with financial guidance||Cash Flow Coach, Jagmohan Singh yields resources to alleviate people stuck in search of best methods in order to manage their finances The amount of money you send to banks, the amount you keep for your family, and the amount you have to invest all depend on how well you manage your budget. This is why you need a financial coach. Jagmohan Singh, the owner of JSA Online Portal and a cash flow coach, runs a thriving and cash-rich firm guiding people in the right direction. Hailing from Punjab, Jagmohan has done graduation in commerce from Delhi University. He chose Chartered Accountancy over an easier path, where he mastered the Art and Science of Numbers as well as Finance and Law. After three years of hard work, he earned an All India Rank and was hired as an associate at E&Y, a Big 4 accounting and law firm. During his working years in E&Y, he learned how to conduct management audits across India in the field of ‘Systems and Processes,' which he later specialised in. He earned his speciality by working with Directors, Vice Presidents, General Managers, Managers, Executives, and employees at all levels. Jagmohan Singh as a ‘Cash Flow Coach’ After gaining enough knowledge, he founded the leading company, JSA Online Portal. This is a one-of-a-kind method that equips consumers with simple yet effective skills, methods, and approaches to boost cash flow in their businesses and help them become unstoppable in their quest for entrepreneurial success. JSA Online Portal, which began in a 400 square foot office in District Centre, Janakpuri, with only two staff handling all operations, has grown to more than 100 staff serving 1000+ clients across the country and even beyond. For his excellent skills, Jagmohan has acquired Landmark Education's Introduction Leader Certification as a ‘Cash Flow Coach’. He's also a public speaker who's been honoured by the Finance and Business Association's several study circles. “I feel that business is a numbers game that needs to be played with correct knowledge of finance and law,” adds the savvy entrepreneur. “ I foresee a world in which every human being on the planet lives a financially secure, joyful, and peaceful existence while also supporting one another. Remember that doing business in your area of passion with a targeted approach brings significant value to any aspiring entrepreneur,” he further explains. With the ordinary man in mind, he aspires to construct a global ‘University of Finance and Numbers,' so that every man in need can have quick and effective access to it and use the techniques learned in their enterprises and lives with guidance. Jagmohan is the appropriate person to approach and seek help from if you need to master your business in the domain of money and numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 228 points to close above 52,000||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 228 points to its fresh lifetime high on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, TCS and ICICI Bank.  After starting on a tepid note, the 30-share BSE index rose 228.46 points or 0.44 per cent to finish at its all-time high of 52,328.51.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 81.40 points or 0.52 per cent to a record 15,751.65.  PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, UltraTech Cement, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities extended gain with benchmarks recording fresh all-time highs as sharp decline in daily caseload and states started easing business curb lifted sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  A sharp rebound was seen in private banks, auto and IT which supported market, while metals and pharma witnessed profit booking.  He further noted that midcap and smallcap stocks were again in focus as investors appeared to be lapping up these counters in the backdrop of improved visibility of earnings recovery.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points on Monday tracking gains in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, ITC and SBI amid sustained foreign fund inflow and mixed cues from global markets.  After jumping nearly 180 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index turned flat to trade 20.04 points or 0.04 per cent higher at 52,120.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 29.20 points or 0.19 per cent to 15,699.45.  PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, NTPC, ONGC, ITC, SBI, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC, Asian Paints and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 132.38 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 52,100.05, while NSE Nifty slipped 20.10 points or 0.13 per cent to 15,670.25.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth 1,499.37 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  "News is positive for markets. Since the US jobs numbers have come lower than expected the Fed is likely to continue its accommodative stance with no indications about tapering. So the US 10-year yield is likely to remain stable with a negative bias till Thursday when the US inflation numbers will be released, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  FIIs have come back strongly this month with net equity purchases worth Rs 7,967 crore till June 4, he said, adding that frenzied retail participation is imparting resilience to markets.  GST collections in May at Rs 1.02 lakh crore came as a surprise since May was a month of subdued economic activity. This is a reflection of the underlying strength and growth impulses in the economy, he noted.  Further, economic activity is likely to gather momentum as most states are gradually opening up since fresh COVID cases have fallen, Vijayakumar said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||DHFL reports consolidated net profit of Rs 96.75 crore in the last quarter||Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) on Sunday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 96.75 crore for the last quarter of the fiscal ended March 2021. The company, which is under the corporate insolvency process, had posted a net loss of Rs 7,507 crore in the January-March quarter of the year-ago fiscal. The company had reported a loss of Rs 13,095.38 crore in the December quarter of 2020-21. For the full year 2020-21, the non-banking finance company posted a net loss of Rs 15,051.17 crore, which widened from Rs 13,455.81 crore in 2019-20, DHFL said in a regulatory filing. The total consolidated income in the fourth quarter fell to Rs 2,060.57 crore from Rs 2,160.98 crore in Q4, 2019-20. For 2020-21, total income was down to Rs 8,802.78 crore from Rs 9,578.85 crorea year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Sidbi floats request for proposal inviting bids ||Sidbi, on behalf of the government, has floated a request for proposal inviting bids from consultants to help set up a Rs 20,000-crore DFI, called the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID), to catalyse investment in the infrastructure sector. The Parliament in March cleared National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 to support the development of long-term non-recourse infrastructure financing in India, including the development of the bonds and derivatives markets necessary for infrastructure financing. The objective of the assignment is to select a management consultant to support in the setting up of an infra Development Finance Institution, as an all-India financial institution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||India’s e-grocers show significant growth in past years||India’s e-grocers are on course to achieve scale and profitability through various measures aimed at margin accretion and lowering costs. According to analysts at Motilal Oswal, e-grocery hardly garnered single-digit share in the overall grocery market in India and globally, with multiple players trying to make inroads with limited success. However, over the last few years, they have made their presence felt with modern retail also feeling its impact. The online grocery market has shown strong growth, rising 30 times although on a small base over the last 7-8 years. The pandemic is only expected to consolidate this trend with some of the existing players reporting 3-4 times surge in daily orders and an improvement in the average order value (AOVs). Some of the key e-grocery players in India include the Tatas-controlled BigBasket, Grofers, JioMart, Amazon, Flipkart, Licious, Nature’s Basket and Dunzo. Among them JioMart, which launched operations in 2020, serves more than 200 cities and towns. “The fear of online grocery retailers is turning real as a majority of e-grocery growth has predominantly come from regions which are the key markets of modern retailers,” the Motilal Oswal report said. It added that though offline retailers (like D-Mart) hold an edge because of cost competency, thereby driving productivity and scale, e-grocers are benefiting from lower customer acquisition costs. The report said the grocery segment has been marked by wafer thin gross margins, higher logistics cost and complex inventory management, making it difficult to achieve sustainable profits and compete with the traditional retail channel. However, e-grocers now have a better idea of the path to scale and profitability, with multiple levers and a stronger balance sheet. These players have now started targeting bulk purchases to leverage cost and limit assortment which aids inventory control. They are pushing private labels which raises margins and are charging delivery cost below a specific order value. Customer stickiness has lowered acquisition costs — all leading to higher gross margins and reducing cost per order. Different strategies have been adopted by players with some pushing more private labels in the overall mix or stressing on higher order values, and limiting discounts. Others such as JioMart have kept delivery free without any minimum threshold of orders. On the other hand, e-tailers such as Flipkart and Amazon are targeting a wider network of cities to push their revenue growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Insurers seeks govt support to build health database||An effective pricing of premiums requires a central repository of medical records of individuals, and the life insurance industry is looking for government support to build the database. Vibha Padalkar, managing director and CEO of HDFC Life Insurance, said this would be a game-changer as the insurers would be effectively able to underwrite risk based on more granular data and offer a better premium quote to individuals. While banks and non-bank finance companies have access to centralised databases that can be used to understand the repayment capabilities of individuals, insurers to a large extent rely on the self-declaration of past medical records from prospective policy buyers before underwriting a policy. While financial data and its availability have seen a fair bit of evolution over the last 7-8 years, aggregation of health data is still at a nascent stage. “There is a lot of ground to cover especially on health data,” Padalkar said. In the absence of in-depth data, a healthy individual may end up paying the same premium as one not having made a full disclosure. However, insurers can offer better quotes if individuals share their medical records to a centralised repository that has  proper data protection rules and can be accessed by the insurers. “If an individual is willing to share his medical data and signs up for sharing data with some central repository, and supposing an insurer is able to tap into those repository, based on consent of the prospective customer, and if regulation permit a wider range of price nuanced quote, then policies can be better priced,” said Padalkar. She said this would encourage a pickup in life cover, particularly among the younger population as life insurance is a long term product and unlike other variants of insurance cannot be repriced easily. According to data compiled by the Life Insurance Council, the industry posted nearly 45 per cent growth in new business premium in April. The 24 life insurers, including LIC, collected Rs 9,738.79 crore in April 2021 compared with Rs 6,727.74 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Centre's bid to speed up the four labour codes||The four labour codes are likely to see the light of the day in a couple of months as the Centre is now keen to go ahead with the implementation of these laws, which among others will result in a reduction in the take-home pay of employees and higher provident fund liability of companies. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and provident fund of employees are calculated. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety & working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 central labour laws. The ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many states were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdiction. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India and, therefore, both the Centre and the states have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. “Many major states have not finalised the rules under the four codes. Some states are in the process of finalising rules for the implementation of these laws. The central government cannot wait forever for states to firm up rules under these codes. Therefore, it is planning to implement these codes in a couple of months as some time would have to be given to establishments or firms to align with new laws,” a source said. According to the source, some states had already circulated the draft rules. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50 per cent. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of basic wage, which includes basic pay and dearness allowance. The employers have been splitting wages into numerous allowances to keep basic wages low to reduce provident fund and income tax outgo. The new wages code provides for provident fund contribution as a prescribed proportion of 50 per cent of gross pay After the implementation of the new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce while provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases. Once implemented, employers would have to restructure salaries of their employees as per the new code on wages. Besides, the new industrial relation code would improve ease of doing business by allowing firms with up to 300 workers to go ahead for lay-offs, retrenchment and closure without government permission. At present all firms with up to 100 employees are exempted from government permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
07-06-2021||Business||Hero Electric  set to expand over the next two years||The electric two-wheeler industry is poised to grow in double digits over the next two years and all eyes are on how the policymakers and various stakeholders come together to encourage the shift. With the country now gearing up to re-open after the second wave of the pandemic, electric two-wheeler company Hero Electric is now looking to expand its footprint and reach out to its vast network of over 600 dealers across all small and big towns of the country. The company also plans to expand its manufacturing facility in Ludhiana to ramp up production from the existing 70,000 units per annum to a significantly higher 2.5 lakhs per annum to drive the adoption of green mobility. Committed to cutting down emissions on World Environment Day, Sohinder Gill, CEO, Hero Electric, said, “The World Environment Day is just an opportunity for us to encourage people to shift towards saving the environment and its resources. The performance this year has been promising and we will manage to procure 10-15 per cent growth over the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Panna-Mukta and Tapti Profit row: Govt challenges RIL arbitration award||The government has challenged before an English high court an arbitration award over a cost recovery dispute in the western offshore Panna-Mukta and Tapti oil and gas fields of Shell and Reliance Industries Ltd. An arbitration “tribunal gave a favourable award on January 29, 2021”, Reliance said in its latest annual report. Reliance and Shell had through the arbitration sought raising of the limit of cost that could be recovered from the sale of oil and gas before profits are shared with the government. The award came this year. Both sides filed clarification applications before the tribunal. “On April 9, 2021, the tribunal issued its decision on the clarification applications of both the parties. It granted the minor correction requested by the claimants (Reliance and Shell) and has rejected all of the Government of India’s clarification requests,” it said without giving details. Subsequent to that, the government of India (GoI) has challenged the award before the English high court, it said. Reliance and Shell-owned BG Exploration & Production India Ltd had on December 16, 2010, dragged the government to arbitration over cost recovery provisions, profit due to the State and amount of statutory dues including royalty payable. The Indian government also raised counter claims over expenditure incurred, inflated sales, excess cost recovery, and short accounting. The three-member arbitration panel headed by Singapore-based lawyer Christopher Lau by majority issued a final partial award (FPA) on October 12, 2016. It upheld the government view that the profit from the fields should be calculated after deducting the prevailing tax of 33 per cent and not the 50 per cent rate that existed earlier. It also upheld that the cost recovery in the contract is fixed at $545 million in the Tapti gasfield and $577.5 million in the Panna-Mukta oil and gasfield. The two firms wanted that cost provision be raised by $365 million in Tapti and $62.5 million in Panna-Mukta. Royalty, it said, had to be calculated after the inclusion of marketing margin charged over and above the wellhead price of natural gas. The government used this award to seek $3.85 billion (about Rs 28,000 crore) in dues from Reliance and BGEPIL. The two firms challenged the 2016 FPA before the English high court, which on April 16, 2018, remitted one of the challenged issues back to the arbitral tribunal for reconsideration. “The arbitral tribunal decided in favour of the claimants in large part vide its final partial award dated October 1, 2018. GoI and claimants filed an appeal before the English commercial court against this 2018 FPA. “The English commercial court rejected the GoI’s challenges to 2018 final partial award and upheld the claimants’ challenge that the arbitration tribunal had jurisdiction over the limited issue and remitted the issue back to the arbitration tribunal,” the report said. The final award on the issue came this year, it said. The government had used the 2016 partial award not just to raise a $3.85 billion demand on Reliance and Shell but also sought to block Reliance’s proposed $15 billion deal with Saudi Aramco on grounds that the company owed money to it. Following this, the court asked company directors to file affidavits listing assets. RIL and Shell had countered the government petition in the Delhi high court, saying the petition is an abuse of process as no arbitration award has fixed any final liability of dues on the company. “The GoI has also filed an execution petition before the Delhi high court... seeking enforcement and execution of the 2016 FPA,” the annual report said. “The claimants contend that the GoI’s execution petition is not maintainable,” it added. The matter will come up for hearing on July 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Reliance Infrastructure to raise  Rs 551cr through issue of shares||Reliance Infrastructure on Sunday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 550.56 crore through the issue of shares on a preferential basis. The funds raised would be utilised for general corporate purposes, to fund future growth and also to reduce debt, the company said in a statement. “The board of directors of Reliance Infrastructure Ltd at its meeting held today (Sunday) approved raising of funds up to Rs 550.56 crore,” the statement said. It will be done by a preferential allotment of up to 8.88 crore equity shares and/or warrants convertible into equivalent number of equity shares of the company to promoter group and VFSI Holdings Pte Ltd, an affiliate of Varde Investment Partners, the statement added. Of the Rs 550.56 crore equity infusion, about Rs 400 crore will come from the promoter group and Rs 150 crore from Varde Group, sources said. The board also approved seeking a go-ahead of the members of the company for the above proposal through a postal ballot. “The above shall be subject to all requisite permissions, sanctions and approvals as may be necessary,” the statement said. Rel Infra is one of the leading infrastructure companies, developing projects through various special purpose vehicles in several high growth sectors such as power, roads and metro rail in the infrastructure space and the defence sector. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||MSME exporters seek Modi’s intervention on rising steel prices||Engineering exporters in the MSME segment have sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention on rising steel prices, stating that the industry needs the alloy and other inputs at affordable rates so that export competitiveness of value-added products is maintained in the global markets. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Ludhiana Hand Tools Association president S. C. Ralhan said that many of the competing countries, particularly China, provide support to manufacturing units by providing steel and other inputs at much reasonable prices to boost the competitiveness of the engineering sector in the global markets. He said that India is gradually losing out its markets to China in the value-added segment of exports and the recent growth visible in exports is largely on account of a hike in the prices of metal and commodities. A sharp decline is seen in the export trends of finished engineering goods, he said. “In the given situation, the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) industry needs to be provided steel at reasonable prices so that the export competitiveness of value-added products is maintained,” Ralhan said in his letter. He cautioned that if the prices would not come under control, a large number of manufacturers would be out of business and that could result in loss of employment. He suggested the government consider setting up a raw material bank for MSMEs to provide steel and other key inputs to them by extending some kind of subsidy. Meanwhile, India’s diamond exports are expected to shimmer past the $20-billion  mark this fiscal, with demand rebounding after the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Crisil Ratings has said. Revenue from exports reached $16.4 billion last fiscal, a decline of 12 per cent — well below the plunge expected when the world went into unprecedented lockdowns. But as nations recovered well in the second half, the fall in exports was halted, an analysis of 70 diamantaires rated by Crisil — accounting for a third of industry’s total revenue —  shows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||General insurers to settle claim for black fungus treatment||General insurers have said they will settle claims on the health policies of individuals undergoing treatment for mucormycosis or black fungus. Individuals with comprehensive health covers that include pre and post hospitalisation expenses, critical illness covers, preventive health checkups among other benefits, will stand to benefit from the policy. With cases of the fungal disease shooting up during the pandemic,  policy holders are worried whether their health cover would include or exclude the treatment of the disease. “All our health indemnity policies cover hospitalisation expenses arising out of various infections. mucormycosis, which is also known as black fungus, is one such infection which is covered under our health policies. In fact, we have settled claims pertaining to this condition. We have been working towards swiftly settling such claims,” said Bhaskar Nerurkar, head – health claims, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. “Comprehensive policies will cover Mucormycosis even if it is during Covid treatment or independent of Covid treatment. We have seen a few claims but not too many,” said Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting and claims at ICICI Lombard. Datta said most patients with the disease were being treated in hospitals. The hospitalisation expenses as per the policy terms are being covered whenever claims are raised. “All comprehensive policies are covering black fungus. The claim process is normal like any other policies and there is no differentiation,” said Amit Chhabra, head of health insurance, Policybazaar.com. He added that certain policies which offer only specific treatments only may not cover the disease. Uncontrolled diabetes, weakening of immune system because of the use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay, comorbidities are among the conditions that can elevate the risk of the fungal infection in Covid-19 patients. Several states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh among others have registered patients under the treatment of the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||Business||Deposit dilemma||On Friday, the Reserve Bank of India decided to keep policy rates unchanged. It is the sixth straight time they have done so. Rarely does the central bank put a pause on policy rates for so long — something it has done to accommodate economic revival. Policy rates impact lending and deposit rates in the country. While paused rates keep loans cheap, they also lower the returns on bank deposits. This hurts anyone reliant on fixed income from interest-generating instruments such as fixed deposits. The real returns from deposits are negative because inflation is also spiking. For example, if a fixed deposit returns 5 per cent, your post-tax returns would be 4 per cent after 20 per cent tax. But if the inflation rate was 5 per cent, your real returns are a negative 1 per cent, which means your capital is eroding instead of growing. In such a scenario, it is important to take steps that will improve your real returns and make your money grow. Here are some ideas. FDs with shorter tenures tend to have the lowest rates. Longer tenures — typically those above one year — have higher rates. The longest tenures — five years or more — tend to have the highest rates. Therefore, locking your money for a higher tenure with a higher rate would give you marginally better returns. However, since a bottoming out of interest rates points towards a rise in rates in the future, it would be advisable to lock in only a part of your deposits in longer tenures and retain short-term liquidity to exploit rising rates. Large banks tend to offer the lowest rates. The one-year FD rates for the largest banks are in the 4.40 per cent range. However, smaller banks which are hungrier for the depositor’s business will go much higher. The mid-level banks will meet you at 4.50-5.75 per cent for the one-year tenure. The small finance banks may go over 6 per cent, and even as high as 7.25 per cent on longer tenures. The trade-off is risk. Large banks are well-capitalised, stable, and the most likely to pay back your deposit with interest. That said, a well-calibrated and limited exposure to small banks after an evaluation of risks will help you earn better average returns. Premature liquidation of FDs leads to an interest penalty, typically 1 per cent. To avoid premature liquidation, you need to time the FD maturity to your liquidity needs or make partial withdrawals which will minimise the interest penalty. The other way to ensure liquidity and earn higher average returns is to ladder your FDs. This needs you to split your FDs into small deposits with varying tenures between a few months and five years. This will lead to deposits maturing at various intervals, allowing you to exploit rising rates or minimise exposure to falling rates. At present, when the rates can only rise, it would be sensible to have a short-term-heavy ladder so that you have more FDs maturing in the short term, allowing you to lock in to rising rates. Higher risks could lead to higher rewards. Company deposits are one way to earn higher rewards. There are many options returning 6 per cent and higher on select tenures, with some going over 7.50 per cent. However, keep in mind that the exposure to higher risks need to be in line with your risk-taking ability. Therefore, a controlled exposure to these options will not only give you better average returns but also minimise your damage in case the company runs into trouble. To lower your risks, you can look for AAA-rated companies and deposits which provide the highest possibility that your principal and interest will both be paid on time. Some government schemes can provide higher returns than FDs, but the trade-off is a higher tenure and lock-in. For example, for the elderly, the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (7.4 per cent, with a lock-in of five years) is a must-have. For the tax-saver, the National Savings Certificate (6.8 per cent, also five years) can provide higher rates with lower taxes. Post office FDs return 5.50-6.70 per cent. The RBI floating rate savings bond can provide 35 basis points above the NSC rate with a seven-year lock-in. These are attractive alternatives to FDs in the 1-7-year range. Taking no risk is often the biggest risk. Low interest rates and inflation spikes erode your capital. On the other hand, investing in market-linked instruments as part of a well-thought plan could give you higher long-term returns. The stock markets are at an all-time high and long-term investors have benefitted.Why not give these a chance to improve your real returns? The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
07-06-2021||India||‘Sushil Tiwari Hindustani’ gets accredited for his social activities by B-Town Celebs||A philanthropist, actor, and social worker, ‘Sushil Tiwari Hindustani’, steps up to volunteer for the betterment and upliftment of the communities. Renowned names in B-town like Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sonu Sood have acknowledged his efforts. MP Manoj Tiwari also appreciated the man for producing a drug-related documentary. The Flying Sikh, Milkha Singh, thanked him for reawakening the youth and confronting such strong powers. Along with Sonu Sood, Sushil has been assisting thousands of people at all hours of the day and night, as well as offering the best facilities. Despite coming from a poor family, he has always been positive, earning him the title of "Most Helpful" in school. In his early days, he met many famous people, including Harbhajan Singh, Khali, and others, establishing him as a public figure. He has been an individual from the RSS since he was in primary school, and his political race as president brought him extraordinary bliss. From that point forward, his essential point in life has been to serve his country and government. He made the 'Youth Nation Building' association determined to help individuals in the public arena for a similar reason, and he got a great deal of help for it. His association's main goal is to help those out of luck, and he urges the more youthful age to go without drugs and commit their lives to support the individuals who are less lucky in the public eye. Talking about his ventures, Sushil Tiwari says, “I am trying to make the best use of my resources in procuring an environment worth living. It brings me immense joy to se4e the world around smiling and realizing that I somewhere have contributed for that.” Though he does not make a lot of money still his top priority is public service and helping the less fortunate people. He also assists the public in communicating with the government policies that are sent to his region by the government. Sushil is known for his devotion to his country and his willingness to help people at all hours of the day and night, which distinguishes him from others. One could for certain say that his commendable efforts have brought a big change in the communities he is a part of. He is surely a tireless philanthropist at work||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Centre to provide free vaccines for all above 18  ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that Covid-19 vaccinations will be free for all Indians above 18 and that the Central government will take over the task of procuring vaccines from both foreign and Indian manufacturers. The prime minister said 75 per cent of all vaccines produced would be passed on to the state governments free of charge and the other 25 per cent of vaccines will be sold to private hospitals which will have to deliver it at a fixed price plus a service charge of Rs 150. Considerable chaos had broken out in recent weeks after the Centre handed over the task of procuring and delivering vaccines to the different state governments. The states floated global tenders but discovered that foreign manufacturers, which are snowed under with demands for vaccines, refused to deal with anyone except the Central government. States like West Bengal had been demanding that vaccinations should be free, but the Centre had been resisting this call for several months, partly because of the huge cost involved. The new vaccination scheme will come into effect two weeks from now on June 21. The Prime Minister said that vaccine supply would increase in coming weeks and that seven companies were producing vaccines or at advanced stages of trials. The products being put on trial include a nasal vaccine which would be one of the first of its kind to be developed globally. India’s vaccination programme is far behind schedule and that situation is unlikely to change in next two to three months, at the very least. Modi began his 35-minute broadcast by defending the government’s efforts to control the pandemic and how it had tried to control the highly infectious second wave. “This is the deadliest pandemic in the last 100 years. The modern world has not seen such a pandemic. Our country has fought this pandemic at many levels,” Modi said. Modi congratulated all Indians for the way they had battled the disease. He also pointed to the way medical oxygen production had been hiked by around 10 times when shortages built up during the deadly second wave. He added that a new health infrastructure had been developed in the last 15 months since the pandemic first began. “We ran Oxygen Express (trains), IAF and Navy were involved. The production was increased tenfold,” the Prime Minister said. The government’s about turn came in the wake of being asked by the Supreme Court for a "vaccine roadmap". The bench led by Justice D. Y. Chandrachud had asked the government to undertake a "fresh review of its vaccination policy addressing the concerns raised.” It pointed out that asking people between the age of 18-44 to pay for the vaccine was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational". The Prime Minister also announced that around 800 million poorer people will be offered free ration untill Diwali under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Modi also stressed his government’s successes and pointed out healthcare workers had almost all been vaccinated when the second wave began and that this had helped enormously. He warned, however, that people should not lower their guard. The government had, the Prime Minister said, changed the way of procuring and delivering the vaccines. “We changed the way vaccinations were done. So, we gave 25 per cent of the work to states. Now they have started to realise the difficulty the work involves.” Overall reaction to the Prime Minister’s speech was favourable since most medical experts and others have been demanding that the government do all the buying and also offer free vaccinations to all who want it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Modi addresses nation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 5 pm on Monday, his office said. The Prime Minister's address comes at a time Covid cases are on the wane after a deadly surge in April-May and parts of the country are emerging from strict lockdowns. Modi has addressed the nation a number of times since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, offering suggestions to people and outlining measures his government has been taking to deal with the situation. He has also made new announcements at times in the address. Reports suggest PM Modi will speak on his government's vaccination policy, which has been criticized by states and experts and has also been questioned by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court last week called the centre's liberalized policy of free vaccines for people who are 45 and above, and paid doses for the 18-44 group, "arbitrary and irrational". Flagging several other flaws -- including shortage of vaccine doses and problems faced by rural people in accessing vaccines -- the court asked the centre to review its vaccination policy and "place on record a roadmap of projected availability of vaccines till 31 December 2021". The Centre was asked to furnish complete details on its vaccination policy, including all documents and file notings, and also clarify how ₹ 35,000 crore announced in the Budget was used in procuring vaccines. The Supreme Court also asked states to clarify whether they would be vaccinating people free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||India’s airline industry seen racking up $8 billion in Covid losses over two years ||India’s aviation industry faces pandemic-induced losses totalling some $8 billion for this year and last and is “standing on the edge of a cliff,” the CAPA Centre for Aviation warns in its yearly industry outlook. “We have run out of words to describe the state of Indian airlines,” CAPA says tersely in its India Airline Outlook report for the financial year 2022. “The industry is standing on the edge of a cliff," the aviation consulting firm adds. The twin Covid-19 waves have resulted in a “high level of solvency risk for most airlines which could impact the entire industry, including airports,” CAPA says. Airlines around the world have been suffering badly from the pandemic but the devastating second wave has pushed the once high-flying Indian aviation sector to the brink. “Even airlines with "access to large pools of money" are facing huge problems, it said. Indian airlines will lose a consolidated $4.1billion in this financial year to March 2022, similar to the level of losses seen last year after the first pandemic lockdown, CAPA forecast. Full-service carriers (FSCs) are expected to account for $2.1billion of losses while low cost-carriers would represent $2.0 billion. The government must “provide immediate fiscal relief to the sector,” said CAPA. Underscoring the crisis facing the sector, budget airline IndiGo reported on the weekend a bigger-than-expected loss as passenger load levels contracted with Covid-19 on the rampage. The airline, run by InterGlobe Aviation, reported a loss of Rs 11.5 billion in the fourth quarter of the last financial year ended March 31.  That compared with a loss of Rs 8.7 billion the previous year and was much larger than analysts’ forecasts of a Rs 4.5 billion loss. CAPA projects the airlines could carry between 80 million and 95 million domestic passengers in this financial year which began in April after taking into account the pandemic second wave and assuming there won’t be a third wave to trigger further lockdowns. However, it adds a caveat to this prediction, saying: “Bearing in mind the considerable uncertainty that exists in the market, our guidance based on currently available information is for traffic towards the bottom end of the range at around 80 million.” Still, even the lower-end figure would be better than last year's number when Indian carriers had only 52 million passengers. But it’s nowhere near the almost 140 million passengers who flew on domestic routes in the financial year 2020. Out of the $8 billion in combined red ink over the two years, two airlines, Air India and IndiGo alone are likely to wrack up losses of $4.5 billion between them, CAPA says. Full-service carriers like Air India will together post losses of $2.1 billion and low-cost carriers like IndiGo and SpiceJet will have losses of $2 billion, the consultancy reckons. Start-up airlines Despite the parlous state of the industry, CAPA believes one or two new start-up airlines may launch once the worst of Covid-19 is over and there could be eight to nine domestic carriers totally. The desperate state of the industry can be judged from the fact that once-busy routes like Mumbai-Thiruvananthapuram that pre-pandemic had three to four daily flights now have only four flights weekly. And on several key domestic routes, there have been cases during the punishing second wave of planes taking off with only one or two passengers. Passenger load factors of barely 20 per cent have become commonplace. CAPA predicts a “moderate recovery” in June after the “massive slump in April and May”. It adds, “We expect to see rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year,” barring any major renewed Covid-19 outbreak. The report forecasts international traffic of between 16 million and 21 million passengers but warns that this will be very dependent on border restrictions. Besides that, Indian carriers are scheduled to begin flying on new international routes again. Vistara, for instance, is scheduled to start flying to New York later this financial year. Airport charges India’s airports, which have been badly hit by falling traffic, are also expected to hike charges steeply to offset their sharp income loss since last March. The airports are in a particularly tight corner because they had been spending heavily to cope with the boom in air traffic between 2014 and 2018. Delhi airport, for instance, has been expanding to increase capacity from its current 60 million to 100 million in coming years. New airports are also scheduled to come up at Navi Mumbai and Jewar just outside Delhi. The aviation industry experienced double-digit growth from 2014 to 2018 and in 2017 more than 158 million passengers flew on domestic and international routes. Compared to that, this year is not expected to see more than 120 million passengers at the very best. With all the airlines bleeding money copiously, CAPA estimates they will together require some $5 billion for recapitalisation in this financial year “just to survive”. It says that about $1 billion, “is in the pipeline in the form of IPOs, QIPs and other instruments.” The report notes that massive, perennial losses have created a debt trap which has resulted in most airlines having very limited means of recapitalisation. The government: is providing almost no direct support; lenders have by and large closed their doors to airlines, even for restructuring purposes; and lessors will soon have no option but to start applying pressure on defaulting airlines.” Additionally, the industry could be pushed further into the red because of rising oil prices. CAPA estimates that oil prices could climb to about $70 a barrel and might possibly even touch $75. Fleet likely to shrink India’s airlines are expected to induct about 70 aircraft this year but these will mostly be replacements for around 80 planes slated to be retired. In all likelihood, therefore, the combined fleet of aircraft will probably shrink. GoAir, Vistara and IndiGo have made the most progress on fleet renewal, the report says. This state of affairs “cannot continue. If we are to achieve the Honourable Prime Minister’s vision of affordable connectivity as a critical enabler of economic transformation, the viability of the airline sector must receive the highest level of attention and support,” CAPA said. The Government has imposed price controls and also controls on the number of flights that can be scheduled and these are unlikely to be lifted in FY2022. But the report points out that if these are lifted it could harm the industry because it might lead to price wars. The report recommends that the government should, “develop a framework for conducting a financial stress test of carriers prior to removing price and capacity regulations.” The one bright spot is cargo. Some carriers like SpiceJet have turned a number of aircraft into cargo carriers and created a dedicated freighter fleet. Cargo made a valuable contribution to airline financials in the last financial year and will remain an important segment this year with carriers expected to achieve a 15-per-cent year-on-year increase in cargo revenue. Air India CAPA says the Government appears to be totally committed to the privatisation of Air India but the airline’s losses could mount to astronomical levels in the coming year and this could mean that “bidders may find it difficult to prepare a bid in the current challenging environment. It is therefore not certain at this stage whether the privatisation will succeed unless changes are made to the offer.” The group adds: “The Government of India must have a Plan B for Air India in place now, which can be immediately operationalised if required….Closing Air India would not only be extremely challenging politically but will have a notable impact on the market, especially in the international segment.” To help turn around the dire situation, the report says that aviation turbine fuel should be brought under GST and the fuel excise should be brought back to 4 per cent. CAPA also suggests GST should be reduced on aircraft spares. “Without these measures, it will hurt any remote chance of recapitalisation,” the group concludes bluntly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Covid: unlocking process begins in states||As India witness the fall of second Covid-19 wave with fresh cases decreasing in a consistent manner, a host of states began the unlocking process from Monday. Delhi, Mumbai, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Leh have started easing up the Covid induced restrictions. The announcements were made in the last couple of days as the active infection cases dipped further in the past week. However, these states will still be under partial lockdown and only some relaxations have been made keeping the economy in mind. Delhi will next review the Covid situation on June 14 while Maharashtra on June 15. The Uttar Pradesh government has lifted curfew in all districts except for three — Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. With this, curfew has been lifted in 72 of 75 districts of UP. Delhi Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday extended the ongoing lockdown but announced some more relaxations. From Monday, he said, markets and malls would be allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10 AM to 8 PM. The Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity, government and private offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent staff. Delhi began its 'unlock' process on May 31, when it allowed only construction and factory activities. Maharashtra Maharashtra is under lockdown till June 15. However, it will begin a five-level unlock process from Monday. According to a government notification, cities and districts which have a positivity rate of less than five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will open up completely. But in places where the positivity rate is more than five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is over 25 per cent, restrictions with varying degrees will remain effective. The state government has, however, planned different levels of restrictions based on the infection positivity rate and bed occupancy. For instance, places which have a positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent will have lesser restrictions than, say, places with over 10 per cent positivity rate. Same goes with bed occupancy. At places where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent, only essential shops are allowed to open till 4 PM and office attendance will be 15 percent. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday released detailed guidelines for the next week beginning June 7. The civic body said that the city had fallen under level-3 of the unlock plan of Maharashtra. It said restaurants, shops selling non- essential items and public places will reopen from Monday but malls, theatres and multiplexes will continue to remain shut. Local trains, considered the lifeline of the maximum city, will remain available only for specific categories. Leh The Leh administration has announced gradual unlocking after a month-long curfew. Leh District Disaster Management Authority chairman Shrikant Suse on Sunday issued new guidelines to start gradual unlocking from June 7 till June 14. The administration has allowed commercial activities covering almost all segments. However, public transport, private offices, salons, barber shops, beauty parlours, spas and gyms would continue to remain closed till further orders. Development activities and construction work where labourers reside on the work site have also been allowed. For restaurants, only home delivery service would be allowed on weekdays, while the hotels would be allowed to operate dine-in services with a 30 per cent seating capacity for in-house guests. Non-essential vehicular movement would be allowed on odd/even systems with 50 per cent seating capacity. Besides, Kargil DDMA chairman Santosh Sukhadeve issued an order extending the curfew in the district till 7 am on June 14. Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh has lifted Covid restrictions in all districts except in Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. Active cases of the coronavirus are above 600 in Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. On Saturday, the state government extended relaxations in the curfew to Bareilly and Bulandshahr districts from June 7, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. However, the night curfew and weekend curfew will continue to remain. Haryana Haryana has extended the lockdown by another week till June 14, while easing several restrictions that were in place earlier. Further relaxations regarding opening of shops and shopping malls have been given. Religious places have also been allowed to open with 21 people at a time, corporate offices have also been permitted to open with 50 per cent staff and gatherings of up to 21 people have been allowed at weddings, funerals and cremations. Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast food joints will be permitted till 10 pm. Shops other than the stand-alone ones are allowed to open from 9 am to 6 pm (earlier, it was from 9 am to 3 pm) following the odd-even policy -- those with odd numbers will open on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. Malls, which were last week allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm, can now remain open till 8 pm. For gatherings other than weddings, funerals and cremations, the maximum number of people allowed is 50. For gatherings of more than 50 people, prior permission from the deputy commissioner concerned shall be required. Club houses, restaurants and bars at golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 8 pm. Uttarakhand The Uttarakhand government has extended the restrictions till June 15. As per new lockdown guidelines, general stores will be open from 8 am to 1 pm between June 9 and June 14. The government also decided to open retail shops for two days in this week, the liquor shops will be opened for three 3 days. On June 9 and June 14, grocery shops will be opened from 8 am to 1 pm, while on June 9, 11, and 14, liquor shops will be opened from 8 am to 1 pm. Stationery and book shops will also be opened on 9 and 14 June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Priyanka accuses Centre of 'suppressing' Covid data||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused the Centre of suppressing data related to the Covid pandemic, and said the Modi government's emphasis on propaganda over saving lives had caused "immense damage". Going ahead with her "Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible)" campaign, in which she has been asking questions to the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary focused on the data related to Covid put out by the government. Is it more important to save the prime minister's image than it is to save Indian lives, she asked in her posts on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram while alleging that the government was using data as a "propaganda tool". "From the very start of the pandemic, the Modi government's attitude towards data was to utilize it as a propaganda tool rather than an invaluable weapon in the fight against COVID-19," Priyanka Gandhi added in a statement. The government's propaganda machinery repeatedly indulged in the "suppression and manipulation" of data to serve the government's political agenda even as lives were lost in battling the scourge of a century", she alleged. To emphasise her point, Priyanka Gandhi said right from the beginning of the pandemic, deaths and infections were reported as a ratio of the population while testing was reported as an absolute figure. "This was designed to mislead the public into believing that the infection and death rates were not alarming, while the testing rates were sufficient. In fact, it was exactly the opposite," she said. The Modi government seems to be following the exact same pattern on data surrounding the vaccination programme today, Priyanka Gandhi said. "The Modi government's emphasis on propaganda over saving lives has caused immense damage. It is answerable to the people of India," Priyanka Gandhi asserted. Experts from across India have been demanding that data surrounding the virulence and spread of the pandemic should be made public, but this has never been done, she asserted. Citing the examples of states like Uttar Pradesh, she said the government presented RT-PCR and antigen test data together in order to "manipulate the truth". "In fact, it is widely known that antigen tests are unreliable in comparison. In UP even now, the ratio of RT-PCR tests versus antigen tests is 65:35 per cent," Priyanka Gandhi said. Both infections and the actual number of deaths have been actively "suppressed" by the government in an effort to save face, she claimed. Citing news reports claiming 2,000 dead bodies were found along an 1,100 kilometer stretch on the banks of the Ganga, Priyanka Gandhi said the stretch spanned 27 districts of UP and none of these deaths find space in government records. "Instead, when drone footage revealed hundreds of shallow graves along the Ganga in cities like Prayagraj, the UP government immediately set up a Safaai Abhiyan (cleaning programme) aimed at obliterating any sign of the graves," the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP alleged. News reports from the state revealed a glaring difference between the official death records and those kept by graveyards and crematoriums in cities like Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Meerut, Priyanka Gandhi said. The latter being many multiple times greater than the former, she claimed. Posing questions to the government, she asked why the Modi government summarily ignored the advice of scientists and experts and not make the data around the spread of COVID-19 transparent and public. Did the Centre not understand the importance of correct use of data as one of the most essential tools to fight COVID or was there some other reason behind its actions, she asked. Pointing to the alleged difference between official death records, death certificates issued and crematorium/graveyard records across India, Priyanka Gandhi asked why the Modi government was doing nothing to rationalize these differences and put the true figures before the people of India. "Does the Modi government's image management matter more than COVID management? Is it more important to save the Prime Minister's image than it is to save Indian lives?" Data is a double-edged sword, she said. On its own, it can never reflect the true human cost of a tragedy as it cannot account for the pain, the trauma and the suffering of people, yet it is critical in the management of any natural disaster -- especially a pandemic -- of the scale being experienced today, Priyanka Gandhi asserted. The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||AIIMS Delhi starts screening of children for Covaxin trials||The screening of children for trial of Covaxin, India's first indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine, among those aged between 2 and 18 started at the AIIMS here on Monday. The trial on children has already started at AIIMS Patna to see if the Bharat Biotech jab is suitable for children. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening report comes. The trial is to be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. "The screening of children for conducting trial of Covaxin has started. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening reports come," Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS, said. India's drug regulator had granted permission for conducting the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group 2 to 18 years on May 12. Covaxin is being used on adults in India's ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive. The government last week cautioned that even though COVID-19 has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are being strengthened to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review COVID-19 infections in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the nation's preparedness, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had said at a press conference. The group has examined signs which were not available four-five months before, he said. It has also considered available data, clinical profile, the country's experience, disease dynamics, nature of the virus and the pandemic and has come up with guidelines, which will be publicly released soon. While we have been systematically reviewing scientific developments in this area, the group has been formed to take an updated view of the situation," Paul said. Asked if the Pfizer vaccine, if it comes to India, will it be considered for children between the age of 12 and 15 years as being approved by the UK, Paul had said that the country has its own vaccines which are being readied for children. "Child cohort is not a small cohort. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population and for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses. "We cannot have some people getting and others not getting. So we will have to take this into account when we strategise and make a decision based on how many doses of which vaccines are available. he said. He further shared that Zydus Cadila's vaccine is already being tested in children. "So when Zydus comes for licensure, hopefully in the next two weeks, may be we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given to children," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||India adds over 1 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,427 casualties in a day||India reported 1,00,636 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 61 days, taking the infection tally to 2,89,09,975, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,01,609, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll due to coronavirus reached 3,49,186 with 2,427 new fatalities, the lowest in around 45 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6. Also, 15,87,589 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,63,34,111, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 6.34 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.21 per cent. The number of active cases has reduced to 14,01,609, comprising 4.85 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.94 per cent. A net decline of 76,190 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 25 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,71,59,180, while the case fatality rate has further increased to 1.21 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,427 new fatalities include 618 from Maharashtra, 434 from Tamil Nadu, 320 from Karnataka, 227 from Kerala and 107 from West Bengal. A total of 3, 49,186 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,00,130 from Maharashtra, 31,580 from Karnataka, 27,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,591 from Delhi, 21,236 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,259 from West Bengal, 15,076 from Punjab and 13,217 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Kejriwal appeals to people to follow Covid guidelines as Delhi Metro, markets reopen||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour amid the unlocking process in the national capital. "Many activities are resuming in Delhi from today. But take all the precautions to prevent corona completely - wear a mask, keep social distance and keep washing hands, there should be no laxity at all," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "One has to stay away from corona infection and also bring the economy back on track," the chief minister added. Jolted by the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the national capital moved slowly towards normal life as markets and malls reopened after nearly two months. The Delhi Metro, the lifeline of the city, also resumed service with 50 per cent seating capacity and nearly half of its train fleet running from early morning. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a tweet, appealed to people to follow COVID-19 guidelines amid the unlocking process in the national capital. Atul Bhargav, president of New Delhi Traders Association representing shop owners in Connaught Place, said all arrangements were in place to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. "However, the odd-even formula for opening retail shops is against our interests. We have enough space here in Connaught Place and most of the shopkeepers and their employees have already got the jabs. The government should treat retail and wholesale sectors differently," Bhargav said. Police and the district administration have formed teams to ensure no Covid norms are broken as the markets, malls and complexes reopen from 10 am to 8 pm. "Our teams have been deployed in the field for enforcement and awareness so the unlock process operates smoothly, a senior officer in west Delhi district said. Besides the markets and malls, standalone shops also reopened in the city adding a hint of busy city life. "I am dusting and readying the shop as it was closed for so many days. People are still under awe of their experience in the last two months of Covid surge. I hope the situation will improve and customers will return in the coming days," said Varun, an electronic goods shop owner in Laxmi Nagar. A senior police officer said the shop owners in markets have been briefed to follow norms to protect themselves from the infection. "Our teams are in the field. People are normally following the precautions but we are keeping watch as the day progresses and more people are on the roads and markets," he said. The chief minister on Saturday had announced various relaxations in the ongoing lockdown that was imposed on April 19, saying Covid situation was improving and the economy of the city needed to be revived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Tohana police station in Haryana emerges as new rallying point in farmers' movement||Tohana police station in Haryana has emerged as a new rallying point in the farmers’ movement against the three laws forced on them by the Narendra Modi government last year, with tents being pitched at the site as part of a “jail bharo” campaign after three protesters were arrested and a ruling alliance MLA hurled abuses at them. The siege began on Saturday and had not been lifted till late on Sunday evening. The farmers were insistent that the police drop the charges against the three farmer leaders, one of whom was arrested on a complaint filed by Devinder Babli, an MLA of the JJP, a partner in the BJP-led government in the state. Babli expressed regret on Saturday night for using inappropriate language and agreed to withdraw the cases, but the Fatehabad district administration refused to follow suit. As the standoff spilled over into Sunday, it added fuel to fire and protest sites on Delhi’s borders — where thousands of farmers have been on a sit-in since November 26 — saw a fresh inflow of protesters from Punjab even though the tents at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur have been damaged in the thunderstorm that lashed the national capital last week. While Tohana police station is not the only place in Haryana where farmers have been booked for boycotting or gheraoing ministers and BJP and JJP MLAs, it became a flashpoint after Babli abused some farmers during one such protest last week. Rakesh Tikait, who leads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union that is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, reached the area and picketed the toll plaza on Thursday. On Saturday, in line with a protest programme announced on Friday by the Morcha, Tikait and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of BKU-Haryana led farmers into the Tohana mandi from where they went to the police station. As the farmers marched to the police station, they were constantly reminded by their leaders to remain peaceful and not direct any anger at the police. The Morcha leadership, which has been spearheading the campaign against the three laws, is aware that the non-violent nature of the farmers’ struggle has been its strength and also that security personnel are essentially farmers in uniform. The farmers know that the Modi government would use any violence to turn the narrative against the movement with the help of what they call “godi (pliant) media”. Veteran farmer leader Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said Haryana police had arrested one of the union leaders, Makkhan Singh, on Thursday night on a complaint from Babli. Before that, Tohana police had arrested 27 farmer leaders while they were going to protest outside Babli’s house, and later sent two of them, Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, to Hisar jail in the dead of night. “We decided to court arrest in protest against such strong-arm tactics. The administration agreed to talk to the farmers on Saturday evening and it was decided that two of the farmer union leaders would be given bail and brought to them,” Darshan Pal said. “Babli too agreed to withdraw the case against Makkhan Singh. We had three rounds of talks but the administration refused to give an assurance that the cases against the three would be withdrawn. Our leaders sitting in Tohana have now given a call to farmers from other districts to come to Tohana, and also picket police stations across the state on Monday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium considers reforming appointment process||The Supreme Court collegium is considering reforming the judicial appointment process by inducting more members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, minorities and women as judges of the high courts and the apex court, sources in the judiciary said. There’s now no statutory framework or constitutional requirement that ensures adequate representation of the various castes, communities and women among judges, in contrast to higher-education seats and government jobs. It would, therefore, be a first in the history of the Indian judiciary if the Supreme Court and the high courts adopt a policy of appointing what they consider an adequate number of judges from the socially disadvantageous sections, even if without a legislative or constitutional mandate. Sources told The Telegraph that Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had on Friday evening broached the subject during extensive discussions with the chief justices and acting chief justices of all the 25 high courts. Justice Ramana said the high court collegiums must recommend a number of candidates from the Dalit, tribal, OBC and minority communities and women for the posts of their judges, following which the appointments could be cleared by the Supreme Court collegium, the sources said. They said Justice Ramana had repeatedly emphasised the need to give adequate representation to the marginalised sections to ensure “the functioning of the high court truly reflects the vast social diversity of the country”. The reported move comes amid complaints from the Bar and civil society that Dalits, tribal communities, minorities and women are not adequately represented among Supreme Court and high court judges. For instance, the Supreme Court has never had a woman Chief Justice or Christian Chief Justice and currently has little representation from the Dalit, tribal or minority communities. The top court now has only one Dalit judge in Justice Bhushan Gavai who will become the Chief Justice of India on May 14, 2025, for a brief period of six months and 10 days. It also has only one Muslim judge, Justice Abdul Nazeer, and a single woman judge, Justice Indira Banerjee. The Supreme Court has, however, had four Muslim Chief Justices in the past: Justice M. Hidayatullah, Justice M. Hameedullah Beg, Justice A.M. Ahmadi and Justice Altamas Kabir. Sources privy to Friday's meeting said Justice Ramana had asked the high court collegiums to keep in mind the constant demand from the Bar associations that advocates of standing who have completed 10 years’ practice be considered for appointment as Supreme Court and high court judges. The 25 high courts are now functioning with 650 judges against a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080, with the vacancies numbering a staggering 430 as of June 1, 2021. The Supreme Court has four vacancies from a sanctioned strength of 31 judges, including the Chief Justice. Two judges — Justice R.F. Nariman, the second senior-most judge, and Justice Ashok Bhushan — are to retire on August 12 and July 4, respectively, this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Covid: Study sparks call to cut Covishield dose gap||India should consider reducing the Covishield dose gap to eight weeks from the current 12-16 weeks, sections of experts have said amid new evidence that the coronavirus variant called B.1.617.2 has triggered explosive outbreaks and caused infections in partially immunised people. The evidence from India’s National Centre for Disease Control and the Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi has indicated that B.1.617.2 is “over-represented” (appears more frequently) in post-vaccination breakthrough infections than in the general population. “B.1.617.2 is capable of creating fast-rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs,” researchers at the NCDC-IGIB said in their study. “We would reemphasise that prior infections… and partial vaccination are insufficient impediments to its spread.” A UK study whose findings emerged on May 22 had found that the AstraZeneca vaccine — Covishield in India — was 33 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19 cause by B.1.617.2 three weeks after the first dose and 60 per cent effective after the second dose. Health authorities in the UK had cited those results and reduced the AstraZeneca vaccine’s dose gap from 12 weeks to eight weeks, prompting sections of experts in India to call on this country’s vaccination advisers to reduce the gap for Covishield too. Experts have underlined that the observed 33 per cent protection against B.1.617.2 after the first dose was lower than the 50 per cent protective threshold prescribed by the World Health Organisation and adopted by India’s regulatory authorities. “India should consider the shorter interval between two doses because we know this variant is in wide circulation in the country,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, a research and training institution. Reddy and others believe the NCDC-IGIB results bolster the evidence for a shorter gap. Among a set of 27 people who had breakthrough infections, B.1.617.2 accounted for 19 (76 per cent) cases. The study suggests that B.1.617.2 had played a key role in Delhi’s sharp surge in the 7-day average of daily new infections that increased from less than 400 cases in early March to over 20,000 by April-end. “This is real-world evidence from India — this lends support to arguments for shortening the gap to 8 weeks,” said Santhanu Tripathi, former professor and head of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “When new knowledge comes in, we must examine it and, if acceptable, apply it.” But the country’s vaccination advisers had in mid-May expanded Covishield’s dose gap to 12-16 weeks from their earlier recommendation of 6-8 weeks and appear unwilling to so quickly revise the gap alongside the UK and lower it to eight weeks. Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), an expert panel that guides the government on vaccines, said the panel would wait for more evidence to emerge and take into account observations in India before taking a decision on the dose gap. “We will look at all available evidence in two or three months – and if required reconsider the dose interval,” another member of NTAGI who requested not to be named told The Telegraph. The current dose gap of 12-16 weeks would allow the country to provide more people first doses of Covishield while those who have received the first dose wait for their second dose. A senior vaccine science specialist said it was still unclear what would yield India the greater public health gains – immunising more people with single doses during the 12-16 week dose gap and taking a chance with breakthrough infections, or shortening the dose gap and ensuring as many people receive two doses in the shortest possible time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||BJP leader Radha Mohan Singh meets Uttar Pradesh governor, rumours fly ||Radha Mohan Singh, BJP national vice-president and party-in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, met governor Anandiben Patel for about 30 minutes on Sunday. BJP sources said Singh had an envelope in his hand when he had gone to the Raj Bhavan. “I had not met the governor ever since she came to Uttar Pradesh and so it was a courtesy call,” Singh told reporters. Four hours later, Singh went to the residence of Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit and held another 30-minute meeting. Asked about the rumour that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were unhappy with chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s working, Singh told reporters: “We have the strongest organisation and a popular government in Uttar Pradesh. There are government committees to which 17,000 party workers have been nominated.” Sources said Modi wants Adityanath to make Arvind Kumar Sharma a minister in his cabinet but the chief minister is delaying it. Sharma, a former IAS officer who had worked with Modi in Gujarat and New Delhi for about two decades, was elected a member of a state legislative council (MLC) in January 2021. Since then, he has been looking after Varanasi, Modi’s parliamentary constituency. When Dixit was asked about Sunday’s meeting, he said: “Radha Mohan Singh is my old friend. He is also an old colleague. I liked it when he called me in the morning and said he would meet me. We mostly discussed literature and ancient history today.” However, such explanations have not been able to put the lid on rumours that Modi and Shah are in favour of a change of guard in Uttar Pradesh. Ambrish Kumar, a veteran journalist, said: “We cannot say what exactly is going to happen but Modi is in the habit of giving surprises. The defeat of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh is definite in today’s situation when the government has completely failed in Covid-19 management.” “We need to see how Modi brings the government and the BJP out of this crisis of trust deficit. However, in case Adityanath is removed as the chief minister, then only the Prime Minister would be blamed if the BJP loses in 2022 and Modi knows this very well,” he added. “I also believe that the actual fight in the BJP is to become number two. A silent war is going on between Shah and Adityanath,” Kumar said. When asked, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh echoed Radha Mohan and said: “The government of Yogi is working excellently. It is a people’s government.” Later, asked about reports of an imminent cabinet expansion, Radha Mohan told PTI: “No expansion is going to take place now…. When it takes place, it will be known.” He also denied there was a rift between Modi and Adityanath, saying: “In fact, we are of the view that Yogiji is the most competent person to fulfil the dreams of Modiji.” The BJP vice-president dismissed as a “figment of imagination” reports of a possible change of leadership in the government or party. “This is a figment of imagination. No question arises of this. Both the government and the organisation are working fine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Cong, BJP slam Delhi govt over hospital circular asking nursing staff not to converse in Malayalam||The Congress and the BJP on Sunday slammed the Delhi government over a controversial hospital circular issued a day earlier asking its nursing staff not to converse in Malayalam. Terming the order of Delhi government-run GB Pant hospital unconstitutional and amounting to denial of fundamental rights, the Congress on Sunday demanded strict action against the authorities. “Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination,” Rahul Gandhi said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra  posted the order of Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research asking its nursing staff to use only Hindi and English for communication and said serious action would be taken if it was not followed. “This order violates the basic values of our country,” she said in a tweet in Malayalam and termed it as “racist, discriminatory and completely wrong”. She said the order was an insult to nurses and health workers from Kerala who made us secure by risking their own lives during the pandemic. “We owe them debt of gratitude and respect,” she said, adding that the order should be withdrawn immediately and an apology issued. The BJP said it was ironical that the Delhi government requested Kerala for oxygen, but had now attempted to snatch its people’s right to speak in their language with each other. The medical director of GB Pant hospital on Sunday said they had revoked the order. “The matter is being investigated and action will follow,” medical director Dr Anil Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Court rejects Delhi police plea to produce Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi in handcuffs ||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that “they are not gangsters”. The application, which came up for hearing before additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they are “high-risk prisoners”. The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by Delhi police and the prison authorities. “The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the additional sessions judge stated in an order dated June 5. He further said the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The judge also noted the replies submitted by the superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, additional deputy commissioner of police (special cell) and deputy commissioner of police of third battalion of Delhi police on the plea. The deputy commissioner of police told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape. “As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon’ble Court,” the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26. However, in the reply given by the additional deputy commissioner of police of special cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Covid lockdown: Bihar to send jardalu mangoes for President, PM, CJI and other dignitaries||Bihar has decided to keep up the annual tradition of sending its special ‘jardalu’ mangoes of Bhagalpur as gifts to the President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India and other dignitaries in New Delhi despite the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. These bright yellow mangoes with their unique taste, fragrance and just the right amount of fructose, unlike many others that are either very sweet or a bit sour, were plucked on June 4. They were awarded the GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2018. They were packed in cardboard boxes the next day and loaded on the Delhi-bound Vikramshila Express on Sunday.  A whopping 10,000 kg is being procured from the orchards of mango growers. Two officials from the agriculture department will accompany the jardalus and hand them over to the Bihar Bhavan in Delhi on Monday, which will oversee their distribution among the VVIPs. Each box will bear the message: ‘With love from chief minister Nitish Kumar, government of Bihar.’ “We are sending 2000 cartons, each containing 5kg of jardalu mangoes, to Delhi this time. The dispatch has been delayed by a few days due to Covid-19. We are taking all precautionary measures in the light of the pandemic. Those involved in plucking, packing and ferrying the fruits will wear masks and keep sanitising their hands,” Bhagalpur district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen told The Telegraph. A four-member committee led by the deputy development commissioner of Bhagalpur has already marked the farmers and their orchards from where the jardalus will be procured while keeping in view their quality and size. “Our officials and a scientist from Bihar Agriculture University are ensuring uniform quality of the jardalu mangoes that will be sent. They have already checked the fruits for disease and insects. These jardalu mangoes are not found anywhere else except Bhagalpur,” Dilip Kumar Singh, in-charge, Bhagalpur district agriculture officer (DAO) said. The move to send mangoes to Delhi has lifted the mood of jardalu growers in the region. They have been distressed due to the pandemic and lockdown that hampered the movement and sales of their produce. “The jardalu mango crop has been quite good this year, but their market and the demand has been down due to Covid-19. We had been finding it difficult to transport and sell them in distant markets due to the ongoing lockdown. However, the Bihar government’s decision to send the fruits to VVIPs in Delhi will boost the confidence of people and perk up the demand,” said Srikant Pal, a jardalu orchard owner in Bhagalpur. Expressing happiness on the Bihar government’s move to send jardalu mangoes to Delhi this year too, Bhagalpur Mango Federation president Ashok Choudhary pointed out that the growers or farmers have been facing several difficulties of late. “The jardalu and other varieties of mangoes in the region have been hit by red-banded caterpillar, which starts boring into the mangoes when they are unripe and destroy the fruit from inside. The state government has not done anything till now to address this problem. Our mango farmers could be ruined due to this pest,” Choudhary told this newspaper. Choudhary also added that fruit flies are also devastating the mango crop and special measures need to be taken to curb them. The legend about jardalu mangoes popular in Bhagalpur is that the variety was developed during the Mughal era especially for the ruling class. The locals say that the fruit’s unique fragrance and taste is partly due to the use of various herbs and perfumes used in watering the plants when they were first planted during that period, and partly due to the soil, climate and water quality of the area. However, some documents indicate that Maharaja Rahmat Ali Khan Bahadur of Haveli Kharagpur (now in Munger district neighbouring Bhagalpur) planted the first jardalu sapling around 1810-20. The locals assert that the sapling grew into a tree and still stands tall after two centuries at Tagepur village under Jagdishpur block. It acted as the mother tree for other jardalu plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Covid: Reserved beds for health workers in Odisha||The Odisha government will reserve five per cent of general and ICU beds for healthcare workers in hospitals. A senior health official said the decision was taken as part of the appropriate precautions to ensure that the workers remains free from Covid infection. “It will help us to face a possible third wave of the virus. They (healthcare workers) are the backbone of the health system. We don’t want any of them to face any difficulties while coming for treatment,” the official said. According to the notification issued by the state health department, all healthcare workers will be provided with PPE. All of them have been asked to abide by the Covid guidelines. Thermal detectors will be used to screen people at all the entry points to hospitals. The healthcare workers are entitled to all benefits according to the guidelines. The health department has also asked hospitals to screen all patients with suspected Covid symptoms by conducting rapid antigen tests. The Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar has advised people to take all precautions to avoid the possible third wave. “We need to be careful to avoid a possible outbreak of a third wave. All will be hit, including children. The effects of the third wave depend on three aspects — vaccination, mutation of virus and adherence to Covid guidelines,” said Dr Ajaya Parida, director of the ILS. Director, health services, Bijay Mohapatra said: “The state government is fully prepared to tackle the third wave. We have adequate ventilators, oxygens and ICU beds.” On Saturday, the state breached the eight-lakh Covid cases mark after 7,395 more people tested positive for the infection. Odisha’s total caseload now stands at 806,094. Khurda district, under which state capital Bhubaneswar falls, reported the maximum number of new cases at 1,069, followed by Cuttack at 868, Jajpur at 561 and Angul at 443.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||BJP MP slams Naveen Patnaik over Niti Aayog report||BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, Aparajita Sarangi, on Saturday targeted the Naveen Patnaik government over its poor performance in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) report which has ranked Odisha among the bottom five states of the country. The report prepared by the Centre’s apex think tank Niti Aayog, that evaluates progress of states and Union Territories on various developmental parameters like economic growth, gender, health, education, climate change, environment and gender, was released on June 3. “It speaks a lot about our model of governance,” said Sarangi, a former Odisha cadre IAS officer while posing five questions to the state government. Addressing a news conference here, Sarangi said: “In the category of sustainable development goal 1 of zero poverty, Odisha ranks third from the bottom with 33.89 per cent of the state’s total population still under the national poverty line. The situation has not changed since 2019. It speaks a lot about the state of administration.” The MP said that compared to 2019, the overall performance of the state government has deteriorated further. “It’s unfortunate and we should be ashamed of it,” she said. Stating that employment under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) has decreased while the crime rate has gone up in the state, she said: “The state government has failed to provide security to women. Crimes against women have gone up and harassment cases continue to rise,” she alleged. She claimed that the state had fared badly in achieving the target of zero hunger with nearly 29 per cent of children below five years still malnourished and underweight. “What has the state government done for so many years to improve the status of the children and ensure the dignity of women? Has Mission Shakti failed? The government has miserably failed to safeguard the women of our state,” she said. Hitting out at the government for its poor performance on the economic front, the MP said that Odisha ranked second from bottom among 28 states on economic growth in the Niti Aayog report. “The state secured a big zero as far as ease of doing business is concerned. This despite the government having organised much-touted programmes like Make in Odisha,” she said. However, Biju Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Amar Patnaik refuted the allegations made by Sarangi. Patnaik told The Telegraph: “It’s an aspirational report. No one should indulge in politics over the issue. We are not talking about how other states like Uttar Pradesh are performing. People should go to the field to assess the ground reality.” Patnaik pointed out the data provided by the state had not been taken into account while preparing the SDG report. “In ease of doing business, the state has been shown to have achieved zero. How is that possible when Odisha has attracted FDI even more than Maharashtra last year? We are not critical of the report but there must be some error. Internet service has not reached many villages but the report states that 123 per cent Internet penetration has been achieved,” he said, adding that the report needs a relook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Odisha government to shoot documentary on cyclones||The Odisha government will shoot a documentary on the processes related to a cyclone including preparedness, landfall impact, evacuation and restoration. The documentary will act as a base book for the state administration on how to face a cyclone in future and how it should act to save lives and properties. Odisha has received appreciation from the United Nations several times for its handling of natural disasters, particularly cyclones. The documentary will cover all the cyclones starting from the Super Cyclone that hit the state in 1999 in which more than 10,000 people had lost their lives. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said: “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik during a review meeting asked officials to make a documentary as it would be helpful for the future generations to read the exact nature of cyclones, how it affects the common man and how proper preparation saves lives. We are always working with a zero casualty mission.” Cyclone Yaas that made landfall between north of Dhamra and south of Balasore on May 26 had wreaked havoc in Balasore and Bhadrak district. However, timely evacuation saved lives and any major loss of property. Nearly 128 villages were marooned by the tidal surges and rains triggered by Cyclone Yaas. Meanwhile, the state government, which had got an assurance from the Centre to get Rs 500 crore assistance for repair and restoration work, has pegged its losses at Rs 610  crore due to Yaas. Jena said: “As many as 60 lakh people in 11,000 villages were affected by Yaas. Government infrastructure worth Rs 520 crore and Rs 90 crore worth private property was damaged owing to the impact of Cyclone Yaas. We have spent Rs 66 crore in relief operations.” The power sector was badly hit by Yaas. According to a government estimate, 30 lakh consumers were affected by the cyclone. “We have restored power connection to nearly 99.9 percent consumers who had suffered power cuts because of the cyclone,” Jena said. The state has already suggested to the Centre come out with a long-term plan on how to save the power sector from the impact of cyclones. Nearly 230 transformers will be replaced with new ones which would create a financial burden of nearly Rs 150 crore on the state. The panchayati raj department estimated its losses at Rs 277 crore, the water resources department pegged losses at Rs 108 crore, works department of Rs 75 crore and the rural development department estimated losses to the tune of Rs 60 crore. The other departments have also sent the detailed list of losses they incurred during the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||India||Rival seeks bribery case against state BJP president K. Surendran||The losing CPM candidate from Kerala’s Manjeshwar constituency has written to the Kasaragod district police chief seeking the registration of a case against state BJP president K. Surendran for allegedly bribing a Bahujan Samaj Party candidate to pull out of the fray. V.V. Rameshan, who finished third from Manjeshwar where the Indian Union Muslim League candidate narrowly defeated Surendran, has suggested the BJP chief be booked under Indian Penal Code sections 171b (election-related bribery) and 171e (punishment for bribery). His complaint follows Saturday’s claim by BSP nominee K. Sundara that Surendran had got him to pull out of the April 6 election in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a cellphone and the promise of a wine shop. Rameshan’s lawyer C. Shukkur told The Telegraph the CPM politician would approach a magistrate’s court on Monday to seek sanction to file an FIR against Surendran. “Since bribery related to elections is a non-cognisable offence, the complainant has to get a sanction from the magistrate’s court. The FIR will be filed once we get the sanction,” said Shukkur. Sundara had polled 467 votes in 2016 contesting from Manjeshwar, while Surendran had lost by just 89 votes. The BJP apparently thought that some voters had mixed up Sundara with Surendran because of the similarity between their names. Surendran lost by 1,143 votes this time to A.K.M. Ashraf of the IUML, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Sundara told reporters on Sunday that BJP workers had threatened his aged mother after his allegations of Saturday, and told her to get him to deny the family had received any money from the BJP. He conceded “it was wrong to take money to withdraw my nomination” but added: “I have spent all the money.” Sundara denied the BJP’s allegation that the IUML and the CPM had influenced him to accuse Surendran. “No one has influenced me; I’m saying all this on my own,” he said. Surendran has already been accused of paying Rs 10 lakh to get the Janadhipatya Rashtriya Party, led by tribal activist C.K. Janu, to join the NDA before the election. JRP treasurer Praseetha Azhikode has made the allegation. Surendran has denied any payoff, as has Janu who has been suspended from the party. Adding to Surendran’s troubles, his son may now be questioned in connection with investigations into an April 3 carjack and robbery that have led to allegations of a BJP plan to use cash to influence the elections. Police sources have said the car, carrying RSS worker Dharmarajan and a man named Shamjeer, was ferrying Rs 3.5 crore in cash although Shamjeer’s complaint says the duo possessed only Rs 25 lakh. The BJP has denied any connection to the cash or the heist, but the police have questioned several leaders of the party in the case. Police sources said they had unearthed call details that showed Surendran’s son K.S. Harikrishnan speaking to Dharmarajan several times around the time of the robbery. They said the police would question Harikrishnan. The state BJP’s core committee met on Sunday to try and douse the fire and present a picture of unity although some in the party have called for a leadership change. Senior BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekaran accused the Left Democratic Front of implicating his party in false cases. “Why aren’t the police disclosing details about the CPM workers who have been arrested?” he said at a news conference in Kochi ahead of the meeting. The BJP claims that some of the 21 people arrested in connection with the robbery have links with the CPM and the CPI. Surendran seemed on the defensive when asked about his son’s possible connection with Dharmarajan. “Let the police investigate whether he called Dharmarajan. I’m already an accused in 300 cases despite doing nothing. I had expected this from this government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||India||Priyanka promises help to girl who cycled back with her injured dad from Gurgaon to Bihar during last year's lockdown||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has offered to help Jyoti Kumari, who had cycled back with her injured father from Gurgaon to their village in Bihar, around 1,200km away, during the lockdown in May last year, so that she can continue her studies and her passion of cycling. The Congress leader called up Jyoti, 16, a resident of Sirhulli village in Darbhanga district of Bihar, on Thursday to console her on her father’s demise and asked her not to worry about how her family will survive in the absence of the sole bread-earner. Jyoti’s father Mohan Paswan passed away on Monday. Jyoti had shot to international fame after she carried her father, who had fractured his leg while working as an e-rickshaw driver, on a bicycle from Gurgaon Haryana to her village during the Covid-induced lockdown in May 2020. Jyoti’s feat attracted the attention of the Cycle Federation of India (CFI), which wanted to groom her as a racer. She was also awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar. Priyanka contacted Jyoti through local Congress leader Mashkoor Ahmad Usmani. “I told Priyanka Didi about my dreams and the things I was planning to do and how they were dashed due to my father’s death as I have now to think of my two brothers, sister and mother. She asked me not to worry till she is there and promised to bear the expenses. I think I will be able to continue with my studies,” Jyoti told mediapersons. Though Jyoti did not demand anything over phone, she did express a desire to meet Priyanka, who agreed to the request after the coronavirus pandemic subsides. “Priyanka Didi asked me to inform whenever I need anything. I was very worried after my father’s death, but her words have come as a huge relief,” Jyoti added. Mashkoor and other local Congress leaders distributed soaps, masks and medicines in Jyoti’s village on Thursday. He also handed her a condolence letter sent by Priyanka. “Priyanka ji herself spoke to Jyoti and we handed over the condolence letter that she wrote. She has promised to bear the expenses. Apart from this, our entire party is ready to help Jyoti whenever she needs any assistance. We will take her (Jyoti) to Delhi to meet Priyanka ji as soon as the Covid pandemic subsides,” Mashkoor said. The country had witnessed a mass exodus of several lakh migrant workers from different parts of the country to Bihar during the lockdown last year in an effort to escape hunger and penury with the central and state governments accused of faulty planning and arrangements and entrepreneurs, industrialists and landlords charged with mercilessness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||India||AAP stays aloof from Opposition grouping on Covid and farm laws||The Aam Aadmi Party has been conspicuous by its absence from joint statements of the Opposition parties at the national level this year on Covid-19 and the new farm regime, preferring to be a lone wolf in protests against the Centre and prompting questions on its interest in a consolidation against the ruling dispensation. Although vocal against the new farm laws as well as the Centre’s handling of the pandemic, the AAP — which runs the Delhi government — has chosen to plough a lonely furrow rather than be part of the Opposition’s unity efforts. General secretaries of the CPM and the CPI — national parties that are supportive of the AAP — have last month publicly questioned Arvind Kejriwal’s party’s silence on an Opposition axis. When the AAP had vehemently opposed the downgrading of the Delhi government’s powers by a central legislation in March, most Opposition parties had closed ranks behind it. However, the AAP, which had earlier been accused of pursuing the Hindutva agenda and siding with the Centre on key issues, has remained silent on the new Union government-appointed administrator’s controversial decisions in Lakshadweep. Most Opposition parties have slammed administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s alleged attempts to impose a “Sangh parivar” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. Several MPs have written to the President and a united Opposition is preparing a mass petition to Ram Nath Kovind for the administrator’s recall. There have been fears that Lakshadweep is being turned into “another Kashmir”. In 2019, the AAP had supported the Centre’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. This time, the AAP has not uttered a word on the CBI’s action on Trinamul Congress leaders, including two ministers, and the Centre’s other alleged disruptive measures in Bengal after the BJP bit the dust in the Assembly elections. Last Monday, Kejriwal offered a guarded disapproval of Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s transfer on Twitter, without naming him. This despite the Trinamul Congress sending its MPs for the debate in the Rajya Sabha on the Delhi power rejig despite the frenetic election campaign in Bengal in March. Many Opposition parties have slammed the CBI action in the Narada case, accusing the Centre of misusing the investigation agency for political vendetta. Asked, an AAP senior leader denied ever being approached to be a part of the Opposition consolidation last month, putting the onus on the Congress to bring together the forces. “I am unaware of any attempts by the Congress to bring us on board... You need not worry about our stand as we were and always will be secular. In Parliament, we have cooperated with other Opposition parties. Outside, we will continue to speak up on issues that affect the public even if we stand alone,” he told The Telegraph, preferring anonymity. However, an AAP strategist claimed that the party did not see any political value in “signing statements”. He said: “People don’t care about joint statements. The BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party), for example, chooses to sign some statements and not sign others depending on its convenience on that day. That’s simply because there is not any political mileage to be gained from statements…. “During the pandemic, we have focused on policy and not politics as citizens want to see a government that works and a party that takes up their problems, and not merely fights the BJP.” He said the AAP’s current focus was restricted to wresting power from the BJP in all three municipal corporations of the capital next year — which would dismantle any threat to its continuance as the pre-eminent party of Delhi. The AAP is keen to hold on to the status of the party that has the leader of the Opposition in Punjab. Surveys conducted by the AAP give it a fighting chance at debuting in the Assemblies of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa — all of which go to polls early next year. Besides Punjab, all the other states are ruled by the BJP. However, the AAP sees its vote bank in Congress voters. “If we want to be a regional leader, we can’t stand with the parties we seek to displace. The Congress has to be our enemy number one. Our success in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls has come at the expense of the Congress,” the AAP strategist said. “Muslims are disappointed with us after the Delhi riots but we will win them back not by pandering to them like the Congress or the Samajwadi Party, but by establishing ourselves as the strongest anti-BJP force,” the strategist added. The AAP recently drew flak for targeting the Centre on vaccine exports by emphasising on the allocation to Muslim countries. “The centrist BJP voter can vote for the AAP if we project ourselves as an alternative. We won’t waste our political capital speaking about issues from which we have nothing to gain, like Lakshadweep or the Bengal violence,” the strategist said. An AAP fundraiser recently pointed out that he who pays the piper calls the tune. “Even donors are keen that we emerge as a national alternative. Our regular donors are hard-pressed as most of them have devoted funds for Covid relief. But in Uttarakhand for example, a prominent donor of the BJP has offered to fund us if we emerge as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress,” the strategist said. “That can’t happen with Opposition unity. Kejriwal’s national ambitions in the long term can be realised only if we break the Congress in these key states and Gujarat, where too we got traction in the municipal polls,” the strategist added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||India||Scrutiny of RSS links puts Jammu and Kashmir government in spot||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has invited Sangh parivar fury by asking government departments in Jammu for details of employees who were “over-ground” or “underground” RSS workers, appearing to club the organisation with outlawed groups like the Jamat-e-Islami and triggering rumours of an impending ban. After many employees and the parivar expressed outrage, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration is learnt to have stopped the process, which seems to have been a somewhat incautious response to an RTI query. Both the Union Territory administration, controlled directly by the Centre, and the BJP have been caught off guard and left embarrassed by the episode. Officials said the government had in April received an RTI application from Jammu resident Sudhir Kumar that sought details of the employees linked to the RSS — which many government staff in Jammu are — and their participation in RSS shakhas. The general administration department (GAD) forwarded the application to other departments seeking these details. Employee scans for “over-ground” and “underground” members of banned organisations is common in militancy-hit Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the GAD query, several government institutions in Jammu, including colleges, sought online declarations from their employees that they were not associated with the RSS – which is the usual method adopted for such inquiries. This had the grapevine agog with rumours that the government planned to ban the RSS. Following the uproar, the central public information officer (CPIO) of the GAD disposed of the RTI application on June 4, saying the records did not contain the information sought. “Whereas, the Right to Information Act, 2005, the rules made thereafter and the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court… clearly prescribes that only such information is to be provided which is already available with the central public information officers and no information is required to be created,” the CPIO’s order read. Officials said the order would “put the controversy at rest” and stressed that departments are not required to seek any such information from their employees. BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta admitted to anger in the RSS and said he had sought an investigation. “The RSS is not a banned organisation; such data are kept only relating to the banned organisations. The CPIO in the GAD should have replied clearly on those lines,” Gupta told The Telegraph. “But I don’t know what his motive was. I have been given to understand that he did not take clearance from the GAD secretary. He did it on his own.” Gupta said that since the order had come from the GAD, other departments began collecting the data. “Generally, people were annoyed about what was happening. The rumour went that they wanted to ban the RSS.... So the anger increased,” he said. “It’s a temporarily resolved issue. One needs to go into the details how this episode started — (find out) who is responsible and who is the person who bypassed channels... and personally he should be held accountable.” In March 2019, months before the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, the then state government had banned the separatist Jamat-e-Islami and the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front. Following this, scores of their leaders and activists were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||India||Disabled man lynched over a glass of water in Bihar||A middle-aged man with a polio-affected leg was beaten to death in Bihar’s Begusarai district for drinking a glass of water from a pitcher in the sweltering afternoon without asking the householder. Hours later on Friday night, a young man from Nepal was lynched in the border district of Madhubani after he was allegedly caught stealing a tractor. Chhote Lal Sahni, 50, of Badepura village in Begusarai was thrashed because he had drunk a glass of water from a pitcher placed outside Dinesh Sahni’s home “after having touched fish”, police said. Chhote Lal had been fishing in a pond when the heat made him thirsty, so he walked up to Dinesh’s home. “Dinesh saw Chhote Lal drinking water without taking his permission. He and his son Deepak assaulted him with sticks. The injured man somehow reached home but his condition deteriorated,” Chahari station house officer Raghvendra Kumar told reporters. “The villagers took him to the Begusarai Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to the Patna Medical College and Hospital. He was rushed there but died during treatment.” Kumar said Dinesh had been arrested while Deepak was in hiding. Nepal resident Sikandar Yadav, 25, and a few associates had allegedly tried to steal farmer Kundan Mishra’s tractor at Padma village in Madhubani, the police said. As the alleged thieves started the engine and set off, the noise woke the household who raised the alarm. Several villagers stopped the tractor and caught hold of Sikandar. The rest escaped. Sikandar was taken to Mishra’s home and held captive in a room where several people brutally assaulted him, police sources said. A widely circulated video shows an injured youth lying on the floor, his hands and legs tied with ropes, while a group of men are kicking him. The youth seems hardly conscious. Police on Saturday took an unconscious Sikandar to a government hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The police later identified Sikandar — a resident of Hakpara village in Nepal’s Siraha district — from documents he was carrying. They registered an FIR and informed the victim’s family. “We have arrested Kundan Mishra so far. Three others have been named as accused but are in hiding. Several other unidentified men too have been accused. We are continuing our investigations,” Ladania station house officer Santosh Kumar Singh told The Telegraph on Sunday. Sikandar’s uncle and brother have arrived to complete the formalities and take the body back to Nepal after the post-mortem. “My nephew drove an earthmover machine for the last seven years. He has left behind a wife and a daughter,” Sikandar’s uncle Paras Yadav told reporters. “How he came here during the lockdown and why he was killed is a mystery to us. But he was not a thief and never stole anything.” The killing could further strain relations between Nepal and Bihar. The Nepal border police had fired on Bihar villagers twice last year, killing two and injuring several people. In one instance, the Nepal police accused the victims of having crossed the border and violated the lockdown; in the other the Indian villagers alleged the victims had entered Nepal to look for lost cattle. Nepal has also objected to river embankment repairs and road construction in Bihar’s border areas, forcing the projects to be halted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata cancels Madhyamik, Uchchamadhyamik exams for 2021||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelled Class X and XII state board examinations for the academic year 2020-2021, going by public opinion largely in favour of not holding the exams amid the Covid pandemic. “Thank you very much for sending us your valuable opinions and suggestions. GoWB arrives at the decision of cancelling Madhyamik/Uchchamadhyamik examination for 2021. We will work out the best possible way to secure the future of our children,” Mamata tweeted on Monday. At Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters, Mamata said the state education department had received around 34,000 emails since Sunday till the deadline of 2pm, Monday. “Around 79 per cent of students and their parents are against holding Madhyamik. In the case of higher secondary, 83 per cent are not in favour. That is why we have decided not to hold the exams this year,” she said, adding that the evaluation process "will be decided in seven days., This is the second consecutive year of academic disruption with schools and colleges remaining shut. In 2020, by the time the national lockdown was announced, Madhyamik exams had been concluded, though most of the main subjects in higher secondary were pending. The higher secondary board had then drawn up a method to award the average highest scores to subjects in which the exams could not be held. On Sunday, the state government had released three email addresses in the public domain and asked people to submit their opinion on whether to go ahead with the examination process or not. Under the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the state government had closed all educational institutions and activities. On June 15, the state government will take a call on whether to continue with the restrictions imposed or ease certain restrictions. It is unlikely that the government would agree to let schools and colleges open without the transport system back in place. An expert committee set up by the state government had also recommended against conducting the exams, as many school buildings in the state have been converted into safe houses for Covid-19 patients. The expert committee has suggest that evaluation be carried out giving 70 per cent importance to Class IX performance and 30 per cent to class X performance.  Mamata had told officials to prioritise Class IX vs Class X syllabus carefully for internal evaluation, since the syllabi of the two classes were quite different. Now, the education department will finalise the method whihc will announced within the next seven days. Mamata has asked for the evaluation process to be carried out as quickly as possible so that students do not face any problems with competitive and entrance exams necessary to continue their higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||March for concrete embankments in South 24-Parganas’s Gosaba||Residents of at least three riverside villages in South 24-Parganas’s Gosaba on Saturday took out a march with posters demanding concrete embankments, instead of relief material which, according to them, would be a temporary solution to recurrent inundation. In the wake of Cyclone Yaas on May 26, when over 136 embankments were breached and more than 290 riverside and coastline areas submerged, demand for a permanent solution to the problem of displacement gained momentum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas. Sources said residents of Satjelia, Rangabelia, Lahiripur and Kumirmari at Gosaba in the Sunderbans had gone to the embankments of local rivers raising posters stating “Tran noi, concrete-er bnadh chai (Not relief, we want concrete embankments)”. The protest lasted over an hour with the villagers declaring that they would “respectfully” decline relief material from henceforth unless the administration took up their demand for concrete embankments more seriously. “If the embankment becomes stronger, there will be no flood. We will need no relief then,” said a Kumirmari resident, belying a tone of frustration with the administration’s apparent focus on temporary assistance rather than a permanent solution. The levees made of earth and raw material dot riverbanks in the Sunderbans which is prone to floods perennially. The demand for the concrete embankments in North 24-Parganas was also raised by members of several nature care organisations and villagers on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday when they took out a mangrove plantation drive in the Yaas-affected areas. The demand has been raised from several pockets, including Ghoramara Island and Mausuni Island in Sagar, as well as other places like Kultali and Raidighi, over the past few days. A group of villagers in Digha, East Midnapore, placed the demand for a concrete embankment before Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee when he visited the Yaas-affected people last week. At several administrative meetings, chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her dismay over the apparently ineffective repair of embankments and asked officials to find a permanent solution. She told them that government money should not be “wasted” on fragile and futile repairs that needed to be repeated every year. Opposition parties in the cyclone-affected districts have backed the local residents’ demand for the concrete embankments. “We understand that this is a genuine and legitimate demand,” said a senior CPM leader. CPM leaders said a plan to construct concrete embankment stretching 778km had first been proposed by an expert committee formed by the central government which had visited coastal areas in 2010, a year after the devastation caused by Cyclone Aila. “It is not a new demand and it is better to concretise 778km of the embankments. The UPA 2 government at the Centre had provided funds of Rs 5,032 crore and the work had commenced. But it was halted and Rs 4,000 crore was returned because of delays. I personally sent letters to the chief minister and the state government to take measures for a permanent solution,” said Kanti Ganguly, a former CPM minister. BJP leaders also supported the demand since lakhs of people residing in riverine or coastal belts were suffering every year. “We want either concrete embankments or rehabilitation of the poor families from these areas,” said Palash Rana, a BJP secretary in South 24-Parganas’s Mathurapur. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Job racket: Suvendu Adhikari’s aide arrested ||Calcutta police have arrested a person for his alleged involvement in a job racket where the complainant was falsely promised a job in the state irrigation department in 2019, when the current leader of the Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari, had been the irrigation minister. Rakhal Bera, a resident of Manicktala, was picked up by Manicktala police officers on Saturday night and produced in court on Sunday. He was remanded in police custody till June 12. BJP sources said on Sunday that Bera used to be close to Trinamul as an aide to the Adhikari clan, but switched sides along with the former Trinamul heavyweight late last year. “It is clearly an attempt to victimise Bera now, for being with the BJP, besides being a part of a larger conspiracy to fabricate cases of corruption and shame the Adhikaris. Attempts are on, on several fronts, to harass the Adhikari family,” said a BJP state unit functionary. “We will fight this legally and politically,” he added. Police said they had drawn up a case with the Manicktala police station, based on the complaint of Sujit Dey, a resident of Ashokenagar in North 24-Parganas. “According to the complaint, sometime between July 2019 and September 2019, accused Rakhal Bera and co-accused Chanchal Nandi (yet to be arrested) had organised a purported government job camp inside a flat in Block B of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics Cooperative Housing Society on Manicktala Road,” said a senior official of the Eastern Suburban Division. “They had collected Rs 2 lakh from the complainant in exchange of a job as group D staff in the irrigation department, but he never got any job,” he added. Police during investigation have found that not only Dey, but many others from Calcutta and the adjoining districts have been allegedly defrauded in a similar way, with false promises of getting a government job. A case was drawn up under the sections of cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy,in February 2021. During his court appearance at Sealdah court on Sunday, the public prosecutor said that as several people have been duped by the accused, there was a need to take him into police remand for 14 days. Bera’s defence lawyer, however, questioned the timing and intention of the law-enforcing agency, asking why the arrest was made after a gap of two years from the date of the alleged cheating. The magistrate, after hearing both the sides, sent Bera to police remand for a period of seven days. He would be produced before the court again on June 12. Police sources said they would summon more people based on the statement of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Tikait to meet Mamata for greater involvement in farmer's movement ||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait is scheduled to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to seek her greater involvement in the fight against the Narendra Modi government’s contentious farm laws. The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the resistance against the farm laws. “Netaji (Tikait) will visit Calcutta on June 9 to congratulate Mamata on her handing a crushing defeat to the BJP and to urge her to join the battle farmers have been waging on Delhi’s borders against the Modi government since last year,” a close aide to the BKU chief told The Telegraph on Sunday. The aide added that Tikait and the Morcha leadership wanted to mobilise farmers in the states, and meeting Mamata was part of that plan. The source, however, did not confirm whether Tikait would meet Mamata in his individual capacity or as a Morcha leader. The Trinamul Congress confirmed that Tikait and a few others were likely to meet Mamata on Wednesday. “They see Mamata as a pro-poor, pro-farmer, pro-people mass leader who is a street-fighter capable of felling many a Goliath. They see a wider role for her now, beyond Bengal’s borders. That is why they are paying her a visit,” said Trinamul national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. The BKU source said the BJP’s defeat, despite the aggressive campaign by Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, in a predominantly agrarian state like Bengal reflected the farming community’s anger against the saffron brigade. According to state government data, Bengal has 71.23 lakh farmer families, of whom 96 per cent are small and marginal farmers. “The victory of Opposition parties in Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the recent Assembly polls has given a big boost to the fight against the BJP. The farming community looks up to the leaders who have made these victories possible to further strengthen the fight against the Modi government’s farm laws,” a Morcha source added. Roy said Mamata’s firm opposition to the farm laws and her unflinching support for the farmers’ movement was appreciated by those spearheading it. In the early stages of the movement, Mamata had sent several delegations to the protest gatherings, spoken to many farmers there over the speakerphone and expressed her unconditional support. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary and Morcha leader Hannan Mollah said Tikait could be calling on Mamata in his individual capacity or on behalf of the BKU. “He (Tikait) is not meeting Mamata on behalf of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. SKM leaders will travel to the states where polls are due next year and ask people not to vote for the BJP. As they had done in Bengal, the SKM will not ask for votes for any particular party or let any political leader use its platform,” Mollah said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt seeks public opinion on whether and how to conduct Madhyamik and HS||The Bengal government has sought opinion from parents, students and the public in general on whether and how the Madhyamik and higher secondary examinations should be conducted this year. A six-member expert committee the government had formed handed in its report to the school education department on Saturday, ruling out on-campus or online exams and recommending pen-and-paper exams written from home. But an official of the department said that along with the views of the experts, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wanted to know the common people’s mind before taking a decision. Mamata tweeted on Sunday afternoon: “Our children’s future is my greatest priority. To this regard we have formed an expert committee to decide over holding Class 10th and 12th board exams in 2021.” She added: “We are also inviting views and opinion from parents, general public, sector experts, civil society and students. I request each one of you to send us your feedback on the issue on following addresses by June 7th 2pm (three email addresses are mentioned)…. Your suggestions will be valuable to us.” A notice signed by Manish Jain, principal secretary to the school education department, said the public needed to mail their views to pbssm.spo@gmail.com; commissionerschooleducation@gmail.com or wbssed@gmail.com. Anyone who wants the exams conducted must state the mode they favour. “If one is not in favour of the exams, he or she has to suggest what the method and criteria for evaluation should be,” an official of the department said. The Bengal boards’ higher secondary exams are currently scheduled to start in the last week of July and the secondary exams in the second week of August, after both were postponed from June. But last week’s planned announcements of the detailed exam schedules were put on hold after the CBSE and the ISC board cancelled their Class XII exams citing the pandemic. Asked why feedback was being sought from parents and students despite an expert panel having given its recommendations, a school department official said the government wanted to consider every shade of opinion. “Since the issue is very sensitive and involves the future of 21 lakh secondary and higher secondary students, we are collecting as much opinion as we can. More opinions means a wider pool of options,” the official said. He added that feedback from the public would also help the government decide on the acceptability of the model proposed by the experts. “The committee has proposed sending printed questions physically to the homes of the examinees and bringing back the written answers.” The answer sheets are to be stored at the schools for the teachers to evaluate them,” he said. The official said: “We hope that while sending their feedback, the students and guardians would give their views on the feasibility of the proposal.” Some school education department officials said that getting the questions delivered to every student’s home and bringing the answers back would be difficult amid the pandemic and the coastal devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. “The committee has proposed home assignments (exams) as (online) exams cannot be held because of the digital divide handicapping underprivileged students,” an official said. “But we need to know how far the committee’s proposal is acceptable to the students, guardians and the general public. If they can suggest an alterative model, that could be explored as well.” Sources in the school education department said the state government wanted wider consultations before arriving at any decision also because the Supreme Court was considering the same issue for the national boards. The apex court had on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of the CBSE and the ICSE council. The Bengal expert committee too has advised the school education department to note what the Supreme Court says at its next hearing on June 17 on the method of assessing CBSE and ISC council students. “If there is overwhelming public feedback saying the state government should wait till the apex court takes a call, that opinion would be taken into consideration as well,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 7,002 new Covid-19 cases, 107 fresh fatalities||Bengal on Sunday logged 15,882 Covid-19 recoveries, 7,002 infections and 107 deaths, reporting a drop by 8,987 in total active cases, to 35,454. The state’s total active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, declined by over 73 per cent in 16 days. The occupancy rate of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients has fallen from 37.66 per cent on May 21 to 23.28, despite the number of such beds increasing from 21,696 to 24,721. Bengal now has 2.53 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most such cases. The daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to below 10 per cent on Sunday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. “With the daily confirmation rate falling to 9.99 per cent, we have achieved yet another goal, towards working our way out of the nightmare of this second wave. Now, we will work towards lowering it to less than 5, then 3 per cent, over the rest of this month,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 36th consecutive day, rising by nearly 12 percentage points over five weeks, to 96.37 per cent on Sunday. The national rate now is 93.9. Of the 107 deaths reported on Sunday, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 34 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Calcutta logged 645 new infections, North 24-Parganas 1,434. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.2. The state now has a total of 14.26 lakh cases since the start of the pandemic last year in March, which includes 13.74 lakh recoveries and 16,259 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Adult leopard trapped at Gopalpur tea estate in Alipurduar||An adult leopard is trapped at Gopalpur tea estate in Alipurduar district on Sunday morning after a vigil of nearly a month. Sources in the garden said that cattle had been disappearing from the Mohonpur division of the garden for nearly a month. “Foresters were alerted and they started keeping tabs,” said a source. A worker had been attacked by the leopard in a section of the tea garden about a month back, but workers and foresters could not spot the animal then. A few days back, tea garden workers, while plucking leaves, came across pug marks. Foresters were informed, and a couple of days ago, they set up a cage with a goat as bait, said a source. The leopard was finally trapped early on Sunday morning after which foresters tranquillised it. Deepak M. divisional forest officer, Jaldapara wildlife division, said the animal was released in Jaldapara forest after preliminary treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Nine turncoats rejoin Trinamul Congress after two years||Nine BJP members out of 10 of gram panchayat under Dinhata Assembly seat, part of the Cooch Behar parliamentary constituency represented by BJP MP Nishit Pramanik, joined Trinamul on Sunday. Like Pramanik, all the 10 members of Vetaguri-1 gram panchayat were formerly in Trinamul. They defected to the BJP after Pramanik won the Lok Sabha elections from Cooch Behar as a candidate from the saffron camp in 2019. Pramanik had also won the recent Assembly elections from Dinhata, defeating Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by a mere 57 votes. Many believe that BJP’s order to Pramanik to vacate his Dinhata MLA seat and retain his Lok Sabha seat might have prompted the turncoats to join Trinamul. Now that a by-election will be held for Dinhata, the development is indicative that Trinamul has started gaining lost ground. “Out of the 10 members, nine have joined Trinamul from Vetaguri-1 gram panchayat. Prabhat Das is the only member not to join us and we are also not keen on taking him back,” said Guha. Das happens to be Pramanik’s father-in-law. Sources said Vetaguri-1 was under Trinamul’s control after the 2018 rural elections. But things changed after Pramanik’s Lok Sabha victory. “In 2019, just before Lok Sabha elections, Pramanik was expelled from Trinamul for anti-party activities. He then contested on a BJP ticket and won the Cooch Behar seat,” said an observer. “All 10 members of the panchayat, including his father-in-law, decided to join the BJP then. Now that Trinamul has swept the Assembly polls in Bengal, nine joined the ruling party.”’ Among Cooch Behar’s 128 gram panchayats, only three are with the BJP now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang plans to rejig Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction ||Binay Tamang on Sunday announced his decision to go for a major overhaul of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction, which he formed in 2017, in anticipation of a series of local body elections. Elections to four hill municipalities of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik are eight months away. The Tamang faction tasted its first major electoral success in four years this summer when its candidate Ruden Sada Lepcha won the Kalimpong Assembly seat. ‘We did manage to win the Kalimpong seat and when we look at the individual strength of the hill parties we are in a better position. Nevertheless, I have decided to go in for a major overhaul of various committees to further strengthen our party,” Tamang said. The three-phase overhaul will start with a reorganisation of committees in Darjeeling and Kurseong. “If needed, I might even dissolve some of the committees,” said Tamang. During the second phase, the faction will restructure its organisational set-up in Kalimpong district. “We did win Kalimpong but certain changes need to be brought about,” said Tamang. During the third phase, the party will restructure its frontal organisations. The party has 23 frontal organisations like tea trade union, employees' union etc. The faction also has 45 constituency committees, three subdivisional committees, a district committee and the central committee. Many in the hills believe that restructuring plans have been devised with an eye on the possibility of locals elections being held soon. It is said that the party that controls local bodies and especially the GTA controls hill politics. As far as visibility is concerned, compared to the first wave of Covid-19, the Binay Tamang camp is less active this time around. During the first wave of the pandemic, the party’s general secretary, Anit Thapa, was in charge of the GTA. Thapa was not nominated as the chairman of the board of administrators, GTA, by the state government after the Assembly elections though his earlier extension, before the model code of conduct forced him to step down, was till August. Tamang’s rival Morcha faction led by Bimal Gurung is more visible on the ground now with Gurung hitting the streets for sanitisation drives. The GNLF is also active, mostly through their leader Ajoy Edwards and his foundation. BJP leaders are also visiting nooks and corners of the hills with the party’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista donating many oxygen concentrators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker killed, three injured as bike-borne miscreants hurl crude bombs in Bhatpara||A BJP activist was killed near his home and three others with him were injured on Sunday afternoon, when bike-borne goons allegedly hurled crude bombs in Bhatpara of North 24-Parganas, the backyard of the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. Witnesses said the persons threw at least four bombs, of which two hit BJP activist Jayprakash Yadav, a resident of Muktarpur, and killed him on the spot around 2.30pm. The incident purportedly occurred when Yadav, a trader by profession, was speaking to his neighbours, with his mother standing near him. She as well as two bystanders sustained serious injuries. All four were taken to the Bhatpara State General Hospital, where Yadav was declared brought dead. Hospital sources said he had suffered fatal head injuries from one of the bombs, damaging his cranium beyond repair. Police have begun a murder case and have purportedly identified three persons allegedly involved in the attack. BJP MP Singh, who rushed to the spot after the incident, accused Trinamul of the attack. “Yadav became a target because he was an active BJP worker and had played an instrumental role in the BJP’s (Singh’s son, Pawan Singh’s) victory in Bhatpara during the Assembly polls. It was a planned attack to eliminate him, and so the criminals hurled bombs at him, targeting his head from close range,” alleged Singh, .a Trinamul turncoat. “Such a daring attack in broad daylight speaks volumes about the law and order in Bengal,” Singh said, adding he had complained to his party leadership and Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Trinamul leader and Jagaddal MLA Somnath Shyam held Singh responsible for bloodshed in the area.“He has been trying to incite tension, which we will not allow. We have requested police to take stern action and to restore normality,” said Shyam. The incident triggered panic in the area, which has been on the boil since the Assembly election results came out. In fact, violence is not new to Bhatpara, which has seen several incidents since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. On Friday, goons had driven up in a car to the home of BJP leader Lalbabu Prasad and allegedly opened fire indiscriminately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police anti-rowdy squad seize 51 bombs near BJP poll office||Calcutta police anti-rowdy squad seized 51 crude bombs from a spot a stone’s throw from the BJP election office in Hastings on Saturday night after receiving military intelligence inputs. The bombs were stashed in a bag and left along the roadside near Kidderpore crossing. A senior police officer said they were in the process of analysing CCTV footage to ascertain who left the bombs. “This is a serious matter and we are taking it up on a priority basis. CCTV footage is being scanned,” said the officer. No one was arrested in connection with the case till Sunday evening. State BJP unit chief Dilip Ghosh asked why it had to be the job of the (Centre’s) military intelligence to know about the bombs, his statement taking a dig at state police. He alleged it was part of a larger conspiracy to attack his party. He said had the bombs been used on the party office or workers and leaders, it could have been “disastrous”. “Everyone has seen, and is aware of the extent of violence being unleashed on the BJP in Bengal since the election results were announced. Mamata Banerjee has been claiming that since she took oath, it has stopped. But it is far from the truth,” said Ghosh. “This is proof, once again, that only one industry thrives in Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal, that of crude bomb-making,” added the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
07-06-2021||North East||Murder case on Assam Rifles major and three subordinates||An Assam Rifles major and three subordinates have been booked for murder after they allegedly shot dead a 29-year-old man during a search at Chalwa village in Manipur’s Kangpokpi district on Friday night. Police have registered a case against Major Alok Sathe, jawan Amar and two others under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) apart from Arms Act provisions for allegedly killing Mangboilal Lhouvum, a helper with a truck and a father of four. The incident triggered a massive protest on Friday night at the Gelnel Assam Rifles outpost, commanded by Major Sathe and situated 8km from Chalwa, by residents of Chalwa and nearby villages. The crowd torched two Assam Rifles vehicles parked outside the outpost and broke its bamboo gate. On Saturday morning, civil society organisations took over leadership of the protest. The agitation led to the signing of a “deeds of agreement” between civil society organisations, Assam Rifles and the state government on Saturday. The four-point agreement includes an immediate police investigation, the replacement of the Assam Rifles personnel at the Gelnel outpost, a fully functional local police station with a minimum strength of 40 personnel, and Rs 10 lakh compensation to the victim’s family from the Assam Rifles. Of this amount, Rs 1 lakh was handed over on Saturday. Neither the Assam Rifles nor the police have explained the reason for the search operation led by Major Sathe, who belongs to the “E” company of the 44 Battalion of the paramilitary force. The FIR was registered at Kangpokpi police station on Saturday afternoon on a complaint from Sehlam Lhouvum, who accused Sathe and the three others — all in civvies — of conducting a search at Chalwa around 9pm on Friday. Mangboilal was “first treated (plied) with alcohol” and subsequently taken to the roadside and “lethally fired upon”, the complaint said. Villagers took Mangboilal to the local primary health centre, from where he was referred him to the Kangpokpi district hospital. He died on the way, the complainant said, adding that it appeared the “murder” was “premeditated”. Thangminlen Kipgen, general secretary of the Kangpokpi district unit of the Kuki Inpi, a civil society organisation, told The Telegraph the situation was under control following the signing of the agreement. “We made it clear the police had to file an FIR and do their own investigation,” Kipgen said. “We also want the 44 (Battalion) personnel replaced by personnel from the 38 Battalion. We will continue to keep a watch on the investigation and if the agreement is not adhered to, we will decide our future action.” Chalwa village is about 90km from state capital Imphal and about 50km from the district hospital. The Kuki-dominated area is mostly dependent on paddy cultivation, Kipgen said. Efforts to get reactions from the Assam Rifles and the Manipur police proved futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
07-06-2021||North East||Students to sound out government on Northeast chapter ||Student organisations from the Northeast are planning to engage with the government and elected representatives to push their demand for a chapter on the Northeast in the National Council of Educational Research and Training curriculum after a successful Twitter storm on Friday. Over 40 student organisations, including varsity student unions, from the region had launched a social media campaign so that the government takes prompt and adequate steps to create awareness about the region. Jorhat-based Debonil Baruah, a research associate and a key member of the Twitter campaign, told The Telegraph they would submit a memorandam to Union educational minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, eight chief ministers of the Northeast and to all MPs from the region. “It is important to engage with the government and elected representatives to take our demand forward. Our social media campaign on Twitter with the hashtags – #A chapter on NE and #Northeastmatters was well received but we also need to engage with the government to familiarise the country with the northeast and that can be done only through the government,” Baruah said. “Discussion has started among the student organisations on the content of the memorandum and why inclusion on chapters from the Northeast are required in the national curriculum. Everything remaining equal, we will be submitting the memorandum by next week,” he said. The two-hour Twitter storm on Friday was launched at 6 pm with the hashtags —A Chapter for NE and Northeast Matters — drawing over 1.6 lakh tweets from students, politicians, and academics, among others. A Twitter user said, “The most powerful weapon is education... Few chapters about northeast India are an investment towards a better India.” The campaign was triggered following a young YouTuber’s racial remark against MLA Ninong Ering from Arunachal Pradesh. YouTuber Paras Singh is in judicial custody after his arrest from Ludhiana on May 25 following the filing of an FIR by Ering for “a racist and anti-India” video wherein Singh had said that Ering did “not” look like an Indian and that Arunachal Pradesh was “part” of China. Ering took to the Twitter on Saturday to reveal that he has written to Union education minister Pokhriyal and Union Home minister Amit Shah on the “inclusion of Northeast India in CBSE and other state boards education system. “This one step can lead to elimination of frequent cases of racial discrimination against us,” he tweeted, tagging the NCERT and the CBSE in his tweet. Formed in 1961, NCERT is an autonomous organisation assisting and advising the Centre and state governments on policies and programmes for qualitative improvement in school education, including promoting and coordinating research in areas related to school education besides preparing and publishing model textbooks, Ering, a former Congress MP, says the world needs to know about the Northeast’s history, geography, culture. “Yesterday thousands of people took part in a Twitter storm and they demanded inclusion of northeast in NCERT curriculum.... These demands are on the line of key recommendations of the Bezbaruah Committee Report and also a private member Bill introduced by me in 2017 for compulsory teaching of the northeast syllabus,” he said, hoping the ministers will take “note of the demand” and “educate the world about us”. The MHA had constituted a committee headed by M.P. Bezbaruah, member, North Eastern Council, in February 2014 to look into the look into the concerns of persons from the Northeast living in different parts of the country and suggest legal remedies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
07-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Silver lining||In a year when the Indian economy experienced an unprecedented contraction, agriculture grew at an impressive rate. In terms of gross value added, the economy contracted by 6.2 per cent; but agriculture grew at 3.6 per cent. Growth of 3.6 per cent would be considered very impressive even in a normal year: in the year of Covid-19, the figure is remarkable. A number of factors lie behind this piece of good news. The first is the benevolence of the weather gods. The monsoon was normal to above normal across the country. Second, an exemption was granted to this sector during the lockdown in 2020. Supply disruptions were minimal. There was no shortage of labour during the sowing season; reverse migration of many workers from urban areas helped matters. Government policies to procure more grains at minimum support prices also helped, as did cash transfers to farmers as part of the recovery package. A large infusion of incomes — about Rs 77.9 thousand crore in wages alone — from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act provided adequate liquidity in the hands of rural people. However, the gains were not equal in all regions of India. They were also unequal across crops. Non-cereals like vegetables, fish and poultry did not benefit from procurement drives. The demand for these goods dropped as urban incomes fell. In the current year of Covid’s second wave, can agriculture save the economy again? There are some uncertainties that remain. Even though the predictions for this year’s monsoon are good, there are variables that cannot be known till the arrival of the rainy season. Another uncertainty concerns the fact that Covid-19 has adversely affected rural areas unlike the first wave. The extent of productivity loss is still unknown. Labour shortages, input price rise — like that of diesel — and unsold stocks from last year’s bumper harvest might contribute to reducing the sown areas. The trust deficit created between the farmers and the government following the protests over the controversial farm laws might also dent farmers’ confidence levels. However, the greatest uncertainty concerns the overall demand for agricultural goods, especially food. With 97 per cent of Indians having experienced a loss in income in the recent past, much remains to be seen what happens to agricultural prices. Global prices are high, hence exports can give a boost, but that may not be enough for agricultural growth to be sustained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
07-06-2021||Opinion||Break the chain: Kejriwal asks ration home delivery||Sir — The chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, has rightly asked the Centre why it did not implement its plan to deliver ration to people’s doorsteps. All over the country, food delivery apps have been deemed essential service providers, but what about those who cannot afford such luxuries? Instead of people crowding outside ration shops for restricted slots of time, ration reaching their doorsteps will help break the chain of transmission. Jayanta Sil,Calcutta Help at hand Sir — It was heartening to know that the Andhra Pradesh government will bear the cost of treatment for a doctor who had contracted Covid-19 while on duty and now requires a lung transplant, which costs one and a half crore rupees. The government also promised that all those fighting Covid within the public healthcare system would get free treatment. The Central government should take a cue from this and extend free treatment at least to all frontline workers if they fall victim to the virus while discharging their duties. Providing them with insurance coverage and the assurance of free treatment will boost their morale. It is laudable that in a bleak situation where many healthcare workers have succumbed to the virus, thousands continue discharging their unenviable duties. All of them deserve more support than mere appreciation. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Stark picture Sir — The photograph of a boy collecting used PPE kits from a pile of garbage in the national capital which appeared in The Telegraph on June 5, World Environment Day, makes a shameful statement about the situation in the country. At a time when the country is getting ready to celebrate its 75th Independence Day next year and is going full steam ahead with the Central Vista project, the boy represents a rude reality where children have to collect discarded PPE kits to feed their families. These kits are highly infectious and it is protocol to destroy them immediately after use. But there is often widespread negligence on this front. Even though this picture speaks a thousand words, it is doubtful that it will open the eyes of the callous administration. Merely imposing lockdowns is not enough to check Covid-19. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
07-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bunglers||India’s vaccine policy, metaphorically speaking, has become a mirror that reflects several embedded iniquities. And none but the Narendra Modi government can claim credit for designing a flawed vaccine policy. The Supreme Court’s recent admonition of the Centre — it described the vaccine policy as “arbitrary” and “irrational” — needs to be examined in the context of the Centre’s lapses and — is this not shocking? — its stubborn refusal to order a course-correction on the matter. India’s highest court has red flagged some of the principal limitations of the vaccine regime, blowing to smithereens the Centre’s contentions in the process. For instance, the court has pointed out that citizens’ fundamental rights have been compromised on account of the Centre’s decision to allow the manufacturers of the vaccine to charge a higher rate from the states. That recipients in the age group of 18-44 are having to pay to purchase the doses, the court observed tersely, is equally discriminatory since a certain sum of money had been left aside in this year’s budgetary allocations for the purpose. The Centre’s contention that getting the states and private hospitals to purchase the vials would enhance competition and ultimately push down prices was also brought into question. The apex court also rejected the reasoning of the two vaccine manufacturers having the right to charge higher prices because they had borne the risk of manufacturing. The vaccine policy is also bedevilled by other issues. The rural-urban division is likely to worsen access to the vaccines. Already, there is data to suggest that nine private hospitals in metropolises have cornered 50 per cent of the stock meant for the entire private sector for May. Gender disparities have not been accounted for; high-risk groups in several states, especially those in the districts, are yet to be adequately immunized. The sorry picture that emerges on joining these dots is that the government seems to have encouraged an instrumental — mercenary? — attitude to dominate the distribution of a public good — medicines — at the time of a pandemic. What has compounded the problem further is its ad-hocism to confront a crisis of unprecedented magnitude. The absence of preparation and foresight on the part of the government has led to the loss of innumerable lives and devastated the economy. The political costs of such bungling, if India were to be lashed by a third wave, are likely to be considerable for the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||A Tale of two Heroic lives: Dr Wu Mengchao and Wang Shunyou||The rain didn’t deter the mourners from lining up to pay their respects. The funeral of Dr Wu Mengchao, who died last month at the age of 98, witnessed a display of public grief normally reserved for political leaders, film stars or sports legends. The ‘father of Chinese liver surgery’, who published the first Chinese liver surgery textbook and created China’s first anatomical models of liver arteries from ping-pong balls, was also an extraordinarily caring doctor. Before examining patients in winter, he would rub his hands to warm them up. He tucked in his patients after examining them, arranged their slippers so that they could step into them when they got out of bed, and ensured his treatment didn’t cost them a bomb. Healing touch Mentor to 80 per cent of China’s liver surgeons, the tiny doctor (he used a footstool while performing surgery) was a hero even in his youth. While in school in Malaysia, where his parents had migrated as rubber workers, he sent the money collected for an annual party to the People’s Liberation Army, receiving an appreciation letter in Mao’s name. At 18, he left his family to join the Liberation war but, unable to make it to Yan’an, the Communists’ base, he decided to study medicine, a decision spurred on by encounters with foreigners who sneered at China’s ability to achieve any medical advancement. More than 60 years as a surgeon had left his feet and hands deformed, yet he worked till the age of 97. His hands sometimes shook — but once the scalpel was in his hands, they remained steady. At the age of 91, he operated upon a 90-year-old patient, removing her tumour in just nine minutes. Thanks to him, Shanghai has the world’s biggest liver cancer research centre. A Chinese Communist Party member till his death, “L’Internationale” was played at his funeral. Without pause Another passing last month didn’t see a huge public turnout, but Wang Shunyou was no less a people’s hero. He died aged 56 in a remote Sichuan county, where he had delivered mail for the last 36 years with 100 per cent accuracy. His beat took him through mountains and forests, paths which his father too had traversed as a postman, that could only be navigated by following the footprints made by his mule. Wang spent just 30 days a year at home; for the rest, he was out in the open, in nights so dark “you couldn’t see your hand in front of you’’; so silent that all you heard was the howling of the wind and of wolves. The longest he spent with his wife was three days when she was hospitalized. Wang himself had to be hospitalized when his mule, startled by a pheasant, kicked him in the stomach. Instead of rushing to the nearest doctor, Wang finished delivering his consignment, and went to hospital nine days later, to be told that he’d suffered a stomach haemorrhage. For the mountain-dwellers, Wang was a welcome surprise guest. Making light of his effort of wading through landslides to deliver college admission notices to two schoolgirls, he said he could never forget the expression in their eyes when they received them. Wang’s services didn’t go unrecognized: he was chosen to be part of the 2008 Olympics torch relay, and has inspired the film, A Postman in Shangri-La. The CCP is currently projecting heroes as part of its centenary celebrations. Wu Mengchao and Wang Shunyou, who spent their lives “serving the people’’, certainly qualify as Communist heroes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||The holes in the vaccine policy||The first phase of India’s Covid-19 mass vaccination programme was launched with healthcare professionals and other frontline workers on January 16, 2021. The second phase began on March 1; it was meant for people above 60 and those over 45 with certain comorbidities. The immunization coverage was expanded on April 1 to cover everyone aged 45 and above. The Centre began the third phase on May 1, opening it to those above 18 years. While the vaccines would be provided free of cost to those above 45 at government vaccination centres, all adults would now have the option of purchasing them from private facilities. It is worth noting that amidst a severe shortage of vaccines, the government decided to decentralize its vaccine procurement policy by limiting its purchase to only 50 per cent of the monthly production of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, whereas states and private hospitals were told to purchase the doses directly from the vaccine manufacturers. The question is where are the doses going to come from? Due to persistent supply issues, many are returning home without receiving a shot. One, therefore, has to ask why the demand for vaccines was accelerated? Those over 60 continue to be most at risk of dying or becoming seriously ill from Covid-19, followed by older adults (45-60 years) with chronic diseases, such as heart ailments. As the pandemic remains in its most virulent phase, immunizing these people first would have averted the surge in hospitalizations and deaths. Yet, the average daily vaccination rate slumped by 11 per cent between April and May, even though more than 20 million low-risk, young people (18-44 years) were given jabs in the last one month. Consequently, the share of the elderly in Covid-19 vaccination fell sharply, from 42 per cent on April 30 to 12 per cent on May 20. The opening up of the vaccine campaign to all adults has shifted the vaccine doses meant for healthcare workers, older people and other at-risk groups, thereby contributing to thousands of Covid-19 deaths. The point to be noted is that the majority of the people in the 18-44 age bracket received expensive jabs from private hospitals, while the states are struggling to procure the required vaccines for the priority groups. The Centre claims that its vaccine policy has been designed to ensure equitable distribution. However, an examination of the Covid-19 vaccination status among states and within the same state gives us a different narrative of equity. There is an almost 12-fold difference in the Covid-19 reported disease burden rate among the states, with Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka having the highest rates, and Bihar and Uttar Pradesh the lowest rates. Yet, less than 12 per cent of Maharashtra’s high-risk population has been fully immunized. The vaccine situation is worse in Tamil Nadu, with a mere full immunization rate of 7.6 per cent. Unsurprisingly, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh recorded the lowest full inoculation rate (6.8 per cent) among the needy. At the other end of the spectrum are Uttarakhand (24 per cent), Gujarat (21 per cent) and Himachal Pradesh (19 per cent), which have fully immunized about a fifth or more of their most vulnerable groups. However, observing the Covid inoculation coverage by states provides us a limited glimpse of the problem of vaccine inequity. In order to get a better understanding of the story, we need to dig a bit deeper. A worrying feature of the second wave is the surge in coronavirus infections and deaths in rural India. Yet, the immunization coverage remains very low in India’s rural districts. Statistics support this. While more than a third of Calcutta’s vulnerable population was either partially or fully vaccinated by May 20, their counterparts in Jhargram were not as lucky. Jhargram, a rural district of Bengal with a sizeable tribal population, immunized about 7 per cent of its high-risk population. The low inoculation rate in Jhargram can be attributed to either vaccine hesitancy or shortage. Aside from the glaring disparities in access to Covid-19 vaccines across states and between rural and urban areas, the vaccination rate also reveals a sharp gender gap. As of June 1, just 867 women were inoculated per every 1,000 vaccinated men despite the fact that mortality risk from Covid-19 is much higher in women than in men in India. The low vaccination rate is possibly one of the reasons for the ‘Indian enigma’ of relatively higher mortality in women. This was very much predictable, given that South Asia has a disconcerting record of female discrimination; what is surprising is that nothing was done to address the implications of gender bias. Instead of being gender-neutral, the vaccine policy should have been gender-sensitive and equity-focused, which would have lessened the impact of structural inequities. Rather than prioritizing who receives the scarce vaccines, in reality, access to Covid-19 vaccination is increasingly being determined by socio-economic status, with very low coverage in rural areas and among females and disadvantaged urban populations. The vaccine inequities would exacerbate and contribute to thousands of deaths. The Union government must review the vaccine policy and take measures, including 100 per cent centralized procurement of vaccines manufactured in India, patent waiver and technology transfer for the manufacturing of additional doses. Soumitra Ghosh is Associate Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||Memories lost||Perception (pratyaksha) and inference (anumana), two essential parts of Indian epistemology, can be used, with a little tweaking, to understand the pandemic. Inferences from memories of previous pandemics could guide our perception or experience and help formulate systematic methods to deal with the first wave. Subsequently, our experience of the first wave can help us draw inferences about the second wave and equip us to circumvent further suffering and tragedy; just as T-cells with memories of the viral antigen have a better chance of producing antibodies to fight the virus, societies with memories of previous pandemics are better prepared to deal with future occurrences. Social memories, like T-cells, can equip people to quickly recognize new attacks and take the necessary steps to protect themselves. However, modern societies that privilege the first-person experience are not strong when it comes to memories and therefore fail to draw inferences and learn from experience. Recounting such memories does not figure in today’s storytelling or history books. An existing foundation of knowledge gleaned from past public health crises can considerably decrease the burden of research and development and increase the efficiency and efficacy of our response. But like cells without memories, we too have to start afresh, after the virus has already entered inside. Now let me discuss how the experiences of the first wave could have helped avert the impending dangers of the second wave. Economic stress, suffering due to job loss and the excruciating pain of the migrant workers notwithstanding, India managed to survive the first wave without the extensive damage predicted by experts. On the contrary, developed countries like Italy and the United States of America fared quite badly in spite of superior health facilities. India enforced a strict lockdown on all activities except essential services. Even private medical practice, which forms more than 80 per cent of the Indian health infrastructure, was mostly shut down. Simultaneously, the government started reviving existing government hospitals, scaling up pharmaceutical production, and producing masks, sanitizers, testing and PPE kits, and ventilators. India scaled up its testing capacity from a few labs to thousands across the country. Both medical and non-medical personnel — including doctors, nurses, other healthcare staff and frontline workers, sanitation workers, police, and government servants — have worked tirelessly and efficiently. This helped save and protect lives and averted a major catastrophe. Behind this achievement also lie consistency and clarity of messaging and action, which provided moral strength to the mammoth programme. The direct experience of the first wave should have equipped India with the proper inferences to prepare for the second wave. Instead, India found itself in the middle of an immense tragedy. There was a sudden surge in the number of cases, not sparing the villages this time. Many died and continue to die of respiratory problems and owing to the non-availability of oxygen. If the experience of the first wave had been effectively utilized by both the government and society to make proper inferences, we could have avoided the disastrous outcome of the second wave. Although there was clarity regarding essential services and non-essential activities during the initial lockdown, this started waning subsequently. We saw varying reactions post lockdown. While some seemed overly cautious and remained at home, others slowly started on the path to normalcy, like recovering patients, still adhering to strict protection protocol. There was, however, a considerable section that went back to leading life as it was pre-pandemic, with a reckless disregard for any safety guidelines. It is this last group that failed to distinguish between normal life and an emergency. They displayed courage when the need of the hour is to be careful. They treated the lockdown like a weekend break and the post-lockdown period like a return to work and regular life as they would have done on a normal Monday in pre-pandemic times. However, while they thought they were playing a one-day cricket match, the virus soon reminded everyone that it was a much longer Test match with a cruel second innings. Once lockdown restrictions eased, people needed to get back to work, especially those in the informal sector, as their livelihood had been severely affected. Other activities, including elections, religious congregations like the Kumbh Mela, film shoots, IPL matches, functions, parties and so on, should have been considered non-essential and either been cancelled or postponed. On the contrary, these created a deceptive notion of normalcy. Developing vaccines furthered this feeling and people let down their guard. This sudden move from emergency mode to regular life set a dangerous precedent and kick-started a long chain of events. Once this process began, it was difficult to stop or reverse it even when one realized the impending danger. Therefore, instead of retracing one’s steps, one continued. Politicians justified holding elections and campaigning at mass rallies, arguing that states that had not had elections showed a significant spike in cases. The same reasoning was cited by others who held large events. Both government and civil society could have made inferences about the impending second wave. The government should have undertaken measures to vaccinate everyone. This is in spite of both the tricky and the risky nature of vaccinating the entire population in a short period of a few months or years. Politicians, religious leaders, and celebrities should have imposed self-lockdowns with the following message: “I/We will not participate if it results in crowding.” This gesture would have had a powerful symbolic impact, set an example, and reduced a lot of suffering and tragedy. Both birth and death elude the first-person experience. We hear about our birth from others, and we are not present after death to relate the experience. However, witnessing the intense suffering of people before they succumbed gave us, in varying degrees, an unforgettable experience, as close to a first-person encounter as possible. Although there is little we can do about the metaphysics of mortality, studying the epistemological and moral aspects can surely help reduce avoidable suffering. Without extending and regulating social welfare schemes, numerous people would have starved during the pandemic. Along the same lines, it is time to make concerted efforts to attend to health facilities, especially in the villages, thus ensuring a healthy India. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Four children rescued from river||Ranchi: Four children trapped in the middle of the Damodar River at Khetko Basti of Petarwar police station area under Bermo sub-division, have been rescued safely by a team of divers. The children, all aged between 9-13 years had gone to take a bath in the river. While bathing, they challenged each other to a race to cross the river. A local resident Munawar Mahtab said, while crossing the river, the children got stuck in the middle of the water and started drowning. Two of them managed to swim to a safe spot and raised an alarm, following which the local divers jumped in water and rescued them. Petarwar Block Vice President of JMM, Mohmmad Asif, lauded the efforts of the local divers. Police was informed but before they could reach the spot, the children were rescued. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: The district administration on Monday engaged 350 migrant workers to clean the Hazaribagh lake and Khazanchi talab. Officials said total of 500 labourers registered themselves for different work till date. Municipal commissioner Madhavi Mishra is monitoring the entire work. Officials said through this, labourers will get to work during the pandemic as well as it will enhance the beauty of picturesque Hazaribagh lake and a pond. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The body of a 22-year-old mentally unstable youth of Bokaro, Abhihshek Kumar was found lying on the bank of river Damodar on Monday morning under Sudamdih Polices station of Dhanbad about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters. Family members of the deceased said that Abhishek went out of his house on his scooter on June 3 on the pretext of going to market but never returned home. Police later found his scooter near Telmachcho bridge of Bokaro on June 4 and on Monday his dead body was recovered from the bank of river Damodar in Sudamdih. Though the dead body was partially decomposed and beyond recognition but family members identified him by the clothes worn by the deceased. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Local residents of Godhar area under Kenduadih police station, less than six km away from district on Monday complained to the Kusunda area management of BCCL about emission of huge amount of smoke and gas from the fan house of a closed mine of BCCL. A fan house is the ventilator of underground coal mines through which the warm gases are thrown out of the mines using giant exhaust fans. Ramesh Kumar, a local resident said, “Though gas emission was taking place at the same site for the last ten days as it takes place during rains but emission rate increased significantly this morning raising concern about the health risk as they felt headache due to inhaling gases after which we complained to the BCCL authorities.” (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: The Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Monday extended moral support to a one-day dharna staged by Bokaro MLA Biranchi Naryan in front the district collectorate office against the power crisis prevailing in Chas area. The office bearers of the Bokaro Chamber of Commerce who also sat at the dharna submitted a memorandum in which they demanded the commissioning of three newly installed electric substations besides commissioning Jaina More and Barmasia electric grid in Bokaro in order to solve the power crisis to some extent. President of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Sanjay Baid said, “Due to power crisis prevailing in Chas, the residents of the town are compelled to lead a life with no electricity connections.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||JMM, Cong welcome free vaccines, but say SC rap forced Centre's U-turn||JMM and Congress, key parties of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of free vaccines for all above 18 but added that the BJP-led government at the Centre was forced to do so after it was "exposed" beacuse of poor planning. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “The big U-turn on vaccination comes after Supreme Court’s intervention which questioned the Government of India’s vaccination policy. Jharkhand, and many other states, have been constantly raising the issue.” Even though chief minister Hemant Soren had announced that the state government would provide free vaccines for the 18-44 age group, he had to write to the Union government to demand free vaccines for all from the Centre's coffers. In his letter, Hemant rued that a poor state like Jharkhand was being forced into excess spending which would pose hurdles in its overall development. State finance minister and president of Jharkhand Congress Rameshwar Oraon said that Modi’s announcement was an indirect testimony to his government’s lapses. “The Congress has been regularly demanding free vaccines for all at various platforms. Our central leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, has been constantly demanding for it since long. It’s good that some wisdom has finally prevailed.” Oraon demanded that the Centre compensate all states on the expenses incurred while buying vaccines for 18-44 years. “The free vaccine scheme will start from June 21. Till then, states will have to procure their own stocks. We demand that all the states be paid back the money used to by stocks for immunising those between 18 and 44,” he said. Oroan said that never in India’s history had states been asked to buy vaccines by the Centre. “But the BJP government began a bad trend this time for reasons best known to it. But it’s good that it is trying to correct itself. We hope that it will ensure equitable distribution of vaccines in the coming weeks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get its first animal shelter||The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation will be building a shelter for stray dogs in the steel city, making it the second animal shelter of the state. The city-based NGO has identified the land in Pardih near Mango. “One of our members was kind enough to provide us with a plot of land. The land measures 150x30 ft and is enough for setting up the facility. We have already generated over Rs 60,000 for constructing a hall for the animal shelter. Around 40 strays can be accommodated at the facility,” said Aniz Patel, founder of JRPRF. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Patel said around Rs 3lakh was required for setting up the shelter home and funds are being generated from well wishers. “We are optimistic that the required funds would be generated since there are many animal lovers in Jamshedpur,” he added. According to Patel, the animal shelter would be meant for wounded stray canines who will be brought to the facility for treatment. “We’ll rescue wounded strays and bring them to the shelter. The strays would undergo treatment and will be kept at the shelter till full recovery. They would be released in their respective areas after healing,” he added. Services of vets would be available for treatment of strays who often get wounded and there is no facility for their treatment. A number of strays fall victim to road mishaps in the city. Some even die or are badly injured and eventually die. “We try our best to save strays but it is not always possible. After all, we are not experts in providing treatment for critical cases. Hence, an animal shelter is the need of the hour,” a member said. Members of the foundation also provide treatment to strays on their own. They contact Patel if they come across strays who need treatment. Patel, on his part, co-ordinates with vets and suggests medicines. “But we can provide general treatment only. Critical cases can be treated at the shelter,” Patel said, adding it will be the first animal shelter in Jamshedpur. Besides feeding strays, the foundation also conducts anti-rabies vaccination camps in periodical intervals at different localities. It also puts reflective collars on strays to protect them from road mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand survey shows no major impact of 2nd wave in rural areas ||Around 0.8 per cent of the over 2.63 crore rural residents surveyed in Jharkhand from May 25 to June 5 were found to have severe acute respiratory iIllness (SARI) or influenza like illness (ILA), data compiled by the state health department revealed on Monday, but  only about 0.5 per cent of the over 2 lakh people with the illnesses tested positive for Covid-19 during the 10-day intensive public health survey (IPHS). As per data shared by the government on Monday, as many as 2,63, 01,472 people from 52,97,433 households were surveyed and only 2,08,556 of them were found to have SARI or ILA symptoms. Of the over 2 lakh people who showed such symptoms, as many as 981 were found to be Covid positive. The data shared by the health department did not include figures from some pockets of five districts – Bokaro, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Koderma and Lohardaga. The state surveyed around 2.7 crore people during IPHS and data of about 7 lakh more residents was still being compiled, officials said. The findings of the survey indicated that Covid-19 did not have a major impact on rural areas of the tribal state during the second wave and many villages were completely free from coronavirus infections, officials said. As per government data, Jharkhand’s cumulative Covid positivity rate was 3.87 per cent against the national average of 7.89 per cent, and the survey showed that the positivity rate among the rural residents in Jharkhand was only 0.47 per cent. “During the survey, we found that many villages were completely free from Covid-19. While there were cases in pockets, the positivity rate was low in terms of the total population surveyed,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s IEC wing. Amid growing fear associated with a possible third wave and its impact on children, the proportion of children among those found infected in rural Jharkhand was found to be negligible during the survey. The IPHS findings showed that only 39 of the 981 people found infected by the coronavirus were below the age of 18 years, and none of them required hospitalization. As many as 11 of the 981 people found infected were sent to Covid care centres, and all of them were adults. As per IPHS data, rural Jharkhand reported as many as 25,869 deaths from April 1 to May 31. While the government did not categorically disclose the causes of the deaths, officials said that the survey did not show a major spike in deaths in the rural areas of the state. During the survey, it was also found that 16,668 of the surveyed people showed symptoms of tuberculosis, while 1,17,622 suffered from diabetes. As per the survey data, at least 11,9026 rural residents suffered from hypertension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||101-year-old is oldest in state to get vaccine||At a time when Jharkhand is battling vaccine hesitancy in several rural areas, a centenarian from Deoghar district is sure to emerge as the "poster dadu" of the government’s inoculation drive to combat Covid-19. On Sunday, health officials in Deoghar successfully inoculated a 101-year-old Chhota Jagdish Mahto from Devipur block, his first dose of Covishield, making him the oldest in the state to have been vaccinated since nationwide rollout of the drive in January this year. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri told reporters that such instances come as a great boost for the officials who are working round the clock to increase vaccine coverage in the district. “The elderly has led by example by taking vaccines on his own during door to door drives,” he said, appealing to others to come forward with similar enthusiasm. Devipur block development officer Abhay Kumar Jha said that they spotted Mahto outside his house during the door to door survey. “When we approached him to know if he had taken the vaccine, he replied in negative. We told him that he must take it to which he readily agreed. Vaccinators gave the jab and he is doing fine,” he said. However, it wasn’t known if he was infected with the virus since the outbreak last year but another official, who was part of the visiting team to the village on Sunday, said that the elderly stayed negative during both the first and second waves. “He said he didn’t contract the virus so far, however it is still to be officially checked. The man has one son and two grandchildren,” he said. Deoghar has 23 per cent coverage of vaccination of 45 plus age group. Against the target of 3,79,334 beneficiaries, it has inoculated the first dose to 1,48,268, as per the vaccination report of the health department released on Saturday night. It however has registered good coverage for second dose as against the target of 19,283 for 45 plus age group, it inoculated 17,603 so far. In the 18 plus age group category, it has given first dose to 40,332 against the target of 7.11 lakh, which is 5.67% while the time for second dose is still to arrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town restaurants impacted by Covid curbs||Restaurants in Dhanbad have suffered losses due to the impact of Covid as sales through home delivery and online platforms have dipped to less than 20 per cent of sales on normal days. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Satwant Singh, franchisee owner of La Piaza restaurant at Dhanbad, said, “We have suffered huge losses over five months of closure of the first phase of lockdown and even after reopening in September last year the customer response was quite shaky for the first two months.” “Barely after five months of moderate income from November last year to April this year, bad days came back for us since April 14 this year with the government restricting the shop opening time to 8 pm followed by lockdown on April 22,” said Singh. The restaurants were allowed to remain open but only through home delivery service. “As the death rate was comparatively more during the second phase of pandemic this year so  a lot apprehension gripped people’s mind, including about safety of packed food so even when home delivery was allowed, very few customers chose for packed food,” said Singh who is also the secretary of restaurant owner’s association of Dhanbad. Echoing his sentiments, Mihir Mandal, Manager of Celebration restaurant of Luby Circular Road of Dhanbad said, “Though, the income is almost negligible from the business at present but we are somehow keeping the restaurant open for sake of our staff and also to ensure the cleanliness and maintenance of the outlet” “Our main income during the normal days is through table booking also from the booking  for special occasions like birthday party, marriage anniversary and some time reunions meeting etc,” said Mandal and added that they will be deprived of significant income unless dining facilities are allowed at the restaurants. “Even when the Covid cases have dropped significantly in the district people are still desisting ordering packed food from restaurants either through online food delivery platforms or our own home delivery service as a result of which the income has reached to 20per cent,” said Mandal. Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Baghchi said, “We have already temporarily closed the hotel including the restaurant due to lack of visitors as well as lack of permission for dining in the restaurant, causing significant drop in the customer of restaurant” “We are however continuously monitoring the situation and will take a decision to relaunch the hotel as and when the situation improves,” said Bagchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 6,000 as over 800 patients recover from Covid||The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped to 5686 on Sunday as the state reported at least 838 Covid recoveries against 293 fresh cases of infection on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as eight patients, including two from East Singhbhum and one from capital Ranchi, died during treatment, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5054, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The active caseload dropped to 1547 in Ranchi on the day as the district reported only 24 cases and 139 Covid recoveries. East Singbhum also witnessed a drop in the active caseload on the day. With 104 recoveries against 45 cases, the district’s active caseload dropped to 646. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a spike of more than 50 cases on Sunday. With 45 cases, East Singhbhum reported the highest spike among the districts. On the other hand, Pakur and Chatra did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, but recoveries caused a drop in the active caseload in the two districts. Bokaro reported 10 cases against 55 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 32 recoveries, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin. The positivity rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was less than 1 per cent on Sunday. As per NHM data, as many as 42,566 residents were tested on the day and around 0.6 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.15 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 0.32 per cent, the NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, the doubling rate of Jharkhand reached 478.29 days on Sunday against the national average of 217.94 days. The recovery rate in the state further increased to 96.85 per cent against the national recovery rate of 93.70 per cent, but the Covid mortality rate in the state remained above the national average. As per government data, at least 1.48 per cent of the over 3.41 lakh people infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand could not survive. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 74,134 residents and more than 47,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years, stated a separate report from NHM. The second dose, as per the report, was administered to 4705 residents, mostly those above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro student wins Global Quiz Competition||Bokaro: A Class XII student of Delhi Public School, Bokaro, Rishi Divya Kirti bagged the first position in the grand finale of Ganga Quest 2021. It was the online global quiz contest in which more than 11 lakh students from across 113 nations participated. The contest was organized by the Union Jal Ministry and the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) in association with Tree Craze Foundation on Ganga, rivers and environment on the occasion of World Environment Day 2021. The quiz was first conceptualized in 2019 as an educational program to sensitise individuals, specially, students towards River Ganga and other rivers of the country.  Kirti stood first in the live quiz Grade III category conducted for Classes XI and XII students and was declared the overall winner of Ganga Quest 2021, said DPS sources. The competition was held in four rounds. In the last round, Kirti was among 36 others who made it to the final round. 12 students including Rishi were shortlisted after screening for the online live final round. Rishi defeated 11 other competitors to win the coveted trophy. “On Ganga Dusshera June 20, 2021, Kirti will be awarded a laptop, a knowledge kit and a certificate. Rishi’s father U.K.Singh is a teacher while his mother Anju Singh is a homemaker. Rishi’s father said, “I was delighted at the wonderful success of his son at the international level”. Sharing his happiness Rishi said, “I owe this award to my school, my teachers and my parents who have constantly guided and motivated me to participate in this quiz competition”. Principal of DPS Bokaro A.S. Gangwar appreciated Kirti’s performance. Gangwar said, “Rishi has made our school, our state as well as our Nation proud with his exemplary performance. It is his hard work and perseverance that enabled him to achieve this remarkable feat.” (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: Suspected rebels assaulted two labourers at the site of the bridge being built on Binja Nala located at Lambki Tand of Tokisud village under Patratu police station area of Ramgarh district on Saturday night. They sprayed kerosene oil in the JCB and tractor parked nearby and set it on fire. The criminals also opened fire and then fled to the nearby forest. The construction work was suspended on Sunday. The labourers said,"All the criminals were wearing masks and Naxalite uniforms. A pamphlet was also left at the spot. It has been seized by the police." Patratu SDPO Dr. Virendra Chaudhary, Inspector Lileshwar Mahto and Patratu police station in-charge Bharat Paswan reached the spot and began an investigation. TSPC militants may have a hand in the incident. However, the police have not confirmed any information. Police have recovered a cartridge case from the spot. SDPO Dr. Virendra Choudhary said, "Tokisud area is the border area of Ranchi district. Under this limit, criminal organisations take advantage of this and enter from one district to another carrying out attacks and secure themselves. This is a big challenge for the police. Investigation is on to ascertain who was involved in the incident." (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Govindpur based property dealer, Manzoor Alam on Sunday lodged a complaint against two youths, allegedly belonging to a notorious gang, demanding extortion worth Rs 1.5 lakh. Alam in his complaint claimed that the duo came to his house and threatened to kill him if he did not pay them. He further informed police that the duo claimed to be members of shooter Aman Singh gang, whose name has figured in a number of other extortion cases. Around six days ago Bhuli based trader Sahabuddin Ansari also lodged an extortion demand complaint in the name of Aman Singh. Aman Singh's name also figured in the murder case of Ashraful Hasan also known as Lala Khan which took place on May 12 in broad day light at Wasseypur. (Praduman Choubey) Ramgarh: An MoU has been signed under the “One More Breath" program to provide better healthcare facilities by Deputy Development Commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha and representatives of Round Table India Trust on behalf of District Administration Ramgarh in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Saturday. Around 50 isolation beds and 50 oxygen supported beds will be arranged at CCL Hospital Naisarai Ramgarh and Sadar Hospital Ramgarh. Representatives of Round Table India Trust have handed over 20 Dual Oxygen Concentrators and 12 Single Oxygen Concentrators to the Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh was informed by the representatives of Round Table India Trust that other health care equipment will be made available to the district administration in a short time. Singh and Deputy Development Commissioner Nagendra Kumar Sinha on behalf of Ramgarh administration expressed gratitude to Round Table India Trust for their excellent work. (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: A baby deer from a nearby forest of Gola block area reached Patratu village. Stray dogs attacked the baby deer. Local villagers informed the forest department officials. Forest guard Yogendra Mahto and Anil Kumar reached Patratu village and took the baby deer in their possession. They left baby deer safely in the same forest. Dozens of people including Sarveshwar Mahato, Pankaj Mahato, Brajkishore Mahato, Dilip Kumar Mahato, Lokeshwar Mahato, Manoj Mahato, Sujit Kumar Mahato, Dhananjay Mahato, Prahlad Nayak rescued the deer. Hazaribagh : A truck carrying cement from Bokaro and going to Huntergunj of Chatra overturned near Nunigadha on Hazaribagh-Chatra road under Giddhore police station of Chatra district. Sources said the driver lost control over the vehicle which overturned when the road was busy with commuters. However no one was injured and the driver managed to jump out safely from the truck. Police seized the truck and interrogated the driver who admitted falling asleep at the wheels resulting in accident. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to ascertain Covid variants||The Jharkhand government directed all medical colleges of the state to send the preserved swab samples of all who died of Covid-19 infection on or after April 1 for whole genome sequencing (WGS). The preserved positive samples of those who died would be sent to the Institute of Life Science (ILS), Bhubaneswar, for WGS that would help understand the mortality rate among various variants, additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh said in a letter he wrote on Friday to the heads of state’s medical colleges. “Government RT-PCR Covid-19 laboratories have been sending such preserved samples to ILS, Bhubaneswar for whole genome sequencing,” he said in the letter addressed to the director, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, and principals or superintendents of medical colleges in Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Daltonganj and Hazaribagh, besides heads of Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur and Intermediate Reference Laboratory (IRL), Itki near Ranchi that have been identified, as per direction of the Union government, as sentinel surveillance  sites (SSSs) under a special surveillance mechanism for WGS. During March and April, 537 samples were sent for WGS and 363 of those were processed, Singh further informed, adding 301 of those samples showed presence of variants. While 29 samples showed presence of the UK variant, 272 had double mutants, he further informed. Besides preserved swab samples of those dead,  each of these SSSs would also be sending 15 other randomly selected samples every two weeks for WGS, the additional chief secretary (health) directed in his letter. “WGS data are vital for monitoring the spread of the known variants of interest as well as variants of concern in the state for initiating appropriate measures,” he clarified the purpose. “All viruses undergo mutations and some of the variants are considered more dangerous,” a senior health official later explained, adding the variants that were already found and considered as more dangerous were known as variants of concern while those yet to be identified were variants of interest. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state over the past 66 days — from April 1 to June 5 — were 3,944 that accounted for 78.16 per cent of the total Covid deaths of 5,046 since the disease struck the state early last year (2020). Though the infection seemed to be under control at present and less number of affected persons died over the past few days, number of Covid deaths during the past two months of the second wave was actually a matter of concern that prompted the government to ascertain the reason behind the sudden spurt in the mortality rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
