08-06-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine drive at NSHM Knowledge Campus for Calcuttans||NSHM Knowledge Campus, Calcutta, in collaboration with Medica Superspeciality Hospitals has started its Covid-19 vaccination drive for citizens above 18 from Monday, where it plans to inoculate up to 3,000 beneficiaries per day, the college has said. The centre, set up at its Calcutta campus, will be operational for its internal team members on the first two days -- June 7 and 8 -- and will open for all from June 9, the institute said in a press release. Talking about the drive, Chairman Trustee of NSH, Dileep Singh Mehta said, “The vaccination capacity of this centre would begin with 3000 per day and will be increased further. In the current vulnerable situation, we hope that by setting up this vaccination centre we can play our  small role to serve the people of the state and help society win against Covid-19.” Citizens above 18 can avail the service by booking their slots on cowin.gov.in and calling the helpline No. (01416781123) between 7 am to 10 pm. All safety instructions and guidelines will be followed at the CVC, the statement added. Dr. Alok Roy, Chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair FICCI Health  Services Committee urged all citizens to come forward and get vaccinated. “As a responsible caregiver serving humanity over a decade, Medica Superspecialty Hospital has been in the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 and all our hospital staff and clinicians are working tirelessly to treat every patient with utmost care,” he added. During the lockdown period, the centre will be operational from 9 am to 6 pm, while after the restrictions are lifted the working hours will be extended from 8 am to 8 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Fire at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in Calcutta||Fire broke out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in the Bhowanipore area in south Calcutta on Tuesday morning, officials said. Three fire tenders brought the blaze under control at the century-old building, they said. No one was injured in the incident, they added. Mitra along with his family members rushed out of the house as soon as the fire was spotted in a room on the ground floor. A visibly shaken Mitra was seen sitting outside the house. Presumably, the fire started from a short circuit, said a fire services official. "Though we don't know exactly, as of now a purifier is suspected to be the cause of the short circuit. An investigation will be done," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal government cancels Madhyamik and HS exams for 2021||Bengal’s higher secondary and secondary (Madhyamik) exams won’t be held in 2021 because of Covid, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday. She asked the exam-conducting bodies to come up with an assessment methodology at the earliest so students of the Bengal board do not lose out to their peers from the CBSE and the ISC board while competing for higher studies. “We have decided to cancel Madhyamik and the higher secondary exams this year following a recommendation of the expert committee and public opinion. The higher secondary council, the secondary education board and the education minister will work out the details of evaluation and inform the students in the next seven days,” the chief minister said in Nabanna. “You should keep an eye on what the CBSE is doing…. Whatever you do must be a time-bound exercise. The evaluation of CBSE Class XII students and higher secondary students must take place at the same time. It has to be ensured that our students can compete while pursuing higher education and in any competitive exams. Therefore the evaluation has to be completed at the earliest.” The state government had last Tuesday constituted a six-member expert committee to decide whether the secondary and higher secondary exams would be held this year. The panel was formed after the CBSE and the ICSE council cancelled their school-leaving exams because of the surge in Covid cases. Members of the committee had hinted that they were against holding the exams on campus because of Covid. They had also ruled out the possibility of conducting the test on digital platforms because a large number of students did not have access to computers or the internet. The chief minister said the overwhelming majority of the parents, students and the public in general were against conducting exams at schools. The state government received as many as 34,000 responses in a day after they sought people's opinion on whether and how the secondary and higher secondary exams should be conducted this year. An official of the school education department said Mamata had asked the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education to come up with evaluation parameters in a week. The Supreme Court had on June 3 given the Centre two weeks’ time to come up with “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of the CBSE and the ICSE council. Mamata wants the HS council to announce the criteria before the CBSE and the ICSE council. “The chief minister is aware that if the HS council delays announcing the methodology of assessment, the Class XII students from the Bengal board will lose out to those from the Delhi boards while competing for slots in premier colleges in Bengal and outside. The coveted institutions won’t wait for long to announce the admission criteria. Any delay by the Bengal board would mean the seats would be snapped up by students from the Delhi boards,” he said. The task of working out the assessment methodology for the Bengal board students is fraught with challenges. While the CBSE and the ICSE council have records of internal assessment of their Class XII students conducted over digital platforms, the HS council has only minuscule data as far as any form of assessment is concerned. “Holding internal tests on digital platforms for the students of the Bengal board was not possible because of a widespread digital divide. HS students from science streams have only appeared in practical tests of 30 marks and students from other streams submitted project work of 20 marks. So the task of evaluation is more challenging, but then it has to be a time-bound exercise,” the official said. The chief minister advised the presidents of the secondary education board and the higher secondary council to look into suggestions contained in the public opinion related to evaluations. An official of the school education department said the HS council was looking at the recommendation for assessing the students through the models of home assignment or open-book exams made by the expert committee. The committee has proposed the possibility of sending questions to the examinees’ home and fetching the answer sheets from there. “Now the council in consultation with the school edu-cation department would have to decide whether this is possible as far as logistics are concerned. HS examinees total 10 lakh. If the public suggests any suitable model, that will be explored. If needed, the expert committee can again be approached,’’ said the official. Madrasah exams The West Bengal Board of Madrasah Education has cancelled its Class X and XII board exams because of the pandemic. An alternative evaluation method will be announced soon, said a board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Eight fliers injured as severe turbulence hits Vistara flight||Eight passengers of a Mumbai-Calcutta Vistara flight were injured after the aircraft was caught in a severe turbulence mid-air on Monday afternoon. Four of the injured had to be admitted to hospital. Flight UK775, with 123 passengers on board, was caught in the turbulence caused by bad weather for about five minutes. Some of the injured passengers told a doctor at Charnock Hospital, where they have been admitted, that they had been thrown off their seats under the impact of the turbulence. The director of the Calcutta airport, C. Pattabhi, said the aircraft flew into the turbulence while it was descending from 20,000 feet to 17,000 feet about 47km from the city, The turbulence lasted for around 5 minutes from 4pm, officials said. The flight landed in Calcutta at 4.25pm. A 61-year-old woman suffered a fracture in her right arm and will need surgery, while a 77-year-old man suffered an injury in his spine, said officials at Charnock Hospital. Anita Agarwal, 61, suffered a fracture in the right arm between the shoulder and the elbow. Timir Baran Das, 77, has undergone a procedure for his spine injury. Timir’s son, Subha, was injured in the neck. Doctors said he was in trauma. A fourth passenger, Sudip Roy, 36, suffered a cut on the scalp. “Some of the injured passengers told me that it seemed as if the plane had overturned mid-air,” said Nishant Agarwal, the head of the emergency department at Charnock Hospital. Agarwal had examined the injured passengers. “The passengers said the pilot had asked them to put on their seatbelt because of bad weather. Despite that, they were thrown off their seats. Anita Agarwal fell on the floor of the aircraft and suffered a fracture. Timir Baran Das was thrust forward and hit the seat in front. His son suffered trauma and was unable to sit,” said Agarwal. According to Pattabhi, medical assistance was given to the eight injured passengers immediately after the flight landed. “Flight UK 775, operating between Mumbai and Calcutta, encountered severe turbulence 15 minutes before landing. According to preliminary reports, the turbulence caused injuries to a few passengers who were provided first aid during the flight and immediate medical assistance upon arrival in Calcutta. We are saddened by this unfortunate incident. We are investigating the incident on priority,” said a Vistara spokesperson. According to a Met department official, the severe turbulence could have happened because of a sharp difference in the speed and direction of winds in the upper and lower levels of the atmosphere, caused by the stormy conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for siphoning off Rs 21 lakh from New Town ATM||Three men were arrested in Kaikhali off VIP Road on Monday for allegedly siphoning off Rs 21 lakh from an ATM in New Town on May 30. The men are part of the gang that had stolen over Rs 2 crore from at least 10 ATMs of a private bank in Calcutta last month, police said. The men have been identified as Mohammed Vakil from Punjab, Sandeep Gupta alias Sonu and Amit Gupta alias Amrit who are from Delhi. “The arrested men used to rent flats in different areas of the city and change their SIM cards every alternate day to avoid police tracking. They had even got fake Aadhaar cards made. We are trying to arrest other members of the gang,” the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Chitpore bridge to remain closed from June 10 to 13 to facilitate load test||The Chitpore bridge will remain closed to traffic from 6am on June 10 to 10pm on June 13 to facilitate a load test of the structure. The importance of the Chitpore bridge has increased since the closure of the Tallah bridge, which was a key link between the city and the northern fringes, in 2019. The Tallah bridge has since been demolished and work on a new bridge has started. The city police have prepared diversion plans for the period the Chirpore bridge will remain closed. Vehicles plying down Central Avenue and heading for BT Road will be diverted from the Rajballavpara crossing through the Shyambazar five-point crossing, Belgachhia Road and Raja Manindra Road. Vehicles headed for the city from BT Road will be diverted through the Lockgate flyover, PK Mukherjee Road and Bidhan Sarani. Vehicles heading towards the city from Cossipore Road will pass through the Cossipore bridge, PK Mukherjee Road, Shyambazar and Bidhan Sarani. North-bound vehicles from Rabindra Sarani will be diverted through BK Pal Avenue, Central Avenue, JM Avenue, Bhupen Bose Avenue and Shyambazar. “The Chitpore bridge has been bearing a lot of load since the closure of the Tallah bridge. It needs to undergo a load test,” said an officer of the traffic department. “We have requested the CMDA to complete the test at the earliest. We want the work to be over before Covid curbs are relaxed and the number of vehicles on the roads increase.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 curbs: Shoot halted, poverty stares at Tollywood team||Many actors and technicians are teetering on the brink of penury because of the prolonged suspension of shooting brought about by the Covid-19 curbs. Any such stoppage of work on the floors of Tollygunge studios means no pay for thousands of people. The list includes small-time actors in daily soaps, camera and lighting technicians, make-up and costume assistants and their likes — people who are hired on a daily remuneration basis. Suvankar Chakraborty, 44, looked after light arrangements in a set at a studio off Prince Anwar Shah Road until May 15, when shooting stopped in Tollygunge. His daily income was around Rs 600. Chakraborty lives with his mother, wife and daughter, a second-year college student. He has borrowed money from more than one place since the shutdown. He can work as an amateur electrician and is looking for work in private homes and offices. “But I don’t have enough money to buy a tool kit,” he told Metro. Arpita Ghosh, 23, has acted in bit roles in two soaps and one feature film. She was desperately looking for more opportunities when the second wave of Covid infections brought shooting to an abrupt halt. Ghosh’s father, who supplies construction material in and around Netaji Nagar, is ailing. Ghosh used to get “over Rs 1,000” for a 10-hour shift. “My income would have been so helpful for my family since my father’s business took a hit following his illness,” said Ghosh. Sanjit Biswas used to work as a production assistant for another soap. His job was to look after the food and refreshments of the crew. His daily income totalled “around Rs 15,000” per month. Having been out of work for close to three months in 2020, Biswas knows how hard life can be. “I would have faltered on insurance premiums had it not been for my savings. But this time, my savings have depleted. I don’t know what to do if the shutdown continues for long,” the Kudghat resident said. In January-February 2020, just before the pandemic hit this part of the world, around 30 soaps and reality shows were being shot at over 10 studios in and around Calcutta, according to industry insiders. “Over 1,000 actors and 1,500 technicians were part of this,” said a member of the Welfare Association of Television Producers. A single days’ shooting entailed a budget of anything between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, the producer said. The payment structure is varied. Small-time actors earn anything from Rs 400 to Rs 1,500, depending on their profile. “A man standing in a crowd outside a slum will get one amount. Another person who is seen with a drink at a cocktail party and has a couple of dialogues with one of the main characters will get a different amount,” said Susanta Das, the producer of popular soaps like Titli and Krishnakali. Among the crew, a person helping in the make-up and costume of the lead actors gets more money than the caretaker of a camera trolley. But the loss of income has democratised the profiles of people working in the industry. Even veteran actors are facing the heat because their incomes have gone south. Samita Saha, assistant production manager on the floor of a soap called Agnisikha, has been getting frantic calls from her team members every day. Most of them have one question — what will happen if the curbs get stretched beyond June 15. “Most of these technicians do not have any other skill set. It is difficult for them to switch professions,” she said. Multiple associations — of producers, actors and technicians — have requested the state government to allow resumption of shooting by following Covid-19 protocols. “There has to be a balance between lives and livelihoods…. We request the government to allow us to resume shooting with Covid-19 protocols,” said Firdausul Hasan, a TV and film producer. The makers of some soaps have opted for what they call “shoot from home”. Some actors have shot episodes from the confines of a home. The episodes have been aired. The Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India has opposed the “shoot from home” module, saying it deprived technicians. But producers said that shooting from home was necessary for the survival of the industry. “The production quality is compromised but we don’t have any other option. Unless we telecast new content, we will not get money from advertisers. We have promised technicians full payment once we get the revenue,” said Sani Ghose Ray, the secretary of the Welfare Association of Television Producers (WATP), and the producer of soaps like Saanjher Bati and Dhrubatara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Talk to CMC bosses via Zoom for speedy resolution of grievance||Residents of the city can now talk to the municipal commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation through Zoom twice a week and seek a speedy resolution of their grievances. The municipal commissioner will be available on Zoom every Wednesday and Saturday, from 11am till noon. The special municipal commissioner will hold such sessions every Tuesday and Thursday between 11am and noon. The necessity of online meetings was felt during the pandemic, but the civic body plans to go ahead with such sessions even when the Covid situation comes under control. “A lot of people find it difficult to visit the civic headquarters. Also, it is prudent for our safety as well their safety that we keep the physical interactions on hold for the time being. Therefore, we have decided to have online meetings where people can speak about their grievances”, said Binod Kumar, the municipal commissioner of the CMC. Kumar, however, pointed out that he had not stopped meeting visitors in-person but urged residents to use the online facility to minimise physical interactions as a precaution against Covid. “We may continue with the online meetings even when the pandemic is under control because problems can be addressed through online talks. People need not take the trouble of coming to the civic headquarters,” he said. The first such session was held on Saturday where five Calcuttans raised issues like water supply, drainage problems and Covid vaccination. Those who log in through Zoom will be made to wait in a virtual queue. “There is a way where people can be kept in a queue during Zoom meetings. I will talk to one person at a time. Whoever joins first will talk first. The person who joins the queue second will speak after the first person and this way the interactions will continue,” Kumar told Metro. The meeting ID to talk to the municipal commissioner or the special municipal commissioner is 83003173829 and the passcode is 111111. While people can raise any issue with the municipal commissioner, the special municipal commissioner will deal with issues like assessment collection, property tax, amusement tax, car parking and matters related to licence and CMC-run markets. A section of civic officials said the decision to hold online meetings would benefit citizens immensely as the municipal commissioner, being the executive head of the civic body, was a key decision maker and he didn’t need instructions from anyone on operational issues and matters concerning delivery of civic services. “Visiting a government office is not an enjoyable experience and that too if the person is going to meet the head of that organisation. The online meetings will make people more comfortable and confident in raising their complaints,” said a businessman who has to visit government offices frequently. Some people linked the online sessions with the municipal commissioner to the broader plan to take administration to people’s doorsteps and make the levers of government more accessible to the people. “Like Duare Sarkar took the government to people’s doorsteps, this too seems like an effort to take the municipal government to people’s doorsteps. It is an excellent idea,” said Anjan Ukil, an architect, who has to visit various government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Car owner returns wallet left in app cab, hands money spent by driver to buy fuel using card||A man who had left his wallet in an app cab got it back with all his cards and money intact from the vehicle’s owner, who turned up at his doorstep at 1.30am to return the items. Partha Bhattacharyya, who works with a pharmaceutical company, was travelling home to Shilpara in Thakurpukur, from Kalyani, Nadia, in an app cab with a friend on Friday. The friend got off at Kalikapur. After reaching home, Bhattacharyya realised that his wallet was missing. He called his friend, who contacted the app cab helpline to get the driver’s details. The mobile number that the helpline provided was “unreachable”, the police said. Bhattacharyya and his friend went to the Thakurpukur traffic guard around 10.30pm for help. “Sergeant Sagar Singha helped them find an alternative contact number, which turned out to be that of the car’s owner,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. The owner said the driver had not reported anything about the wallet. Five minutes later, Bhattacharyya received a text message from his bank saying his debit card had just been used to purchase fuel at a pump in New Alipore. Several ATM cards allow contactless payment where the card does not need to be swiped through or inserted into a machine and the user can make a transaction of up to Rs 2,000 without entering any personal identification number. “Sergeant Singha called up the owner again to inform him about the purchase. This time, the owner was embarrassed but said the driver had denied having Bhattacharyya’s wallet. He promised to talk to the driver again,” the officer said. Bhattacharyya and his friend then went home. Bhattacharyya’s doorbell rang at 1.30am. The car’s owner, a resident of Park Circus, had turned up to return the wallet. Apart from the Rs 1,100 that was in the wallet, the owner handed Rs 1,900 to Bhattacharyya, the amount the driver had spent using his card to buy fuel. “I personally think travelling in an app cab is a bit risky nowadays. They do not provide the driver’s number or the vehicle number in the trip history. I am grateful to Mr Singha for his support,” Bhattacharyya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||E-buses to replace diesel-run fleet to curb rising air pollution levels||The fleet of diesel-powered government buses in Calcutta will be replaced by electric buses to curb the rising levels of air pollution, transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Monday. “From now on we will focus on electric buses to battle the rising levels of pollution in Calcutta. The replacement will be carried out in phases,” Hakim said. A little over 1,200 government buses ply in and around Calcutta and all of them are oil guzzlers, transport department officials said. Last year, the state government had replaced 75 of them with electric vehicles, which are powered by rechargeable lithium ion batteries. To begin with, 400 buses will be replaced by electric buses and the remaining fleet of nearly 800 buses will be replaced subsequently in phases. Growing levels of air pollution in the city remains one of the biggest causes of concern for residents. Calcutta had suffered its worst air pollution in two years in the first week of December 2020, a study by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed. Senior officials of the West Bengal Transport Corporation said electric buses were cost effective and would help reduce automobile emission considerably. “The cumulative cost of running non-AC buses is around Rs 35 a kilometre and close to Rs 50 for an AC-bus. For an electric bus, it is around Rs 12 a kilometre,” said an official. “We have set up a separate cell in the transport department to look into the challenges for charging batteries....,” said Hakim. Hakim said apart from converting buses, the government has decided that while offering new permits to autorickshaws preference would be given to those who would opt for either CNG or electric autorickshaws. Fresh permits would be issued to autorickshaw operators on the fringes where urbanisation was taking place particularly along the proposed Metro rail routes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Panel to look into fare hike demand by private bus and minibus operators||A three-member committee will look into the demands by private bus and minibus operators to increase the fares, transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Monday. “The committee will draw up its report within three months,” he said. The committee will be headed by the secretary of the transport department. The other two members are senior officials of the finance and the transport departments. Since the onset of the pandemic, private bus and minibus operators have been demanding an upward fare revision because of low passenger count. The demand gathered steam recently as the price of diesel shot through the roof. Diesel sold at Rs 89.12 a litre in Calcutta on Monday, up by over Rs 15 a litre over the last six months. Around this time last year, diesel sold at Rs 65.61 a litre in the city. “The price of the fuel has gone up by nearly Rs 24 a litre within a year while the passenger count has dropped,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “It makes little sense to run buses now.” Following last year’s lockdown, the government has stood by the bus operators, waiving the penalty for not renewing the fitness certificate, driving licence and the road permit. While the move came as a relief, it did little to address the main woes of bus owners, who were bleeding from a sharp drop in passenger footfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Calcutta||Urbana organises jab camp for staff of Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya||Urbana housing complex organised a camp to vaccinate 51 teachers and non-teaching staff of a school for the underprivileged on Monday. Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya, an English-medium school close to the highrise, runs classes till VII. More than 400 students from slums in Madurdaha study in the school. “Most of the non-teaching employees in the school are underprivileged,” said Mousumi Kar, who has been teaching at the school for 25 years. “The husbands of many non-teaching employees are carpenters and masons. They had lost their livelihood during the lockdown and are yet to recover financially.” Fifty-one persons, including teachers and non-teaching staff and their family members, got their first dose as part of the drive conducted in collaboration with the AMRI Hospitals group. An official of the residents’ association of Urbana said they had conducted multiple camps to vaccinate 1,200 of their residents. The association held a three-day vaccination camp from June 4 at Urbana Club to inoculate around 450 members of the support staff of the complex. “Monday (June 7) was marked for the teachers and non-teaching staff of Madurdaha Satyabriti Vidyalaya,” said the official. The school, run by an NGO named Dakshini Prayas, was started 28 years ago with four students. Classes were conducted at a neighbourhood club till the school had its own building, said an official of the school. A resident of Urbana said they had been “taking care of the school expenses” for the last 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
08-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday following losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE Sensex slipped 52.94 points or 0.10 per cent to 52,275.57. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,740.10.  SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC duo, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bharti Airtel, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers.  Equity benchmarks ended almost flat in a choppy trading day with mixed reactions seen across the counters, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  While financials and metals witnessed selling pressure, IT, FMCG and pharma supported the market.  Midcap and smallcap indices, on the other hand, continued to outperform the benchmarks as improved prospects of earnings recovery continues to attract investors towards this space, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended in the red.  Stocks exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent lower at USD 71.11 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman asks Infosys to fix glitches on new tax filing website||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix technical glitches being encountered on the income tax department's new e-filing website after users flooded her Twitter timeline with complaints. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. The portal went live last evening. Early on Tuesday morning, Sitharaman took to Twitter to announce the launch of the new portal, www.incometax.gov.in, saying that the "important milestone to make the compliance experience more taxpayer-friendly" went live at 2045 Hrs on Monday. But, soon, her timeline was flooded with user complaints. "I see in my TL grievances and glitches. Hope @Infosys & @NandanNilekani will not let down our taxpayers in the quality of service being provided," she tweeted later. TL here stands for timeline. "Ease in compliance for the taxpayer should be our priority," she said while quoting a tweet from a user who was unable to log in to the new e-filing portal. Infosys had also developed the GST Network (GSTN) portal, used for GST payment and return filing. The software major had faced flak for the slow functioning of the GSTN portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a choppy note on Tuesday amid tepid cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 54.44 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,382.95 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 13.85 points or 0.09 per cent to 15,765.50.  Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Infosys, HCL Tech, NTPC and TCS.  On the other hand, ONGC, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex rose 228.46 points or 0.44 per cent to finish at its all-time high of 52,328.51, and Nifty surged 81.40 points or 0.52 per cent to a record 15,751.65.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth 186.46 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Daily caseload falling below one lakh yesterday first time after two months and government assuring state governments to supply Jabs at own cost for all offer additional comfort, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  On the global front, US equities ended mixed with Dow and S&P 500 recording moderate contraction. However, soft bond yield, supported by lower-than-expected Job data for May, helped tech-led Nasdaq to extend gain, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.98 per cent lower at USD 70.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||New tax filing portal goes live ||The much awaited new tax filing portal went live only late in the evening much to the chagrin of chartered accountants who vented their ire on the government on Twitter. The income tax authorities had said the new portal would be launched on Monday June 7. The old portal was shut down from June 1 to June 6. However, much to the disappointment of the filers, the new portal remained out of bounds throughout the day on Monday. Vikram Dangi, a chartered accountant, tweeted, “If you can’t stay on your timings, please also don’t expect tax payers to file returns and pay taxes on time. Why to charge late fee from them.” Government officials said they had not given any time when the portal would go live on Monday. The new portal — www.incometax.gov.in — replaces the olderincometaxindiaefiling.gov.in website The income tax department also asked taxpayers to re-register their DSC (Digital Signature Certificate), update their personal mobile number and email ID under “primary contact”, act on “pending action” and respond to “outstanding demand”. The portal has separate tabs for different categories of taxpayers, like individual, company, non-company and tax professionals. It has a drop-down menu for taxpayers for checking instructions on ITR filing, refund status and tax slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business|| ICICI Prudential Life Insurance announcesannual bonus of Rs 867 crore||ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has announced an annual bonus of Rs 867 crore for all eligible participating policyholders for financial year 2020-21. This is 10 per cent higher than the payout last year and is the highest bonus declared by the insurer till date. When a life insurance company makes profit (surplus), a part of it is distributed among policyholders in the form of bonus payments every financial year with the payout being made at maturity. This is similar to dividends paid by profit making companies for its equity shareholders. Only participatory plans (with-profit plans) qualify for bonus, unlike non-participatory plans, and there is a premium differential between the two. ICICI Prudential said that a total of 9.8 lakh participating policyholders will benefit from the bonus payout. This is the 15th consecutive year that the insurer has declared a bonus. As on March 31, 2021, 96.8 per cent of the fixed income portfolio of the insurer is invested in sovereign or AAA rated papers and there has been zero default in the portfolio since inception. “This is the highest annual bonus in the history of the company. It coincides with the 20th anniversary of our operations. It demonstrates our customer focus, resilience and ability to navigate through the challenges posed by the pandemic,” said N.S. Kannan, managing director and CEO of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance. Life insurers often tap the bonus route to market their products and make it more attractive for prospective policyholders. “Unlike commodities, insurance is intangible that works on the basis of trust that at the time of certain events such as death or maturity, claims will be settled and bonus would be paid. So,  bonus is an incentive used to market protection plans,” said an insurance industry executive. LIC, which is the country’s largest life insurance company, paid a huge sum of Rs 51,019.65 crore in 2019-20 as bonus to its participating policyholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Google to make changes to global advertising business||Google said it would make changes to its global advertising business to ensure it did not abuse its dominance, bowing to antitrust pressure for the first time in a landmark settlement with French authorities. The deal with the French competition watchdog could help rebalance the power over advertising in favour of publishers, which held sway over the business in the pre-internet era but lost control with the rapid rise of Google and Facebook. The settlement, which was announced on Monday and also saw Google fined 220 million euros ($268 million), is the first time the US tech giant has agreed to make changes to its huge advertising business, which brings in the bulk of its revenue. “The decision to sanction Google is of significance because it’s the first decision in the world focusing on the complex algorithmic auction processes on which the online ad business relies,” said France’s antitrust chief Isabelle de Silva. The watchdog found that Google’s ad management platform for large publishers — Google Ad Manager — favoured the company’s own online ad marketplace —Google AdX — where publishers sell space to advertisers in real-time. Ad Manager provided AdX with strategic data such as the winning bidding prices, while AdX also enjoyed privileged access to requests made by advertisers via Google’s ad services, the authority said. AdX, in turn, exchanged data more smoothly with Ad Manager than it did with other advertising management platforms, the watchdog added. Such platforms are crucial for publishers to manage and sell advertising space. Under the terms of the settlement, Google made commitments to improve the way Ad Manager services worked with rival ad servers and ad space sales platforms, the French watchdog said. Some changes would be implemented by the first quarter of 2022, it said, adding that Google would not appeal the decision. Google said it had agreed to make it easier for publishers to use its data and tools. “We will be testing and developing these changes over the coming months before rolling them out more broadly, including some globally,” the company added. Many publishers globally have been infuriated over the ad practices employed by the tech giants, whose success relies on the trove of data they have amassed over the years. The French antitrust authority said its decision opened the way for publishers who felt disadvantaged to seek damages from Google. Reuters Most of Google’s sales come from search and YouTube ads. But last year about $23 billion was tied to helping publishers sell ads, drawing antitrust scrutiny to the connections between Google’s businesses, plus calls from some critics to break up the company. French finance minister Bruno Le Maire welcomed the watchdog’s decision. “The practices put in place by Google to favour its own advertising technologies have affected press groups, whose business model is heavily dependent on ad revenues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business|| Sebi bars Franklin Templeton AMC from launching any new debt scheme for two years; fines it Rs 5 crore ||Sebi on Monday barred Franklin Templeton AMC from launching any new debt scheme for two years and fined it Rs 5 crore for violating regulatory norms in the case of winding up of six debt schemes in 2020. It has also been asked to refund investment management and advisory fees to the tune of Rs 512 crore, including interest, collected with respect to the six debt schemes, Sebi said in its 100-page order. In a separate order, the regulator has barred Vivek Kudva, former head of Asia Pacific (APAC) for Franklin Templeton, and his wife Roopa from the securities market for one year for redeeming units of Franklin Templeton MF schemes while in possession of non-public information. The regulator has also imposed a total penalty of Rs 7 crore on the couple. They have been asked to jointly and severally transfer Rs 22.64 crore redeemed of Franklin Templeton MF schemes to an escrow account within 45 days. Sebi found that the couple had cumulatively redeemed units amounting to Rs 30.70 crore while in possession of material non-public information. In addition, Sebi has initiated adjudication proceedings against certain employees of Franklin Templeton AMC, including the chief executive officer, chief compliance officer and the directors. Sebi found that Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd has “committed serious lapses/violations with regard to a scheme categorisation (by replicating high-risk strategy across several schemes) and calculation of Macaulay duration (to push long term papers into short duration schemes)”. Franklin has also committed violations in respect of non-exercise of exit options in the face of an emerging liquidity crisis, securities valuation practices, risk management practices and investment related due diligence, it added. PTI “As a result of the irregularities in the running of the debt schemes inspected, loss has been caused to the investors. The noticee (Franklin Templeton AMC) was under a statutory obligation to abide by the provisions of the Mutual Regulations and Circulars issued thereunder, which it failed to do,” Sebi noted. The serious lapses and violations appear to be a fallout of Franklin Templeton AMC's obsession to run high-yield strategies without due regard from the concomitant risk dimensions, it added. The regulator said Franklin Templeton AMC will have to refund the investment management and advisory fees collected from June 4, 2018 till April 23, 2020 with respect to the six debt schemes, along with simple interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum. This has to be done within a period of 21 days from the date of the order for utilisation towards repayment of the concerned unitholders. In the event of failure to comply with the direction, it shall pay simple interest 12 per cent per annum, which shall commence from the date the amount becomes payable. In respect of Kudvas, Sebi noted that Vivek had redeemed units worth Rs 11.62 crore on his own behalf and units amounting to Rs 85.15 lakh on behalf of his mother Vasanthi, whereas Roopa redeemed units on her own account amounting to Rs 18.22 crore. “The noticees (couple) by redeeming their units ahead of the other investors have enjoyed an unfair advantage by having access to their investments; whereas the unit holders who remained invested were left in the lurch as their investments were locked up for a considerable amount of time,” Sebi noted. In such a scenario, Sebi said it is appropriate to place the couple (with respect to their investments in the two schemes) in a similar position to that of the unitholders who had remained invested. The amount of Rs 22.64 crore to be transferred to the escrow account will be released in tranches to the couple in the same proportion as the cash distributed to the unitholders (pursuant to the winding up process), taken as percentage of the AUM of the two schemes as on date of the decision to wind up the schemes -- April 23, 2020. Such proportionate releases from the escrow account will continue till the balance in the escrow account gets depleted to zero. If, on the other hand, on completion of the winding up process, any additional amounts remain in the escrow account, the same will be transferred to the Sebi Investor Protection and Education Fund, it added. Sebi said redemption of units by the Roopa and Vivek on his own behalf and on behalf of his mother while being privy to material non-public information constitutes 'unfair trade practices' and is in contravention of PFUTP (Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices) norms.               Franklin Templeton MF shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, 2020, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes -- Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund -- together had an estimated Rs 25,000 crore as assets under management. Subsequent to the decision to wind up the schemes, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) ordered a forensic audit and appointed chartered accountants Chokshi and Chokshi LLP to conduct a forensic audit of Franklin Templeton MF, Franklin Templeton AMC and trustees, particularly in respect to the six debt schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Twitter approaches govt seeking more time to comply with IT rules||Social media platform Twitter is learnt to have approached the government seeking more time to comply with the new IT rules. According to sources, the micro-blogging site has said it intends to comply with the rules but needs more time because of the pandemic situation in India. The response from Twitter comes after the government issued a strongly worded final notice to the company last week regarding its non-compliance with the new rules. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service. “We have assured the government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government,” the spokesperson said. In its notice, the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) had said that Twitter’s refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the micro-blogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources,” the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Fiscal stabilisers to play key role in economic revival: SBI Ecowrap report||Fiscal stimulus is the only way to jump start the country’s faltering economy now as there is very little ammunition left in the monetary policy to ignite a revival. “Only fiscal policy can rekindle animal spirits at this juncture; the monetary policy has almost nil headroom,” the State Bank of India’s economic research wing said in an analysis of the Reserve Bank of India monetary policy committee’s decision last week to hold rates and persist with its accommodative stand. “We firmly believe that even as the RBI has taken many measures to reinvigorate credit offtake, it continues to be low because corporate houses have deleveraged by repaying high-cost loans through funds raised through bond issuances. Corporate willingness for new investments remains low among all-pervasive uncertainty,” said the report. Among the fiscal steps that the government could look at are reasonable cuts in fuel prices and GST tax waivers for stressed entities. “The loss in revenue for growth collapse is not in the hands of the government and hence it may be worthwhile to support fiscal policy through tax adjustments. Otherwise, economic recovery will continue to be hamstrung with fuel prices at more than Rs 100 when the economy opens after lockdown,” the report said. The report also suggested that the RBI ought to consider shifting the focus on 7-8 year papers while announcing its open market operations/G-SAP plans. “This will smoothen the yield curve and also reduce upward pressure on the benchmark yield. Additionally, the RBI can also come up with a prior calendar of bucket-wise maturity for G-SAP 2,” the report said. It also said the RBI could buy more illiquid securities in each bucket which would allow banks to offload their held-to-maturity stocks and buy liquid ones. Bank privatisation Fitch Ratings on Monday said the plan to privatise two state-owned banks in the current financial year could face delays amid renewed challenges for the Indian banking sector because of the second wave of Covid-19. The government in the Budget announced plans to privatise two public-sector banks. Niti Aayog has been entrusted with the task of selecting the banks and one general insurance company for the privatisation. “The bold move to privatise state-run banks faces risk from political opposition and structural challenges, including heightened balance-sheet stress from the pandemic, which is likely to keep bank performance subdued for the next two to three years,” it added. CV sales volume The intense second wave of Covid-19 will limit growth in the volume of sales of domestic commercial vehicles to 23-28 per cent this fiscal compared with 32-37 per cent expected prior to its onset. Volume growth had hit a decadal low last fiscal, Crisil Rating said in a report. Credit metrics of CV makers are expected to improve as margins expand on better capacity utilisation and product mix. The CV market saw two consecutive fiscals of steep volume decline (29 per cent and 21 per cent in 2020 and 2021, respectively), following multiple headwinds such as revised axle norms, BS-VI transition, and the pandemic. While a sharp recovery from the lows was on the cards this fiscal, it will be constrained by a weak first quarter because of the pandemic. In April, freight rates fell 20 per cent month-on-month even as diesel prices remained elevated, hurting fleet operators. With inputs from Delhi bureau and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
08-06-2021||Business||Tata Steel Mining Ltd gets bankrupt Rohit Ferro-Tech Ltd||Tata Steel Mining Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Steel Limited, has become the successful resolution applicant for Calcutta-based ferro chrome maker Rohit Ferro-Tech Ltd. Ten bidders, including Vedanta Ltd and Jindal Stainless, were in the fray for the assets of the company that include three ferro chrome plants, one in Odisha and the others in Bengal. It also has a stainless steel unit in Bengal. The committee of creditors of Rohit Ferro-Tech on June 5 approved the resolution plan of TSML, which has also received and accepted the letter of intent for the acquisition of the company. The plan will be implemented after receiving requisite approvals from the National Company Law Tribunal. T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel, told The Telegraph, “Tata Steel has a rich history in chrome ore mining and has one of the largest ferro alloy businesses in the world. The Rohit Ferro-Tech acquisition will strengthen our position in the business.” TSML has been chosen as the anchor company to carry out the commercial mining activity of Tata Steel Group. It is one of the four business verticals the parent is forming to drive scale and synergy of operations. The RFT acquisition will allow TSML to double its ferro chrome manufacturing capacity to 900,000 tonnes a year. One of the plants of Rohit Ferro is located only 40 kilometres away from the Tata chrome ore mines in Jajpur district  of Odisha. “Tata Steel Mining has been created as a vehicle for us to leverage our position as one of the oldest and largest miners in the country,” Narendran added. TSML has ferro chrome plants in Athagarh and Gopalpur in Odisha and three chromite mines, namely Sukinda, Kamarda and Saruabil, in Jajpur. The Tata company had acquired the mines in the 2020 mineral auctions for which leases were granted for 50 years. The mines have now been operational with an annual capacity of over 1.5 million tonnes, making it the largest player in chrome ore mining in India. RFT’s other ferro chrome plants are located at Bishnupur and Haldia in Bengal. The stainless steel plant is at Bishnupur. The company produced 56,400 tonnes of ferro alloys, according to the annual report, in 2019-20, compared with 63,749 tonnes a year before. It also produced 55,750 tonnes of stainless steel in that fiscal. It was sent for the corporate insolvency resolution process by an order of the Calcutta bench of the NCLT on February 7, 2020, and Supriyo Kumar Chaudhuri was appointed as the resolution professional. RFT owes Rs 3,901.93 crore to financial creditors, led by State Bank of India, which had nearly 50 per cent of the vote share in the CoC. Sources said the Tata bid could be in the range of Rs 500 crore. TSML was a late entrant in the fray for Rohit. It submitted an expression of interest after the final date of submitting EoI was over. However, the CoC allowed the Tata Company to participate in order to maximise value from the corporate debtor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
08-06-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal approves Piramal Group’s bid for DHFL||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday gave its approval to Piramal Group’s bid for bankrupt Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), subject to certain conditions. The tribunal’s Mumbai-bench, chaired by H.P. Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy, said the approval is subject to the final judgment from the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) and the Supreme Court’s judgment on Kapil Wadhawan in the matter. The Supreme Court will hear Wadhawan’s appeal on Tuesday, while the next date for the NCLAT hearing is June 25. In its order, the NCLT asked DHFL’s Committee of Creditors (CoC) to consider giving more money to small fixed deposit holders under the approved resolution plan. “We are not remanding the plan back to the CoC, we respect their commercial wisdom,” it said. The NCLT also rejected former DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan’s plea to get access to a copy of the resolution plan. On May 25, the NCLAT stayed the direction of the NCLT asking the lenders of DHFL to consider the offer by Wadhawan. The appellate tribunal had also clarified that its order should not come in the way of the NCLT deciding on approving the resolution plan selected by the CoC. The NCLAT’s direction had come on an urgent petition moved by the Union Bank of India on behalf of the CoC. On May 19, the NCLT asked the RBI-appointed administrator of DHFL to present the settlement plan offered by Wadhawan to the  CoC. In January this year, the CoC had voted in favour of selling DHFL to Piramal Capital and Housing Finance under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Last year, Wadhawan had made his settlement offer to the CoC. The offer was rejected by the creditors, citing lack of credibility and the valuations attached to the proposed asset sales. In the plan, Wadhawan had proposed to repay lenders by selling assets. In November 2019, the RBI had referred DHFL — then the third-largest pure-play mortgage lender —  for resolution under the code. DHFL had gone bankrupt with more than Rs 90,000 crore in debt to various lenders, including banks, mutual funds and individual investors who kept fixed deposits with the company. Delist plan DHFL’s shares would be delisted from the stock exchanges post acquisition by Piramal Capital, which has emerged as the successful bidder for the company, reports PTI. As part of the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), lenders led by Union Bank of India in January this year favoured the bid by Piramal Capital to take over the beleaguered housing finance firm. According to sources, shares of DHFL would be delisted post acquisition according to the IBC guidelines and Sebi delisting norms. Besides, sources said, the company may merge itself with DHFL for which a call would be taken after all legal and regulatory clearances are obtained. Jaypee Infra Suraksha group on Monday submitted “improved revised” bid to acquire debt-laden Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL), offering more funds to banks while reducing the timeline to complete some stalled projects for the benefit of homebuyers.  The Mumbai-based firm  is pitted against NBCC to acquire JIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
08-06-2021||India||Onsite registration, new rules of vaccine allocation in Centre’s Covid guidelines||Use of non-transferable electronic vouchers approved by the Reserve Bank of India will be encouraged to enable people to financially support Covid-19 inoculation of economically weaker sections at private centres, according to the revised guidelines issued by the Centre on Tuesday. While the Co-WIN platform provides every citizen the facility of conveniently pre-booking vaccination appointments, all government and private vaccination centers will also provide onsite registration facility, available both for individuals as well as groups of individuals, for which detailed procedure is to be finalised and published by states/UTs, the Revised Guidelines for implementation of National Covid Vaccination Program' stated. According to the guidelines which will come into effect from June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and progress of vaccination. "Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively," the revised guidelines issued by the Union health ministry said. As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, the revised guidelines stated that the Government of India will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by manufacturers in the country. The vaccines procured will continue to be provided free of cost to states and UTs as has been the case from the commencement of the national vaccination programme. These doses will be administered by the states/UTs free of cost to all citizens as per priority through government vaccination centres. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states/UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the revised guidelines stated. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are also given the option to provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production, it stated. "To promote the spirit of ‘Lok Kalyan', use of non-transferable electronic vouchers which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. This will enable people to financially support vaccination of economically weaker sections at private vaccination centres," the revised guidelines said. The states/UTs will aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution of vaccines between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Union government will facilitate supply of these vaccines to private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remote private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals will be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes will be notified in advance. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospitals' vaccination centres, the guidelines said. States may also optimally utilise the common service centres and call centres to facilitate prior booking by citizens. The revised program provides states/UTs with additional central government support across funding, procurement and logistics. The Covid vaccination in the country commenced with vaccination to all healthcare workers. The program was expanded with time to include vaccination of frontline workers, citizens more than 60 years of age, those more than 45 years of age and eventually those more than 18 years of age. Under the National Covid Vaccination Program, from January 16 to April 30, 100 per cent of vaccine doses were procured by the Government of India and provided free of cost to state governments. State governments were in turn to administer vaccination free of cost to defined priority groups. To increase the pace of vaccination, participation of private hospitals was also enlisted where individuals could also choose to get vaccinated at a prescribed rate, the ministry said. In response to suggestions of many state governments to be permitted the flexibility to procure vaccines directly and administer them as per their own prioritisation based on local requirements, the central government revised the guidelines. The state governments and private hospitals were now also empowered to directly procure from the remaining 50 per cent vaccine pool. "Many states have, however, now communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National Covid Vaccination Program. "It has also been noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals are also facing constraints. Keeping in view the aforesaid aspects, the experiences gained from May 1 and the repeated requests received from states, the guidelines for National Covid Vaccination Program have been reviewed and revised," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Pune scientists identify new Covid strain from two international travellers||Scientists at Pune's National Institute of Virology have isolated and characterised a coronavirus variant from two travellers -- one who returned from the UK and the other from Brazil -- that exhibits increased disease severity in hamsters but doesn't pose a public health problem at the moment. The two samples of the B.1.1.28.2 variant are the only ones of its kind isolated by Indian labs so far. The variant was isolated from nasal/throat swabs from a traveller who returned to India from the UK in December 2020, and another who came back from Brazil in January 2021. The samples of the variant, first identified in Brazil last year, were collected as part of the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 genomic surveillance. The finding is significant since the variant is classified as a variant of interest by the World Health Organization, said study lead author Pragya Yadav from ICMR-NIV Pune. “We also observed an increased disease severity and neutralisation reduction in the study which point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy,” Yadav told PTI. To understand the pathogenicity of the variant, researchers infected nine Syrian hamsters with the B.1.1.28.2 variant and compared it to nine animals infected with the B.1 variant, which is defined by one mutation of concern in spike protein, i.e D614G. Spike protein helps the virus to infect and enter human cells. The authors of the yet-to-be-published study, posted on the preprint repository BioRxiv on May 24, noted that B.1.1.28.2 induced body weight loss, viral reproduction in the respiratory tract, lung lesions, and caused severe lung disease in the infected hamsters in comparison with those infected with the B.1 variant. The blood plasma isolated from hamsters infected with the B.1.1.28.2 variant of coronavirus efficiently neutralised the B.1 variant. However, a six-fold reduction in the antibody neutralisation was seen in case of blood serum isolated from the B.1 mutant infected hamsters on the B.1.1.28.2 coronavirus variant. Antibody neutralisation renders the virus no longer infectious or pathogenic. A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant. Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations, Yadav explained. The findings of increased disease severity and antibody neutralisation reduction is of great concern and point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy, the researchers noted in the paper. Yadav said the variant has shown potential reduction in neutralisation by some monoclonal antibody treatments and reduced neutralisation by post-vaccination blood serum from some mRNA vaccines. While RNA is the genetic material of the coronavirus, messenger RNA or mRNA vaccines teach our cells how to make a protein or a part of it that triggers an immune response inside our bodies. Monoclonal antibody therapy uses lab-made antibodies to treat Covid-19 in patients at high risk for developing severe illness. According to Yadav, the variant at the moment does not pose a public health problem for the country. She said the research team had performed another study in April to assess the neutralisation potential of the blood serum from natural SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals and recipients of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech. She said the two-dose inactivated virus vaccine significantly neutralised the B.1.1.28.2 variant, adding, therefore, that immunisation should protect individuals against it. Over the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Corona virus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has accumulated severe mutations leading to the emergence of new variants. The first SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern, B.1.1.7 was identified in late December in the UK which is now reported in more than 62 countries. The recent emergence of B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 has caused concern in India, with some blaming the variants for the devastating second wave in the country. Yadav said active epidemiological surveillance is ongoing in India with the partnership of multiple agencies and the country is capable of detecting any warning signals in time to alert the concerned authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Centre orders 44 crore doses of Covishield & Covaxin ||The Centre on Tuesday said it has placed orders for 44 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre would take over the state procurement quota and provide free jabs to state governments for inoculation of all above the age of 18. These 44 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be delivered by their makers between August and December 2021, the Union Health Ministry said. "In immediate follow-up of the prime minister's announcement of these changes in the Guidelines of National Covid Vaccination programme yesterday, the Centre has placed an order with Serum Institute of India for 25 crore doses of Covishield and with Bharat Biotech for 19 crore doses of Covaxin. "Additionally, 30 per cent of the advance for procurement of both the Covid-19 vaccines has been released to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech," an official said. The official said the Centre has been supporting the efforts of states and union territories for an effective vaccination drive under the "whole of government approach" since January 16 this year. Based on various representations received by the Centre, the vaccination for all adults above 18 years of age was opened in Phase III of the vaccination strategy beginning May 1. "Now with the aim to further universalise the countrywide vaccination drive, all citizens above 18 years of age can receive the Covid-19 vaccine doses free of cost at government health facilities," the official said. The central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 years of age from June 21, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, announcing that the Centre will take over the 25 per cent state procurement quota. Asserting that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days, the prime minister said the Centre has now decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. Considerable chaos had broken out in recent weeks after the Centre handed over the task of procuring and delivering vaccines to the different state governments. The states floated global tenders but discovered that foreign manufacturers, which are snowed under with demands for vaccines, refused to deal with anyone except the Central government. The new vaccination scheme will come into effect two weeks from now on June 21. The government’s about turn came in the wake of being asked by the Supreme Court for a "vaccine roadmap". The bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had asked the government to undertake a "fresh review of its vaccination policy addressing the concerns raised.” It pointed out that asking people between the age of 18-44 to pay for the vaccine was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||HC asks Centre to provide information on anti-Mucormycosis drugs allocation||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Union government to submit details of the quantity of anti-fungal drugs allocated to various states for treating Mucormycosis, a rare infection found in recovering or recovered COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni said it wanted to ascertain whether the Union government was ensuring an "equitable distribution" of drugs based on the number of active cases of Mucormycosis in each state. In the course of hearing on a plea, the bench suggested allocation of more quantity of anti-fungal drugs to Maharashtra given the number of Mucormycosis cases reported in the state. The bench said that the central government must give wide publicity to its advisory on preventing and managing Mucormycosis, also called "black fungus". It said the government must give publicity to the dos and don'ts of Mucormycosis and ensure that citizens followed them "scrupulously." The bench was hearing a suo motu Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The HC was hearing submissions from the Maharashtra government and the Centre on current cases of Mucormycosis and Aspergillosis (also a type of fungal infection) and the state's preparedness for an anticipated third wave of COVID- 19. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told the HC that as on June 1, the state had a total of 5,126 cases of Mucormycosis. Kumbhakoni said 42 government hospitals and 419 private hospitals across the state were currently treating Mucormycosis patients. He said Maharashtra is expected to receive 40,000 doses of an anti-fungal drug, Amphotericin-B, that is being produced in-house by the state in association with Mumbai- based phara company Haffkine. As per the state's submissions, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Solapur and Nashik districts had the highest number of Mucormycosis cases in Maharashtra. The Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the HC there were a total of 28,252 cases of Mucormycosis in the country currently. At this, the bench said considering the large number of cases of the fungal infection in Maharashtra, the Union government must allocate it adequate quantity of drugs. Singh said the Centre's allocation for anti- Mucormycosis drugs for Maharashtra so far was over 91,000 vials. The court, however, noted that the state had placed an order over and above the Centre allocation of medicines. "There is a shortage of drugs in Maharashtra. How many cases are there in other states? At least a quarter of the allocation of the country should come to Maharashtra," the bench observed. "So you have to show us the numbers. How many patients are there in other states? We want to see if there is an equitable allocation," it said. The HC directed the Maharashtra government to submit details of the number of paediatric beds and drugs, among other resources, available across the state for treating cases of COVID-19 among children. The HC will continue hearing the PIL on June 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Oxygen supply cut off as part of mock drill in Agra hospital, probe ordered||The Agra administration on Tuesday ordered an enquiry after a video clip surfaced in which the owner of a private hospital here is purportedly heard saying that he conducted a "mock drill" in which oxygen supply was cut off for Covid patients for five minutes. In the video which went viral on social media on Monday, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital is also heard saying that the bodies of some patients started turning blue after the oxygen supply was cut off. District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh told reporters that action will be taken against the owner under the Pandemic Act. He said the hospital will be sealed and patients will be shifted to other hospitals. In the April 28 video, Dr Arinjay Jain allegedly claims that there was acute oxygen shortage at the hospital during the second wave of coronavirus. "Start discharging people, there is no oxygen availability anywhere, even the chief minister cannot get you oxygen. Modi Nagar is dry," he said. "We talked with families of the patients but no one was ready to discharge their patients. So we decided to conduct a mock drill so that we could segregate the critically ill patients. After shutting off the oxygen supply for five minutes, bodies of 22 patients started turning blue," Jain said. He said that families of the remaining 74 Covid patients were asked to arrange for oxygen cylinders. However, the district magistrate said there wasn't a scarcity of oxygen at the hospital and that no patient died due to oxygen shortage at the hospital. Talking about the deaths of Covid patients at the hospital, he said four patients died on April 26 while three succumbed to the infection on April 27. "Shri Paras Hospital had enough oxygen and it is not true that 22 patients died there due to oxygen shortage. However, the video that is being circulated will be examined and the required action will be taken," the DM said. Chief Medical Officer, Agra Dr R C Pandey told PTI that a team has been sent to the hospital to investigate the matter. When contacted, the owner of the hospital was not available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Chief Election Commissioner writes to Law Minister, reminds him of pending electoral reforms||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra has written to Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad requesting for expedited action on the electoral reform proposals pending with the government, including the one which seeks an enhanced two-year jail term for those furnishing incorrect information in their poll affidavit. "I have written to the law minister to expedite these proposals and hopefully they will be taken up early by the ministry," Chandra told PTI. The letter was sent by the CEC last month. Enhancing the imprisonment period for those furnishing incorrect details in poll affidavits from existing six months to two years is a key electoral reform proposal of the Election Commission. A two-year jail term could bar the candidate from contesting elections for six years. "The present six-month imprisonment does not lead to disqualification," lamented Chandra. The Election Commission has also proposed making paid news an electoral offence under the Representation of the People Act to provide a strong deterrent against the malpractice. The poll panel, reminded the CEC, has also proposed a ban on political advertisements in newspapers during the "silence period" between the end of campaign and the day of polling so that the electorate is not influenced and can exercise the franchise with a free mind. The move will require changes in the Representation of the People Act. A committee, tasked with proposing changes in electoral laws dealing with campaigning in the 48 hours prior to polling, had recommended a ban on advertisements in newspapers on the day of polling. As of now, only the electronic media is barred from showing election publicity material during the 48 hours before conclusion of polling. But the committee recommended bringing the print media under the ambit of Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The chief election commissioner said another key proposal pending with the government relates to linking electoral roll with the Aadhaar ecosystem to root out multiple enrolments. Law Minister Prasad had recently said in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha that the EC proposal was under the consideration of the government and that this would require amendments to electoral laws. "The matter is under the consideration of the government," he had said. According to the EC proposal sent in August 2019, the electoral law should be amended to empower electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of existing voters as well as of those applying to enrol themselves in the voter list. In August 2015, a Supreme Court order on Aadhaar had put the brakes on the Election Commission's project to link Aadhaar number with electoral data. The poll panel was then collecting Aadhaar number as part of its National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme (NERPAP). Seeking to check multiple entries in electoral rolls and to make them error-free, the Election Commission had embarked on the ambitious project to link Aadhaar numbers with electoral data. Since the Supreme Court order makes it clear that sanction of law is required to collect Aadhaar number, the Commission has proposed changes in electoral law, a poll panel functionary had recently explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Uddhav meets PM Modi, talks Maratha quota, GST, cyclone relief||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and discussed issues related to the Maratha reservation, Metro car shed and GST compensation. Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar, and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan accompanied Thackeray. "Discussed issues related to the Maratha reservation, Metro car shed, GST compensation with the prime minister," Thackeray said. Cyclone Tauktae relief for Maharashtra was also discussed in the meeting. He said the prime minister assured to look into the issues. The meeting lasted for an hour and a half, Pawar said. This is Thackeray's second visit to the national capital after taking over as the chief minister of the state in November 2019. “We may not be politically together but that doesn't mean our relationship has broken. I didn't go to meet a Nawaz Sharif. So if I meet him (PM) separately in person, there is nothing wrong with it,” NDTV quoted Thackeray as saying, regarding his separate meeting with Modi. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government wants to move the Metro car shed to Kanjur. The state and the Centre both claim the land as theirs. The matter is currently pending with court. The previous Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had decided to construct the Metro car shed in Aarey, but the move came under opposition from environmentalists. After assuming office, the Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation announced the decision to shift the car shed to Kanjur. Since then the site for the car shed has become contentious. Pawar, who is also the Finance Minister of Maharashtra, said issues pertaining to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation was also discussed in the meeting. Pawar said Maharashtra was expected to get approximately Rs 46,000 crore as GST compensation but it has only received Rs 22,000 crore. He said Maharashtra still has to receive Rs 24,306 crore. "The state is battling coronavirus pandemic and this will have an impact on its revenue and the compensation amount should be given at the earliest," Pawar said. The Maratha reservation issue was on top of the agenda. The composition of the delegation assumes significance as it included two senior Maratha leaders --- Pawar and Chavan. The Maratha is a dominant community in the state and it has been demanding reservation in jobs and educational institutions. The state government came up with a law to provide reservation to the Maratha community, but it was struck down by court. The state government's review petition was scrapped by the Supreme Court last month. Since the verdict, pressure has been mounting on the government to act. Briefing reporters, Chavan said after the Supreme Court scrapped the quota for Marathas in jobs and educational institutes, all power has now been vested with the Centre to decide on this. He said the Centre should take steps to uncap the sealing of 50 per cent on reservation in educational institutions. Thackeray said the issue of giving Marathi the status of classical language is also pending with the Centre. Pawar said the delegation also asked Modi to direct Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari to approve nomination of 12 members to the state legislative council, as decided by the state Cabinet. The delegation also demanded a bulk drug park for Maharashtra and central allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for it. It said the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has selected a 250-acre land for the purpose. Earlier in the day, the PMO had tweeted, "Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Shri @AjitPawarSpeaks and Cabinet Minister Shri @AshokChavanINC called on PM @narendramodi. @OfficeofUT @CMOMaharashtra."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks Jazzy B, three other accounts||Microblogging platform Twitter has "withheld" the accounts of Punjabi singer JazzyB, hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion and two others in response to a legal demand in India, even as it draws flak over delay in complying with the new IT rules in the country. According to an information on Lumen database, Twitter received legal request from the Indian government on June 6 for actioning four accounts, including that of JazzyB. Requests received by Twitter for withholding content are published on Lumen database - an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content. Users checking Jazzy B's account are shown a message saying "account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand". When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both the Twitter Rules and local law. "If the content violates Twitter Rules, the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only," the spokesperson added. The spokesperson noted that in all cases, it notifies the account holder directly so that they're aware that the company has received a legal order pertaining to the account. "We notify the user(s) by sending a message to the e-mail address associated with the account(s), if available... Twitter is committed to the principles of openness, transparency, details of the requests to withhold content have been published on Lumen," the spokesperson said. Reports suggest that Jazzy B had frequently tweeted in support of farmers' protests. Earlier this year, more than 500 accounts were suspended and access to hundreds of others in India blocked after the government ordered the microblogging platform to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers' protests. Over the past many months, Twitter has been embroiled in a number of issues. Twitter had drawn flak after it marked several tweets by ruling BJP leaders on an alleged strategy document of the Opposition to target the government over COVID as containing 'manipulated media', triggering a sharp rebuke from the government. The row over Twitter's handling of certain messages had recently blown up into all-out war of words between the Centre and the social media platform. Last week, the government issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. The rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order. The new IT rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc. The Centre had said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari meets Home Minister Amit Shah||BJP MLA and Leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed various issues concerning the state. Adhikari, a former minister in the last Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, had joined the BJP just before the 2021 state assembly elections. "Shri @SuvenduWB ji called on Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji," Shah's office tweeted with a picture of the home minister and the West Bengal leader. In his first meeting after becoming the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Adhikari also met Union minister Mansukh Mandviya. He is also scheduled to meet BJP national president J P Nadda, party sources said. Adhikari may also have a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a source said. The Leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly said in a tweet that he discussed with Shah several matters concerning the state and sought his blessings for Bengal. "Honourable HM assured, he was and he will be there for Bengal always," he said. Adhikari had defeated TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a closely fought battle in Nandigram during the state assembly polls held in March-April this year. Adhikari's meeting with top brass of the BJP comes days after his presence in Modi-Mamata meet over cyclone Yaas review had irked the TMC leader. According to sources, Mamata Banerjee had arrived late at the aforementioned meeting and left after submitting a report on the impact of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload dips below one lakh after over two months||India reported less than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A single day rise of 86,498 cases were registered, the lowest in 66 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,89,96,473. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,51,309 with 2,123 daily deaths, the lowest in 47 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 81,466 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 2. Also, 18,73,485 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,82,07,596. The daily positivity rate has dropped to 4.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 5.94 per cent. The active cases reduced to 13,03,702 comprising 4.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.29 per cent. A net decline of 97,907 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 26th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,73,41,462 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.21 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 23,61,98,726 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,123 new fatalities include 351 from Tamil Nadu, 340 each from Maharashtra and Karnataka, 211 from Kerala, and 103 from West Bengal. A total of 3,51,309 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,00,470 from Maharashtra, 31,920 from Karnataka, 27,356 from Tamil Nadu, 24,627 from Delhi, 21,333 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,362 from West Bengal, 15,160 from Punjab and 13,243 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses plea of forest encroachers||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation in Haryana to take immediate steps for razing all unauthorised structures dotting the Aravalli forest near a village as it declined to entertain the plea of around 10,000 families who had sought a stay on the imminent demolition. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asserted that it would not brook any violation of the court’s earlier orders passed in February 2020 and April this year. The bench while seeking a compliance report with six weeks warned that it would make the officers concerned responsible for any defiance at its next hearing and proceed against them accordingly. The court passed the directions while rejecting the petition filed by 10,000 families living in a slum in Khori Gaon Basti in Faridabad. They have been residing on government land since 1980. “Most of them, however, are unable to show any proof of existence,” senior advocate Colin Gonzalves appearing for the petitioners told the bench during the hearing. The bench said: “…In our opinion, the petitioners are bound by the directions given by the high court and reiterated by this Court in order dated 19th February, 2020, and again on 5th April, 2021, in another proceedings pending before this Court with regard to the same subject matter. The relief claimed by the petitioners in this writ petition can be considered de-hors compliance of the directions given on earlier occasions by this Court in orders dated 19th February, 2020, and 5th April, 2021, respectively.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covid: Latest guidelines exclude Hydroxychloroquine & ivermectin||The Union health ministry has eliminated hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin and kept out the anti-viral favipiravir from its latest Covid-19 treatment guidelines, a revised document that some doctors say reflects for the first time evidence-based medicine. The nine-page document released by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), a unit of the health ministry, has outlined in high precision the circumstances for using other medications and cautioned against the abuse of high-resolution CT scans of lungs. The ministry’s Covid-19 treatment guidelines first released last year and updated several times, including on May 19 this year, have long evoked criticism from sections of doctors who said they listed medications for which there was no evidence of benefits to patients. “Many of us are pleasantly surprised,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, who received the guidelines via a social media group of doctors on Sunday. “The medications in the revised guidelines are all backed by high-quality robust evidence. We are for the first time seeing guidelines from the ministry that are as close to science and evidence based as they can get. Whoever wrote the revisions deserves high praise,” Kalantri told The Telegraph. Kalantri and others had decried the inclusion of hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin in the ministry’s guidelines and the inclusion of the anti-viral favipiravir in some state guidelines which, they say, had encouraged doctors nationwide to prescribe medicines without evidence. The earlier May 19 guidelines developed by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and the Indian Council of Medical Research Covid-19 task force that had retained hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin are contradictory in content with the latest DGHS guidelines dated May 27. Senior AIIMS doctors, however, said they had stopped prescribing hydroxychloroquine to patients several months ago. An institute doctor told this newspaper: “When the evidence was no longer there, we stopped.” The earlier guidelines “encouraged low-value care and provided doctors justification for prescribing medications that gave no benefit to Covid-19 patients,” said Vivekanand Jha, executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Jha and his colleagues Soumyadeep Bhaumik and Oommen John had last week in a commentary in The Lancet Global Health expressed concern that the guidelines and resulting prescriptions had “enabled others to engage in pandemic profiteering.” They said favipiravir had become a top-selling drug in India during April 2021 even though it was not recommended by the ministry’s guidelines. Blood-thinning agents were prescribed to patients who were not at risk of clotting, against the recommendations of most international expert panels. “Because 90 to 95 per cent of Covid-19 patients recover — no one really can tell whether the patients recover on their own or because of medicines. This allowed the practice of prescribing unproven medicines to continue,” said Vijoy Sinha, a senior physician, who had criticised the AIIMS-ICMR guidelines. Under the new DGHS guidelines, patients with asymptomatic Covid-19 need no medicines and no tests at all. Patients with mild illness have been recommended only paracetamol and cough syrup, if needed, and another drug called budesonide, also only if needed. Mild patients may need tests only if symptoms persist or worsen. The guidelines recommend oxygen, steroids, and a class of blood-thinners called anti-coagulants for moderate disease. The blood tests recommended have also been rationalised, doctors who have seen the revised guidelines said. The guidelines recommend “extreme caution” when ordering CT scans, , with four bullet points on why routine CT scans should not be done and four bullet points on when CT scans should not be ordered, Kalantri said. The page that mentions remdesivir and tocilizumab urges caution, underscoring that remdesivir is an “experimental drug and has a potential to harm.” “We see a good job done, but this could have been done last year,” Jha said. “The challenge ahead is to ensure that these new guidelines reach everyone who has become used to the questionable practices. No one should be heard louder in the noise. Effective dissemination and education is going to be critical.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||18 workers die in Pune factory fire||At least 18 workers, mostly women, were charred to death in a devastating fire that broke out at a chemical unit in an industrial area in Pune district on Monday afternoon, officials said. According to the officials, the fire broke out at SVS Aqua Technologies, which manufactures chemicals like chlorine dioxide and is located in the Pirangut MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) area of Mulshi tehsil on the outskirts of Pune city. “So far, 18 bodies have been recovered from the firm’s premises. We have stopped the search operation because of darkness and heat caused due to the blaze. The search operation will resume on Tuesday morning to find out if any worker is still missing,” said Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional magistrate, Mulshi division. He said according to company officials, there were less than 20 employees, including 15 women, at the site where the blaze started. All the bodies, which were completely charred, were sent to the government-run Sassoon General Hospital for autopsy, Shirke said. The bodies were burned beyond recognition and their identity will have to be ascertained by conducting DNA test, he said. A worker escaped with burn injuries and was admitted to the Sassoon General Hospital, where he is stated to be out of danger, Shirke said. Fire brigade officials said the bodies were found in multiple groups with the victims clinging to each other in a desperate attempt to stay together and escape the inferno. Devendra Potphode, chief fire officer, PMRDA (Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority), said six to seven fire tenders were rushed to the chemical unit to douse the flames. Asked about the possible cause of the blaze, Potphode said according to the company officials, the fire started during packing of plastic materials on the premises. “Due to some spark at the (packaging) section, the fire broke out and as there was plastic around, it spread rapidly,” said Potphode. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh, who visited the spot, said an inquiry has been initiated into the tragic incident. “A committee, led by the SDM, Mulshi, with the chief fire officer of MIDC, PMRDA and other officials as its members, has been formed to probe the incident and they will submit their report,” he said. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in a statement, said an inquiry has been ordered to find out the exact cause of the fire and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each will be given to the next of the kin of the deceased. The firm, located near Uravade village, around 40km from the city, is into manufacturing of chemicals, including chlorine dioxide, which are used in water purification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covid: Modi’s latest vaccine policy triggers savage retort from Cong||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attempt to make a virtue out of compulsion triggered a savage retort from the Congress, which said a “faltering and frightened” government had been forced to take corrective steps on the vaccination policy under pressure from the judiciary, political opposition and a widespread national outcry. Although the Prime Minister did his best to blame state governments, political rivals and critics for the policy confusion, it is not open to dispute that the Opposition and experts had fiercely opposed differential pricing and consistently demanded free universal vaccination by the Centre. The Modi government’s decision on April 19 to wash its hands of the responsibility of vaccinating adults under 45 was a break from the country’s universal immunisation programme, under which the Centre supplies the states with vaccine doses. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had bluntly said the Prime Minister was directly responsible for the death of lakhs of people because he didn’t formulate an effective vaccine policy. The Supreme Court’s tough posturing — it called the Centre’s vaccine policy “arbitrary and irrational” — finally compelled the Prime Minister to do the somersault and return to the vaccination policy India has followed for decades. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “The Congress and other Opposition parties from the very beginning forcefully opposed the idea of allowing profiteering off people’s miseries. The Modi government abdicated its responsibility for citizens below 45 years and asked the states to procure vaccines. When the Supreme Court and various high courts mounted pressure, a faltering and frightened government changed the policy.” He added: “There have been three policy alterations in six months. The Prime Minister is directly responsible for endangering the lives of millions of people by his criminal negligence.” Pointing out flaws in the modified policy, Surjewala said: “Modi said the Centre will procure 75 per cent of vaccines, leaving 25 per cent for the private hospitals. This means the middle class will have to pay Rs 2,500 to Rs 2,800 for two doses. Are they not the citizens of this country? Private hospitals are taking service charge of Rs 200 to 300 per dose. Why is such profiteering allowed?” Rahul tweeted: “One simple question — if vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?” Asked about Modi’s insinuation that demands from states for flexibility and criticism from political parties had led to the change in policy in April, Surjewala said: “Which state asked the Prime Minister to allow it to vaccinate citizens below 45?” He continued: “Don’t blame states. Think of your responsibility instead of demonstrating your sophisticated art of lying. The Prime Minister should apologise for misleading the nation. He has also insulted the scientists and vaccine makers who worked so hard before 2014. It is sad he doesn’t know India’s vaccination history.” Ripping into Modi’s claim that his government intensified the immunisation campaign after 2014, Surjewala said: “India developed vaccine for TB in 1951, for small pox in 1965, for polio in 1970. Universal immunisation programme was started in 1985. India became free of small pox, polio, leprosy, cholera, TB much before 2014. Vaccines for hepatitis B came in 1997, H1N1 virus in 2009 and cholera in 2010.” It is a known fact that the Rajiv Gandhi government gave a major push to India’s vaccination programme and set up the infrastructure to make India the vaccine capital of the world. Had the Modi government accepted the Congress proposal of invoking compulsory licensing, India had the manufacturing capacity to ramp up production by leaps and bounds. On the government’s claim that the vaccination for Covid will be completed by the year-end, Surjewala said: “Modi said 23 crore people have been vaccinated so far in six months. How can 175 crore doses be administered in the next five-six months as claimed by the government? At this speed, India will need 1,091 days more to cover the entire population. Should India wait till May 2024 to get vaccinated?” Questioning the Prime Minister’s claim of being ahead of other countries, Surjewala said: “The US has vaccinated 41 per cent of its population and the UK 36 per cent. Even Brazil has covered 9.5 per cent. We have given both the doses to merely 4.61 crore which means 3.28 per cent.” He also questioned the Prime Minister’s praise for Co-WIN app, saying it was anti-poor and walk-in registration should be allowed for everybody. He reiterated the Congress demand for Rs 6,000 into the accounts of every poor till November in addition to free ration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covid: PM Modi to provide free vaccines for all above 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced a centralised vaccine policy, taking the corrective measure after a countrywide outcry and a Supreme Court observation that the government’s policy was “arbitrary and irrational”. Modi made the announcement in an address to the nation but not before he played politics to the hilt, seeking to blame the states, the Opposition and critics for the mess that has widely been termed as a result of the central government’s lack of foresight. “We have decided that the 25 per cent (vaccination) work that the states were to do will be done by the Centre now,” Modi said at the end of the address that lasted a little over half an hour, effectively returning to a policy the country had followed since independence. “From June 21, the Government of India will provide free vaccines to all states for the 18-plus-year-old people,” he added. Modi said the central government would now directly buy 75 per cent of the vaccines from the manufacturers and give it to the states. The remaining 25 per cent, he said, will be left for private hospitals to buy directly from the manufacturers. The Prime Minister said the private hospitals could add a “service charge” up to a maximum of Rs 150 over the cost price per dose. The announcement meant the Modi government had made a partial U-turn from its April 19 decision that stipulated the states and private players would have to buy directly from the manufacturers for those aged between 18 and 45. The old policy had invited scathing criticism from the states, Opposition parties and several medical experts. Most recently, the Supreme Court had called the policy “arbitrary and irrational”. On Monday evening, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Back in February 2021 and multiple times thereafter, I’d written to the PM stating our longstanding demand to provide vaccines to ALL for FREE. Took him 4 months but after much pressure, he has FINALLY listened to us and implemented what we’ve been asking all this while.” Mamata added: “The well-being of the people of India should’ve been prioritised since the very start of this pandemic. Unfortunately, this delayed decision by PM has already cost many lives. Hoping for a better managed vaccination drive this time that focuses on people and not propaganda!” Modi, however, sought to pin the blame on the states and Opposition parties for the faulty policy, claiming it was the states that had wanted a decentralised vaccine policy. In independent India, all vaccine procurements before Covid have been undertaken by the Centre although health is a state subject. But, cast in the unfamiliar role of having to eat crow, the Prime Minister appeared to be seeking to give the impression that his government was now stepping up and taking over a job the states had been unable to cope with. Modi said his government had taken charge of all matters related to Covid until the demands for decentralisation, which were raised as the cases dipped after the first wave. “As cases dipped, different kinds of suggestions were made. Questions were asked as to ‘why everything was being handled by the Centre, why state governments were not given freedom’…,” Modi said. He claimed that questions had been raised over the age criteria fixed by the Centre for the vaccination campaign, including why senior citizens were being given preference. He said a section of the media ran a campaign and added that various kinds of pressure was built on his government to give freedom to the states. Modi sought to underscore that his government had succumbed to pressure and asked the states to handle the vaccination for the 18-45 age group. But then the states began to urge the Centre to take responsibility, he suggested. “Soon, the states began saying that the previous system was better. The ones who were asking for the states to take up vaccination changed their stand,” Modi said, without taking any names. The real reason for the change in stand, apart from the widespread criticism, appeared to be feedback the BJP had received from the ground after the election defeat in Bengal and the challenge posed by next year’s polls in five states, sources in the BJP said. Party insiders said the perceived mismanagement during the second Covid wave had scarred the Modi government’s image and there were jitters over the Uttar Pradesh polls, due early next year. The Modi government’s announcement on Monday about buying and giving free vaccines to the states came after a series of meetings by the RSS and the BJP to take stock of the situation. On Sunday evening, Modi had held a five-hour meeting with BJP chief J.P. Nadda and general secretaries of the party after a two-day stock-taking of the poll preparations for the five states. The RSS and the BJP fear that a third Covid wave could sully their image further and cost them at the hustings. After Modi announced the altered vaccination policy, ministers, chief ministers and party leaders went all out to thank and hail the leader, betraying a sense of relief and hope that the new measures would help them change perceptions and calm people’s anger. In his address, Modi announced the continuation of the scheme to provide free food grains to the poor till Diwali this year. “The government has decided that the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana will be extended till Diwali. In this pandemic, the government stands by the poor,” he said. Sticking to his penchant for taking all the credit, Modi claimed that his government had worked in “mission mode” to scale up vaccination coverage in the country. “In 2014, when we took charge, vaccination coverage in India was just 60 per cent. We found it a matter of big concern,” he said. “At this rate, it would have taken 40 years for universal coverage,” he added, without specifying which vaccines he was referring to. He indirectly slammed the Opposition for raising “misleading” doubts over the Indian-made vaccines. “Imagine what the situation would be if we didn’t build the capacity for manufacturing vaccines in the country,” he said. Modi sought to suggest that had India lacked vaccine-manufacturing capacity, it would have taken decades to achieve Covid vaccination, adding that in the past, it had taken decades for polio, smallpox and hepatitis B vaccines to arrive in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covishield dose gap cut for people planning international travel||People wishing to travel abroad for studies and those headed for Tokyo as part of India’s Olympics contingent may take their second dose of Covishield four weeks after the first, the Union health ministry has said. The ministry has asked all states to enable people planning international travel to receive the second dose after 28 days if their travel dates occur prior to the currently mandated minimum dose gap of 84 days. This provision will be available for students who have to travel abroad for education, people who have to take up jobs in foreign countries, and sportspersons and staff who are part of the Indian contingent for the July 23-August 8 Tokyo Olympics. Those wishing to use this provision would need to show documents such as admission offers or formal communications from educational institutions, interview calls for jobs or letters of job offers, and nomination for the Tokyo Games. These vaccine recipients would need to use their passports to register on CoWin, the digital platform, the ministry said. This facility will be available up to August 31 for those who need to travel abroad for these purposes, it said. The health ministry had in mid-May accepted a recommendation from vaccination expert panels to expand the gap between Covishield doses to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, is one of several vaccines that has received “emergency use listing (EUL)” from the World Health Organisation, a criterion some countries and educational institutions are using to recognise vaccination certificates. Covaxin, India’s home-grown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, is in the process of seeking the EUL from the WHO. A pre-submission meeting to discuss Covaxin’s application for the EUL is expected to take place this month. Covid-19 vaccines from AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna and China’s Sinopharm are among those that have already received the EUL from the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||CBSE extends deadline for schools to submit Class XII scores||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday extended till June 28 its deadline for schools to submit the internal assessment and practical scores of Class XII students. The extension suggests the results may be declared by mid-July. Earlier, the CBSE had asked the schools to submit the internal assessment and practical scores by June 11. The internal assessment covers projects, quizzes, group discussions, homework and class notes. In a circular, the board said some of the schools had been unable to complete the assessment because of the pandemic. The board had asked the affiliated schools to complete their internal assessment and online practicals and submit the score. “The extension is a good decision as many schools could not conduct the internal assessment and the practicals. Now that the CBSE has said June 28 is the final deadline, it seems the board can announce the results by July 15,” said Kiran Mehta, former principal of Salwan Public School. The board has decided to announce the results on the basis of school exams, internal assessment and practicals. It has set up a committee to suggest the criteria for the award of marks. Mehta said the schools had conducted pre-board exams in all papers that the board would have covered. In addition, the schools had held half-yearly exams on all subjects. If the results are announced by July 15, it will help the students appear in entrance exams and secure admission to institutions of higher learning, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||India's monthly unemployment rate reaches 11.9% in May||Over 1.5 crore jobs were lost in India in May this year and the monthly unemployment rate reached 11.9 per cent, the highest since last year’s national lockdown, a survey by a private research group has shown. Some 14.73 per cent people from the working age group were unemployed in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). The CMIE surveys the unemployment rate and job losses and publishes findings for every week, month, quarter and year. The 11.9 per cent unemployment rate in May marks a huge jump from the 7.97 per cent recorded in April, and is the highest since June last year when unemployment was 10.18 per cent. Only during the national lockdown was the unemployment rate higher, reaching 23.52 per cent in April last year and 21.73 per cent in May 2020. The CMIE counted 37.545 crore employed people in May this year, including those involved in various kinds of informal work. In April, 39.079 crore people were employed, which means that over 1.53 crore jobs were lost in May. Some 38.877 crore Indians were employed at the end of last December, their number rising to 40.07 crore by the end of January this year. The number fell to 39.821 crore in February and to 39.814 crore in March before rising to 39.079 crore at the end of April, the CMIE found. Economist Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said that whenever there are job losses, the migrant labourers and unorganised-sector workers become the worst sufferers. “Nearly 90 per cent of the workforce is in the unorganised or informal sector. They are the most vulnerable. During this current decline in jobs, the vulnerable sections are the migrants, vendors, the self-employed, and casual and agricultural workers,” Ray said. He said those engaged in white-collar jobs too get affected: with jobs shrinking in the formal sector, professionals are asked to work from home with a salary cut. Besides, those shown as employed in surveys are not fully employed, he said. “Particularly in the agriculture sector, more people are engaged in work that can be done by fewer people. This disguised unemployment is a form of unemployment that does not get reported in surveys,” Ray said. He was referring to how, with hardly any other jobs available, all working-age members of farmers’ families tend to pitch in for work on their land that can be done by fewer people. Ray said that after the states lift their lockdowns, there may be a sudden rise in economic activity and employment but it would be temporary. “The present economic model of corporate-led development will fail to solve the unemployment problem. What is needed is localised entrepreneurship where small manufacturing units can be set up to utilise local resources for the production of goods and services,” he said. For example, Ray said, agriculture-based industries can be launched in the rural areas depending on the production of crops. These industries can engage in processing, storage and transport. Other possible local initiatives include the establishment of skill training centres, small healthcare facilities and manufacturing units, but the government needs to provide some assistance to start these, Ray said. If the situation is not addressed, there can be a big national movement centred on unemployment, Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks feedback from the public on live-stream||The Supreme Court’s e-committee has released “draft model rules” for the live-streaming and recording of court proceedings and invited feedback and suggestions from the public. Once live-streaming starts, people would be able to watch the proceedings of any court, including the apex court and the high courts, on their electronic gadgets from anywhere in the country. Certain sensitive cases like rape and matrimonial disputes will not be live-streamed, however, while live-streaming in certain cases may be restricted to the final arguments. The proceedings to be excluded from live-streaming are: ⚫ Matrimonial matters including petitions to transfer such cases from one court to another. ⚫ Cases of sexual offences. ⚫ Cases of gender-based violence against women. ⚫ Cases of sexual abuse of children and juvenile justice case. ⚫ In-camera proceedings and matters relating to the national interest. ⚫ Matters where the bench believes — with the reasons stated in writing — that publication would hinder the administration of justice. ⚫ Cases that the bench believes may provoke enmity among communities and affect law and order. ⚫ Recording of evidence, including cross-examinations. ⚫ Privileged communication between the parties and their advocates, cases where a claim of privilege has been accepted by the court, and non-public discussions between advocates. ⚫ Any other matter in which the bench or the chief justice has issued a specific direction against live-streaming. The live-streaming will enable people to watch court proceedings on matters of public interest and benefit journalists, civil society, academics and law students who are unable to physically attend court because of geographical, logistical or infrastructural reasons. The court master or reader will inform the parties right at the start that the proceedings would be live-streamed and that they must tell the bench about any objections they might have. Such objections can be raised as early as the time of the institution of the case or at a later stage. The bench will take the final decision, guided by the principle of an open and transparent judicial process. Its decision cannot be judicially challenged. The move for live-streaming is a joint exercise between the Supreme Court and the Union law ministry under the National Policy and Action Plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology in the Indian Judiciary. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, senior Supreme Court judge and chairperson of the e-committee, had earlier written to the chief justices of all the high courts seeking suggestions on the draft model rules. His letter had said the right of access to justice, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, encompassed the right to access live court proceedings. A sub-committee of judges from the Bombay, Delhi, Madras and Karnataka High Courts, formed to draft the live-streaming rules, had held extensive discussions. It considered the principles the apex court had enunciated in Swapnil Tripathi v Supreme Court of India (2018), covering issues of the litigants’ and witnesses’ privacy and confidentiality, business confidentiality, prohibition or restriction of access to proceedings or trials stipulated by central or state legislation, sensitivity of cases and the need to preserve the public interest. The draft model rules are available on the e-committee website https://ecommitteesci.gov.in/document/draft-model-rules-for-live-streaming-and-recording-of-court-proceedings. Suggestions can be emailed to ecommittee@aij.gov.in by June 30, a law ministry release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Sit-in at Tohana continues, two get bail ||Protesting farmers called off their sit-in at a police station here on Monday evening shortly after the third farmer activist arrested in connection with the protest against ruling JJP legislator Devender Singh Babli was released on bail and other demands of the agitators were met. Earlier in the day, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the movement against the new farm laws, called off a plan to hold protests at every police station in Haryana following the release of two arrested farmers on bail but decided to continue protesting at the Sadar police station in Tohana city of Fatehabad district of Haryana since a third activist was lodged there. Officials confirmed that the farmers had dispersed from the police station after calling off their protest. Senior SKM leaders including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni had led the farmers’ protest outside the police station in Tohana. Farmers Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, who were arrested for allegedly trying to gherao Babli’s residence last week, were released on bail by the court while the third farmer Makhan Singh was let go in the evening. Earlier, farmer leaders had demanded that cases registered against several peasants in connection with the protest against Babli be taken back. Meanwhile, Tikait said the arrested farmers had been released and described it as a victory of the peasants. Yadav said all demands of farmers have been conceded and described the release of the trio as a major victory for the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||CRPF, BSF to drop jawans placed under the 'lowest medical category'||The Central Reserve Police Force and Border Security Force are considering weeding out a few hundred of their unfit personnel who are placed under the “lowest medical category”. Sources said the top brass of the two central paramilitary forces have asked all their formations across the country to identify jawans belonging to the shape-5 medical category (lowest health fitness). “All formations of the two forces have been asked to identify such jawans belonging to the lowest medical category. According to the proposed plan, they will be boarded out from the forces,” a Union home ministry official said. Paramilitary forces are under the control of the home ministry. A CRPF official said boarding out of personnel falling in the shape-5 category was under consideration for a long time. “The total number of personnel belonging to the lowest medical category in the two forces will be a few hundred,” a CRPF official said. Sources said many such jawans were posted in sensitive zones, including Maoist-hit areas and Jammu and Kashmir. “It is fraught with risk to keep such unfit jawans posted in the combat ranks in these sensitive areas,” an official said. Unfit jawans to be sacked on medical fitness grounds would get post-retirement benefits in accordance with their service rules. Most of the jawans belonging to the lower medical category in the two forces are in the age group of 40-45 years. Usually jawans categorised under low medical category are removed from combat and operation duties and are assigned administrative responsibilities. Those placed under the lowest medical category are boarded out from the force. “Personnel who are rendered unfit after years of deployment in inhospitable terrains are also assigned administrative duties,” said an official. Disabilities in paramilitary forces, according to rules, are classified under three categories — disability due to injuries sustained in combat action against insurgents/terrorists/Maoists, those disabled by sickness/accident, and others who are found to be unfit because of psychiatric diseases and drug/alcohol addiction. Jawans belonging to the first two categories are rehabilitated in the force after assessing their capability and health condition, but those declared mentally unfit are sacked. “In the past, we have witnessed that jawans suffering from mental illness have been involved in fratricidal incidents,” a BSF official said. The highest number of personnel in the lower medical category are in the CRPF followed by the BSF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Fresh deployment of troops trigger worries of partition in the Valley||A flurry of developments, including fresh deployment of paramilitary forces, in Jammu and Kashmir has triggered worries of another partition of the erstwhile state, although officials claim these are routine developments. The Valley has been rife with rumours of fresh division of the region for the past couple of days, amid reports of troop build-up in parts of North Kashmir and Jammu and a series of meetings between top government officials from the Union Territory administration and central government in Delhi. Many locals are publicly expressing fears that Jammu and Kashmir might be partitioned afresh into Jammu and Valley. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government had carved out Ladakh as a separate Union Territory by bifurcating Jammu and Kashmir along with the scrapping of Article 370. “So many rumours again Statehood for Jammu, UT for Kashmir & you know how true rumours prove specially when it comes to J&K,” tweeted activist Guftar Ahmad, who is from Jammu’s Pir Panchal region. “Do whatever you want we are already on destruction path after abrogation of Article 370. 5th August, 2019, was black day for us.” Officials said dozens of companies of paramilitary forces are being deployed across the Union Territory, in a throwback to the run-up of abrogation of Article 370 in 2019. Unlike 2019, the government has not officially reacted to the rumours this time. Back then, the then governor Satya Pal Malik had rebuffed reports of scrapping of Article 35A, which gave exclusive rights to locals over land and jobs, and asked people not to panic. However, what followed was not just the scrapping of Articles 370 and 35A but bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories. “We want to believe even in rumours rumoured to be rumours. We love rumours don’t we. Last few days has been all about rumours and conspiracies. They say don’t believe a rumour to be true until government actually denies it,” People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone tweeted, betraying the contempt that people harbour for any government clarifications. Some politicians feared they might land in jail again. “While rumours are flying thick and fast — should we be ready for second semester? MLA’s hostel 2.0?” tweeted Tanvir Sadiq, an aide of former chief minister Omar Abdullah. Tanvir was among dozens of politicians who were lodged in the MLA hostel after they were arrested in 2019 to prevent protests against the developments. A police officer said more than 50 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few weeks and more are coming but he claimed it was a routine development. “Around 200 companies were shifted out of J&K for elections in other states and prevent protests against the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act). They are being re-inducted. There is no fresh deployment,” an officer said. In the run-up to the 2019 developments, the Centre had rushed hundreds of companies of paramilitary forces to J&K from other parts of the country, in addition to tens of thousands of troops already deployed here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Covid: People’s misery forces its way to headlines||Much of the Indian media, particularly the vernacular press, has been blinkered at best in its reporting on the Narendra Modi government, putting a positive spin on all its mistakes for the last seven years. However, there seems a slight change in the regional language press recently which is doing more aggressive reporting on the horrors of the second Covid wave and putting the blame squarely on mismanagement by the government. In a shocking vindication of the foreign media that India’s real Covid figures —both cases and deaths — were suppressed by the government, Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati newspaper in the home state of Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah, reported that between March 1 and May 10 this year, Gujarat issued 123,000 death certificates. This is a whopping 65,000 more deaths than the 58,000 deaths reported during the same period in 2020 and points to the dreadful toll the pandemic has taken on the state. Gujarat’s BJP government has only admitted to 4,218 Covid-related deaths during the same period. Similarly, when reports surfaced last month that there was a severe shortage of the drug remdesivir, Gujarat BJP president C.R. Patil announced he had 5,000 doses of it that would be made available free of cost by the party in Surat, a Covid hotspot. Divya Bhaskar headlined Patil’s mobile number on the front page and told those in need to call him. It also asked the government how Patil had got so many doses of a medicine when only six doses can be sold to one person and that, too, against a doctor’s prescription. A few months ago such critical coverage of the Gujarat government would have been unthinkable from Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati newspaper from the Bhopal-based Bhaskar group with editions from nine cities and towns in the state. The newspaper has since its inception in 2003 staunchly backed the Modi-Shah duo, both when they were ruling the state and after they conquered Delhi. So why the sudden change? “Gujarat has suffered really badly this time, far worse than the first wave, so much so that apart from BJP supporters, even their leaders, MPs, MLAs, mahants — none has been spared by Covid. It’s their very own who are leaking stories to the press against the Rupani government, which has done nothing to alleviate their problems,” a senior editor with a Gujarati newspaper who did not wish to be named told The Telegraph. “The readers have experienced such horrors with thousands dying every day; how can the media not reflect at least some of this if they wish to retain their credibility? These stories are coming out because of pressure from the readers.” Divya Bhaskar, however, has not laid the blame at Modi’s door but accused chief minister Rupani of “mismanaging” the Covid response, toeing the BJP line of calling it a “systems failure”. Gujarat Samachar, the big dad of Gujarati newspapers, has on the other hand been critical of both Modi and Shah’s positions in the run-up to the second wave, taking them to task for allowing the India-England Test matches in Ahmedabad and the super-spreader Kumbh Mela, and for holding election rallies. Gujarat Samachar, with its daily readership of 4.6 million (according to 2014 data) from eight distribution centres, is perceived to be the real opinion maker in the state, and it has been viewed as anti-establishment and pro-establishment at different times. Founded in 1932 by Vallabhbhai Patel and Morarji Desai as part of the freedom struggle, it has been a family-run newspaper since 1952, with current owner-editor Shreyans Shah taking over in 1984 when his father Shantilal Shah passed away. A veteran journalist said he saw the newspaper as “inherently pro-BJP”. Efforts by this newspaper to elicit comment from the Gujarat Samachar did not yield results. The English-language press is not emulating its vernacular counterparts for a variety of reasons. “I agree we are not reporting as aggressively as Gujarat Samachar or Divya Bhaskar, but we give a more balanced view taking into account what the government has to say as well,” said Ajay Umat, group editor of Ahmedabad Mirror and NavGujarat Samay, which are linked to the Times of India group. Umat had worked with Gujarat Samachar in a senior position and later been launch-editor of Divya Bhaskar. According to Umat, the English-language press tends to be more Ahmedabad and urban-centric as that is where its readership is. “Whereas Divya Bhaskar and Gujarat Samachar are both pan-Gujarat papers and have a reach even in small towns and villages in rural areas,” Umat said. Unlike the first wave when Ahmedabad was the worst affected by Covid, this time the infection has spread to the rural areas with Surat and Baroda as the main hotspots. “There is not a single family in the state that has not been touched by the dreaded disease. Some unfortunate families have lost two-three people in the space of days,” said Dr Jayashree Shah, 52, a gynaecologist in Baroda. The vernacular newspapers have a larger network of reporters and stringers in rural areas than their English counterparts or the TV channels and can therefore bring out the real picture of the lack of facilities in even the remotest parts of the state. It is believed that Hindi newspaper Danik Bhaskar sent out 30 reporters to 27 districts along the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh to unearth all the bodies buried on the riverbanks. The Modi government has been accused of trying to silence sections of the Indian media by throttling the key source of revenue — advertisements — if they defy the party line. “The more money you need to run your media house, the easier it is for the government to manipulate you,” said a television journalist. “The smaller TV channels try half-heartedly to ventilate the sentiments of the public but rely completely on Gujarat government ads, so they ‘balance’ it with government propaganda.” The larger media houses like Gujarat Samachar and Divya Bhaskar have more clout and so have a little more wiggle room. Shortages of hospital beds, oxygen, medicines, vaccines and ambulances, coupled with the black marketeering of essential drugs and facilities, have turned the pandemic into a living hell for the people. “The public is broken -- no earning for the last one year, and yet there is sickness and death everywhere. There is a black market rate for everything and people don’t have the money to pay. The government is doing nothing. The media also know that if they don’t start showing the real picture, they will get beaten up,” said Naveen Bhatt, 38, a teacher. Gujarat was a Covid hotspot even during the first wave but the media had initially channelled the public’s anger towards the Tablighi Jamaat, blaming it for the pandemic. However, the second wave has been far worse and there is no obvious communal angle to exploit. “If the Gujarati press is questioning the state government at the moment, it is out of majboori (compulsion) and only temporarily. Soon the government will give them what they want and they will again start singing their praises and stop telling the truth,” the veteran journalist said. Sajeda Momin, a senior journalist, was The Telegraph’s Gujarat correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Central school rankings flag administrative, financial and infrastructural gaps||School education rankings released by the Centre have flagged shortage of teachers, principals and administrative staff, inadequate training of teachers, financial bottlenecks and infrastructure constraints. The litany of problems plaguing the school education system has cast a fresh glare on the Centre’s decision to cut funding. “It is the central government which has reduced its allocation to the Samagra Siksha Abhiyan (SSA) scheme in this year’s budget by Rs 8,000 crore. The SSA is the key scheme to implement the Right to Education Act and improve critical areas of school functioning,” said Mitra Ranjan from the Right To Education Forum. He blamed the central government for the poor performance of states in teacher availability and infrastructure. From Rs 38,750 crore last year, the allocation dipped to Rs 31,050 crore for the SSA. The scheme covers infrastructure development of government schools and provides uniforms and textbooks to children. Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu improved their performance on key aspects of school education in 2019-20, replacing Gujarat from the club of best performing states, according to the rankings released on Sunday. But no state has yet reached Level 1 of the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20, for which the score has to cross 950 out of 1,000. Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, was among the best performers for the first two years of the PGI rankings, scoring between 851 and 900. This year too, Gujarat scored in the same range and found a place in Level III. The PGI exercise is undertaken by the Union education ministry to help the states and Union Territories to pinpoint the gaps and accordingly, prioritise areas for intervention. The index, covering the states and Union Territories, is based on 70 parameters. The broad criteria considered for this exercise include learning outcome, access and retention, infrastructure and factors like pupil-teacher ratio and teacher training. In the 2018-19 PGI report released last year, Punjab and Tamil Nadu had scored between 751 and 800 and were placed in Level V while Kerala and Chandigarh had scored between 851 and 900 with Gujarat and were placed in Level III. Bengal, which had scored between 701 and 750 in the 2018-19 PGI report, has improved its performance to score between 801 and 850 in 2019-20. Ladakh, with a score of less than 550, was placed in Level X. India has nearly 15 lakh schools with almost 97 lakh teachers and more than 25 crore students. The elementary schools need to maintain a ratio of 30 students to one teacher at the primary level and 35 students to one teacher at the upper primary level. Ranjan, from the Right To Education Forum, said the PGI index was a tool used by the Centre to put the onus on the states for the poor quality of education. “The states are starved of funds. If the Centre is bringing out the rankings, it must provide additional funds to the states to improve their performance. But the funds from the Centre are dipping,” he said. About Gujarat’s performance remaining stagnant, Ranjan said the state never ensured access to education for all sections like Dalits, tribals and minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||UP: Two arrested with regard to payment for tweets'in favour of Yogiji'||Two men have been arrested in Lucknow over an audio recording of a purported conversation that discusses payment for tweets “in favour of Yogiji”. “We have arrested Himanshu Saini and Ashish Pandey for tampering with two audios and handing it over to a third person to make it viral on social media. They had merged two audio conversations. They wanted to make it appear as if Rs 2 would be paid to those who tweet/retweet certain kind of posts,” Salman Taj Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Kanpur Nagar, told The Telegraph over phone on Sunday evening. On Monday, the wife of Ashish Pandey posted a tweet appealing to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hear her out. “My husband Ashish Pandey has lived the name ‘Yogi Adityanath’ for four years…. Perhaps this is the test of respect, worship and faith. I request Yogi Adityanathji to allow me the chance to meet you and give my husband’s side of the story,” Preeti Verma tweeted in Hindi. Verma is a a member of the UP State Commission for Child Rights. When a Twitter user responded that Pandey had not “lived” but “sold” the name of Yogi Adityanath and made crores of rupees and got government accommodation, Verma shot back: “If you knew so much, you would not be living for Rs 2 per tweet.” The arrests were made on the complaint of Kanpur resident Atul Kushwaha, who said his image had been tarnished by the audio clip. The purported conversation in Hindi on the audio clip that emerged on Twitter on May 30 goes like this: First person: Tell me how the rate of Rs 2 is fixed for a tweet. Second person: It is for those who have more than 100 followers. First: Fine, tell me what would be the hashtag. Second: I have posted it in the group (possibly a messaging platform). See in the group. First: Yogiji’s hashtag? Second: Yes, Yogiji’s hashtag. Any problem? First: No, I want to ensure that more and more people tweet. Second: The payment will be less. Only 25 tweets are being asked for. The hashtag should be in Yogiji’s favour. First: In Yogiji’s favour? Second: Yes, in Yogiji’s favour. Meaning, write good things about Yogiji. First: Whose trend is it? Second: Why do you bother? It is Atulji’s trend. It is Gajendra Chauhan’s trend. You know Gajendra Chauhan, right? He will retweet. Ensure 25 tweets from each ID. You have to send the links in the group. Make it quick along with pictures. The complaint at Kalyanpur police station in Kanpur suggested Atul Kushwaha is the “Atulji” referred to in the audio clip. Around the time the purported conversation went viral, Gajendra Chauhan, the actor who had played Yudhisthir in B.R. Chopra’s television saga Mahabharat and is closely associated with the BJP, had participated in a Twitter campaign with the hashtag “Yogiji_ka_shashakt_UttarPradesh(Yogi’s strong UttarPradesh)” and had encouraged supporters to make it trend. That tweet could no longer be seen on Chauhan’s profile after the controversy erupted. The audio clip had been shared on Twitter by a retired IAS officer in Uttar Pradesh, who is one of the three people named in the FIR filed on May 31. The others are Himanshu Saini, arrested from Khalabazar in Lucknow on Sunday, and Puneet Saini. Dinesh Kumar Shukla, assistant commissioner of police of the Kalyanpur area of Kanpur, told this correspondent: “The retired IAS officer and two others have been booked under Section 505 of the IPC.” Surya Pratap Singh had retired as principal secretary in the Uttar Pradesh education department. The FIR alleges that the audio clip was a recording of two individuals talking to each other, “talking about payment for tweets in favour of Yogiji”, and identifies them as Puneet Saini and Himanshu Saini. It says Kushwaha was also named in the conversation and adds that this was an attempt to defame him as he had been writing “selflessly” on social media about the “good work” of the Adityanath government for several years. IAS officer Singh was named as accused for sharing the recording on Twitter. Singh told The Telegraph on Wednesday: “They say the chief minister is very popular. Then why do they need to pay Rs 2 to someone to tweet or retweet in his praise? I am saying that it is related to corruption and a racket in the information and publicity department of Uttar Pradesh.” Sharing the audio, Singh had tweeted on May 30: “The information department must say how much the government is spending on thousands of such trends. People’s money is being squandered while the poor are struggling for every morsel of food.” This newspaper also sent a WhatsApp message to Shishir Singh, director of the information and publicity department, asking about IAS officer Singh’s claims, but received no response. Calls to his cellphone also went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Bribe FIR on state BJP chief||A case was registered on Monday against Kerala BJP president K. Surendran for allegedly bribing a rival candidate in Manjeshwar constituency during the recent Assembly polls, hours after a magistrate’s court in Kasaragod sanctioned filing of the FIR. V.V. Rameshan of the CPM, who had finished third from Manjeshwar, had filed an application seeking the court’s sanction since the charge was non-cognisable. Rameshan’s lawyer C. Shukkur told The Telegraph that the Badiyadka police station in Kasaragod had registered an FIR under IPC section 171b (bribery related to election) late on Monday evening. “We received the sanction this afternoon, based on our application filed earlier in the day,” Shukkur said. Bahujan Samaj Party nominee K. Sundara has alleged the BJP got him to withdraw from the race by giving him Rs 2.5 lakh and a smart phone and promising him a wine shop. He said Surendran had spoken to him over the phone. Surendran eventually lost narrowly to Congress ally IUML. The maximum punishment for election bribery is a year’s jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Vijayan corroborates allegations of sum stolen during April 3 car robbery||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday corroborated the allegation that the sum stolen during the April 3 car robbery that has triggered money-laundering charges against the BJP was Rs 3.5 crore. He told the Assembly that following investigations, the police had added several IPC sections such as 412 (receiving stolen property), 212 (harbouring offender) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) to the original case of dacoity (Section 395). This should widen the scope of the case, in connection with which the police have questioned several BJP leaders apart from arresting 20 suspects. Vijayan said the police had recovered Rs 1.12 crore in cash from the suspects while seizing 347 grams of gold jewellery, mobile phones and wrist-watches bought with the booty. Shamjeer, the owner of the car who was travelling with RSS worker Dharmarajan when the robbers struck in Thrissur district, had said in the FIR that the sum stolen was Rs 25 lakh. However, police sources had cited alleged confessions by those arrested to claim the amount was Rs 3.5 crore, buttressing charges that the BJP was using hawala money to influence the April 6 elections. The chief minister has now provided the first official corroboration of the figure. Vijayan emphasised the hawala angle, saying the BJP-led central government’s note withdrawal of 2016 had failed to stop the circulation of unaccounted money. “When the demonetisation was announced on November 8, 2016, the central government had told the people it was a surgery to eradicate black money,” he said, while replying to Congress MLA Shafi Parambil’s notice for an adjournment motion on the matter, which the Speaker denied. “But it’s going to be five years since the demonetisation — we need to examine what it achieved apart from wreaking havoc on the unorganised sector and the common people.” Vijayan said the special investigation team (SIT) had so far recorded the statements of 96 witnesses. He denied allegations by the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP, which has no representation in the Assembly, that the state government was deliberately keeping the Enforcement Directorate (ED) away from the case. He said the SIT had provided all the details of the case to the ED on June 1 following a May 27 letter from the central agency, which is mandated to probe money-laundering. A CPM ally has petitioned Kerala High Court to direct the ED to probe the case saying the agency had ignored his letters asking it to step in. On Monday, leader of the Opposition and Congress member V.D. Satheesan demanded in the Assembly that the ED and the income-tax department be brought in. Satheesan alleged the state government and the police were going slow on the case and aired the suspicion of a deal. “Since you both (LDF and the BJP) have cases against each other, there is a suspicion that the two of you would settle this case.” Satheesan alleged the ED had stopped probing the gold smuggling case — in which several CPM members and an official close to Vijayan are implicated —just before the state polls. “Apart from arresting those involved in the highway robbery, this government is not ready to arrest anyone else,” Satheesan said, apparently alluding to the BJP leaders questioned in the case. Parambil too mentioned the demonetisation, saying it had only enhanced the flow of unaccounted money, especially to the BJP. “Almost Rs 10 crore was brought from Karnataka with just a few days left for the state (Kerala) polls. The cash stolen (from the car) was what remained after much of the money had been distributed in several districts,” he said. The BJP will launch a state-wide agitation on June 10 accusing the state government of framing its leaders in false cases, state BJP vice-president A.N. Radhakrishnan told a news conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Locals observe 12-hour hunger strike ||Residents of Lakshadweep observed a 12-hour hunger strike at their homes on Monday seeking the immediate withdrawal of a set of contentious legislations and the recall of controversial administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Since Covid protocol did not allow them to step outside their properties, 68,000 residents in 10 of the 36 islands off the Kerala coast observed a dawn-to-dusk hunger strike wielding placards and banners raising their demands. Only medical shops remained open while the isles remained shut during the protest. While no untoward incidents were reported in the peaceful demonstration, police removed panchayat members who opted for a sit-in at the panchayat office in Kavaratti, the headquarters of the isles. “We started our sit-in at the panchayat office at 9am. It was very peaceful as we just held placards raising our demands. But police came around 11am and bundled us into their vans and dropped us at our homes unmindful of our requests to allow our basic rights to protest,” Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress told The Telegraph. “When we repeatedly asked the police officers for the reason to remove us, they said they had ‘orders from the top.’ This is a blatant violation of our constitutional rights,” Malika who, like other ward members, then joined their respective families in the hunger strike at their homes. He said some youths protested underwater holding placards against the reforms and the administrator. Kasim Meharouf, village panchayat member of Chetlat, one of the smallest islands in the archipelago, told this newspaper that the strike was a total success. “Everyone of the 2,500 residents of Chetlat participated in the hunger strike. Even children joined us in this peaceful protest against the draconian laws that the administrator is trying to bring,” Maharouf, who belongs to the Nationalist Congress Party, said. “Fishermen participated in the hunger strike, too. Not a single boat ventured out in the seas for fishing today (Monday). We are all united in this as this is a matter of life and death for us,” he added. After taking charge in December, Patel had quickly brought in draft laws such as the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (or Goonda Act), and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR) besides a controversial amendment to the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulations. The administration has already pulled out beef from school mid-day meal menu in the islands where a huge majority of the residents are Muslims categorised as Scheduled Tribes. It had shut down dairy farms to usher in Gujarat-based Amul and taken steps to sever the islands’ umbilical cord with Kerala that the residents call ‘mainland’ by linking it with Mangalore in BJP-ruled Karnataka. While the LDAR empowers the administration to take over anyone’s land at a short notice, the Goonda Act empowers the police to detain anyone for a year without trial. The animal preservation act will end cattle slaughter. The amendment to the panchayat act has a two-child norm for all those contesting in the local body polls. P.P. Rahim, local committee member of the CPM in Kavaratti, told this newspaper that protests would continue until the administration heeded people’s concerns. “We don’t want these anti-people legislations. There is no going back on that,” he said. Rahim drew attention to how the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown had left scores of families with no income. “People are unable to go out and earn their livelihood. But unlike mainland Kerala, we are not even getting food ration kits.” The CPM, he said, has been providing dry ration kits to the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
08-06-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Delhi team in Odisha’s affected areas||The inter-ministerial team led by Sunil Kumar Barnwal, the joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, on Monday began on-the spot assessment of the losses caused by the Cyclone Yaas that hit the Odisha coast on May 26. The cyclone that made a landfall between the north of Dhamra in the Bhadrak district and south of Balasore, had wreaked havoc in  four districts of the state — Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Mayurbhanj. The team that visited Balasore on Monday, would tour the cyclone hit areas for two days. Before leaving for Delhi, they will meet the Odisha government officials and hold a discussion regarding the losses suffered by the state. According to the Odisha government’s preliminary report, the state incurred a loss to the tune of Rs 610 crore due to the cyclone. Of this, Rs 520 crore was on account of damage to the government infrastructure and Rs 90 crore due to damage to private property. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Odisha to assess the loss caused by the Cyclone Yaas on May 28, had announced Rs 500 crore assistance to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
08-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders in Bengal hold meeting on 'post-poll violence'||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday held a meeting with party functionaries over the post-poll scenario in the state, as he claimed that workers were being attacked and forced out of their homes across districts by goons bearing allegiance to the ruling TMC. Several senior leaders, during the discussion, talked about ways to deal with the current situation, and activists shared their woes, sources in the party said. "Violence continues unabated in the state even after the formation of the government; the ruling party is unwilling to acknowledge the incidents," Ghosh told reporters ahead of the meeting. Claiming that the "state government does not want peace to prevail", Ghosh said that the BJP has moved various commissions and courts seeking protection for its workers. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari wasn't present at the session as he is away in Delhi to meet Home Minister Amit Shah and party's national president J P Nadda. Party national vice-president Mukul Roy also skipped the meeting, amid speculation about a possible change in political equation after TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee visited his ailing wife in hospital on June 2. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called Roy on June 3 to enquire about his wife's condition, and Ghosh, too, had visited the hospital to meet her. PTI AMR RMS RMS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||CISF firing: CID ballistics team visits school at Sitalkuchi||A three-member team of ballistic experts from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday visited the school in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi that was a polling booth on April 10 during the Assembly elections, where four voters were killed in the CISF firing. The state police had handed over the probe to the CID soon after the firing by CISF personnel manning the 5/126 booth  at Sitalkuchi's Jorpatki village. The CID team on Monday, along with some officers of the district police, which reached by 11.30am the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra, thoroughly inspected the entire school premises and building for over two-and-a-half hours. They also spotted a bullet mark on the blackboard of a classroom. “During probe, it was found that one of the bullets had pierced the door of the classroom and hit the blackboard. This indicates some bullets were fired even inside the booth,” said a source. The CISF personnel had claimed they were forced to open fire after some villagers attacked and ransacked the booth. The CID ballistics team used chemicals in certain locations where bullet marks were found and measured distances between marks with tapes. “Earlier, another CID team had visited the site to reconstruct the incident. But this visit of the ballistic team that comprises forensic experts is significant. It is evident that the CID is giving due importance to the case and is collecting all possible details,” said a senior police officer. After the probe, the team sealed the school building and put up a notice to restrict the entry of people on the premises. So far, the CID has interrogated a number of persons, including some police officers of Mathabhanga, the subdivision under which the school (polling booth) falls. However, there are reports that the CISF personnel who had opened fire have not appeared before CID sleuths though they have been called for interrogation. Residents of Jorpatki, who have said they want the guilty CISF personnel to be punished, sounded hopeful at the visit of the ballistic team. “The state government has stood by the four bereaved families. We are confident that justice will be served,” said Alizar, a resident and a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Foresters arrest man with four snakes in Malda||Foresters of the Gazole forest range office arrested a suspected snake charmer and seized four snakes from his possession here on Monday. The rescued snakes are Indian rock python, a monocled cobra and two spectacled cobras. Snake charmers are prohibited to exploit these species. P. Siddharth, the divisional forest officer of Malda, said Mazid Bede used to roam around with the snakes and would display those to people for money. “A case has been registered against Mazid, a resident of Kandaran in Samsi, under the wildlife protection act. The snakes have been kept under observation and would be released in the forest in due course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata orders evacuation of 20,000 people from Sagar and Mousuni islands before high tides||Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked South 24-Parganas district administration officials to make arrangements to evacuate 20,000 people from Sagar Island and Mousuni island ahead of high tides on June 11 and 26 as the embankments breached during Cyclone Yaas at those places would not be repaired before the end of the current month. “There were breaches in river embankments at 317 places. Most of the breaches would be repaired by June 21, but a few breaches at Sagar Island and Mousuni Island would not be repaired before July 31. So, nearly 20,000 people would be required to be evacuated during the coming high tides,” the chief minister said during a review meeting with officials of different departments at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said the irrigation department had taken initiatives to repair damaged embankments almost immediately after Yaas had hit the state. “But all breaches could not be repaired as agencies engaged for the work could not reach certain places with construction material because of stagnation of water,” said an official. Water stagnation has become a serious problem in 63 gram panchayats spread across 14 blocks, mainly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas, since the cyclone. Mamata pointed out during the meeting that those gram panchayats might face health-related issues and scarcity of drinking water. “The health department should take care of the issue. The public health engineering (PHE) should distribute water pouches to ensure that people get safe drinking water. The PHE should try to install deep tube-wells at places which are not prone to frequent inundation,” she said. The chief minister also instructed the irrigation department to display the details of the work carried out to repair the damaged embankments. “People will get to know what kind of work was carried out in their areas,” said the chief minister. The sources said the move was considered to be significant as the chief minister was laying stress on repairing the embankments properly. Now, the agencies will face a kind of social audit, which is required in case of government projects, to minimise corruption. The state government has received more than 1 lakh applications seeking compensation after Cyclone Yaas. Bengal chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi said people in many areas could not reach out to the camps set up to receive applications. “We are planning some ways to collect applications from the affected people,” said the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports drop by 8,568 in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Monday logged 14,352 Covid-19 recoveries, 5,882 new infections and 103 deaths, reporting a drop by 8,568 in its total of active cases, to 26,886. This is the first instance of fewer than 6,000 new infections being detected in a day since April 14, 54 days ago, around the time the second wave started peaking. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, improved by nearly 80 per cent in these 17 days. Bengal now has 2.02 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 9.79 per cent on Monday. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for the 37th consecutive day, rising by nearly 12 percentage points over five weeks, to 96.98 per cent on Monday. The national rate now is 94.15. The state now has a total of 14.32 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 13.88 lakh recoveries and 16,362 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, the national rate is 1.21. Of the 103 deaths reported on Monday, 23 were from Calcutta and 32 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 610 new infections, North 24-Parganas 1,181. The total of active cases in these two districts, which was over 53,000 in the peak of the second wave, was 8,427 on Monday. “This is a big achievement, as a turnaround in Bengal is not possible without major improvement in these two districts,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Citizenship claim  in cattle smuggling case||The counsel for Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, an accused in a cattle smuggling case, told Calcutta High Court on Monday that his client had got citizenship of an island nation on the Pacific Ocean in 2018, and asked if an Indian court could try his case. Vinay’s lawyer Siddharth Luthra also sought an extension of the time limit ordered earlier by the court directing the CBI not to arrest him till June 10. The court will hear the case again on on June 9. Vinay and his brother Vikash were implicated by the CBI in cases involving smuggling of cattle heads from Bengal to neighbouring countries. According to the CBI, the Mishra brothers are linked to main accused Anup Maji. The CBI issued a look out notice against Vinay, who is absconding, and interrogated Vikash. On March 20, Vinay moved a plea in the HC seeking anticipatory bail and that the CBI’s proceedings against him be quashed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||ISF worker's home set ablaze, parents assaulted in Bhangar||The house of a worker of the Indian Secular Front (ISF) was set ablaze and his parents assaulted by alleged Trinamul supporters at Bhangar in South 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. Bhangar, on the fringes of Calcutta, has been witnessing frequent incidents of post-poll violence ever since the ruling Trinamul lost the seat to the ISF by 26,151 votes. ISF leaders said that unable to digest defeat, the local Trinamul leadership was selectively attacking Opposition activists, Kutub Mullick being one. His father Rafiqul Mullick, a farmer, said Kutub had to flee after May 2 “for his life”. Local Trinamul leaders did not comment on the charges levelled against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Thunderbolt kills 26 persons across five Bengal districts||Lightning killed at least 26 persons across five Bengal districts — Hooghly, Murshidabad, Bankura, East and West Midnapore — on Monday. A state government official said 11 persons died in Hooghly, nine in Murshidabad, as well as two each in West Midnapore, East Midnapore and Bankura. The official could not recall the last time so many had died of lightning on a single day. Most were farmers working in the fields, he added. Six farmers were killed and eight others injured in a field at Nowda village in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj. Police said the deceased were Sainul Sheikh, 25, Surja Karmakar, 23, Sunil Das, 35, Durjadhan Das, 32, Jalauddin Sheikh, 28, and Mazharul Sheikh, 17, all from Nowda. Elsewhere in the district, Abhijit Biswas, 42, Prahlad Murari, 40, and Enamul Sheikh, 46, were killed by bolts. Murari and Biswas were working in an under-construction home, Sheikh was in a field. In Hooghly, 11 persons, including two women, were killed by lightning. Farmer Hemanta Guchai, 42, and his wife Malabika, 38, were killed while returning home from a field in Balipur village in Hooghly’s Khanakul. Ananda Roy, 40, of Goghat, Sishir Adhikari, 68, and Kanai Lahari, 79, died elsewhere in Khanakul. Kiron Roy, 27,  died in Nabagram. Farmer Harun Rashid, 46, was killed in Hooghly’s Mahanad. Others who died were Dilip Ghosh, 50, of Haripal, Susmita Koley, 39, of Singur, Sanjib Samanta, 43, of Champadanga and Shailya Malik, 42, of Pachgachhia. In Bankura’s Ranibandh, lightning struck dead Basudev Mahata, 40, and Krishnapada Hansda, 63. In East Midnapore, Shampa Mondol, 25, of Moyna, and Gourango Majhi, 24, of Panskura were killed. The state government has asked the administration in districts to start awareness campaigns on lightning. PM Narendra Modi has approved Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for each injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||20 BJP supporters claiming to be victims of post-poll result violence protest Dilip’s refusal to meet them||Around 20 alleged victims of post-poll result violence raised protests when state BJP president Dilip Ghosh refused to grant them an appointment on Monday. Ghosh, who was at the district BJP office in West Burdwan’s Asansol for an organisational meeting, finally met the members of the three-four families for 15 minutes. They all are supporters of the BJP. This is the second time that Ghosh has run into protest. Last week, he was gheraoed by BJP workers at Chinsurah in Hooghly district. “We are the ones who are being threatened by our political opponents and yet, we are not allowed inside (the BJP office),” said Kalachand Mondal, a vice-president of the OBC cell of the party’s Asansol organisational district. “The people who are meeting Dilipda are mostly turncoats from other parties. Why shouldn’t he speak to grassroots workers?” he asked. A source in the BJP said as Ghosh had finally started visiting district party offices to take stock of the post-poll violence, more such incidents were likely to happen. The source said BJP workers were angry that Trinamul turncoats had been given upper hand during Assembly elections. “We accused Trinamul of being a party of thieves. But the BJP has become an even bigger party of thieves,” said a BJP old-timer. Ghosh finally gave in to the demands of the agitators and spoke to them at the end of the organisation meeting. He later said: “This wasn’t an agitation. Several of our workers are unhappy because they fought to win but we weren’t successful. This was an expression of their grief.” A section of the Asansol district committee said the agitators were members of around six to seven families, who had taken shelter at the party office following post-poll violence. The district leaders alleged that even while all the needs of these families had been taken care of, they created an unnecessary ruckus. “All their needs are being taken care of. Food, shelter and even mobile recharge. They’ve also been given cash assistance multiple times. What else do they want?” an Asansol BJP leader said. In a similar incident on Friday, Ghosh had to face the wrath of BJP old-timers when they had surrounded him in Chinsural to demand the removal of district president Goutam Chatterjee and state secretary Dipanjan Guha. The agitators accused that the party owed its poor results in the Hooghly district to Chatterjee and Guha. Subir Nag, the former Hooghly BJP president, was issued a show-cause notice on Monday on charges of provoking the agitation. In the midst of such circumstances, the BJP’s state executive committee will meet at its Hastings office on Tuesday. A section of state office-bearers is likely to raise questions on why the party received a drubbing at the polls and who should be held responsible for it. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputy Arvind Menon and the party’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash are likely to be present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee hurls 20-year vow to blunt BJP’s dynast barb||Abhishek Banerjee on Monday said on record that he would not be part of the state government or occupy any ministerial berth over the next 20 years, daring the BJP to actually “preach what it practises” in dynastic politics. He also vowed to make Trinamul truly national in his new role as the party’s national general-secretary. In his first news meet after his ascent on Saturday to the post that formalised his role as the party’s No 2, a concept that he vehemently nixed and asserted that he is no more than a worker, the 33-year-old Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew jeered at the saffron camp for apparently being rattled by his new role. “You have the Union home minister (Amit Shah) and the secretary of the BCCI (Jay Shah) from the same family (father-son)… will such questions be asked of the (Union) home minister?” he asked journalists at Trinamul Bhavan on Monday. “I don’t want to be in any public office. I am an elected representative, I am an MP…. I don’t want to be in the state government, or for that matter any ministerial berth for the next 20 years. Let me put this on record again, I want to focus on the organisation (of the party),” he said. He pointed out that his party was the only one attempting to implement the “one person, one post” policy. “…You keep bringing up dynasty, your entire campaign was based on this dynasty concept, you got your answer,” he said, referring to the historic mandate of the Bengal election that was also, in some ways, a referendum on Trinamul’s succession plan, made so by the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly’s key poll plank against the alleged bua-bhatijavad (aunt-nephew ‘ism’). “My answer to them is: sometimes, dynasty is better than being nasty,” said Abhishek, turning the knife in the wound. He added: “I fail to understand this. On the one hand, the BJP is saying that Trinamul does not exist outside Bengal. On the other hand, they are rattled, confused, perplexed and bewildered by my appointment…Why are you so scared? I ask in all humility.” He advised the BJP to enact a legislation so that one family can have no more than one representative in politics or any public office. “Have it enacted, and I will be the first one to resign. Preach what you practise…. You talk about dynastic politics? You welcome dynastic turncoats…. Your own people, with elected representatives, sons, daughters, in-laws… first remove them. You are exposing your own hypocrisy,” Abhishek said. Since his elevation, Abhishek has been conspicuously reaching out to veterans in the party’s top-tier leadership, underscoring how humbled he is with the responsibility. Several seniors in the party have also lavished praise on Abhishek’s role, especially after Trinamul's relative setback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in which the BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats and secured leads in 121 Assembly segments in Bengal. This summer, however, the BJP won only 77 Assembly seats, and Abhishek said many within the BJP were in touch with his party, looking to defect. He said over one lakh congratulatory emails from across the nation still remain unread, a bulk of which were emails from the masses, common citizens. Abhishek promised to hold a news meet within a month with details of Trinamul’s national foray, his foremost priority. “We will come out with a concrete plan — what Trinamul wants to do, which are the states we want to start our units in, and what is our expansion plan,” he said. “…This attempt of Trinamul to go national is going to be very different from what was attempted in the past. If we are going to go to a state, whichever it is, small, big, southern, northern… we are not going to go there only to contest elections. Wherever we will go and start our unit, our organisation, we will do so to win the state, because we want to be a platform of choice for people of that particular state,” he said, but did not divulge names of these states. “We do not want to exist in the form of Opposition, in the form of three-five MLAs…. We will be going to take the BJP head on, to win the state,” he added. “In the words of the great Gopal Krishna Gokhale, what Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
08-06-2021||North East||Manipur killing: Assam Rifles releases statement; cites attack from KRA cadres||The Assam Rifles major and three subordinates who have been booked for the murder of a 29-year-old Manipuri man had gone to his village on Friday night to “nab” Kuki Revolutionary Army (KRA) militants, an official statement has said. The statement, released by the Press Information Bureau (Defence Wing), Imphal, late on Sunday evening claimed the paramilitary team had come under attack from KRA cadres and retaliated with minimum force. However, a local community leader raised several questions about the statement, which was released almost 46 hours after Friday’s 9pm incident in Chalwa village, Kangpokpi district. Kangpokpi police on Saturday registered a case against Major Alok Sathe, who led the operation, jawan Amar and two others under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) apart from Arms Act provisions. The four personnel from the Gelnel outpost of Assam Rifles’ 44E company are accused of killing Mangboilal Lhouvum, a helper with a truck and a father of four. The PIB statement said the security forces had launched the operation based on specific intelligence to “nab secretary of KRA along with 3-4 cadres in Kangpokpi district, Manipur”. While the Assam Rifles team was making inquiries, KRA cadres and their accomplices “manhandled” one of the personnel and attempted to fire on the troops, the statement said. Sensing imminent danger to their lives, the personnel reacted using minimum force, it added. The KRA, formed with the objective of establishing a separate Kuki state, is one of several Kuki groups observing a suspension of operations (SoO) since a tripartite agreement in 2008 among the Centre, Manipur government and the outfits. In February, the agreement was extended to August 31 to ensure peace in the Kuki-inhabited areas of Manipur. Kangpokpi is a Kuki-dominated district. While the operation in the village was in progress, a huge mob of local people “surrounded” the Assam Rifles’ Gelnel outpost and “resorted” to unprovoked violence and arson, the PIB statement said. The mob “torched” two Assam Rifles vehicles, caused damage to the outpost and “disrupted” road communication for more than 24 hours, it said, adding that the security forces exercised restraint. “The Indian Army has ordered an inquiry into the matter. Assam Rifles remains committed to maintaining peace and normalcy in the region,” the statement added. The Assam Rifles, a paramilitary force, is under the operation control of the army. In a statement released to the local media on Sunday, the KRA denied that the dead man was its cadre and asserted it was adhering to the SoO ground rules. Thangminlen Kipgen, general secretary of the Kangpokpi district unit of the Kuki Inpi, the apex body of Kuki communities, raised several questions about the official statement: ⚫ How could the Assam Rifles operation at Chalwa and the mob attack on the Gelnal outpost continue simultaneously? “According to information I have, the Chalwa incident happened around 9pm and the mob attack around 10.30pm after news of the shooting spread,” he said. ⚫ How could there be a search operation for cadres of the KRA, which is observing the SoO? The authorities must make it clear whether it was a new KRA or a splinter group they were looking for. ⚫ Although the official statement talks about an operation and a mob attack, Assam Rifles representatives never once raised these issues at a meeting on Saturday where a four-point agreement was signed between civil society organisations, the paramilitary force and the Manipur government to calm tempers. “Had they (Assam Rifles) been wronged, they should not have signed the agreement. But they were eager to sign whatever the CSOs demanded with minor modifications,” Kipgen, one of the signatories to the agreement, said. Contacted for clarification, an Imphal-based army official said he only had the information available in the official statement. “If there is an update, we will communicate,” he said. The FIR was registered at Kangpokpi police station on a complaint from the father of the dead man, Sehlam Lhouvum, who said Sathe and his three juniors were all in civvies during the search at Chalwa. Mangboilal was “first treated (plied) with alcohol” and subsequently taken to the roadside and “lethally fired upon”, the complainant said. It added that villagers took Mangboilal to the local primary health centre, from where he was referred to the Kangpokpi district hospital. But he died on the way. Chalwa village is about 90km from state capital Imphal and about 50km from the district hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
08-06-2021||North East||Covid: Inter-faith prayer in Manipur for joint fight||Manipur is seeking “divine healing and protection” from the pandemic. Chief minister Biren Singh on Monday participated in an inter-faith prayer held under his supervision at the western gate of Kangla Fort in state capital Imphal. Singh said he felt an inter-faith prayer was necessary to heal the world that had been badly affected by the pandemic. “People usually pray when they go through hard times as it gives them mental peace and hope,” he said. Singh believes such inter-faith prayer will “bring unity and oneness” among different communities to “jointly fight” the pandemic with spiritual strength at a time tackling Covid is becoming a huge challenge. The prayer programme began with a one-minute silence in memory of all those who have died of Covid. Participants at the prayer included Archbishop Most Rev. Dominic Lumon and priests from Shree Shree Govindaji Temple Board, All Manipur Christian Organisation, Jamiat-Ul-Ulema, Lainingthou Sanamahi Temple Board, Tingkao Ragwang Chapriak, Giani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Shree Digambar Jain Samaj and Kabui Poupei Chapriak Fom. “They prayed to the Almighty seeking divine healing and protection of the state and the world from Covid-19,” an official statement said. Over 800 lives in Manipur have been lost to Covid-19 and the state currently has over 9,000 active cases. Curfew was extended in seven of the 16 districts till June 11 to check the spread of the virus. The chief minister said the high number of daily positive cases was due to the increased testing capacity — around 8,000 to 9,000 samples a day. The positivity rate has reduced to around 8 per cent while mortality rate is also steadily coming down, Singh said. On June 1, Singh had said that the state was putting in every possible effort to fight Covid-19 and had appealed to all the MLAs to set up community isolation centres in their constituencies as the number Covid patients would increase following the mass testing drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
08-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unfair game||Breaking through the hardened cast of patriarchal values is not easy, so it is heartening every time a court ruling makes a dent in it. The Punjab and Haryana High Court said recently that an extramarital affair could not be a ground to assume that a woman would be a bad mother. The court was ruling on a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman who claimed that her estranged husband had taken their four-and-a-half year-old daughter away from her. The couple, who lived in Australia, had differences and the child was allegedly taken away when the mother had gone to see her parents while on a visit to India. The husband claimed that his wife had an extramarital affair, but gave no evidence to support this. The high court, however, reportedly made two points that went to the root of society’s misogynistic assumptions. First, it said that casting aspersions on the moral character of a woman was fairly common in a patriarchal system, and, more often than not, these allegations were without basis. This statement exposed the institutionalized gender inequality that is so ingrained as to be invisible. The ‘moral character’ of a woman, or her ‘purity’, is made central to the concept of family ‘honour’ in order to exert control over women’s autonomy and sexuality. Men’s ‘purity’ though, is an unfamiliar concept. Once a woman is accused of an extramarital affair, she can be shown as ‘fallen’ and undeserving. The high court’s second point shattered this assumption too: even if a woman was in or had had an extramarital affair, it did not make her a bad mother. The judgment made the child’s need a priority. The high court ordered that the little girl be given to the mother, since a mother’s love and guidance was needed in a child’s formative years. An unsubstantiated allegation of an extramarital affair — there was no evidence suggesting the woman’s unfitness as mother — was not enough for the court to deny the woman custody. It was in opposition to a value system that expected an allegation of ‘unfaithfulness’ to be enough to condemn a woman whole that the high court insisted on her independent role as mother and, by implication, her importance as a social being contributing to the healthy growth of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Answers needed: SC reprimands Centre's jab policy||Sir — The Supreme Court has rightly reprimanded the Centre for its policy of giving free vaccination to people above 45 years of age and having a paid system for the rest, calling it “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” (“Bunglers”, June 7). Flagging several other problems, the court has asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy. Bringing up the issue of differential pricing, the apex court directed the Centre to submit a comparison of the prices of vaccines available in India to their international prices. In most countries, vaccines are procured by the governments and distributed to the people free of cost while in India, people aged between 18-44 are paying record prices for vaccines. The court has asked for dates of the procurement orders of all vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — the number of doses ordered and the projected date of supply. Under the current vaccine policy, states can buy up to 50 per cent of their vaccine requirements from manufacturers but are paying a much higher price than the Centre. The private hospitals are being charged even more. The discrepancy has led to many demanding an even vaccination policy. The Centre must reveal its reasons for refusing to implement a universal free vaccination programme in spite of setting aside a substantial amount for the purpose. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The differential pricing of vaccine doses adopted by the Centre is unfair. It is also morally wrong to burden the cash-strapped state governments even further by forcing them to procure coronavirus vaccines at a higher price. Thus, the directive of the Supreme Court asking the Centre to re-evaluate its vaccine policy is welcome. The government must prioritize the well-being of the people and vaccinate all citizens free of cost. By furnishing the details of the expenditure from the Rs 35,000 crore earmarked in the Union budget for the procurement of vaccines as directed by the top court, the government can validate its claim that it has nothing to hide. The government should also review the mandatory registration on the CoWIN app for booking slots for jabs and put in place more viable options to avoid exclusion. We expect and hope that the government will abide by the wisdom of the Supreme Court. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Take note Sir — With regional lockdowns being imposed across India, supply chains have been immensely disrupted. The price of onions and other vegetables that are grown in other parts of the country have been steadily rising in Bengal. The increase has been attributed to the delay in transportation as well as a hike in diesel prices. There is an immediate need for the government to regulate the prices of basic food items. If food prices continue to increase, many would be left with no choice but to starve. Abhra Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Two views||The slide continues. The State of India’s Environment 2021 report, which assessed 17 crucial Sustainable Development Goals for 193 countries, has found that India has slipped two places to occupy a pitiful rank of 117 this year. The SDGs were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 to serve as a universal call to action for governments, big businesses and civil society in order to ensure the protection of the planet and provide a life of dignity for all people by the year, 2030. These targets not only recognize that forward movement in one area affects outcomes in others — be they social, economic or environmental sustainability — but also serve as important parameters for assessing the progress made by nations on each of these fronts. Curiously, it appears that appraisals of the same subject need not correspond with one another. For instance, the State of India’s Environment report says that India’s poor performance can be largely attributed to worsening hunger and food security (SDG 2), gender inequality (SDG 5) and the failure to build resilient infrastructure, among other lapses. Strangely, while acknowledging the deficiencies in some of these areas, the third edition of the Niti Aayog’s 2020-21 index on India’s progress on its SDGs speaks, a wee bit cheerfully, of the strides taken in such areas as health, clean energy and urban development. But naysayers have reason to believe that there is more than what meets the eye in this analysis. For example, the Niti Aayog’s register has spotted an improvement in the SDG on inequality over 2019. This perhaps has been possible on account of a shift in methodological goalposts that arguably led to the elimination of several key economic indicators, such as the Gini coefficient that measures the distribution of income, and the growth rate for per capita household expenditure among 40 per cent of rural and urban populations. The dropping of these parameters is likely to provide a skewed picture of wealth inequality in India at a time when such disparities are rising owing to the pandemic. There are, admittedly, points of convergence between the two reports. Among these are the uneven performances of different states on similar parameters. Kerala and Himachal Pradesh have been the consistent performers, with Bihar and Jharkhand bringing up the rear. These stark disparities point to large gaps in governance and investments and the anomalies must be addressed. As such, the unfavourable performances of a handful of states could impede the progress and even the future of India’s federal architecture. The Centre must work in tandem with the worse-off states to help them meet the goals and bridge these yawning gaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Covid deaths: Skeletons tumble out||India is in the global news because of the ubiquitous visuals of burning pyres of the victims of Covid-19. To conceal the extent of the crisis, this authoritative government and its institutions are exploring every possible avenue to make invisible the vignettes of overwhelmed hospitals, suffering and death. Can the smoke from the funeral pyres be kept away from the public gaze? Can the unreported deaths be obliterated from the memory of the surviving family members? The history of famines, wars, riots, epidemics and diseases is not unknown to us. The last famine in British India — the great Bengal famine of 1943 — had an ‘official’ death count ranging from 1,000 to 38,000 per week at its peak depending upon the choice of the source and the methodology. The Famine Inquiry Commission’s somewhat arbitrary number of famine and epidemic related mortality toll was about 1.5 million. Even though the famine subsided, the search for the causes and precise estimates of deaths had not. Soon after the famine, a rigorous academic debate followed. In February 1944, the department of Anthropology, University of Calcutta, brought out sample-survey-based mortality statistics covering the period around the peak of the famine in June-December 1943. The Famine Inquiry Commission had concluded that a serious shortage of food, especially rice, was the primary cause of the famine; it took decades for this dominant ‘official’ view to be disproved by Amartya Sen in the 1970s. Sen’s widely accepted estimate was 3.048 million deaths in the Bengal famine. The Famine Inquiry Commission not only misinterpreted the causes of the famine but also underestimated its death toll by 1.5 million. The British could not escape from public scrutiny; can the Narendra Modi government’s lapses in the management of the pandemic be erased from history? Such endeavours of finding the truth did not necessarily come from the government presiding over a crisis. The academia, the press, archives, surveys and the writings of authors who had lived through these events proved to be invaluable sources. Political control over data collection and sharing might favour the incumbent government for the time being but it cannot absolve its complicity from annals. For instance, censorship during the Spanish Flu could not quite hide the skeletons in the closet. Not just credible epidemiological and public health studies that are being used to create advance models to predict Covid infections and deaths but also unconventional sources, such as records from crematoriums, graveyards as well as obituary pages in newspapers would serve as critical sources to gauge Covid’s decimation in cities and towns. The accuracy of the data can be debated. But can the government stop the truth from coming out in the future? Even a population census would enumerate the number of Covid deaths and their patterns across states, caste, class, occupation, gender, age and so on. It is impossible to obliterate the truth from history. The results of the assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu as well as the outcome of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh suggest that citizens are registering their resentment against the Modi government in New Delhi. This government will not be able to save its face from history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Preparing for stormy weather||Gujarat recently experienced the most powerful cyclonic storm after 1998. Cyclone Tauktae caused widespread destruction of private and public assets, uprooting electricity poles and trees, damaging agricultural crops and houses, in addition to causing human fatalities. RMSI, a consultancy firm working in the catastrophe risk management area, has estimated the damage to be worth around Rs 7,500 crore in Gujarat and Daman & Diu. The figure is four times higher than the cost incurred during the 1998 cyclone. Tauktae inflicted similar damages in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, and Maharashtra. According to the preliminary reports, the highest fatalities occurred in Gujarat (53) followed by Maharashtra (16), Karnataka (8) and Goa (3). India’s geo-climatic conditions, coastal erosion, and socio-economic vulnerabilities are responsible for the rise in the frequency of cyclones and the damages they are causing across India’s coastal states. Around 75.83 per cent of the country’s total coastline is exposed to cyclones and tsunamis, and 14.2 per cent of the population in 66 coastal districts in 13 coastal states/Union territories is vulnerable to the fury of cyclones. An earlier report published by the World Bank and the United Nations estimated that around 200 million residents would be exposed to storms and earthquakes by 2050 in India. According to a report by the Odisha government titled “Memorandum: Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘Fani’”, 2019, around 7 per cent of the world’s cyclones originate in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, with their impact being relatively higher when they make landfall in the area of North Bay of Bengal. The report also confirms that India experienced a total of 359 cyclones over the period, 1891-2000. Around 98 cyclones made landfall in Odisha’s coastal zone which is the highest landfall experienced by states. Odisha was followed by Andhra Pradesh (79), West Bengal (69), Tamil Nadu (62), Gujarat (28), Maharashtra and Goa (18), Kerala (3) and Karnataka (2). In 2019, India was ranked the seventh most vulnerable country globally in the overall Global Climate Risk Index. Worryingly, India also ranked first in terms of deaths and economic losses due to extreme weather-related events. India lost 2,267 human lives and incurred damages worth US $68,812 million in PPP terms in 2019. Among all the natural disasters occurring in India, cyclones are the second-most frequent and lethal after floods. According to the ministry of earth science, out of every five cyclones developing over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, three or four make landfall on the Indian coast, causing enormous destruction to life and property. Between 1999 and 2020, India experienced 37 cyclones, which saw 12,510 humans losing their lives and 73 million being adversely affected. The damages to public infrastructure and private property stood at around US $3,111 million (EM-DAT). The frequency of cyclones increases the financial pressure on the government on account of expenditures incurred by way of rehabilitation and mitigation. During this period, India lost around 1.8 per cent of its gross domestic product and 12 per cent of Central government revenue to cyclones. Over the years, human fatality has declined significantly due to the upgradation of early warning systems and the construction of flood and cyclone shelters in low-lying areas. Evacuation measures along with effective disaster mitigation have helped minimize loss of lives. Additionally, there is better coordination between the Centre and the states; social media also plays a critical role in spreading awareness about the impact of cyclones. However, government preparedness and improved warning systems are still not adequate to prevent the loss of property and lives. The government has adopted a long-term disaster management policy, which is aimed at improving warning systems, constructing cyclone shelters, linking roads connected to cyclone shelters, building or renovating saline embankments, and providing pucca houses to eligible beneficiaries, especially those living in vulnerable coastal areas. Enhanced coverage of shelter-belt plantation and the regeneration of mangroves have, to some extent, diminished the impact of cyclones. The government must adopt a zero-fatality approach to minimize damages from cyclones by modernizing disaster management mechanisms and making greater investments in cyclone risk mitigation infrastructure. Finally, a larger number of coastal districts should be brought under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project, a flagship programme of the Government of India on cyclone risk mitigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||The time is now||March, April and May were awful, stressful months for most of us in West Bengal. We are still not out of the woods yet with the ongoing pandemic and the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. But the three previous months were marked by a cascade of anxieties and anticipatory dread. In March, the alarm bells already started to ping from the north and the west of the country indicating that the Covid monster hadn’t gone anywhere, with millions encouraged to gather for the wrong-time Kumbh. By the beginning of April, Bengal was firmly in the throes of the cyclical low-level civil war that we call state assembly elections, even as Covid-hell descended upon Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. For those of us who see this BJP-RSS regime as the worst disaster to befall independent India, the fear was refracted multiply— if the pandemic didn’t destroy West Bengal, the Hindutva pestilence would, or vice versa. If all this wasn’t bad enough, May brought jitters about a possible post-election infection spike followed by the approaching cyclone, triggering memories of last year’s Amphan. One is still not clear about how badly the second wave has hit the state, but it seems that we have so far avoided the fate of Delhi, Lucknow, Kanpur, Ahmedabad and Bangalore, not to mention the pandemic-beleaguered but better-governed Bombay and Maharashtra. Those of us hopeful about a cessation of hostilities post the TMC’s resounding election victory would have been disappointed with the BJP-RSS’s continuing shenanigans and blatant misuse of official levers, while the rest of us might have just been dismayed and disgusted while remaining unsurprised. A few weeks ago, this column had argued that Bengal has a gravitational pull that can dismantle the strongest imperial designs of those ruling from Delhi. If that was framed as a cautionary observation prior to an unknown election result, perhaps now is not too early to put forward the same idea from a more positive angle. A new politics is desperately needed in the country, one which is inclusive of the most disadvantaged people and which is rooted in the daily practice of a genuine, transparent, fearless democracy. The regime that now squats astride Lutyens’ Delhi has shown itself to be the implacable enemy of these ideas. Having emerged still standing from a horrendously attritional election battle, Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress now have a golden opportunity to lead by example and put into motion a transformative politics, first in the state and then as a major component of the desperately-needed alternative in the national arena. What exactly would this entail? The word, ‘introspection’, has been misused by Indian politicians for decades now, but if ever there was a time for Ms Banerjee and her party high command to engage in a humble, truthful, no-holds-barred self-examination, it is now. The TMC has to make sure it does not repeat the blunders and missteps, the worst patterns and tendencies of the last 10 years. The challenge before Mamata Banerjee is that she has to forge a clear, perceptible difference between her ways of governance and those of Messrs Modi & Shah. For this, she will have to jettison anything even faintly resembling nepotism. Narendra Modi’s one-man-show and personality cult are leading the country down a hole; therefore, Mamata Banerjee must encourage a broad-based leadership model rather than one based on a personality cult; she must give younger leaders (who are not close relatives) the chance and space to prove themselves and to shine. If the BJP-RSS have taken corruption through a warp-zone into another dimension, the TMC will need to counter the now widely accepted perception of the venality of its second- and third-tier leadership. It will also have to strictly avoid pandering to religious leaders, whether mullah or panda. The TMC’s rule has been marked by an unfortunate inversion: it has rushed in and taken risks where wiser counsel should have prevailed, and it has been timid, risk-averse and business-as-usual where it should have been more bold. For instance, it is clear now that the ruthless uprooting of all Opposition in the state was a terrible idea, leaving us exposed to the point where the rootless BJP-RSS became the only Opposition in the assembly. Likewise, the attack on all critics of the party, the mauling and undermining of Jadavpur University, the free rein given to local thuggery as long as the thugs were TMC supporters, were all morally insupportable as well as tactically foolhardy. There have been course corrections over the years and there has been the delivery of some much-needed welfare programmes, but now Ms Banerjee and the TMC must dare to imagine a new West Bengal and work to turn that imagination into actual realization. It’s heartening to see the state government offering priority vaccinations to those working on the street, whether thhela-wallas, food-stall people or sex workers. This is only sensible but also shows common sense that is rare in our country’s politicians today. Similar rational, positive yet out-of-the-box decisions need to be taken across different areas of governance. Covid has battered the economy across the country but perhaps West Bengal is best placed to recover from the blows, especially if the idea of recovery is delinked from unsustainable fantasies of ‘growth’ and unfettered industrialization. Perhaps it is from here that India can recognize the dangers of lusting after a transformation into South Korea or Singapore, or the obscenity of speaking about a ‘five trillion dollar economy’ or the lunacy of planning a hundred robotized, dehumanized ‘smart cities’. We need a different model of a sustainable economy, or perhaps a network of local economies which complement each other while striving to minimize the cost to our fragile environment. This network of economies would need to be built around an armature of democracy and freedom of speech, around proper education and public healthcare, around social, economic and environmental justice. For this, several old definitions will have to be replaced by new ones. We will need to reimagine what culture means, reformulate the relationship between the city and the rural, recalibrate the priorities between different economic classes. It’s a tall order and it won’t be anywhere near complete in the three years till the next Lok Sabha elections, or even in the five years till the next state assembly polls come around. But there is the mandate — and time enough — for Mamata Banerjee and her diverse advisers to gear up this new Bengal into full momentum if they so choose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city football tourney likely to be cancelled for 2nd straight year||The ongoing threat of the Covid-19 pandemic has once again put a question mark on the annual football league organised by the Jamshedpur Sporting Association. The popular tournament, one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the eastern zone, is likely to be cancelled for the second successive year. "We don't think the tournament will be held this year either. At the most, we'll try to organise a programme to mark the platinum jubilee of the league," said association secretary Avinash Kumar, a former Bihar Ranji Trophy captain and senior manager at Tata Steel sports wing. He added they were keeping their fingers crossed at this point in time. The league's platinum jubilee was last year but the pandemic spoiled the celebrations. "The fixture seems a non-starter at this stage. It cannot be organised since no preparations have been made as of now. We cannot go ahead even if the state government allows sports venues to re-open. It will take time to prepare the grounds. Moreover, we also need to draw up fixtures for the matches," a member of the association’s football sub-committee said. The government will also need to announce guidelines on the resumption of tournaments, he added. The tournament usually starts in May. It is played for nearly two months, with around 80 matches. As many as 44 clubs and institutions compete in the tournament held in the Premier Division, the Super Division and ‘A’ Division. The tournament will be a non-starter even if Jamshedpur Sporting Associations officials plan to conduct the fixture sometime in October-November since venues will remain packed with other sporting events. But it all depends on how far the Covid-situation improves. The event, patronised by Tata Steel, is conducted at the Keenan Stadium, Gopal Maidan, Armoury ground, Tinplate Sports Complex and Sumant Mulgaokar Stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger held at Tatanagar for stealing CRPF jawan’s luggage||A passenger on board the Howrah-Mumbai Mail was arrested for stealing a piece of luggage belonging to a CRPF jawan from Tatanagar station on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Irshad Ansari, was travelling in an AC coach from Howrah to Mumbai and had got down at the Tatanagar station when it halted for a while around midnight. OC, Government Railway Police, Tatanagar, Jadu Shao said Ansari (28) was arrested at Chakradharpur station for stealing the luggage of a CRPF jawan from Tatanagar station at midnight. "We have recovered the stolen material from the arrested person who was a passenger of Howrah-Mumbai Mail. We sent the accused to jail on Tuesday, " said Shao while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the railway police, three CRPF jawans had come to the Tatanagar station around 11 pm on Monday for boarding in Howrah-Pune Azad Hind Express, which was scheduled to arrive at the Tatanagar station at 1.30 am. "As the train was to come two-and-half hours later, the three jawans had fallen asleep on platform No 1 having kept their luggage beside them. In the meantime, the Howrah-Mumbai Mail arrived on platform No 1. As soon as the train arrived, Ansari got down from the train and briskly moved on the platform, looking for prey. On seeing the three jawans in deep slumber, he picked up a big bag and returned to his train fast," said the GRP. According to the OC, Ansari had an upper berth in the 46 B-3. "While carrying a bag in the middle of the journey, the accused went to his berth and started inquiring after opening it. The fellow passengers suspected something was wrong. Some of the passengers soon informed the TTE who subsequently informed the cops in the train, putting them on alert," said Shao. The OC said the Howrah-Mumbai Mail had by the time reached Chakradharpur where Ansari threw away the CRPF jawan's bag, having kept the valuables, and the cops caught him at the very moment. Shao said the cops recovered the bag and on searching, they found the ID card and cellphone number of a CRPF jawan. Subsequently, they contacted the jawan and after getting it verified that Ansari had stolen the bag from the Tatanagar station, the railway police arrested him. The railway police said Ansari worked at a factory in Mumbai and was returning to his workplace from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 66 cases of black fungus, 19 deaths||Mucormycosis claimed another life in Ranchi on Tuesday, taking the toll in the district alone to six and that in Jharkhand to 19, while three confirmed and three suspected cases of the fungal infection surfaced in the state during the past 48 hours. According to data released by the health department on Tuesday, the total number of black fungus cases in Jharkhand was stood at 66. Besides the confirmed cases, as many as 46 suspected cases of mucormycosis have also been reported in the state so far. Samples of these suspected patients have been collected for lab tests to ascertain the nature of their infection, officials said. Of the 66 patients who were found to be suffering from Mucormycosis, as many as 14 have recovered and were subsequently discharged from hospital, latest data released by the health department on Tuesday revealed. The mortality rate, however, was higher than the recovery rate among mucormycosis patients in the state. With 26 confirmed and 11 suspected cases, Ranchi has reported the highest number of mucormycosis cases in Jharkhand. The district has also reported the highest number of deaths caused by the fungal infection. On the other hand, East Singhbhum has reported 16 confirmed and three suspected cases of mucormycosis so far. Among other districts, Dhanbad has reported five confirmed cases, while Ramgarh has reported four confirmed and three suspected cases of the fungal infection. Two confirmed cases each were reported in Palamau, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Giridih and Chatra. As per government data, at least four mucormycosis patients have died in East Singhbhum, two each in Dhanbad and Ramgarh and one each in Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Hazaribagh and Latehar. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Doctors treating mucormycosis patients in the state stressed on the importance of multidisciplinary treatment for preventing deaths. Dr Anindya Anuradha of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said that the chances of saving patients of mucormycosis was higher if doctors from various departments formed a special team for treating the disease. “Multidisciplinary approach towards treatment of mucormycosis patients is common in other states. We need to incorporate such treatment measures in our state as well,” she said. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. In May, the state government made mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts have been asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of mucormycosis to the IDSP every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city kids emerge champions of chess festival||Adhiraj Mitra and Kriti Kumari, both from East Singhbhum, emerged champions in the under-18 state championship, a part of an ongoing online chess festival in the state. Shaswata Paul (West Singhbhum) and Aditi Raj (Ranchi) stamped their authority in the under-16 age group. The champions in the respective age sections will represent Jharkhand in the national championships (under-18 and 16) to be held later this month. Jamshedpur-based Adhiraj, the youngest international Fide-rated chess player in Jharkhand, scored six wins and a draw against his arch rival and district mate Souryadipta Sarkar. The latter, who conceded an extra draw to  Archit Mittal of Dhanbad in the second round itself, needed to win his last game with White pieces against the eventual winner of the event Adhiraj. He was half a point ahead of Souryadipota who enjoyed a tiny advantage throughout, which was not enough to win. Adhiraj meticulously worked to get a draw to ensure the championship. The 10-year-old Adhiraj crossed the 1,000-mark to become eligible for an international rating. His rating jumped after he won the All India Fide rating tournament (in the U-7 age group) held in Chaibasa, West Singhbhum, in 2019 and fulfilled the eligibility criteria. The budding chess enthusiast loves to battle it out in higher age groups. Kriti secured 4.5 point (out of seven rounds) to finish ahead of Dhanbad’s Sneha Verma who managed four points from six games. Sneha got the second berth for the nationals on better tie-break points than Dyuti Chakraborty and Dishita Dey (both from East Singhbhum) who too had four points each. Shaswata made a comeback after conceding a draw in the first round to reach the top of the table in the last round and settled for a draw against Aditi, the eventual winner of the girls category of U-16, to win the championship. Shaswata scored six points, half a point ahead of Aditi's tally of 5.5 points. Both the championships were played in a combined manner. The matches were played on a digital platform named Li-Chess under Swiss Rapid rules of FIDE which is going to be used in the forthcoming nationals and World Championships for 2021.1. Competition for the under-14 event is underway and will be followed by the one meant for the under-12 age section on June 9. The chess festival will conclude with the event for the under-10 age group on June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand fears third wave could impact 17,000 children below 18||The Jharkhand government estimates that anything between 8,500 and 17,000 children could be severely impacted in the event of a third wave of Covid-19, and is, therefore trying to prepare for such an eventuality in a state where children up to the age of 18 make up half its population. An empowered committee of IAS officers and experts, set up by the state health department for preparing an advance mitigation plan in view of the apprehended third wave, has zeroed-in on the numbers _ a minimum of 8,600 and a maximum of 17,200 _children up to the age of 18 based on trends of the first two waves. Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh, an IAS officer and member of the committee, said, “Jharkhand’s positivity rate so far has been around 3.87 per cent compared to 7.89 per cent nationally, while the mortality rate was 1.48 per cent compared to 1.20 per cent nationally. The state has 143,49,680 people up to 18 years of age, which is about half the population of the state. “So, considering a 5 per cent positivity rate if a third wave hits us, the number of severe cases, mainly kids, will be 8,600. The number will be 17,200 if the positivity rate is taken at 10 per cent based on past trends.” Singh was speaking at the launch of detailed guidelines that have been prepared for the districts. Among the others present were chief minister Hemant Soren, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and senior officials of the health department along with all deputy commissioners. The guidelines, in the form of a 250-page booklet, talk about the learnings of the first two waves and underscores gap analysis of childcare in view of the Covid-19 outbreak across districts. It also lists requirements, like manpower, facilities and medical equipment, and certain timeframes to help districts stay prepared for emergency situations. Highlighting some of the deficiencies, Singh noted that while all district hospitals have paediatric intensive care units (PICU) but the state was lagging behind in high dependency units (HDU). Jharkhand has 144 MDs in paediatrics and the shortage could be tackled effectively training MBBS and doctors of alternative medicine. “Currently, we have only about 22 per cent paediatric beds and there is a gap of 78 per cent. Similarly, SNCU/NICU units for Covid is 41 per cent, ie, a shortage of 59 per cent. The biggest gap is HDU which is at 92 per cent. This is an area all districts will have to start working upon to be prepared for the worst situation, if at all it comes,” Singh noted. He also spoke of strengthening of malnutrition centres, considering high prevalence of malnutrition among children of Jharkhand. “Initial estimates indicate that state requires an investment of Rs 150 crore to be ready for the third wave,” he said. Amid the nationwide concerns over a third wave the Indian Academy of Paediatrics has come out with an advisory to try and allay what doctors say are baseless fears circulating on social media about a third wave hitting children hard. It says that any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic is “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The IAP, a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said that while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to develop the coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. The public advisory from the IAP’s Covid-19 committee comes amid what paediatricians say are unsubstantiated suggestions that a third wave of the epidemic is likely to affect children harder than the first and second waves did. “We wanted to refute wrong messages and misconceptions going around,” Bakul Jayant Parekh, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and former president of the IAP, told The Telegraph Online. “This advisory represents the IAP’s viewpoint based on global scientific evidence.” Hence, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh’s advise to districts to be flexible in their approach seems prudent. “Usually, pandemic or waves don’t attack people age or gender wise. So, don’t just blindly channelise energies on building childcare units and ignore other age groups. Our preparations should be such that in case of any adversity, we must be able to respond in the least possible time to convert dedicated child wards for adults and vice versa,” he said. Chief minister Hemant hoped the Covid situation does not deteriorate. “I just wish that our apprehensions of a third wave do not convert into reality. But, but we can’t sit and relax. We have to be on guard and not allow complacency to creep in,” he said, adding that the state government was working out plans to launch door-to-door public health surveys a regular affair in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal allots 2 regional hospitals to prepare for third wave||Dhanbad-based Coal India subsidiary, Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) has been working to provide medical infrastructure to the district administration by allocating two of its regional hospitals to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19. Two of the regional hospitals of BCCL  at Jealgora and Baghmara are almost ready with a 20-bed treatment facility. The BCCL had earlier provided its 500-bed central hospital to the administration in its fight against the pandemic last year. Appointment of around 40 doctors in the regional and other hospitals is already under progress as per the medical infrastructure revamp move of the BCCL administration. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Chairman cum Managing Director (CMD) of BCCL, PM Prasad, said “A couple of our regional hospitals in Jealgora and Baghmara are almost in ready condition with 20 beds for Covid patients, while the possibility of development of more similar facilities in other hospitals in being explored. This will be handed over in a phase-wise manner to the district administration.” “We have already initiated the process of appointment of doctors and their joinings would be completed soon,” said Prasad. “Deputation of three or four more doctors in each regional hospital will help cope with the shortage of doctors to a great extent. The facility of the Central Hospital for all our employees for serious and critical cases is already implemented,” he added. On May 2 Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh had written to Prasad to deploy sufficient numbers of qualified doctors and medical staff in the BCCLS hospitals and its other medical facilities within 24 hours by making rosters to address the swelling number of Covid patients. BCCL at present has eight regional hospitals, 40 dispensaries and other hospitals other than the Central Hospital. Treatment of Covid patients in 70 beds of Central Hospital, including 30 beds of ICU and 40 other oxygen beds, is already in progress. This apart, a Covid treatment centre was also operated during the first wave at the Regional Hospital of Bhuli. Each of the eight regional hospitals has a dispensary facility, injection room, dressing room, minor operation theatre and a large waiting hall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders demand more relaxations ||Dhanbad traders have demanded for more relaxations in the state's Unlock 2 programme beginning from June 10 by tweeting to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, in view of the losses they have been facing due to the closure of several shops for months amid the Covid-19 lockdown in Jharkhand. Officers of different trade organisations, in their tweets to Hemant, demanded permission for the opening of garment, footwear, jewellery and cosmetics shops from June 10 as well as an extension of working hours. Shop owners are afraid that the curbs will continue for them during Unlock 2, owing to the grim situation in nine districts -- including Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur -- that were kept under more restrictions during Unlock 1. President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, Prabhat Surolia in his tweet to the chief minister lauded the state government’s effort to control Covid but at the same time demanded permission for the opening of shops keeping in mind the livelihood of common people. He further demanded an increase in timings for trade-related activities. Former President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab in his tweet asked for permission for reopening of garment, footwear, jewellery and cosmetic shops in nine districts of the state including Dhanbad everyday from June 10 till 5 pm. “Due to closure of more than 50 days the financial conditions of the majority of garment, footwear, and cosmetic traders have deteriorated and they are gradually entering into a vicious debt circle,” claimed Sohrab who owns a garment shop in Purana Bazar. He said that street vendors selling readymade garments on carts are in a worse situation. “The garment and footwear traders were the worst sufferers during the last lockdown as well since they were the last sector which was given permission to operate after more than five months,” Sohrab added. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “As the active cases in the district have significantly reduced to 184 it is high time the government should open more shops and increase the timings but at the same time ensure strict monitoring of the following of Covid-related protocols.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active Covid caseload drops below 1,500||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 1500 in Ranchi and close to the 5000-mark in Jharkhand as the state reported at least 726 Covid recoveries against 358 cases of infection on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least six Covid patients died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5060, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As per the bulletin, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Lohardaga, Hazaribag and Garhwa reported one Covid casualty each. As many as 80 Covid recoveries against 23 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 1,489, while one death took the toll to 1573. On the other hand, East Singhbhum reported 51 cases, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. The district also reported 94 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 601, the NHM stated in its bulletin. By the end of Monday, as many as 5312 Jharkhand residents were battling Covid-19. Other than East Singhbhum, all the remaining 23 districts reported a spike of less than 50 cases on the day. Dhanbad reported 32 cases against 40 recoveries, while 36 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 26 patients recovered there. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 45054 residents and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, the state has so far tested more than 88 lakh people for Covid-19 and the cumulative positivity rate in the state was above 3.5 per cent. With a drop in cases reported every day on an average, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand dropped to 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The Covid recovery rate in the state, as per government data, was 96.96 per cent against the national average of 93.90 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state also crossed the 500-day-mark on the day. As per NHM data, it would take 516.62 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate in India was 230.66 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.48 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48.876 residents and almost 32,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 5586 residents, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand High Court cancels JPSC exam merit list||Jharkhand High Court on Monday cancelled the merit list for the state public service commission exam, observing that the JPSC had added marks from Paper-I while preparing it and not followed the pass mark criteria in each paper. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar Dwivedi asked the commission to prepare a fresh merit list and finalise the selection in accordance with the law, within eight weeks from the date of receipt/production of a copy of its order. The high court also directed the commission to recommend the same to the Jharkhand government within four weeks and directed the State to issue appointment letters in favour of the successful candidates based upon the fresh merit list forthwith. The high court passed the order on a plea filed by student leader Umesh Prasad. The court observed that the merit list prepared by the JPSC was illegal as marks of Paper-I were added and clause 13 of the advertisement on minimum qualifying marks in each paper has not been followed. The sixth JPSC exam was held in 2016 (during the tenure of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government) to fill up 325 positions. The final result was declared in April 2020. The final hearing in the case started in February this year. According to reports, 18 pleas were filed seeking cancellation of the exam results. The petitioners had alleged a number of irregularities like computing of marks and assigning wrong cadres to those in the reserved category. The petitioners had alleged that marks were tampered with. The court had ordered the commission to secure the answer scripts of all those who appeared in the mains exam. The court had also directed the commission to share the details of successful candidates with the petitioners so that they can also be made a party to the case. The JPSC will now release a fresh merit list based on new scores for the candidates who appeared in the final examination. Only those who get minimum marks in five other papers should be declared pass according to the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi boy gets invited to address Global Ingenious Youth Forum 2021 on the opening day||Aiwan Abhay Minz, a nine-year-old boy from Ranchi, had got a letter from Rome that invited him to address the Global Ingenious Youth Forum 2021 on the opening day. The meet, organised jointly by the Global Indigenous Youth Caucus, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the Indigenous Champions of the UN Food Systems Summit, will be held virtually from June 16 to 18 this year. Believing that the ingenious youths may learn from the rich traditional knowledge and the skills of innovation and adaptability from their respective communities, the organisers want them to share their views at the forum so that those are reflected in the UN food system policies “to ensure the spirit of living no one behind”. “Ingenious peoples’ food systems are considered some of the most sustainable in the world,” the organisers said in their letter to Aiwan, adding the youths are the future who can make important contributions towards sustainability. The indigenous youths, with their understanding of cosmogonies, beliefs, culture, heritage, livelihood and territories that are so fundamental to their identities, hold the ability to combine innovations and modern technologies with traditional practices that may play a key role in the fight for food security and zero hunger, they further explained. “I’ll speak on the traditional system of preservation of seeds and chemical-free farming that is done in our villages,” Aiwan, a Class IV student at St Xavier’s School in Ranchi, replied when asked what he would speak, adding the system was now being promoted as “inorganic farming”. But how did he know about the system? “We are very attached to our roots and often visit our ancestral village in Gumla district where he gets to see all these,” said his father Abhay Sagar Minz who teaches anthropology at Dr SP Mukherjee University in Ranchi. He added his son is inquisitive, asks a lot of questions and also learns fast. “I’ll begin my five-minute talk with a small part of our Sarna prayer,” Aiwan informed, explaining that would be a prayer to the ancestors to be present with him when he would narrate the system that the departed souls had innovated and practised. Aneesh Shreshtra, a representative of a youth organisation of Nepal who had seen Aiwan earlier, had recommended his name that was accepted in Rome, his parents informed. When asked if Aiwan would miss visiting Rome as it would be a virtual meet, he said: “Yes, but I had gone abroad before.” He added he had gone to the US, Switzerland, Philippines, Thailand and Nepal with his parents. “We took him along when we had to attend conferences and it was on one such occasion Aneesh saw him and was impressed,” informed the boy’s mother, Meenakshi Munda, who is the president of the Asia Pacific Indigenous Youth Network, headquartered in Philippines. “A Filipino friend had suggested we named him as Aiwan that means ‘fearless’ in one of the tribal languages of that country,” his mother explained, when asked how their son got such an unusual name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant takes to twitter to showcase Jharkhand's resolve in providing free vaccines||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has opted for the social media to showcase the state government’s resolve to provide free vaccines to the above 18 years age group and also prove BJP-led Centre’s callousness to the financial constraints faced by the states in providing free vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group. “The state government is committed to provide free vaccines to all Jharkandis. We have sanctioned a budget of Rs 250 crore till now for providing free vaccines to the age group of 18-44 years, out of which Rs 47 crore has already been paid to the private companies manufacturing Covishield and Covaxin,” Soren tweeted in Hindi on his official twitter handle @JharkhandCMO on Monday morning. The tweet further stated, “Out of the total of 6.21 lakh vaccines received by the state for the age group of 18-44 years, 5.21 lakh has already been administered. This has been done for your service from money derived from your tax payment….” “The tweet was done to show transparency in the vaccine administration and also show to the masses of the state and also to the country the step motherly treatment meted out to Jharkhand by the Centre in Covid management. “Similar tweets would be given as and when vaccines procurement happens for the 18-44 age group by the state on its own. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not even bothered to reply to the CM letter so far,” said JMM central general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya. Incidentally, Soren who is heading the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand had written to the Prime Minister on May 31 evening stating that the Centre’s decision to mandate the state government to procure Covid-19 vaccines is against the ‘principles of cooperative federalism’ and urged to give free vaccines to the state to tackle the pandemic. The letter had also mentioned that the financial burden for the state to cover 1.57 crore beneficiaries (in the age group of 18-44 years) is likely to be around Rs 1,100 crore and will hit the financial situation of a state like Jharkhand which is already stressed in the Covid pandemic. The letter had  objected to the different prices for states by pointing that the rates specified by the Central government for procurement of vaccines by the state for the age cohort of 18-44 years was significantly higher than the rates at which vaccine is being procured by the Central government for beneficiaries in the age cohort of 45 years and above and this dichotomy will not stand the scrutiny of reasonable classification under the fundamental principles of the Constitution of India. The ruling JMM termed the Prime Minister announcement of free Covid vaccines to the states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21 as an act out of compulsion following the Supreme Court observations and pressure from other states. “Our chief minister wrote a letter to the PM on May 31 but the PMO did not bother to reply till now to it. The PM was compelled to make this announcement after the Supreme  Court observation on May 31 against the Centre’s vaccination policy as ‘arbitrary and irrational’. In fact, the announcement should have been made on April 19 itself to prevent confusion among states. Our cash strapped state has already paid Rs 47 crore to the private vaccine manufacturing company.  Will the Prime Minister arrange for us to get back the money?,” questioned JMM central general secretary and party’s spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, considered close to Hemant. Significantly, the Supreme Court had made a prima facie observation that the Centre’s vaccination policy, which does not provide free vaccination for those in the age-group of 18-44 years, as “arbitrary and irrational”. The observation was made by a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhatt in the suo motu case on Covid related issues (in re-distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic). On Sunday, the state registered eight deaths due to Covid taking the total mortality figure to 5,054 while adding a meagre 293 fresh positive cases taking the active case load to 5,686. The state government also asked private and government hospitals to make operational all the equipment given by corporates as part of CSR fund and government within two months and also submit details of such equipment to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-06-2021||Jharkhand||Girl develops app to fund tree-planting in Jharkhand||A mobile application developed by an eight-year-old girl is helping to improve the green cover in Jharkhand. Agrata Tiwary developed the Trilovera app in 2019 through which users can access popular e-commerce websites, daily news, videos and games. The profit gained from the app is used to plant trees. In a span of over a year, the app has led to the planting of over 70 trees across the country with nearly 40 being planted at Patamda block in East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand. Agrata started her education at Sacred Heart Convent in Jamshedpur before shifting to Green Acres Academy in Mumbai (where her parents are based). “The idea to develop this app came during Diwali in 2019 when I saw my family members shopping online and the delivery boys coming on bikes to deliver at home. This made me think that they were contributing in adding carbon to the atmosphere, directly or indirectly. I consulted with my aunts who are software developers and created the app in early 2020 which would use its profit to plant trees and reduce the carbon in the environment,” said Agrata, who is presently at her grandparents’ house in Bistupur, Jamshedpur. Her father Bikrant Tiwary is the CEO of grow-trees.com, a web-enabled cost-effective service for individuals and companies globally to enable the planting of trees. “We named the app Trilovera, taken from the words ‘tree lovers’, and integrated popular e-commerce websites like Flipkart, Amazon, Tata Cliq, ride-hailing apps like Ola and Uber, food delivery apps such as Swiggy and Zomato and others like BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip and Oyo as a single-point solution for users to access the app of their choice. “When they use Trilovera to access these apps, the transactions will help us to plant trees in India at no cost to the user. Trees will be planted from the money received on Google Ads, marketing on the users’ behalf,” added Agrata. Agrata, a Class III student, also took extra coding classes to hone her skills and develop more games and video and integrate them into the app. “There is no such platform in India that cares for the environment by planting a tree free of cost for using an app. There is a website search engine called ecosia.org in Germany, that is planting trees for every search that happens on its portal. In a short span of over an year the Trilovera app has found over 1,600 users and grow-trees.com has helped in selecting sites for the plantation of trees. Since we are from Jamshedpur, we selected Patamda block near the scenic Dimna Dam for the plantation of trees,” said Bikrant. According to Bikrant, the app generates Re 1 per every use of approximately 100 times and it costs nearly Rs 85 to plant a two-feet sapling. According to the biannual India State of Forest Report, 2019, Jharkhand witnessed a marginal increase in itsforest cover by 58.41sqkm from the previous assessment (2017). Praising the initiative of Agrata, Birsa Agricultural University forest scientist S.M.S Quli suggested the government develop a scientific agro-forest model in Jharkhand to increase its green cover. “In Jharkhand farmers face constraints of small land holding and are mostly dependent on rainfall which puts them at high risk in the wake of an uncertain monsoon. This factor makes farmers shift to an alternative form of livelihood like forest products and this leads to a cascading effect of deforestation. The government should develop a scientific agro-forestry model so that farmers do not have to depend on forest resources for livelihood,” said Quli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
